09-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra records 58,993 fresh cases, 301 fatalities||Maharashtra on Friday reported 58,993 new cases of coronavirus, which pushed its overall tally to 32,88,540, while the death of 301 patients took the toll to 57,329, the state health department said. The state has been recording more than 55,000 cases over the past few days. The highest single-day spike of 59,907 cases was reported on April 7. With a record number of 2,45,707 tests conducted during the day, the count of people who have been tested so far in the state has grown to 2,16,31,258. Of the total number, 15.2per cent have tested positive for the virus. The state's recovery rate is 81.96 per cent, while the fatality rate is 1.74 per cent, it said. Mumbai city registered a one-day spike of 9,202 cases. Mumbai division, comprising Mumbai city and its satellite towns, saw 18,408 cases and 52 deaths. This took the total number of cases there to 10,45,980 and death toll to 20,939. With 45,391 patients getting discharge from hospitals during the day, the recovery count rose to 26,95,148. There are 5,34,603 active cases in the state at present. Currently,26,95,065 people are in home quarantine and 24,157 in institutional quarantine. Of the 301 deaths reported on Friday, 158 had occurred in the last 48 hours, the health department said in a statement. Pune division saw 11,862cases, including 5,714 in Pune city and 2,026 in Pimpri Chinchwad. Nagpur division reported 10,335 new cases, including 4492 in Nagpur city alone, while Kolhapur division reported 774 cases, Aurangabad division 2,851 cases, Latur division 4,472 cases, Akola division 1,916 cases and Nashik division 8,375 cases. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held meetings with private hospitals and representatives of the diamond industry over the pandemic situation. The weekend lockdown announced as part of the curbs to break the virus chain came into force from Friday night. The coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total number of cases 32,88,540, deaths 57,329, recoveries 26,95,148, active 5,34,603, total tests 2,16,31,258.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
09-04-2021||India||India conveys ‘concern’ to US after its Navy conducts exercise without ‘consent’||India on Friday said it had conveyed its concerns to the United States after the US Navy announced that a ship of its fleet had carried out a freedom of navigation operation in the Indian exclusive economic zone (EEZ) without New Delhi’s ‘consent’. The Ministry of External Affairs in a statement said that the country “does not authorise other States to carry out (such operations) in the Exclusive Economic Zone”. “The Government of India's stated position on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is that the Convention does not authorise other States to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state,” the statement read. “The USS John Paul Jones was continuously monitored transiting from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits. We have conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the Government of USA through diplomatic channels,” it further said. The US Navy, in a statement, announced that it asserted navigational rights and freedoms inside India's EEZ without seeking the country's prior consent. “This freedom of navigation operation upheld the rights, freedoms and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India's excessive maritime claims,” the US 7th fleet said in a statement on April 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
09-04-2021||India||Delhi schools will remain shut until further orders, announces Kejriwal||Schools in the national capital will remain closed for all classes till further orders due to the rise in Covid-19 cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday. The national capital has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks. On Thursday, the daily case count breached the 7,000-mark for the first time this year. "Due to rising cases of Covid-19, schools in Delhi will remain closed for all classes till further orders," Kejriwal tweeted. The Delhi government had last week announced that students of any classes will not be called to school in the new academic session. However, class 10 and class 12 students who are due to appear in board exams in May-June were going to school with consent of their parents. There have been demands from students for holding online examinations and over one lakh students have already signed a petition to the CBSE in this regard. CBSE officials, however, said as per Covid guidelines exam centres across the country have been increased by 40-50 per cent to ensure social distancing among students. Delhi had recorded 7,437 Covid-19 cases Thursday, the highest single-day surge this year, while 24 more people had died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,157.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
09-04-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson in talks with Indian govt for clinical trial of single shot vaccine||Global healthcare major Johnson & Johnson is in discussions with the Indian government to begin a clinical trial of its single-dose COVID-19 vaccine in the country, the company said on Friday. The US Food and Drug Administration has already approved Johnson & Johnson's COVID-19 vaccine that works with just one dose for emergency use in February. "We are in discussions with the Government of India with the objective of starting a bridging clinical study of our Janssen COVID-19 vaccine candidate in India, subject to local regulatory approvals," Johnson & Johnson India spokesperson said in an email reply. Johnson & Johnson's vaccine can be stored at refrigerator temperatures. "At Johnson & Johnson, we remain fully focused on bringing a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine to people around the world, if authorised for use by local health authorities", the spokesperson said. India is currently using two vaccines for COVID-19 -- one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and the other developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research - National Institute of Virology. Both the vaccines are being manufactured within the country by domestic firms. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542, while the death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, the highest since October 18, the Union Health Ministry data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||US Navy carries out 'freedom of navigation' exercise on Indian waters without 'consent'||The US Navy carried out a freedom of navigation operation in the Indian waters near Lakshadweep Islands on Wednesday without New Delhi's prior consent to challenge India's "excessive" maritime claims, according to an official statement. The operation was conducted by the guided-missile destroyer USS John Paul Jones on April 7, a statement issued by the Commander of the US seventh fleet said. "On April 7, 2021 (local time) USS John Paul Jones (DDG 53) asserted navigational rights and freedoms approximately 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands, inside India's exclusive economic zone, without requesting India's prior consent, consistent with international law," the statement said. India requires that other countries should take prior consent from it to conduct military exercises or manoeuvres in its exclusive economic zone or continental shelf, which the US Navy statement claimed was inconsistent with international law. "This freedom of navigation operation ( FONOP ) upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India's excessive maritime claims," it said. US forces operate in the Indo-Pacific region on a daily basis. All operations are designed in accordance with international law and demonstrate that the United States will fly, sail and operate wherever international law allows, the statement said. "We conduct routine and regular Freedom of Navigation Operations (FONOPs), as we have done in the past and will continue to in the future. FONOPs are not about one country, nor are they about making political statements," it added. It is not the first time that the US Navy has conducted such an operation in India's Exclusive Economic Zone. The US Department of Defence publishes an annual Freedom of Navigation Report "identifying the excessive maritime claims that US forces operationally challenged . The last time the US Navy conducted such an operation was the fiscal year 2019, according to the Department of Defence. In an unclassified report to the US Congress in July 2020, the US Navy said it conducted an operation in the Indian Ocean region during the period of October 1, 2018, through September 30, 2019, to preserve the rights, freedoms, and uses of the sea and airspace guaranteed to all nations by international law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Omar Abdullah tests positive for Covid-19||National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah Friday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. "For a year I did my best to dodge this damn virus but it's finally caught up with me. I tested positive for #Covid-19 this afternoon. I'm completely asymptotic. Based on medical advice I'm self-isolating at home & monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels etc," he said in a tweet. "I am very grateful to everyone reaching out to me here on Twitter to wish me well. I apologise for not replying individually. For the next few days I'm focusing on beating this virus & will be back here after the battle is won," Omar Abdullah added in his tweet. His father Farooq Abdullah had tested positive for coronavirus on March 30. He was kept in home-isolation initially, but doctors later decided to shift him to a hospital for better medical care. He was discharged on Wednesday from a Srinagar hospital as doctors were of the opinion that he could recover at home since all his parameters were fine, officials said. On Thursday, Omar had said his father was responding well to treatment. "My father has asked me to convey his deep gratitude to all our colleagues for these prayers and all the messages he has been receiving. He is responding well to the treatment and is getting better," he had tweeted. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542, while the death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, highest since October 18, the Union Health Ministry data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses health minister for shortage of vaccines in Opposition states||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding an immediate moratorium on Covid-19 vaccine exports when the nation is facing "vaccine starvation", and sought opening up of vaccination to "everyone who needs it". In his letter, Gandhi also sought more say to state governments in vaccine procurement and distribution, and asked for a provision of a direct income support to vulnerable sections amid the disastrous second wave of Covid-19 in India. "I humbly request you to provide vaccine suppliers with necessary resources to increase manufacturing capacity and place an immediate moratorium on vaccine export," Gandhi said as he extended his support to the vaccination programme. "Open up vaccination to everyone who needs it," he demanded and sought fast-tracking of approval of other vaccines as per norms and guidelines. Questioning the government for permitting large-scale exports of vaccines, he said, "While our nation is facing vaccine starvation, more than six crore doses of vaccines have been exported." Rahul, in his letter, also asked the prime minister to double the central allocation for vaccine procurement from the existing Rs 35,000 crore and give state governments a greater say in vaccine procurement and distribution. His suggestions came a day after Prime Minister Modi said vaccines will have to be prioritised due to limited supply and lamented that some people were playing politics on the issue. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hit out at Gandhi alleging that the shortage in Congress-ruled states is not of vaccines but of commitment, even as Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked the BJP leader not to rile and follow 'Raj dharma' instead. In his letter to the prime minister, Rahul also said that state governments were repeatedly highlighting vaccine shortage only to receive intemperate statements by the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. He accused the health minister of targeting opposition-ruled states and undercutting cooperative federalism. In an apparent reference to the prime minister's picture on vaccination certificates, Rahul said, "Our vaccination programme has to move beyond an individual's picture on the vaccine certificate, towards guaranteeing maximum vaccination." The former Congress chief stressed that his party supports only a well-planned, universal and speedy vaccination drive. Taking a swipe at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's remark after the notification on interest rates was taken back, he asked, "Was the export of vaccines also an 'oversight', like many other decisions of this government, or an effort to garner publicity at the cost of our own citizens." "This is unfortunate considering our scientific community and vaccine suppliers worked overtime to develop a solution but their efforts are undermined by the Centre's poor implementation and 'oversight'," Gandhi said. Expressing concern over the rising cases of the coronavirus, he said that over the last year, the country suffered many irreparable losses, made tremendous sacrifices, and yet, it is under a renewed attack by this virus. Rahul alleged that the vaccination drive in the country is slow and said at the current rate, it would take years to inoculate 75 per cent of the population. "This will have catastrophic effects and will gravely decelerate India's economy," he added. The former Congress chief said even though public health is a state subject, "our states have been bypassed right from vaccine procurement to registration". He alleged that a large section of the poor have been excluded due to the initial mandatory online registration. In his attack on Gandhi, Ravi Shankar Prasad had tweeted, "Rahul Gandhi must know that shortage in Congress-ruled states is not of vaccines but of basic commitment towards healthcare." "He should write letters to his party's governments to stop their 'vasooli' (extortion) ventures and concentrate on administering the lakhs of vaccines they are sitting on," he said. India is not facing vaccine starvation but Gandhi is facing "attention starvation", Prasad said. "Why has Rahul Gandhi not yet taken vaccine? Is it an oversight or he doesn't want it or has he already taken one in many of his undisclosed trips to foreign locations but doesn't want to disclose?" he said. "After failing as a part-time politician, has Rahul Gandhi switched to full-time lobbying? First, he lobbied for fighter plane companies by trying to derail India's acquisition programme. Now, he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines," Prasad said. Hitting back, Surjewala said Prasad should stop riling and start serving the country and follow 'Raj dharma'. "So stop riling, frothing and steaming up. Start serving India and fellow Indians. Follow 'Raj Dharma'," he said. "Dear Prasad, you and ministers in government have become perpetually ranting, ill-tempered, churlish trolls. We will lobby for public good when the Modi government causes loss of Euro 2.81 Billion (Rs 21,075 crore) to exchequer in Rafale Scam. Obviously, it cheeses you off," Surejwala tweeted. The Congress leader said that his party will lobby for every Indian to be vaccinated and end discrimination in allocation of vaccine to opposition states. The party will lobby for halting export of coronavirus vaccine when our fellow Indians are facing huge shortages and end of digital isolation of poor in vaccination, Surjewala tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Irresponsible for CBSE to force board exams on students, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said it is irresponsible on the part of the CBSE to force students to appear for Board examinations and demanded that the exams be either cancelled or rescheduled in view of the Covid-19 situation in the country. She said the Board exams should be either cancelled or be held in such a manner that it does not require the physical presence of students. "It is downright irresponsible of boards like the CBSE to force students to sit for exams under the prevailing circumstances. Board exams should either be cancelled, rescheduled or arranged in a manner that does not require the physical presence of children at crowded exam centres," she said on Twitter. According to the revised date sheet for CBSE board exams 2021, the Class 10 exams would be held between May 4 and June 7 and those for Class 12 would be held between May 4 and June 15. India is seeing over one lakh cases everyday for the past few days and on Friday morning, the country reported almost 1.32 lakh new Covid-19 cases, as per official data. There have been demands from students for holding online examinations and over one lakh students have already signed a petition to the CBSE in this regard. CBSE officials, however, said as per Covid guidelines exam centres across the country have been increased by 40-50 per cent to ensure social distancing among students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Arnab Goswami's interim relief in suicide abetment case extended||The Bombay High Court on Friday extended its earlier order granting interim protection to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and exempted him from appearing before a magistrates court at Alibag in Raigad district in connection with an abetment to suicide case. Goswami and two others Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda are accused of abetting the suicide of Alibag-based interior designer Anvay Naik in May 2018 over alleged non- payment of dues by the companies of the accused persons. The trio has moved the high court seeking to quash the FIR and subsequent chargesheet filed by the police against them. They had sought interim protection and exemption from appearance before a magistrates court in Alibag, a coastal town in Raigad district located around 100km from Mumbai. The accused persons have to appear before the magistrates court for committal of trial in the case to a sessions court. The high court had on March 5 granted the three accused persons exemption from appearance before the court and said it would hear the petitions on April 16. Goswami's counsel Sanjog Parab on Friday told the court that since April 16 has been declared as a holiday by the high court, the petitions could be heard later. The interim order granting the petitioner (Goswami) exemption may be extended as the next date before the magistrate is April 26, Parab said. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale agreed and said it would hear the petitions on April 23. Accordingly, we extend the interim relief of exemption from appearance until further orders, the court said. Goswami and the other two accused were arrested on November 4, 2020. After the arrest, they had sought urgent bail from the high court which rejected their pleas following which they moved the Supreme Court. The apex court granted the trio bail on November 11, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||India and China hold 11th round of military talks||India and China held another round of military talks on Friday to take forward the disengagement process in the remaining friction points such as Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said. The 11th round of the Corps Commander-level talks began at around 10:30 am at the Chushul border point on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, they said. The 10th round of the military dialogue took place on February 20, two days after both militaries concluded the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong lake. The talks lasted for around 16 hours. The Indian delegation at Friday's talks is led by Lieutenant General PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. One of the people cited above said India will insist on completing the disengagement process at the remaining friction points at the earliest. Late last month, Army chief General MM Naravane said the threat to India has only "abated" following the disengagement in the Pangong lake areas, but it has not gone away altogether. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong lake in February, in line with an agreement on disengagement. India has been insisting that the resolution of the outstanding issues, including at Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra, is essential for the overall ties between the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Is it right to put Indians at risk by exporting vaccines, asks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday questioned the export of Covid-19 vaccines, and asked if it is right to do so and put the lives of Indians in danger. He said vaccine shortage is a very serious problem during Corona times and is not a celebration. Gandhi also called upon the central government to help states without any bias and help provide them with more vaccines. "Shortage of vaccines in view of the rise in Corona cases is a very serious problem and not a celebration," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Is it right to export the vaccine and put Indians at risk? The central government should help all states without any bias. We all have to fight this pandemic together and defeat it," he added. Some states have been demanding more vaccines and the Congress is seeking the vaccine for all. The Centre, however, has accused some states of doing politics on the issue of vaccines. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said that 9.1 crore vaccine doses have been utilised, while 2.4 crore are in stock and 1.9 crore vaccines are in the pipeline, indicating there are sufficient doses available for all states. He also dismissed as "farce" the "hue and cry" by certain states about partisanship by the Centre and called it an attempt to hide their own incompetence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||India logs over 1.31 lakh fresh Covid cases, 780 casualties in a day||India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542, while the death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, highest since October 18, the Union Health Ministry data showed. Registering a steady increase for the 30th day in a row, the number of active COVID-19 cases increased to 9,79,608, which is 7.5 per cent of the total infections, according to the data updated at 8 am. The recovery rate in the country has further dropped to 91.22 per cent, it added. The active COVID-19 caseload in the country was recorded at its lowest of 1,35,926 on February 12, comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,19,13,292, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.28 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,40,41,584 samples have been tested for COVID-19 in the country so far, including 13,64,205 on Thursday. The 780 new fatalities include 376 from Maharashtra, 94 from Chhattisgarh, 56 from Punjab, 39 from Uttar Pradesh, 36 from Karnataka, 35 from Gujarat, 27 from Madhya Pradesh, 24 from Delhi, 19 from Tamil Nadu, 18 from Kerala and 11 from Haryana. A total of 1,67,642 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country. The figure includes 57,028 fatalities from Maharashtra, 12,840 from Tamil Nadu, 12,767 from Karnataka, 11,157 from Delhi, 10,370 from West Bengal, 9,003 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,334 from Punjab and 7,268 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium meet||The five-member Supreme Court collegium on Thursday briefly met but no decision was taken on the elevation of Chief Justice of Tripura High Court Akhil Kureshi and Karnataka judge Justice Nagarathna to the Supreme Court. All the five collegium members — CJI S.A. Bobde, Justice N.V. Ramana despite ill health, Justices R.F. Nariman, U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar — attended the meeting. Held in a cordial atmosphere, the meeting remained inconclusive, sources told The Telegraph. The meeting was held in the backdrop of the superannuation of Justice Bobde on April 23. He will be succeeded by Justice Ramana. Normally, outgoing CJIs do not convene collegium meetings. However, Justice Bobde presided over the meeting since there is no bar on him convening the meeting, sources said. Justice Kureshi had remanded Amit Shah to police custody in 2010 in connection with a fake encounter case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Maoists release CRPF hostage||The CRPF commando taken hostage by the Maoists after Saturday’s massacre of 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh was released on Thursday afternoon. Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, Jammu and Kashmir resident and member of the CRPF’s elite Cobra unit, was freed deep inside the forests in the presence of a team of 11 “facilitators”, made up mostly of local journalists and social workers. The facilitators, who had arrived on motorbikes, took Manhas to the CRPF’s Terrem police camp on the Bijapur-Sukma border, near the site of the ambush. “The jawan returned safely to the Terrem camp along with the facilitators around 4.30pm,” a CRPF official in Chhattisgarh said. He said Manhas had undergone a check-up at the Basaguda field hospital. The Maoists had on Wednesday released a photograph of Manhas and said he was safe. The picture showed the commando in battle fatigues, sitting on a sheet of blue tarpaulin laid out on the floor of what seemed a makeshift tent of dried leaves and bamboo poles. Officials said social worker Dharampal Saini and Gelam Boraiya, chief of the tribal body Gondwana Samaj, led the team of facilitators, who included six local journalists. “They had been talking to the Maoists for the jawan’s safe return,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said. In a statement on Thursday night, CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh said: “On behalf of CRPF, I thank all those who have worked for his safe release. The constable Manhas is in good health and he has been subjected to mandatory detailed medical/health check-up immediately after his release.... He talked to his family members telephonically.” On Tuesday, the banned CPI (Maoist) had asked the government to pick a fresh mediator for their ongoing secret talks, sources in the security establishment said without elaborating. Twenty-two jawans were killed and 31 injured in a four-hour gun battle after a team of security personnel apparently walked into a Maoist trap on Saturday. Sources in the security establishment have alleged an intelligence failure and poor leadership by the CRPF commanders, but Kuldiep has denied any lapses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Gyanvapi radar archaeological survey ordered||A Varanasi court has asked the central government to conduct an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi area through radar technology, the directive coming on a 30-year-old petition that claimed a temple existed under the mosque at the site. A lawyer for the Muslim side said the order — on a controversy that carries echoes of the Ayodhya dispute — would be challenged in high court. The Gyanvapi mosque shares a compound with the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Sangh parivar outfits claim that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb had got a part of the Kashi Vishwanath temple demolished in 1669 and had the mosque built over a well that contained a Shivalinga. Right-wing Hindu groups have long threatened to have the mosque razed to resurrect the supposedly buried temple. The agenda received a boost after November 2019 when the Supreme Court handed over to Hindus the disputed Ayodhya plot where a mob had pulled down the Babri Masjid, which the parivar claimed was built over a demolished Ram temple. On Thursday, civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari directed the survey, also asking the Archaeological Survey of India to form a five-member committee to monitor the exercise that will detect and map underground structures. The court was hearing a petition that local lawyer Vijay Shankar Rastogi had moved in 1991 on behalf of Lord Visheshwar Nath (Shiva). The case had been heard over 200 times by various judges since then, Rastogi says, before a district judge handed it over three years ago to a fast-track court that has now ruled on the matter. According to written history, Aurangzeb had been furious when the Maharani of Kutch was dishonoured during a visit to the temple and ordered demolition of a portion of the shrine. Queen Ahilyabai Holkar of Indore got the temple reconstructed in 1780. Two years ago, while laying the foundation stone for the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, a central scheme to renovate the shrine and beautify its neighbourhood, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that God had chosen him to finish what Queen Ahilyabai had started two centuries ago. He said Shiva had assigned him the task with the message: “Bete, batein bahut karte ho; aao idhar, kar ke dikhao (Son, you speak a lot; come here and prove yourself by doing something).” The Gyanvapi Anjuman Intezamiya (management) Committee has throughout the pendency of the court case alleged a Right-wing conspiracy to bring the mosque down. Abhay Nath, counsel for the Sunni Central Waqf Board, which is monitoring the case on the committee’s behalf, said: “We are not happy with the court order and will move the high court against it.” Rastogi said: “We believe the original temple was built by the legendary king Vikramaditya. Ahilyabai Holkar got the current Shivalinga installed in 1780.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Supreme Court rider on Rohingya return||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that no Rohingya refugee from Jammu and Kashmir can be deported from the country unless the government follows the procedure prescribed under the law for the expulsion of illegal migrants. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde passed the direction while refusing to entertain a plea for a blanket stay on the possible deportation process of about 150-180 Rohingya Muslims in Jammu and Kashmir. “It is not possible to grant the interim relief. However, it is made clear that the Rohingya in Jammu on whose behalf the application has been moved shall not be deported unless the procedure prescribed for such deportation is followed,” the bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. The government will have to proceed in line with the Foreigners Act, under which alleged illegal migrants have to be first identified and only then prosecuted before a tribunal. Only on being declared as “illegal migrants” by the tribunal can they be deported. The application has been moved by Samiullah Khan, a Rohingya refugee who had challenged the central government’s decision to deport thousands of Rohingya who had entered India from Myanmar following the political turmoil in the neighbouring country. The application has cited news reports to plead that since March 7 this year nearly 150-170 Rohingya refugees in Jammu have been illegally detained and jailed in the local sub-jail that has been converted into a holding centre. It had sought a restraint on the Union government from deporting the Rohingya, particularly from Jammu and Kashmir, following the reported biometric verification of such refugees by the administration of the Union Territory. The application had quoted inspector-general of police (Jammu) Mukesh Singh as stating that the refugees face deportation to Myanmar following verification by their embassy. According to the application, there have been reports that some refugees never returned to their camps after the biometric verification and had been detained or jailed by police. The alleged action was taken although most Rohingya refugees have cards issued by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) acknowledging their status and granting them protection. The application quoted media reports to point out how panic had gripped this already marginalised refugee community in Jammu after the verification drive and disappearance of family members. The applicant has prayed for directions from the court to release the refugees who have been detained. He has also pleaded for a direction to the Centre to refrain from implementing any orders on deporting Rohingya refugees and a direction to the UNHCR to intervene and assess the protection needs of the refugees. On March 26, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, had assured the bench that the Rohingya refugees would not be deported unless the Myanmar government identified them and agreed to take them back. The 11th round of corps commander talks between India and China will take place on Friday morning amid reports from the ground that Beijing has so far not shown any intent to disengage from the remaining friction points in Ladakh. Our Special Correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Kickbacks in Rafale deal: French portal Mediapart||French online news portal Mediapart, which has been pursuing the cover-up in France of the misdeeds in the Rafale deal with India, on Thursday reported that Sushen Gupta, a defence dealer under investigation by the Enforcement Directorate for money laundering in the AgustaWestland chopper scam, received “kickbacks” to influence the purchase of the 36 aircraft in flyaway condition. Citing the ED investigation, which said Gupta also “received kickbacks” to influence the result of “other defence deals”, the Mediapart report states it has information that one such deal is “the inter-governmental agreement signed in 2016 for the 7.8-billion-euro sale by France to India of 36 Rafale fighter aircraft, built by Dassault Aviation’’. In all these cases, ED had said the money was found to have transited through the same shell companies and the same types of “software consultancy” contracts used in the helicopter deal. As middleman for Dassault and Thales — a defence electronics firm in which Dassault and the French state are the major shareholders — Gupta obtained confidential documents from the Indian defence ministry relating to the activities of the negotiating team during the discussions on the Rafale deal in 2015, Mediapart said. In the first of its three-part series on the Rafale deal, Mediapart had disclosed that Gupta was involved in the deal though both the Indian and the French governments had stated that no middlemen were involved in this agreement. Mediapart reported that the French anti-corruption unit found that one million euros had been paid to Defsys Solutions — owned by Gupta’s family — by Dassault Aviation which it had failed to explain. In India, the Rafale deal has been mired in controversy ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced it during his April 2015 visit to Paris, contradicting then foreign secretary S. Jaishankar’s official statement that the plan to purchase 126 French fighter jets would not be taken up for discussion during the visit. Not only did Modi announce a deal for 36 Rafales in a flyaway state, he also junked the earlier deal under which the bulk of the jets were supposed to be built in India in collaboration with the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. Further questions cropped up after the offset deal was given to Anil Ambani’s joint venture company with Dassault instead of HAL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Supreme Court upholds CBI probe on Anil Deshmukh||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed the appeal filed by the Maharashtra government and its former home minister Anil Deshmukh challenging the CBI probe ordered into allegations of extortion against him. Bombay High Court had ordered the probe by the central agency on former police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegation that Deshmukh had directed cops to extort Rs 100 crore every month from businesses and bars. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta, after hearing the arguments of senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for Deshmukh and Abhishek Manu Singhvi for the Maharashtra government, upheld the CBI probe on the ground that the matter involved serious allegations against people of high standing. The court  pointed out that there was no business or political rivalry between Deshmukh and Singh. The Supreme Court order, dictated by Justice Kaul, said: “… We are of the view that the nature of allegations, the personas involved and the seriousness of the allegations do require an independent agency to inquire into the matter. It is a matter of public confidence, given the factual scenario. “We may also add that what has been directed is only a preliminary inquiry albeit by an independent agency. We are unable to accept the contentions… of Dr A.M. Singhvi, learned senior counsel, that merely because the Home Minister has resigned after the impugned order would be a factor not to direct enquiry by an independent agency. “The two personas held post of Home Minister and Commissioner of Police for a long period and the latter would be a post of confidence of the former. Further, we are unable to accept the contention… of Mr Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel, that even for directing a preliminary inquiry, the petitioner Mr Anil Deshmukh is mandatorily entitled to be heard in his individual capacity even though the State Government was represented and he was a Minister at that time. “For the aforesaid reasons, we are not inclined to interfere with the impugned order(s). The special leave petitions are dismissed.” Sibal had submitted during the arguments that “it will be a sad day in this country if you uphold an order like this. Such an order cannot be passed behind my back.” He had said Singh’s PILs in Bombay High Court on the basis of which the CBI probe was ordered had been based merely on allegations and that no notice had been served on Deshmukh.
“Setting criminal law in motion is fraught with serious consequences,” Sibal argued. The court orally observed: “All these problems are arising because of the fallout that has happened. Allegations are extremely serious and it has become curious and curious. In this scenario, is it not a CBI probe case?” The bench also said that the state was under an obligation to register an FIR as soon as the allegations surfaced. Further, Deshmukh did not resign even after a commission of inquiry was set up. It was only when the high court ordered a CBI probe that he chose to quit, the court observed. “Looking at the personas involved and the seriousness of the allegations, an independent inquiry is called for. You can’t say it affects the federal structure. This does not happen every day. Both have been made heads of institutions where something has gone wrong.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Maharashtra alleges Covid vaccine bias ||The Maharashtra government on Thursday alleged discrimination against the Opposition-ruled states with regard to the distribution of Covid-19 vaccines and complained that smaller states such as Gujarat and Haryana had got far more doses despite the situation being grave in the state ruled by the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state had demanded 40 lakh doses for one week but was given merely 7.5 lakh doses. “The Centre has now increased the limit to 17 lakh, which is not enough. Many vaccination centres in the state have closed down due to shortage. We have raised the issue with the Centre on several occasions,” Tope added. He said states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana had been given more vaccines despite them having lesser population and lower number of Covid-19 cases. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had on Wednesday lashed out at Maharashtra, saying that the “attempts by some state governments to distract attention from their failures and spread panic among the people” were deplorable as the crisis was triggered because of their “lackadaisical attitude”. But Tope asserted that the state would run out of vaccines in three days and asked the Centre to send more stocks at the earliest. While vaccination centres in several states have been turning away people, the BJP-ruled states have not yet raised red flags like Maharashtra. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Telangana and Jharkhand have reported vaccine shortage. Tope on Thursday said Maharashtra had only two days’ stock of Covid-19 vaccines. “Vaccination has stopped in districts such as Satara, Sangli and Panvel. There are many more districts where it has stopped. We have two more days of stock,” he said. He added, “I am not saying that the Centre is not giving us vaccines but the speed of delivery is slow.” Tope claimed that the state government was working on a war footing to increase the number of beds in Pune, Mumbai, Nasik and other parts of the state. The state has also demanded the inclusion of people in the age group of 20-40 years in the vaccination campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Post-vaccine Covid cases ‘not a surprise’||People who test Covid-19 positive after one dose or even two doses of the vaccines shouldn’t be surprised, according to medical experts who say the current vaccines are primarily designed to protect people from severe disease and deaths. Amid the nationwide vaccination campaign that has administered over 92 million doses, including both doses to 11.5 million people, some vaccinated people, including over two dozen doctors at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, have been detected as Covid-19 positive. But medical experts say the current Covid-19 vaccines are intended to generate immune responses that will prevent the coronavirus from causing severe disease after people have been exposed to it. Some vaccine recipients subsequently exposed to the infection may develop some symptoms such as mild fever. “The vaccines’ primary purpose is to prevent damage to the lungs and blood vessels,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi. At least 39 doctors at KGMU, including vice-chancellor Bipin Puri, have tested Covid-19 positive this week, including 17 who had received their second doses by March-end. Recipients of both doses elsewhere, including Calcutta, Delhi and Manipal, have also tested positive. “Such an unusual number of infected people at one place will require an epidemiological investigation,” a community medicine specialist in Delhi said. Such reports circulating widely across social media have at times prompted questions about vaccine efficacy from potential recipients. But experts say people testing positive after vaccination should not deter anyone from taking whatever vaccine is available. “It only means they were infected with the coronavirus after being vaccinated — that’s not surprising,” said Shailendra Saxena, head of the Centre for Advanced Research at the KGMU. “These vaccines do not prevent an individual from being infected.” Given this risk of infection, health guidelines in India and other countries recommend that even fully vaccinated recipients should keep taking precautions such as wearing masks, staying six feet away from others, avoiding crowds and washing their hands. Genome sequencing efforts have revealed the emergence of new coronavirus variants in India but Saxena and other medical experts say there is no evidence yet to suggest that the new strains might be causing reinfections in people already infected or in vaccine recipients. Medical researchers also point out that all vaccines come with a specific level of protective efficacy. Clinical trials have suggested that Covishield has an efficacy of about 71 per cent while Covaxin has an efficacy of about 81 per cent. Those values indicate that despite two doses, small fractions of individual recipients do not show adequate immune responses to protect them from the infection. However, the trials have suggested that all recipients are likely protected from severe disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Covid surge: Students running out of patience ||⚫ JNU is holding an inquiry against 12 students for allegedly barging into closed reading rooms. ⚫ First-year students of South Asian University (SAU) are boycotting their online classes over withheld scholarships and freeships. ⚫ Delhi University students are campaigning for the campus to be reopened and the students vaccinated against Covid. Students fearful of the Covid resurgence spoiling another academic year have gone on the warpath, demanding universities reopen campuses for in-person classes and the Centre relax its over-45-only policy to vaccinate them. The students’ frustration at what they see as the authorities’ rigidity has led to certain unusual situations. For instance, JNU reopened the reading rooms at its main library two days after several research students forcibly entered them on March 10 –– indirectly acknowledging the justice of the students’ demand –– but has started an inquiry against 12 students in connection with the act. JNU had allowed its research students back into the campus a few months ago but reopened the main library only for lending books. It kept the reading rooms, which have wi-fi facility, shut citing the Covid protocol. This week, 12 students received a notice from the proctor’s office to appear before an inquiry and explain the March 10 “indiscipline” and violation of Covid rules. “We didn’t do any damage; a few students entered the reading rooms forcibly,” Kaushik Rai, a PhD student, said. “When the students were ready to follow (social-distancing) protocols, there was no reason to deny them (entry into the reading rooms). This action (inquiry) is uncalled for.” Rai said he had merely protested outside the library on March 10 but had still received the notice, accusing him of forced entry. An email to vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar seeking the reasons for the closure of the reading rooms till the March 10 protest has remained unanswered. The 200-odd first-year students of SAU, an international university in Delhi for students from Saarc countries, have been boycotting their online classes for the past two weeks. All research students at SAU are entitled to scholarships of Rs 25,000 a month apart from free accommodation. Most of the master’s students get either a freeship, under which they are reimbursed the tuition and hostel fees, or a scholarship –– which means a freeship plus Rs 5,000 a month. The first-year students, admitted online last October, are yet to receive their scholarships or freeships. “The university has decided to confirm the admissions only after ‘physical verification’ (students coming in person with their documents),” a student who didn’t want to be identified said. The students allege the university has not set a timetable for physical verification and has, instead, precluded such verification by requesting the Indian missions in the Saarc countries via the foreign ministry not to issue visas to the first-year students. “So we are provisional students now, and are not getting our dues,” the student who requested anonymity said. An email to SAU president (equivalent to a vice-chancellor elsewhere) Ranjan Kumar Mohanty about the students’ complaint has brought no response yet. Delhi University students began an online campaign two weeks ago seeking reopening of the campus and Covid vaccination. “The university should facilitate vaccination for the students,” Surendra Singh, a student, said. Under the Centre’s current policy, those under 45 can be Covid-vaccinated only if they are healthcare or frontline workers. On Tuesday, the government’s top health officials rejected calls from some doctors and state governments to vaccinate all adults. JNU student N. Sai Balaji said that university students across the country were demanding vaccination and the resumption of in-person classes. About 30 students of the Indian Institute of Mass Communication here have been demonstrating in front of the institution for a few hours every day over the past four days demanding resumption of physical classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||PM averse to Covid vaccine age shift and full lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday rejected demands to start vaccinating people aged below 45 and ruled out a nationwide lockdown, urging chief ministers to focus on testing and earmarking small containment zones to arrest the Covid resurgence afflicting many states. Modi’s comments came at a virtual meeting with the chief ministers, many of whom demanded relaxing the age criterion for Covid vaccination, which is now 45 years or above. The Prime Minister acknowledged that the emerging situation posed a “serious concern” but advised the chief ministers to concentrate on “test, track, treat” instead of turning the entire focus on vaccination. “Test, track, treat, Covid-appropriate behaviour and Covid management: we have to focus on these,” the Prime Minister said. Ruling out a countrywide lockdown like last year, Modi advised the chief ministers to set up “micro-containment zones”. Modi appeared to suggest the country lacked enough vaccines to relax the age criterion. “Developed countries of the world, who have all the resources, even they have fixed criteria for vaccination. India isn’t different from them,” he said. “You know how much vaccine is manufactured. It’s not that big factories can be set up overnight. Whatever is available, we have to prioritise.” Modi added that one state couldn’t be given priority, a likely snub to worst-hit Maharashtra’s demand for more vaccines. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had on Wednesday lashed out at Opposition-ruled Maharashtra after its health minister complained of a vaccine shortage, alleging that the state’s “lackadaisical attitude” was “bogging down” the country’s Covid fight. Modi insisted that aggressive testing was the only way to battle the current surge. Modi favoured night curfews, a measure whose effectiveness in combating Covid has been widely questioned. The Prime Minister asserted the whole world had accepted the idea of night curfews and suggested they be called “corona curfews” to spread awareness. “A curfew makes people remember they are living in the age of (the) corona(virus). It’s good that we promote the night curfew as ‘corona curfew’,” he said. Punjab’s Amarinder Singh, who had been one of the chief ministers at the meeting to stress the need for immunising people younger than 45 who go out to work, later took the demand to the public arena. “Request flexibility to states to devise local vaccination strategy within broad parameters of Centre’s approach,” Amarinder tweeted, saying he had written to the Prime Minister about this.
“Also need to immunise youngsters in high risk areas & patients of liver and kidney disease below 45.” Modi, however, prodded the chief ministers to instead ensure that everyone above 45 was vaccinated. The Prime Minister suggested a “tika utsav” (vaccine festival) between April 11 and 14, but only for the “eligible section” of the over-45. He said this would boost the vaccination drive and reduce wastage. Modi underscored that April 11 was the birth anniversary of social reformer Jyotiba Phule and April 14 that of Babasaheb Ambedkar. For the below-45, the Prime Minister suggested they focus on following the Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks and observing social distancing. He also urged the youth to encourage those above 45 to get vaccinated and to spread awareness about the need to follow the pandemic protocols. “If our youth follow the Covid protocols and inspire others to (do so), you will see that we can again come down from the peak,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Bihar police arrest six for killing five persons last month||Bihar police have arrested six persons from near the Indo-Nepal border here in connection with the killing of five persons last month, an incident dubbed as a “caste war” by the media and “massacre” by the Opposition. All the six persons, including the alleged mastermind Praveen Jha, were arrested from a village in Bisfi police station area on Wednesday, said Madhubani superintendent of police Satya Prakash. Those arrested were allegedly involved in gunning down five persons, including four brothers, belonging to the Rajput caste, in a village under Benipatti police station on March 29. Prakash maintained that the incident that took place on Holi had followed a dispute over catching fish from a pond. However, some media reports said the mass killing was a fall out of a protracted struggle for supremacy among the two dominant castes — Brahmins and Rajputs — in the area. The Opposition RJD had latched on the issue to train its guns at the Nitish Kumar government and claimed that the police was trying to “shield” the killers since they enjoyed the patronage of a powerful local BJP leader. The Opposition party, which was often criticised for massacres carried out by rival Maoist groups and private armies of landlords while it ruled the state, has contended that the “carnage” in Madhubani was proof that “jungle raj” prevailed in Bihar. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who had earlier this week travelled to Benipatti to console the family members of the deceased, exultingly posted on Twitter that “police announced the arrests just 10 minutes ahead of a press conference where we were going to expose the collusion between the administration and the perpetrators. This is the power of the opposition”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Video shows Kamal Hasan trying to poke a reporter with walking stick||A video has emerged showing Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan purportedly trying to poke a reporter of a TV channel with his walking stick. According to Coimbatore Press Club sources, the reporter was videographing Haasan arriving at a polling centre in the Coimbatore South constituency on Tuesday from where he is a candidate. Haasan, a veteran actor, reportedly did not like being videographed and pointed the lower end of his walking stick at the neck of the reporter and tried to poke him with it, the sources said. The reporter, however, did not react and left. The video has been widely shared on social media. Coimbatore Press Club has demanded an apology from Haasan and threatened legal action against the actor turned politician, the sources said. Haasan has been using a walking stick after he had a surgery on his leg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
