10-04-2021||India||No lockdown in Delhi, but ‘some restrictions’ will be put in place: Kejriwal||Amid escalating cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said lockdown is "not an option" but some restrictions will be put in place in the national capital which is reeling under the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The chief minister said this during an interaction with reporters after visiting the LNJP Hospital -- the mainstay of Delhi's fight against Covid-19 -- to review its preparedness. "Lockdown is not an option, however, we will be putting some restrictions in place to contain the spread of the virus. We will release the restrictions in the coming few days. Covid centres are being rebuilt and some have already started functioning," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the chief minister's office. Kejriwal said the administration and hospitals are working to contain the fourth wave of the pandemic in the city. "We are currently in a comfortable position with reference to beds and ventilators. We will ensure that the people of Delhi stay safe, to the best of our abilities," he added. Coronavirus cases in Delhi have mounted at a very rapid rate in the last few days, and the number of deaths too have risen. Delhi recorded 8,521 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the highest single-day surge since November 11 last year, while 39 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,196. The highest single-day spike in Delhi till date -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11 in 2020, while on November 19, the city had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date. At present, 1,500 beds out of 2,000 are reserved for Covid-19 patients, and the number might be increased according to requirements in the future, Kejriwal said. "The last few days have seen a rise in the number of corona cases in the entire country, including Delhi. We need to simultaneously spearhead an aggressive vaccination campaign and also put in place measures that can effectively contain the spread of the virus along with making the hospital management equally effective," he said. Right now, we have declared 1,500 of those as Covid beds, 500 are still non-Covid. Slowly, the outpatient department will also be shut at the hospital and if the situation demands, all 2,000 will be made available for Covid patients, the chief minister said. "Whatever is required by the hospitals from our end, will be provided. We sincerely hope and pray to God that no one falls prey to the disease but in the scenario that they do, we will ensure that the hospitals are ready for the challenge and the people of Delhi face no obstacles in recovery," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
10-04-2021||India||Sonia reviews Covid-19 spread in Congress ruled states||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday reviewed the efforts by the states ruled by her party to tackle the second wave of the coronavirus infection and the vaccination drive. Addressing a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states and ministers of the party in states where it is in power in alliance with others, she said the priority should be to test, track and vaccinate. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh and Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel were among those who participated in the meeting. While Singh pointed out that Punjab's vaccination stock will last for five more days, Baghel said Chhattisgarh will run out of the vaccine stock in three days. The Congress chief also reviewed the efforts to fight Covid-19, including the availability of vaccines, access to medicines and ventilators, chief spokesperson of the party Randeep Surjewala said. "The priority is to test, track and vaccinate," he wrote on Twitter, quoting Sonia Gandhi. "The (Narendra) Modi government has mismanaged the Covid situation. It has exported the vaccines and allowed a shortage to be created in India," the Congress chief said at the meeting. She said all public gatherings and poll rallies should be cancelled as the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise and asked the chief ministers if the economic packages announced by the Centre had the desired impact. "Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid for which all of us are responsible to some extent. We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own," Sonia Gandhi said. Surjewala said the Punjab chief minister has pointed out a vaccine shortage. "He candidly points out that the Central Govt has given no assurance of numbers and supply," he wrote on Twitter. "We must focus on India's vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries. We must stress on responsible behaviour -- adhering to all laws and Covid regulations without an exception," she said. The Congress chief said cooperation with the states is showing respect to federalism and it is equally important for the states to be constructive and cooperate with the Centre in its efforts to fight the pandemic. "We are all united in this fight," Sonia Gandhi said. She said strict measures need to be taken in the Congress-ruled states to ensure that the pandemic does not go out of control and large-scale testing, preparation of adequate facilities and setting up temporary ones should be ensured. "We must make all efforts to support those who face the brunt of reduced economic activity as the restrictions become harder and more stringent," she said. Gandhi asked, "Is there enough vaccine available? Has the central government been cooperative? What are our states doing to ensure the availability of oxygen, ventilators and other facilities as the pandemic grows?" "What are your views on another lockdown? What about the economic fallout? How bad is the situation in your state? Should public gatherings, including election rallies, not be cancelled?" she asked. Stating that various packages have been announced by the Centre to help MSMEs and stimulate the economy, the Congress chief asked, "What impact have these packages had and what more should the government be doing to deal with the continuing crisis? Do you see economic recovery happening in the manner that is being officially claimed?" "According to our discussion on Covid, I would like to be briefed on the latest situation regarding the agitation of farmers that has been going on now for well over five months. "The Congress-ruled states have passed their own laws but those have not received the presidential assent. What more should we do even though the keys to the solution are with the Centre, which has created the problem in the first place," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
10-04-2021||India||India records over 1.45 lakh fresh Covid cases, 794 casualties in a day||With a record 1,45,384 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 1,32,05,926, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months, while the death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,68,436 with 794 more fatalities, the highest since October 18 last year, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 31st day in a row, the number of active coronavirus cases in the country has gone up to 10,46,631, accounting for 7.93 per cent of its total caseload, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 90.80 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12, accounting for only 1.25 per cent of the total number of cases in the country. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,19,90,859, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.28 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,52,14,803 samples have so far been tested in the country for the viral disease, including 11,73,219 on Friday. The 794 fresh fatalities include 301 from Maharashtra, 91 from Chhattisgarh, 56 from Punjab, 46 from Karnataka, 42 from Gujarat, 39 from Delhi, 36 from Uttar Pradesh, 32 from Rajasthan, 23 each from Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, 22 from Kerala, 17 from Jharkhand and 11 each from Andhra Pradesh and Haryana. Of the total number of 1,68,436 deaths caused by COVID-19 in the country, Maharashtra accounts for 57,329, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,863), Karnataka (12,813), Delhi (11,196), West Bengal (10,378), Uttar Pradesh (9,039), Punjab (7,390) and Andhra Pradesh (7,279). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
10-04-2021||India||US Navy conducts exercise in Indian waters sans intimation||The US Navy has declared with impunity that it carried out an exercise in Indian waters near the Lakshadweep Islands on Wednesday without New Delhi’s prior consent to challenge India’s “excessive” maritime claims. A statement from the Commander of the US Seventh Fleet said the navy would continue to perform such “freedom of navigation operations” in future to uphold “the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law”. Indian navy veterans and defence officials expressed shock that a friendly country would not just transgress Indian maritime policy but advertise it. The phrase  “Seventh Fleet” has other domestic implications, too, especially against the backdrop of the 50th anniversary of the Liberation of Bangladesh. Within India, the Seventh Fleet has come to symbolise the country’s will to stand up to a superpower like the US and defy the arm-twisting tactics of Henry Kissinger, Richard Nixon’s hawkish secretary of state, during the Bangladesh Liberation War. The Nixon administration had tried to intimidate India and lift the morale of West Pakistan by sending Task Force 74 of the Seventh Fleet to the Bay of Bengal. Led by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, India had refused to blink and the Soviet Union had despatched naval units from its Pacific Fleet, helping New Delhi thwart America’s gunboat diplomacy. This week, the US statement did not mince words: “This freedom of navigation operation (FONOP) upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India’s excessive maritime claims.” India, which requires other countries to seek permission before carrying out military exercises on its waters, said the US action had violated a UN Convention and that New Delhi had conveyed its concerns through diplomatic channels. The US Navy had conducted such an operation earlier too, but did not make it public in the manner it has done now.  For instance, an exercise in 2018-19 became known only in 2020 when the report was unclassified. The statement from the Commander of the US Seventh Fleet defended the operation by the guided-missile destroyer USS John Paul Jones in India’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ) as “consistent with international law” and described New Delhi’s requirement of prior consent as “inconsistent with international law”. “On April 7, 2021 (local time) USS John Paul Jones (DDG 53) asserted navigational rights and freedoms approximately 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep islands, inside India’s exclusive economic zone, without requesting India’s prior consent, consistent with international law,” the statement said. “India required prior consent for military exercises or manoeuvres in its exclusive economic zone or continental shelf, a claim inconsistent with international law.” India’s foreign ministry issued a statement on Friday saying: “The Government of India’s stated position on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is that the Convention does not authorise other States to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state. “The USS John Paul Jones was continuously monitored transiting from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits. We have conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the government of USA through diplomatic channels.” India’s defence ministry declined to comment officially. A ministry official said: “This is totally unbecoming of the US since it is among India’s closest strategic partners and both sides have been opposing China’s maritime expansionism, especially in the South China Sea.” The former navy chief, Admiral Arun Prakash, said there was an irony to the development. “There is irony here. While India ratified UN Law of the Seas in 1995, the US has failed to do it so far. For the 7th Fleet to carry out FoN missions in Indian EEZ in violation of our domestic law is bad enough. But publicising it? USN please switch on IFF (Identification, friend or foe)!” he tweeted. The US Navy statement said its forces operated daily in the Indo-Pacific region and all their operations were “designed in accordance with international law and demonstrate that the US will fly, sail and operate wherever international law allows”. “We conduct routine and regular... (FONOPs), as we have done in the past and will continue to in the future. FONOPs are not about one country, nor are they about making political statements,” the statement said. In October 2019, the Indian Navy had chased away a Chinese research vessel from Indian waters near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands as it lacked permission to operate there. Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh had then said: “Our stand is very clear…. If you have to do anything in our exclusive economic zone, you have to notify Indian navy and take permission.” The last time the US Navy conducted such an operation in India’s exclusive economic zone was in 2018-19, according to the US defence department that publishes an annual freedom of navigation report “identifying the excessive maritime claims that US forces operationally challenged”. In an unclassified report to the US Congress in July 2020, the US navy said it had conducted an operation in the Indian Ocean region between October 1, 2018, and September 30, 2019, to preserve the rights, freedoms, and uses of the sea and airspace guaranteed to all nations by international law. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
10-04-2021||India||States running out of Covid-19 vaccine doses||Dozens of Covid-19 vaccination centres in Maharashtra and Odisha suspended operations on Friday after running out of vaccine stocks, a day after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had asserted there was no vaccine shortage. Several private hospitals in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, too have reported they have no vaccines, while Bengal, Odisha and Rajasthan have told the Centre they would run out of vaccine stocks in two days. The Union health ministry did not explain why so many vaccination centres in at least five states had or would soon run out of stocks, but one health expert tracking the campaign said it was “obviously either a supply issue or a distribution issue”. Vardhan had tweeted on Thursday that India had administered about 91 million doses and had 24 million doses “in stock” and 19 million doses “in the pipeline”, without clarifying what “pipeline” meant. “Where does the question of (vaccine) shortages arise? We’re continuously monitoring and enhancing supply,” Vardhan wrote. Two senior health officials, both of whom are involved in guiding the country’s vaccination strategy, failed to respond to queries from The Telegraph about multiple states facing shortages despite the minister’s assurances. A third official, also advising the vaccination strategy, said: “I don’t have the information that you’re looking for.” Health officials had earlier insisted that the Centre was monitoring the vaccine stocks and the daily use in every state. “If this is being done efficiently, why should any vaccination centre run out of stocks?” a senior public health expert asked. “An efficient distribution system would ensure the stocks get replenished before they run out,” the public health and infectious disease expert who is not associated with the vaccination campaign told this newspaper. On Friday, as India recorded over 131,000 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count until now, inoculations were suspended at sites in Mumbai and Odisha. In Mumbai, city health authorities told PTI that 75 of the 120 vaccination centres across the city, including a jumbo Covid-19 vaccination centre in a key business district, had suspended inoculation because of shortages. The remaining centres were likely to suspend the vaccination drive by Friday afternoon or evening as the stocks were fast depleting, the officials said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s executive health officer, Mangala Gomare, told the agency that Mumbai was expected to get 180,000 doses on Friday. The jumbo Covid-19 centre, where the civic body has set up a mega inoculation facility, suspended vaccinations after administering the less than 200 doses available in stock, a doctor from the centre said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that his state would run out of vaccines within two days, and requested at least 3 million doses. Rajasthan has administered over 8.6 million doses and plans to inoculate 500,000 people every day, Gehlot said. More than 700 vaccination centres in Odisha have already suspended inoculations because of a lack of vaccines, state officials said. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik had flagged the acute shortage of vaccines in the state during Modi’s interaction with chief ministers on Thursday. Patnaik had urged Modi to ensure that Odisha had enough vaccine stocks for at least 10 days. A public health expert said it was unclear what criteria the Centre was using to distribute the vaccines among different states. Vardhan had said on Thursday that Maharashtra and Rajasthan were two of the top three states in the allocation of Covid-19 vaccine doses. “Both are non-BJP government states,” he had tweeted, releasing figures of the doses: Maharashtra (10.6 million), Gujarat (10.5 million), Rajasthan (10.4 million). But Maharashtra’s population of 120 million is nearly twice Gujarat’s 64 million. "Ideally we would expect the vaccine distribution to be in proportion to the states’ populations and caseloads,” said Dileep Mavlankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad. India’s count of active patients rose on Friday to nearly 980,000. Among these, about 44,000 patients are on oxygen support, 22,000 are in intensive care units and nearly 4,500 are on ventilator, according to data presented on Friday by Vardhan at a Group of Ministers meeting on Covid-19. Ten states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan — account for over 80 per cent of the new patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
10-04-2021||India||Ravi Shankar Prasad accuses Rahul of lobbying for pharma companies||Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday accused Rahul Gandhi of lobbying for pharmaceutical companies, slamming the Congress leader’s letter to the Prime Minister over the slow pace of the vaccination drive. In a series of tweets, Prasad also sought to hit back with a question: “Why has Rahul Gandhi not yet taken the vaccine?” Rahul became eligible to take the vaccine after it was opened to everyone over 45 on April 1. “After failing as a part time politician has Rahul Gandhi switched to full time lobbying?” Prasad asked. “First he lobbied for fighter plane companies…. Now he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines,” he added. “India is not facing a vaccine starvation but Shri Rahul Gandhi is facing attention starvation,” Prasad claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
10-04-2021||India||Rafale: Congress seeks thorough investigation of 2.81bn euro loss||The Congress on Friday made a fresh demand for a thorough investigation as latest revelations in the Rafale deal suggested a loss of Rs 21,075 crore (2.81 billion euros) to the national exchequer because the Indian Negotiating Team was overruled to fix a higher price for the fighter jets acquired from the French company Dassault Aviation. Claiming vindication of its stand that the Rafale deal involved massive corruption, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said at a news conference: “The Prime Minister needs to answer some questions. Isn’t it correct that the Indian Negotiating Team (INT) on August 10, 2015, arrived at a benchmark cost of 5.06 billion euros for 36 Rafale fighter jets including weaponry package, etc? Is it now not proved by the INT document released by the French news portal Mediapart which has accessed Enforcement Directorate (ED) documents recovered from the middleman?” Surjewala added: “Isn’t it correct that the price of 7.87 billion euros for 36 aircraft was decided by Dassault Aviation in its internal meeting dated January 20, 2016? Isn’t it correct that the INT had rejected this price calculation of 7.87 billion euros for the 36 aircraft the very next day? Isn’t it correct that on September 23, 2016, the price of 7.87 billion euros (as decided by Dassault in their internal meeting) was accepted by the (Narendra) Modi government and the contract awarded to Dassault?” The Congress had earlier also accused the Prime Minister’s Office of overruling the INT to fix a higher price. Surjewala said: “What was the quid pro quo for accepting the price of 7.87 billion euros when the defence ministry itself had calculated the cost at 5.06 billion euros and had rejected the Dassault calculation? What is the reason for additional payment of 2.81 billion euros (Rs 21,075 crore — value in 2016), causing loss to the public exchequer? Asking why the Modi government was silent on these revelations despite seizure of sensitive confidential documents from the said middleman in 2019, brought out in public domain now by the French news portal, Surjewala queried: “Isn’t it correct that the ED has recovered the ‘secret defence ministry documents’ from the middleman in the raid dated March 26, 2019, including the benchmark price document dated August 10, 2015, the ‘record of discussions’ by the INT, the ‘Excel sheet of calculations’ made by the defence ministry and Eurofighter’s counter offer of 20 per cent discount to the government?” The Congress spokesperson said: “Why did the Modi government then not take action against Dassault, the political executive or the defence ministry officers who leaked the documents? Isn’t it correct that ‘anti-corruption clauses’, that is, ‘no bribery, no gift, no influence, no commission, no middlemen’ is the mandatory policy in defence contracts as per the ‘Defence Procurement Procedure’? Isn’t it correct that the ‘anti-corruption clauses’ were part of the tender issued by the UPA for purchase of 126 fighter aircraft? Isn’t it correct that the mandatory ‘anti-corruption clauses’ were proposed by the defence ministry to be part of the ‘Inter-Governmental Agreement’ dated July 20, 2015? Isn’t it correct that the French government/Dassault deleted the anti-corruption clauses?” Surjewala asked: “How was a middleman in a reported note to Dassault dated June 24, 2014, promising Dassault officials ‘a meeting with Indian political high command’ and possible change of the defence minister? Did such a meeting take place with the ‘high command’ in the Modi government? Is it correct that after the alleged meeting, the Prime Minister announced the off-the-shelf purchase of 36 Rafale aircraft on April 10, 2015, and also the removal of HAL as the offset partner and bringing in a private Indian industrialist? Is it also correct that the defence portfolio was also changed in November 2014?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
10-04-2021||India||Rahul demands immediate moratorium on vaccine export||Rahul Gandhi on Friday demanded an immediate moratorium on vaccine export, saying the Narendra Modi government’s mismanagement had frittered away the advantage India’s scientists had given the country. “Over the last year, our country suffered irreparable losses, made tremendous sacrifices, and yet we are under a renewed attack by the coronavirus,” Rahul wrote to Prime Minister Modi. “This is unfortunate considering our scientific community and vaccine suppliers worked overtime to develop a solution but their efforts are undermined by the poor implementation and oversight.” The invocation of “oversight” seemed an attempt to underline the questions about the government’s functioning that were recently raised when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman used the word to explain an apparently inadvertent order cutting small savings interest rates. While the order was quickly withdrawn at a time many states were election-bound, many citizens and social media users wondered how casually the Centre had to function for such an order to be issued by oversight. Demanding an “immediate moratorium” on vaccine export, Rahul wrote to Modi: “Was the export of vaccines also an ‘oversight’, like many other decisions of this government, or an effort to garner publicity at the cost of our own citizens?” India has already exported 6.45 crore doses of Covid vaccines, some of them free of cost, as a goodwill gesture to friendly countries. But the process has now been halted with several states reporting shortages. “India had the first mover advantage in vaccination and yet we are moving at a snail’s pace. Historically, India has achieved abundant experience in designing and executing some of the world’s biggest vaccination programmes. Yet in the present case, we have managed to fully vaccinate less than 1 per cent of the population in 3 months,” Rahul wrote. “Countries with sizeable populations have managed to vaccinate relatively many more people. At our current vaccination rate, it would take years to inoculate 75 per cent of the population. This will have catastrophic effects and will gravely decelerate India’s economy.” Rahul appeared to be seeking to expose the BJP’s ‘India first’ slogan by harping on the vaccine exports. Rahul recalled how the Congress had successfully run vaccination drives over the last 70 years. He sought more freedom for the states. “Centralisation and individualised propaganda are counter-productive. Even though public health is a state subject, our states have been bypassed right from vaccine procurement to registration,” he wrote. Rahul suggested a few measures: “Provide vaccine suppliers with necessary resources to increase manufacturing capacity. Fast-track approval of other vaccines as per norms and guidelines. Open up vaccination to everyone who needs it. Double the central allocation for vaccine procurement from the existing Rs 35,000 crore. “Give state governments a greater say in vaccine procurement and distribution. Provide direct income support to the vulnerable sections in the disastrous second wave.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
10-04-2021||India||Rabies shot instead of Covid jab in Uttar Pradesh||Three elderly women were allegedly administered anti-rabies injections instead of Covid vaccines at a community health centre in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district on Thursday. Saroj Verma, 70, Anarkali Devi, 72, and Satyavati Devi, 60, had gone to the community health centre for the vaccination on Thursday. “Saroj began vomiting after around 20 minutes,” said Awadhesh Singh, a neighbour of Anarkali and Satyavati. “One of them called us and we took her to a private hospital, where a doctor checked the chit she had been given at the community health centre. It was written on the chits of the women that they had been administered anti-rabies injections,” Awadhesh added. The three women have sent a written complaint to Jasjeet Kaur, the district magistrate of Shamli.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Vaccine: Serum bound by global pact to ship jabs to Covax||The Serum Institute of India is legally compelled to ship coronavirus vaccine to global vaccine sharing facility Covax, its co-lead Gavi has told Reuters, a provision that could complicate the firm’s efforts to boost domestic supplies. India, where infections have surged to 13.06 million, suspended all major exports of vaccines last month to fill demand at home, forcing the world’s biggest vaccine maker to divert nearly all its production to the domestic market. “The agreement is legally binding and served as a basis for the first-round allocation document, which has been communicated to all participating economies,” a Gavi spokeswoman said by email. The pact specified Gavi would receive from the Serum Institute 1.1 billion doses of either the AstraZeneca vaccine or that of Novavax, with 200 million committed, and the rest on option. Serum Institute partner AstraZeneca has already issued it a legal notice over delays to other shipments, while many Indian states have complained of a shortage facing priority recipients. Gavi said its pact with Serum took effect when the World Health Organisation approved the AstraZeneca shot on February 15, after a source said Serum had originally been supposed to send doses to Covax only from May. “Serum has pledged that, alongside supplying India, it will prioritise the Covax multilateral solution for equitable distribution,” Gavi added. Covax had expected more than 100 million doses from Serum between February and May, excluding supplies for India, but has so far received only about 18.2 million. Gavi did not respond on Friday to questions about what now lies ahead. Serum also did not respond to a request for comment. The firm has sought $403 million from New Delhi as a grant to boost monthly output to more than 100 million doses by end-May, from 65 million to 70 million now. Reuters On Thursday, the foreign ministry said domestic demand would determine the extent of India’s exports. It has already shipped 64.5 million doses and given out 92 million at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Gyanvapi survey order queried||Thursday’s directive by a Varanasi court for an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi area came while a petition questioning the hearing in the lower court was pending with Allahabad High Court, the Muslim side said on Friday. It said civil judge Ashutosh Tiwari’s order was therefore bad in jurisprudence and would be challenged in the high court. The 30-year-old petition sought the radar technology survey to ascertain whether parts of the original Kashi Vishwanath temple lay under the Gyanvapi mosque. M.R. Shamshad, who is fighting the case for the Gyanvapi Anjuman Intzamiya (management) Committee, said the Muslim side had petitioned the high court in 2019 asking that the petition be no longer heard in the lower courts. “The high court had reserved its judgment two months ago. We were waiting for the order,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls: Unnao rape convict’s wife gets BJP ticket ||Former MLA and Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Singh Sengar’s wife will be contesting the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls on a BJP ticket. The BJP has made her a candidate for the district panchayat member from Ward 22 of Fatehpur Chaurasi, according to a list released by state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh. Kuldeep Sengar was awarded life sentence by a Delhi court on December 20, 2019, for raping a 17-year-old girl in Unnao. After his conviction, Sengar’s membership as an MLA was cancelled. Samajwadi Party chief spokesman Rajendra Chowdhury said: “On one hand, it (BJP) talks about eliminating criminals and on the other, it glorifies them....” BJP spokesperson Harishchandra Shrivastava said names of all the candidates were recommended by the district unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Everyone aged 18 and above can pick their own faith: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Friday orally observed every person aged 18 and above has a right to choose his or her religion while refusing to entertain a PIL seeking direction to the Centre and states to control “black magic, superstition and religious conversion”. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and Hemant Gupta warned the petitioner Ashwini Upadhyaya that it would impose a heavy cost on him if he persisted with the arguments, forcing the latter to withdraw the petition. “I don’t see a reason as to why any person above the age of 18 years cannot choose his religion... There is a reason why the word propagate is there in the Indian Constitution,” Justice Nariman heading the bench told the petitioner, an advocate. The court was referring to Article 25 of the Constitution which guarantees every person freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion. The observation comes in the backdrop of several BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka passing anti-conversion laws to curb alleged cases of “love jihad”, a Right-wing allegation that Muslim men are luring Hindu women into marriage to indoctrinate and radicalise them. Justice Nariman observed that the present PIL was a case of “publicity interest litigation”. “Religious conversion by ‘carrot and stick’ and ‘by hook or crook’ not only offends Articles 14 (right to equality), 21 (right to life and liberty), 25 (right to freedom of religion) but also against the principles of secularism which is integral part of basic structure of Constitution,” the petition said. According to Upadhyaya, on May 10, 1995, in the Sarla Mudgal case, an apex court bench had directed the Centre to explore the feasibility of enacting an anti-conversion law but the government did nothing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Odisha asks for vaccines and Rs 300 crore to fight the pandemic||Odisha has urged the Centre to immediately send more vaccines to the state and sanction it a sum of Rs 300 crore to effectively fight the corona pandemic. The state is facing an acute shortage of vaccines and it has stocks left only for two days. More than 700 vaccination centres have already shut down because of lack of vaccines. On Thursday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik raised the issue of acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the state during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with chief ministers to review the corona situation in the country. Naveen urged the Prime Minister to ensure that Odisha had enough vaccines stocks at least for next ten days. “Odisha has been doing well in the vaccination programme with the lowest wastage rate in the country and an efficient system of administering the vaccines to eligible persons. We have not been able to ramp up the vaccination programme due to supply issues. We are currently able to vaccinate 2.5 lakh persons per day and have capability to increase it further. We request that at least 10 days stock of the vaccines is ensured for Odisha,” Naveen said. He also asked the Centre to immediately release the Rs 300 crore to Odisha for 2021-22 for Covid management. “During 2020-21, Odisha had requested for Rs 400 crore under Emergency Covid Response Plan (ECRP), but we received only Rs 146 crore. In view of the new wave of Covid, it is requested that at least Rs 300 crore be released to Odisha for 2021-22 for Covid management,” chief minister said. Earlier, health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das said: “The state requires 2.5 lakh doses of vaccine every day. But if vaccines don’t reach the state immediately all vaccination centres in the state will be closed from Saturday. We have asked for immediate supply of 25 lakh doses of vaccines.” Naveen on Friday launched a 14-day Mask Abhiyana to beat the coronavirus. He also urged women to ensure that their family members wear the masks while going out of the house. The announcement came on a day when Odisha witnessed the highest surge of 1,282 new cases. Announcing the Abhiyana, Naveen said: “If we do practice anything for 14 days, then it becomes a habit. Only by practicing such things, we can overcome the corona without the lockdown.” Making it clear that the government is not in favour of any lockdown, Naveen pointed out how lockdown last year had made an impact on the socio-economic condition of the people. “If we wear the masks properly and abide by the Covid guidelines, we will overcome the situation without going for a lockdown,” he said. He further said: “Several states have declared lockdown, shutdown and night curfew. Odisha has also witnessed a surge in cases and this can be contained if we follow the safety protocols and use a mask.” Meanwhile, the Odisha government has made it mandatory for the people coming from other states to produce the RT-PCR negative report obtained within 72 hours of entry of final vaccination certificates (after two doses of vaccinations). Health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das said: “People coming without such reports will have to undergo seven days mandatory and institutional quarantine.” In another development, the Odisha government has suspended all modes of public transport from Chhattisgarh and vice versa from April 10-30. Following a direction from the government, the police have launched a drive to impose penalty on people violating Covid-19 guidelines. “On the second day of the special Covid enforcement drive, Odisha police acted against 11801 violators of mask usage and social distancing rules and collected a fine of Rs 26,61,450 in the last 24 hours,” tweeted Odisha police. It said: “Cumulatively in two days action has been taken against 21201 violators of Covid protocols in the state and penal fines amounting to Rs 51,69,350 have been collected. We urge all to wear masks and maintain social distance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Row over EVM use in Bihar panchayat polls||Bihar appears to be heading towards a constitutional crisis as elections to the three-tier panchayati raj system are likely to miss the deadline for completion because the Election Commission and the state poll panel are at loggerheads over the use of electronic voting machines (EVM) in the polls. When the state election commission approached Patna High Court on the issue, it had suggested the two constitutional bodies sort out the matter in a mutual manner instead of contesting each other in front of the judiciary. However, with no resolution in sight and the EC not relenting on the issue, the matter has come to a head. The high court has also been unable to take up the case for hearing despite it being listed on Tuesday and Wednesday. The poll process needs to be completed by June 15. The notification for the polls was supposed to be published in March, but is already delayed by a month. If the elections are not completed on time, the state government will have to make alternative arrangements. “Though the case is in Patna High Court, if the polls are not completed on time, we will have to make alternative arrangements. We may appoint administrators to run the local self-government institutions. The panchayat sevak, block development officers, MLAs and others could be given the responsibility,” Bihar panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary told The Telegraph. The rural local body polls involve 8,386 panchayats, block samitis and zilla parishad with elections held for around 2.59 lakh posts in six categories — mukhiya (panchayat headman), ward members, sarpanch (gram kutchery or village court head), panch (village court member) and others at the block and district levels. According to SEC officials, the problem started when it decided to use EVMs in the panchayat polls instead of ballot papers. It approached the Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) to buy the EVMs. “We moved to buy around 15,000 multi-post EVMs consisting of one control unit and six ballot units attached to it to cover six types of posts at the three-tier local self-government level. “These EVMs are different from the ones used by the EC and have ‘secured detachable memory module’. Their total cost would come to around Rs 122 crore,” SEC secretary Yogendra Ram told this newspaper. The votes would get registered in these memory modules and they could be removed and stored and the EVMs could then be fitted with fresh memory modules and sent for further use in the next phase of polls. There are a total of 1.2 lakh polling booths in the state at present and they were expected to go for voting in nine or 10 phases. On the other hand, the EVMs used by the EC do not have detachable memory modules and each one consists of a control unit and ballot units. So for six different posts that would be up for local elections, at least 12 to 13 machines (control and ballot unit) would be needed. Moreover, they could not be rotated and all the booths would need separate EVMs. “The EC wanted us to loan its second-generation M2 EVMs. It is currently using the third generation M3 EVMs for the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. We refused because using them would become a logistical nightmare with our limited resources. Moreover, it would have charged us for the EVMs,” Yogendra said. He said the SEC thought of introducing EVMs to bring transparency and cut down allegations of wrongdoing in the elections. States like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and many others are already using the EVMs in their local polls. Yogendra pointed out that the EC withholding permission to the ECIL for supplying EVMs to Bihar was bizarre because it never did so with regard to other states. “We finally moved the high court for justice. Let us see the outcome. We are just hoping that we get success in our endeavour,” Yogendra said. Bihar chief electoral officer S.R. Srinivasa, who is in Kerala for the Assembly polls there, refused to comment on the issue over the telephone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
