11-04-2021||India||Covid: Fault in measures in three states; positivity rate up 3.5 times||The share of coronavirus tests that are coming back positive has jumped more than 3.5 times in four weeks, the Health Ministry's data showed on Sunday, highlighting the massing Covid-19 surge that have pushed India's daily cases to all-time highs. The country added 1,52,879 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, setting another one-day record as the country's Covid tally reached over 1.33 crore cases. 839 deaths in the last 24 hour pushed the total death count to 1.69 lakh. Sunday was the fifth consecutive day that India has recorded more than 1 lakh cases in a day. Central teams that were deployed to 50 districts of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab have reported non-adherence of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in almost all of the affected districts, the Union health ministry said, advising these states to more strictly enforce norms to prevent spread of the coronavirus. On the basis of feedback received from the teams, the ministry has written to the states highlighting the areas of concern, including sub-optimal containment operations and contact tracing, skewed testing and shortage of health workers. Authorities need to work in these areas, said the directive. Of the 50 districts most affected, 30 are in Maharashtra, 11 in Chhattisgarh and nine in Punjab. In a letter to the states, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan maintained that the Centre has also taken note of issues related to vaccine availability, and required action to augment supplies will be taken based on available stock. He said a brief summary of key performance indicators related to testing, hospital infrastructure and vaccination, as reported by the teams, has been shared for suitable corrective actions by state or district administrations. Thirty central teams have been deployed for the most-affected districts in Maharashtra, Bhushan said. Amid the rapid surge, Modi in his recent interaction with chief ministers had proposed a four-day 'tika utsav' starting from the birth anniversary of social reformer Jyotiba Phule and ending on the birth anniversary of Dalit icon B R Ambedkar. "In these four days, we have to make every effort to achieve our goals at the individual level, at the society level and at the administration level," the prime minister said. He expressed confidence that India will once again be able to control the virus with people's participation and discharge of their responsibility while remaining alert. With inputs from NDTV||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
11-04-2021||India||Slain Bihar police officer’s mother die out of shock||Mother of the Bihar police officer who was allegedly beaten to death by a mob during a raid in West Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur district the previous day, died due to shock Sunday, family and police sources said. The mother could not bear the loss of her son and died at home in Abhyaram Chakla panchayat under Jankinagar police station area of Kishanganj district this morning. Both were cremated during the day in the village amid protest by the fellow villagers. Meanwhile, on the instruction of Deputy Inspector General of Police, Purnea range, Suresh Chaudhary, seven policemen who had gone to the West Bengal village with the slain policeman in connection with a motocycle theft case but ran away when attacked, have been suspended. Superintendent of police Kumar Ashish ordered their suspension on the DIG instruction for dereliction of duty. The dastardly incident had happened in Pantapada village in the Goalpokhar police station area of Uttar Dinajpur district of West Bengal after Friday midnight when Ashwini Kumar, the Station House Officer of Kishanganj police station in Bihar, was leading a raid in connection with a motorcycle theft case. Kumar was in the village with a police team to apprehend the accused in the case that was registered in the Kishanganj police station, officials said. However, he was surrounded by a mob and allegedly thrashed, they said. Later, a team of police personnel from the Panjipara outpost rescued him and took him to the Islampur Sadar Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, they said. The West Bengal Police has arrested three persons in connection with the incident - Firoze Alam, Abuzar Alam and Sahinur Khatoon. Uttar Dinajpur in West Bengal and Kishanganj in Bihar share a border. Kumar had joined Bihar Police in 1994 and was transferred to Kishanganj a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Appropriate decision on lockdown in Maha after April 14: Tope||Mahrashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday announced that an appropriate decision regarding imposing a lockdown in Maharashtra will be taken after April 14. He was speaking to reporters after a virtual meeting of the COVID-19 task force chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to discuss measures, including imposition of a lockdown in the state, to break the virus chain. “Duration of the lockdown and how to handle its economic fallout was discussed during today’s meeting. The task force is of the view that the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state is such that a lockdown is required,” the minister said. A tweet from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said, “In a meeting with the State Task Force, the chief minister discussed the availability of oxygen & beds, use of Remdesivir, treatment protocols, increase in capacity of facilities, imposition of restrictions & fines for violating COVID protocols.” Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh, state Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte and others took part in the meeting. Thackeray is scheduled to hold consultations with the finance and other state departments on Monday and discussion will also take place in the cabinet meeting later this week. Tope also said that setting up of an oxygen generation plant in the state was also discussed during the task force meeting. Thackeray had on Saturday indicated the imposition of a strict lockdown in the state given the alarming rise in COVID-19 cases. He had held an all-party meeting held virtually to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the state. Last Sunday, the state government had announced a slew of restrictions, including a weekend lockdown, night curfew and prohibitory orders for the day time. These restrictions will continue till April 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Communal violence in Baran district of Rajasthan||Following the stabbing of two youths in in Chhabra town of Baran district, Rajasthan, dozens of vehicles and shops were torched and vandalised by mobs as communal violence broke out on Sunday, forcing authorities to clamp curfew and suspend internet. Police used tear gas to disperse the violent crowds but members of two communities, armed with sticks, iron rods and weapons, continued the rampage late in the evening, even setting ablaze a fire tender and damaging public property including police and government vehicles. “The situation is very tense. Violence by the mobs has been continuing and we are trying to control the situation,” Superintendent of Police, Baran, Vineet Bansal, who was on the site, said. There was no immediate official word on any casualties. Officials said additional forces have been called in and senior officials including Kota range DIG Ravi Gour have rushed to the area. According to sources, two youths of the Gujjar community identified as Kamal Gurjar (32) Dhakad (21) were injured in an attack by 4-5 youths of another community at Dharnawada circle on Saturday evening. The youths were admitted to a hospital. The families of the injured and community members staged a dharna at Dharnawada circle on Saturday night demanding immediate arrest of the five accused. While the police nabbed three of the accused late Saturday night, the key accused was not arrested. The group resumed their protest on Sunday morning and called for a closure of shops. Violence erupted when a group was marching through markets asking traders to close shops in Aliganj and Ajaj Nagar, and soon spread to other areas, the sources said Around 10-12 shops in Dharnawda Circle, Station Road, Ajaj Nagar and Aliganj area were set ablaze and a fire tender was torched along with a private passenger bus, cars and other vehicles in the evening, the sources said. Baran District Collector ordered a curfew in the municipal periphery of Chhabra town from 4 PM on Sunday. Internet has been suspended in the district till 4 PM on April 13, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Central team finds fault in Covid measures of 3 states||Central teams that were deployed to 50 districts of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab have reported non-adherence of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in almost all of the most-affected districts, the Union health ministry said, advising these states to more strictly enforce norms to prevent spread of the coronavirus. On the basis of feedback received from the teams, the ministry has written to the states highlighting the areas of concern, including sub-optimal containment operations and contact tracing, skewed testing and shortage of health workers. Authorities need to work in these areas, said the directive. Of the 50 districts most affected by Covid-19, 30 are in Maharashtra, 11 in Chhattisgarh and nine in Punjab. In a letter to the states, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan maintained that the Centre has also taken note of issues related to vaccine availability, and required action to augment supplies will be taken based on available stock. He said a brief summary of key performance indicators related to testing, hospital infrastructure and vaccination, as reported by the teams, has been shared for suitable corrective actions by state or district administrations. Thirty central teams have been deployed for the most-affected districts in Maharashtra, Bhushan said. The ministry has written to the state highlighting that containment operations were found to be sub-optimal in Satara, Sangli and Aurangabad districts, with less than satisfactory perimeter control and lack of active surveillance for influenza like illness cases. Surveillance and contact tracing were sub-optimal in Buldhana, Satara, Aurgangabad and Nanded, mostly due to limited manpower, Bhushan said in a letter to the Maharashtra health secretary on Saturday. In Bhandara district most cases are being reported from outside containment zones. This requires increasing the area of such zones or notifying new ones, the letter said. Testing capacity in Satara, Bhandara, Palghar, Amravwati, Jalna and Latur is already overwhelmed, resulting in delay in test results, it said. Teams from Nanded and Buldana have reported skewed RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing ratio. Community resistance to Covid testing has been reported from Bhandara, the letter said. It said a large percentage of Covid-19 patients are under home isolation in Bhandara and Satara. This requires rigorous follow up to minimise mortality and it is not happening, the letter said. “lt was observed that delayed reporting by patients to definitive treatment centres in Satara is leading to large number of deaths within first 72 hours of hospital admission,” it said. Occupancy rates of available hospital bed capacity are very high in Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nandurbar while medical oxygen supply was found to be an issue in Bhandara, Palghar, Osmanabad and Pune. Malfunctioning of ventilators has been reported from Satara and Latur, and acute shortage of health workers from some other districts, the ministry said. It suggested expediting rostering of health workers and hiring of contractual health workers. “Adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour was found to be lacking by almost all central teams that visited the districts. This would require greater enforcement effort,” the ministry said. For Chhattisgarh, the team from Raipur and Jashpur districts reported lack of perimeter control in containment zones. “There appears to be no restriction on movement of people inside containment zones. Hence, containment zones, including micro-containment zones, need to be strictly implemented,” a letter addressed to the state's additional chief secretary (health) said. Contact tracing needs to be reinforced in Korba. Resistance, even attacks on health workers, to containment activities and testing was reported from Dhaneli in Raipur. This needs to be addressed, it said. Lack or shortage of RT-PCR testing facilities was reported from some districts. The ministry suggested the state to deploy mobile labs for RT-PCR testing. Ambulance services also need to be strengthened in Durg and teams have noted that hospital bed occupancy rates are high in Balod, Raipur, Durg and Mahasamund, it said. District administrations need to ramp up hospital infrastructure and other logistic requirement to meet demand arising from surge in COVID-19 cases. Shortage of Remdesivir and low molecular weight Heparin needs urgent attention in Korba, the ministry said. Limited oxygen availability and oxygen wastage were reported from Raipur and shortage of health workers from few districts. "There appears to be a need for refresher training of surveillance teams and vaccinators in Balod and Korba districts respectively," it said. Overcrowding and no physical distancing was observed at a vaccination centre in Rajnandangaon, the ministry said. In Punjab, there is a need to enhance focus on contact tracing in Patiala and Ludhiana. Contact tracing and surveillance in SAS Nagar are being hampered due to shortage of manpower and additional workforce must be deployed, Bhushan said in his letter to the Punjab health secretary. Low rates of testing were reported from Patiala and there is no RT-PCR testing lab in Rupnagar. These need to be addressed, the letter said. There is no dedicated COVID hospital in SAS Nagar and Rupnagar, and patients are being referred to neighbouring districts or Chandigarh, it said. Hospital bed occupancy rates in some districts are high and arrangements must be made by authorities to deal with surge in cases, the letter said. Teams have reported issues with procurement of ventilators in SBS Nagar. ln Rupnagar, though ventilators are available, they are not being optimally used due to shortage of workforce, particularly doctors and nurses. Contractual hiring of health workers can address the problem, the letter said. Shortage in workforce has been reported from Patiala, SAS Nagar and Rupnagar also. Patiala and Ludhiana have reported slow pace of COVID vaccination among people above 45 years with co-morbidities and those above 60 years, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||India needs to vaccinate 5 million people daily to slow spread of Covid||Here’s the good news: India has vaccinated 100 million people against Covid-19. What’s more, we’re vaccinating 3.5 million people daily and even touched 4 million on one day. That’s more than any country globally, except China. But the bad news is pretty bad. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases spiked to a record high of 145,384 on Saturday. That’s up from 47,262 three weeks ago on March 23 and 103,000 just a week ago on April 4. Maharashtra is still the epicentre of the second wave, registering the most new cases in 24 hours -- 55,411. It's followed by Chhattisgarh with over 11,000 cases and Uttar Pradesh with nearly 10,000 fresh infections. As the cases surge, the knives are coming out with the Centre and the state governments flinging charges and accusing each other of messing up the anti-Covid battle. The state governments say they’re running short of vaccines and being forced to close vaccination delivery centres. The Centre accuses states like Maharashtra of letting vaccine doses go to waste. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, trying to turn attention away from the vaccine supply issue, has told the states to focus on test-and-trace if they want to bring the runaway second Covid-19 wave to a halt. Epidemiologists, though, say the need of the hour is vaccines. They say we should be directing all our attention to vaccinating at high speed, pointing to the experience in Israel and the UK. Public health experts in Israel and the UK say pandemic infection growth numbers slowed down when about 25 per cent of the population had been vaccinated. In India, 25 per cent of our population is around 350 million people. Other epidemiologists reckon 40 per cent of the population needs to be vaccinated for the pandemic to slow. That would be around 560 million. Those may look like extraordinary ambitious numbers, far beyond our reach to hit in the short term. But it’s not as impossible as it might appear. If we just push up vaccination numbers and reach 5 million daily, we could hit the key 25 per cent of the population mark in slightly over two months and 40 per cent in just under four months. We’ve already administered 100 million vaccines (about 10 million have received their second dose). The government originally announced it would vaccinate 300 million people by June-July but then pushed this target to July-August. (It’s estimated that up to 10 per cent of dosages get lost in wastage). And aside from the vaccinations, there’s already a large chunk of the country has already been infected by Covid-19. Serological studies across the country indicate that 25 per cent to one-third of the population has already been infected, though these figures vary sharply in different regions. Viruses are tricky By that calculation we should be very close to herd immunity. But viruses are tricky creatures and it doesn’t always work that way. Consider what happened in Covid-ravaged Brazil, specifically Manaus city which was devastated by the first coronavirus wave in March 2020. The infection ripped through the Amazon city of 2 million and experts calculated that 76 per of the population had been infected and achieved “herd immunity.” People discarded mask-wearing and other public health measures and life went back to pre-pandemic normal. But in December 2020, another, more devastating new Covid P1, or Brazil, variant hit the city that was at last twice as infectious as its parent strain. The doctors concluded Manaus had dropped its guard way too soon and that protection or “herd immunity” could only be achieved through vaccination, not by infection. The one-dose Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine proved 85 per cent more effective in preventing severe disease in Brazilian trials, the same level as trials showed in the US. The behaviour of the strains depends on how humans behave. “More gatherings will stimulate the virus to spread faster. It’s a cascade: the more gatherings, the more the virus replicates. The more it replicates, the more abundant it becomes,” explains genetics expert Renato Aguiar, a professor at Brazil’s Federal University of Minas Gerais. This is of particular relevance to India right now. India now has all three coronavirus fast-spreading variants that are worrying the global medical community -- B117, first detected in the UK; B1351, now dominant in South Africa; and Brazil’s P1. And now a “double-mutant” variant found in India. Because of a severe lack of genome-sequencing labs, we have little idea of how fast and to what extent these variants are spreading across the country, though the government has said it will step up its genome-sequencing testing to get a better idea. Vaccine targets But why is India falling short of its targets? Currently, Serum Institute of India (SII) is producing about 60 million doses monthly and Bharat Biotech makes another 10 million. Both are struggling to expand capacity. Bharat Biotech has asked the Department of Biotechnology for a grant of Rs 1.5 billion rupees to expand its facilities at Bangalore and Hyderabad. Similarly, SII wants a Rs 3,000 crore grant to enable it to “boost vaccine capacity beyond 100 million per month”. Indian pharmaceutical companies like Dr Reddy’s have signed deals with Russia to produce 800 million doses of the Sputnik V and it is about to start production here. Other companies including Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson have approached the government to produce vaccines here. Sputnik V and Johnson & Johnson have been asked for further data and possibly to conduct local trials in India. Johnson & Johnson is reportedly about to start bridging trials here. Johnson & Johnson has an added advantage because it is a single-shot vaccine. And Sputnik V is particularly easy to store and deliver. Dr Reddy’s can commence production of Sputnik V quickly but other vaccines will need three-to-four months at the very least to commence production in this country. The Israel experience The Israeli experience is the one that’s giving medical experts cause for hope. Oxford Economics points out: “Since the beginning of March, the number of cases (in Israel) has fallen from over 400 per million to just under 40 per million. Hospitalisations have plunged too. Over the same period, most restrictions have been lifted and there has reportedly been little enforcement of any remaining rules, suggesting that the drop in the number of cases reflects the effects of the mass vaccination rollout, rather than other factors such as tight restrictions.” In an effort to bump up domestic supplies, the government has effectively forbidden SII from exporting vaccines until the domestic supply situation improves. This puts SII in a legal bind. It’s received a legal notice from AstraZeneca because it’s committed to delivering 200 million doses at $3 per dose in 2021. In fact, it’s received two grants of $150 million from the Bill Gates Foundation via Gavi, the global vaccine alliance to up production. Gavi is insisting that its agreement with SII is “legally binding: and that it is obliged to ship its coronavirus vaccine to the global vaccine-sharing facility Covax.  Covax had believed that SII would ship it 100 million doses between February and May but has so far been sent just 18.2 million. Also, India has received 10 million doses that it was scheduled to receive from Gavi. Nepal, too, has been hit by India’s ban on exports. It had signed an agreement with SII for 2 million doses, half of which were used for the first round of vaccinations. Now it’s worrying people will have to wait more than six weeks for the second round of injections. India also gifted Nepal 1 million doses of Covishield. Iran seeks Covaxin consignment Meanwhile, Iran, which is in lockdown amid its fourth pandemic wave, has also demanded it be sent Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for which it’s already paid. On Twitter, the embassy said: “In talks with Indian authorities to expedite the pending consignment of Covaxin which has already been paid for.” The Ministry of External Affairs spokesman has denied there’s a formal ban on exports. However, he admitted that India is keeping in mind its “domestic requirement”. Said the spokesman: “We have always said supply of made-in-India vaccines abroad would continue, taking into account our domestic requirements.” India is particularly popular as a country to supply vaccines because it has globally recognised pharmaceutical prowess. India currently has 58,494 sites conducting vaccinations according to the government’s CoWin website. However, 52,120 are government-run sites and only 6,374 are privately run. More private jab sites needed Medical professionals believe the government should expand the number of private sites delivering the vaccines to sharply increase the number of people getting vaccinated though that may not be necessary. It's reckoned that each centre should administer 100-to-200 jabs a day. Even 100 a day at 50,000 centres would add up to 5 million daily. Currently, most centres are doing fewer than this number of injections. What’s more important now? Do we need to focus on vaccinating or should we keep our focus on test-and-trace to control infections, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has urged? Test-and-trace is still important in micro-situations. However, the type of test-and-trace effort that we launched soon after the pandemic began may be less relevant now. Says virologist Shahid Jameel: “Random testing makes sense to understand the growth rates of new infections. It allows us to test the positivity rate. A high rate is indicative of community transmission.” But Jameel adds: “Tracing on the other hand is futile now. However, what’s becoming very important is post-vaccination infection analysis. We want to know if reinfection is caused by waning immunity or emerging mutants.” Another expert notes that: “Testing on a mass-scale does not serve as much purpose as before. But the spread is not geographically uniform. There are differences between urban and rural areas. Testing helps understand the penetration of the virus.” Need to shift focus Yet others believe the focus has to shift sharply. Says one research scientist: “I am convinced Covid is close to being endemic and all focus should be on saving the very sick. We need widespread CCUs (critical care units) and to protecting the people vulnerable to getting very sick (through vaccines).” Viruses are only able to thrive because of the speed with which they mutate, say experts. Ultimately, the most important and effective measure to avoid new coronavirus strains from evolving resistance to vaccines is effective vaccination, scientists believe. “Ideally, we would need vaccination as fast and as wide as possible to stop the virus from mutating and to avoid trouble with new variants in the future,” says Fernando Spilki, a virology professor at Feevale University and coordinator of Brazil’s science ministry Corona-omics Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Centre bans export of remdesivir as demand for drug increases amid Covid surge||In view of increased demand for remdesivir due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Sunday said the export of the antiviral injection and its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) has been banned till the situation improves. In addition, to ensure easy access of the drug, which is used in treatment of coronavirus, to hospitals and patients, all domestic manufacturers of remdesivir have been advised to display on their website details of their stockists and distributors, the Union Health Ministry said. Drugs inspectors and other officers have been directed to verify stocks, check malpractices and also take other effective actions to curb hoarding and black marketing. State health secretaries will review this along with drug inspectors of the respective states and UTs, it said. "India is witnessing a recent surge in Covid cases. As on April 11, there are 11.08 lakh active cases and they are steadily increasing. This has led to a sudden spike in demand for remdesivir injection used in treatment of Covid patients," the ministry said. There is a potential for further increase in this demand in the coming days, it stated. Seven Indian companies are producing the injection under voluntary licensing agreement with M/s. Gilead Sciences, USA. They have an installed capacity of about 38.80 lakh units per month, the ministry said. "In light of the above, Government of India has prohibited the exports of remdesivir injection and remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) till the situation improves," it said. The Department of Pharmaceuticals has been in contact with the domestic manufacturers to ramp up the drug's production, it added. The Government of India has also advised states that the extant 'National Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19', which is based on evidence, has been developed after many interactions by a committee of experts and it is the guiding document for treatment of Covid-19 patients. In the protocol, remdesivir is listed as an investigational therapy, i.e. where informed and shared decision making is essential, besides taking note of contra indications mentioned in the detailed guidelines, the ministry said. States and UTs have been advised that these steps should again be communicated to all hospitals, both in public and private sectors, and compliance monitored, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Two children die in major fire at Noida slum, 150 shanties gutted||A major fire broke out in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Sunday, leaving two children dead and destroying around 150 shanties, police said. Both the kids were three years old and their bodies have been recovered, NDTV reported quoting a police official. The fire broke out around 1 pm in the JJ cluster near Behlolpur village under Phase 3 police station limits, according to officials. "Around a dozen fire tenders were deployed at the sight to control the blaze. The fire has been controlled now but due to wind there is still smoke left," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Harish Chander said. "Around 150 shanties got destroyed in the fire and the bodies of two children have been recovered. The exact cause of the fire is being ascertained," he said. Police and fire safety officials were at the spot overseeing the operation, he added. According to a post shared on the Twitter handle of the Police Commissionerate Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida Police), the reason for this massive fire was unknown. “The slums/huts located in Bahlolpur village under the Noida police station 3 area caught fire due to unknown reasons. An attempt is being made by the police and fire brigade to extinguish the fire,” it said. Other details were awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi urges Ramesh Pokhriyal to cancel CBSE board exams||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wrote to Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Sunday seeking cancellation of the CBSE Board exams, saying it will be impossible to ensure safety of students at crowded exam centres. In her letter to the minister, she said by forcing children to sit for these exams during a raging pandemic, the Government and the CBSE board will be held responsible if any exam centre becomes a hotspot with a large number of children becoming infected with the disease. "The Government and the CBSE board might want to consider whether they are prepared to own the legal liability for students or others who might be severely affected by the disease in this manner," she said. She said with over one lakh cases of Covid-19 being reported across the country, lakhs of children and parents have expressed fear and apprehension about assembling at exam centres to sit for the exams in the middle of the second wave of Covid-19. Vadra said the apprehensions of students are well founded, as giving exams under the spectre of a deadly disease will cause unnecessary anxiety to children and impact their ability to perform as well. "They are rightfully requesting that the exams be cancelled under the prevailing circumstances. "I do hope that the Government will engage in a dialogue with schools, students and their parents so that a safer way for them to fulfil their educational obligations can be found. Rather than forcing them into a potentially dangerous situation, it would be in the fitness of things for them to be given the support, encouragement and protection that is due to them at this very trying time," Vadra said in her letter. She also pointed out that it is our responsibility as political leaders to protect and guide the young. As state after state issues guidelines preventing the assembly of large numbers of people in public places, what moral grounds can we stand on, while forcing young children to do exactly that, she asked. According to the revised date sheet for CBSE board exams 2021, the Class 10 exams would be held between May 4 and June 7 and those for Class 12 would be held between May 4 and June 15. CBSE officials have said that exam centres across the country have been increased by 40-50 per cent to ensure social distancing among students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||BJP withdraws candidature of Kuldip Singh Sengar’s wife||The BJP on Sunday withdrew the candidature of former MLA and Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Singh Sengar's wife from the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls. The BJP had made Sangeeta Sengar a candidate for the district panchayat member from Ward No. 22 of Fatehpur Chaurasi, according to a list released by it earlier. "The candidature of Sangeeta Sengar, the wife of former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who is a convict in the 2018 Unnao rape case, has been cancelled," State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told PTI. Singh said the Unnao party president has now been asked to submit three fresh names for finalising a candidate. He, however, exuded confidence that the BJP will emerge victorious in the four-phase panchayat elections, beginning April 15. Unnao will go to the polls on April 26. Kuldeep Sengar was awarded life sentence by a Delhi court on December 20, 2019 for raping a 17-year-old girl in Unnao. After his conviction, Sengar's membership as an MLA was cancelled. Sangeeta had earlier held the post of the district panchayat chairperson. Earlier, BJP spokesperson Harishchandra Shrivastava had said names of all candidates were recommended by the district unit and were forwarded to the party headquarters through the regional unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||No control over coronavirus, Congress blames Modi’s ‘incompetence’||The Congress on Sunday attacked the Centre over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, alleging that Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc on Indian lives and economy due to the Modi government's "arrogance and incompetence". The Opposition party also alleged that every section of the society was troubled due to the policies of the government. In an apparent dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, "No control over coronavirus, not enough vaccines, no employment, labourers and farmers not being given a hearing, no protection for MSMEs, nor the middle class is satisfied...It was okay to eat 'aam' (mango), but should have at least spared 'aam aadmi (common person)'!" The Congress, from its official Twitter handle, also slammed the government over the situation in the country. "One year on, Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc upon Indian lives & the Indian Economy, all thanks to Modi govt and its arrogance & incompetence," the party lashed out in a tweet. In another tweet in Hindi, the party claimed that every section of the society in the country is troubled due to the policies of the government. "Coronavirus is spreading unchecked, there is a shortage of vaccines, farmers-labourers are troubled, the economy is collapsing, small businesses are closing down and the middle class is also a worried lot," the party said. The Congress-led opposition has been criticising the government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the vaccination drive, while the Centre has maintained that its timely steps have been instrumental in effectively dealing with the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Do not go out unless absolutely necessary, urges Kejriwal as Covid cases rise||The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is "very serious" with 10,732 fresh cases of infection being reported in the last 24 hours, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. He asked people not to go out of their homes unless it is urgent, and use face masks and sanitisers and maintain social distance. The chief minister said his government does not want to impose lockdown. "I believe lockdown is not a solution to deal with Covid-19. It should only be imposed if the hospital system collapses," he said. He, however, asked people to remain in home isolation if infected with the virus instead of rushing to hospitals. "The hospital beds should be left vacant for serious patients. It should not be so that people rush to hospitals and all beds are occupied and then lockdown is to be imposed," he said in a press conference. Kejriwal asked all political parties to work together to fight the coronavirus spread, saying it was not time to do politics and point fingers. Prohibition of all types of gatherings, reduced size of weddings and funerals, running of public transport at half seating capacity and scaled down presence in government offices were some of the restrictions imposed by the Delhi government on Saturday. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic , cultural or religious, festival related and other gatherings and congregations will be prohibited, an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said. It said all swimming pools, except those being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national and international events, will be closed. Funerals will be allowed to be attended by 20 persons only while gatherings for marriages will have an upper limit of 50 persons. Previously, up to 200 and 100 persons were allowed in open and closed venues, respectively, for wedding ceremonies. Up to 50 persons were allowed at funeral gatherings. Restaurants and bars are allowed up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, stated the order. The Delhi Metro will run at 50 per cent of coach capacity. The DTC and Cluster buses too will run at half their capacity, stated the order. Currently, public buses are allowed to run with full seating capacity although passengers beyond the number of seats are not allowed. In metro trains passengers can sit on alternate seats only. Stadiums can organise sports events but spectators will not be allowed.Cinemas, theaters, multiplexes will be permitted to open with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, the order said. All Delhi government offices will function with 50 per cent employee strength, except Grade-I officers. The remaining staff will work from home, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Modi asks citizens to keep four things in mind as ‘Tika Utsav’ kicks off||Asserting that the 'Tika Utsav', a vaccination drive between April 11 and 14, marks the beginning of the second big war on Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made several suggestions to people on tackling the virus and urged them to focus on personal and social hygiene. In a statement, he urged people to keep four things in mind, including "each one, vaccinate one", "each one, treat one" and "each one, save one". Elderly people or those who may not be much educated should be helped in getting the vaccine, he said, and also asked people to help those Covid-19 patients in getting treatment who may lack resources or information. By wearing masks, people can save themselves and others, Modi added. He also asked families and members of the society to take lead in setting up micro containment zones in case of anyone getting the infectious disease, saying this is an important way to fight the disease in a densely populated country like India. "Our success will be decided by how aware we are about micro containment zones. Our success will be decided by us not stepping outside homes when not needed. Our success will be decided by those eligible for the vaccine. Our success will be decided by how much we adhere to wearing masks and following other protocols," he said. "Anyone eligible for the vaccine should get the jab, and for this the society and administration have to make full efforts," he added. Pitching for "zero vaccine waste", he said it has to be ensured that not a single jab is wasted. "We have to move towards optimum utilisation of the country's vaccination capacity. This is a way to augment our capacity," he said. In these four days of the vaccination drive, targets have to be set at personal, societal and administration's level, all efforts be made to meet them, Modi said. "I have full confidence that with this people's participation, awareness and fulfilling our responsibility, we will again be successful in containing coronavirus," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||India logs 1,52,879 Covid-19 cases, highest ever spike||Hitting another record daily high of 1,52,879 new coronavirus infections, India's COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 1,33,58,805, while the active cases breached the 11-lakh mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,69,275 with 839 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 32nd day in row, the active cases increased to 11,08,087 comprising 8.29 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate further dropped to 90.44 per cent, the ministry said. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,20,81,443, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.27 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,66,26,850 samples have been tested up to April 10 with 14,12,047 samples being tested on Saturday.  The 839 new fatalities include 309 from Maharashtra, 123 from Chhattisgarh, 58 from Punjab, 49 from Gujarat, 46 from Uttar Pradesh, 39 from Delhi, 36 from Karnataka, 24 from Madhya Pradesh, 23 from Tamil Nadu, 18 from Rajasthan, 17 each from Kerala and Jharkhand, 12 each from Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal and 11 from Haryana. A total of 1,69,275 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 57,638 from Maharashtra, 12,886 from Tamil Nadu, 12,849 from Karnataka, 11,235 from Delhi, 10,390 from West Bengal, 9,085 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,448 from Punjab and 7,291 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Central universities to give equal weightage to common entrance test and board exam marks||Central universities will give equal weightage to the scores of the proposed common entrance test and the board exam marks while admitting students from this academic year if the government accepts the recommendations of an expert committee. The panel of academics headed by Central University of Punjab vice-chancellor R.P. Tiwari and set up by the University Grants Commission (UGC) has recommended a Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for the selection of students to undergraduate and postgraduate courses from the 2021-22 academic session. The National Testing Agency (NTA) will be given the responsibility of holding the exam. The entrance test will assess the general aptitude of the students and domain knowledge for the course they want to pursue. The university should give 50 per cent weightage to the CUCET and another 50 per cent to the board exam score, the committee has proposed. The NTA will normalise the board marks to bring parity among boards. As per the proposal, there will be a single application form for all central universities, which will save time and expenses. The committee has also suggested that the PhD courses in the central universities admit students through the National Eligibility Test (NET), which is conducted to select candidates for the posts of assistant professors and junior research fellows. The NTA conducts the NET twice a year on behalf of the UGC. The panel, which the UGC set up under instructions from the education ministry, will forward its proposals to the education ministry for the final decision, two officials told this newspaper. The National Education Policy has suggested a common entrance test for admission to universities. Currently, the central universities have different admission policies. Some of the new central universities conduct a common entrance test for admission to their master’s courses. Leading institutions such as Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Delhi University take in students through their own entrance tests conducted by the NTA. For undergraduate courses, DU gives more weightage to board marks. For PhD courses, each university holds its own entrance test. “The report has been received by the UGC. It will be sent to the education ministry for the final decision,” one of the two officials said. The members of the committee include the vice-chancellors of the Central University of Punjab, Mizoram University, Central University of South Bihar, Delhi University and Banaras Hindu University and the director-general of the NTA. Higher education secretary Amit Khare has said during several webinars that the common admission tests will be implemented from the 2021-22 academic year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Dance video of two college mates becomes latest target of Right wing||An uninhibited and carefree dance video of two college mates in Kerala has become the latest target of the Right wing, which has chosen to sully the fluid movements with its pet smear weapon of “love jihad”. The 30-second dance video featuring Janaki Omkumar and Naveen K. Razak had set the Internet on fire with lakhs of shares and likes. The scrub-wearing students of the Government Medical College in Thrissur dance in an empty house surgeons’ corridor and room to the tune of the 1978 Boney M hit Rasputin. Lawyer Krishna Raj, whose Hindu Right wing leanings are evident from his social media pages, has spied in the dance a communal angle. Unhindered by the diatribe, Janaki and Naveen have performed another dance during a radio show and uploaded the video on social media, and also chosen to take into account the thousands of comments decrying Raj and supporting them. Sharing a still from the Rasputin video on Thursday, Raj commented on Facebook: “Smell something fishy. Would be good if Janaki’s parents take note of this. Didn’t Nimisha’s mother prove that one doesn’t need to be sad if one is cautious? We can pray for Janaki’s father Omkumar and (her) mother.” Nimisha, now Fathima, was reported missing in 2016 and was found with surrendered Islamic State members in Afghanistan two years later. Although Raj did not mention “love jihad”, he left scant room for doubt that he was referring to the Right wing allegation of Muslim men luring Hindu women into marriage to indoctrinate and radicalise them. Several BJP-ruled states have introduced laws against the so-called love jihad. Speaking to the newspaper later, Raj ended up alleging “love jihad” although he had moments before pointed out that he had not used the words in his social media post. While Janaki is a third-year MBBS student, Naveen is in the final year. Both are members of the medical college’s dance group, Vikings. Janaki told The Telegraph on Friday: “We look at the brighter side of this and don’t really care about what a few people have been commenting. There are so many positive comments, so we are not worried about what a few might want to say.” “We have complete support from our parents and families,” Janaki, who hails from a state that is often lauded for its syncretic and progressive culture, said. She said the video had so far clocked close to 10 million views going by the different pages where it had been posted. While the original post on YouTube had registered more than 2.2 lakh views by Friday evening, other videos of the dance uploaded by admirers had been viewed more than half a million times. “It’s being posted by so many people. So we don’t really care about some nasty comments,” Janaki said.To send a message to the likes of Raj, the Government Medical College students’ union has got 12 dancers from the Vikings team to kick off a “Rasputin challenge”. The Aikya College Union on Friday posted a video with the 12 dancers, including Janaki and Naveen. All of them, wearing scrubs, jive to Rasputin. Suraj, a house surgeon who handles the union’s Facebook page told this newspaper that it was their way of taking on the lawyer’s hate messages. The video was posted with the comment: “If your intention is to hate, our decision is to resist.” The union also shared the names of the 12 students, along with those of two others who had filmed and edited the video, with the footnote that haters could get some more reason to spew venom on social media if they searched for the “heads and tails” — caste and religious names — of the students in the new video. Raj was skewered on social media while support poured in from all quarters for Janaki and Naveen. The Kerala unit of the IMA-Medical Students’ Network called for a drastic change in the perspective of viewing camaraderie between students, many of whom excel in dance and music. “Discussing the artistes’ religion instead of the art itself points at a very warped atmosphere in the society that needs to change immediately,” it said. The Rasputin video of Janaki and Naveen, posted on April 1, had taken time to catch the imagination of viewers outside the medical college campus. But once it did, the duo were pitchforked into the limelight. At a recent radio show, the two students broke into an impromptu jig on a hip-hop remix of Paadi, a hit song from the 1997 Malayalam blockbuster Aaram Thampuran. They told the radio station that they were active members of the college’s Vikings dance group and performed quite regularly. The Rasputin video had been filmed by a college mate on a mobile phone. Janaki and Naveen told the radio channel that they were good friends. “We are studying together. We often go to have food together. So we danced together. That’s all. We will continue to dance together,” they said in a statement to the station. Janaki is the only daughter of a doctor mother and scientist father who works at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre of Biotechnology in Thiruvananthapuram. Naveen’s parents are business people from Mananthavady in Wayanad. His elder brother and sister-in-law are civil engineers based in Hyderabad. Raj, the lawyer, justified his remarks and pointed out that he had not mentioned “love jihad”. He, however, hinted at the allegation while speaking to this newspaper. Raj suggested that it could be interpreted as a word of caution against the students injuring themselves while doing fast-paced dance moves. “I never mentioned ‘love jihad,’ but only said the girl’s parents better take care. My comments can also be interpreted as a caution again twisting their backs with such dance moves,” Raj told this newspaper on Friday, claiming he was not a member of any political party. “I never said they are involved in ‘love jihad,’ mentioned their religion or said anything that can be construed as libellous,” he insisted. Asked why he had made such distasteful comments on two youngsters, Raj retorted that he had filed about 4,000 habeas corpus petitions on behalf of parents seeking to know the whereabouts of their missing daughters. “That is my justification for the comments and what I saw (in the video) is a typical ‘love jihad’ experiment,” he said. Raj pointed out that Kerala High Court judge K.T. Sankaran had in December 2009 asked the government to enact a law against forcible conversions in the name of “love”. But the Lok Sabha had in a question from Congress MP from Kerala Benny Behanan clarified there was no instance of “love jihad” in Kerala. “The term ‘love jihad’ is not defined under the extant laws. No such case of ‘love jihad’ has been reported by any of the central agencies,” junior home minister G. Kishan Reddy had said in reply to Behanan in February 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||11th round of talks between India and China remain inconclusive||The 11th round of military talks between India and China remained inconclusive amid growing frustration in the security establishment at Beijing’s go-slow on disengagement from the remaining friction points in Ladakh. After more than 13 hours of talks ended at midnight on Friday, India’s defence ministry said on Saturday evening that the two countries had agreed to “maintain stability on the ground” and “resolve the outstanding issues”. True to form, the statement desisted from naming the Depsang Plains or the other remaining friction points, Gogra and Hot Springs. It was silent also on any demand for restoration of the status quo to what it was in April 2020 before the Chinese intrusion — a continuing omission in recent statements that military veterans see as a sign of Indian capitulation. A defence ministry official said India had pressed for disengagement from the remaining friction points but the Chinese again set preconditions and refused to disengage if their demands were not met. A security official attached to the Intelligence Bureau said the Chinese again insisted that the occupied zones on the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra belonged to them and asked Indian troops to move further back within India-claimed territory. “They want buffer zones at the remaining friction points similar to the demilitarised zone within India-claimed territory on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks,” the official said. India and China have moved back from their positions on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks in eastern Ladakh under the disengagement process that began on February 10. Military veterans have expressed concern at India’s “concession” in agreeing to a 10-kilometre-wide demilitarised zone within India-claimed territory as part of that disengagement deal. They have also asked why India is not insisting on China restoring status quo ante by giving up the entire territory it has occupied since May last year. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding Indian land to the Chinese. “The two sides agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols,” the Indian statement said. “In this context it was highlighted also that completion of disengagement in other areas would pave the way for two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in bilateral relations.” It added: “The two sides agreed that it was important to take guidance from the consensus of their leaders, continue their communication and dialogue and work towards a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest. “They also agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground, avoid any new incidents and jointly maintain peace in the border areas.” The Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. They have continued to cut off the Indian army’s access to five traditional patrolling points on the Depsang Plains — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May 2020. Last July, the Chinese had agreed to disengage from Hot Springs and Gogra but have since gone back on their word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Modi govt using Covid vaccination drive as PR exercise: Sonia Gandhi ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government used the Covid-19 vaccination drive as a PR exercise and created shortages in India by exporting vaccines. Echoing the sentiment expressed by Rahul Gandhi in his letter to Modi, Sonia said: “Covid is surging. As the principal Opposition party, it’s our responsibility to raise issues and push the government to move away from PR tactics and act in the interest of the people. The Modi government has mismanaged the situation — exported vaccine and allowed a shortage to be created in India.” Sonia was speaking at a videoconference with Congress chief ministers and health ministers of states where the party is in power. Without talking of a ban on exports, she said: “We must focus on India’s vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries.” Rahul had demanded a moratorium on the export of Covid-19 vaccines. On Saturday, Rahul tweeted: “What India needs? Jobs & Jabs. What BJP Government gives? Jumlas & Jibes.” The Congress said the export of Covid-19 vaccines was aimed at refurbishing the Prime Minister’s image abroad and objected to Modi’s photograph on the vaccination certificate. During Saturday’s meeting, Sonia raised several questions: “Is there enough vaccine available? Has the central government been cooperative? What are our states doing to ensure availability of the oxygen, ventilators and other facilities as the pandemic grows? What is your view on lockdown? What about the economic fallout? How bad is the situation in your state? Should not public gatherings, including election rallies, be cancelled?” While the chief ministers and health ministers said the vaccination crisis was real, they also favoured strict social-distancing norms and financial assistance to the poor. Sonia’s emphasis on cancelling poll rallies and other gatherings is interesting as the Congress too ran crowded campaigns in states where it had high stakes. Sonia said: “Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid for which all of us are responsible to some extent. We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own.” Though it is for the central government and the Election Commission to decide how the campaigns should be conducted or whether the elections should be held at all, even as an Opposition party the demand for cancellation of rallies has come a bit late. Sonia also asked for transparency, arguing that the governments must reveal the actual number of infections and deaths across states, whether Congress-ruled or otherwise. “Cooperation with states respecting federalism and, in turn, for us to be constructive and cooperate with the government in its efforts to fight the pandemic is equally important. We are all united in this fight,” she added. Rahul, who was also present at the meeting, expressed deep concern over the second Covid wave and warned governments against complacency and premature victories. He also sought financial support, advocating a scheme that guarantees basic income for the poor. While chief ministers of Chhattisgarh and Punjab — Bhupesh Baghel and Amarinder Singh — said their states would run out of vaccine stocks in three days, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the shortage was real and the Centre must not treat states like adversaries as they were stakeholders in the fight against Covid. Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Thorat said the state had the capacity to vaccinate five lakh people in a day provided the Centre supplied enough doses. He also complained of shortage of ventilators and medicine, arguing that no state had the wherewithal to tackle this extraordinary situation without central help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Centre sends 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to Odisha||The Centre has sent 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to Odisha on Saturday following consistent pressure by the state government to send fresh supplies after vaccine shortage. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik had raised the issue with the Prime Minister during the latter’s interaction with chief ministers to review the corona situation in the country. “Our health minister and additional chief secretary had written to the Centre about this. However, our chief minister’s personal equations with the Prime Minister also helped. We are assured of getting more vaccines in the coming days,” said a senior official of the state government. Fresh supply of vaccines has come just a day ahead of the state’s celebration of Tika Utsava (Vaccine Festival) on Sunday with the aim to inoculate the maximum number of eligible people in the state. Director family and health welfare Bijay Panigrahi said: “All the vaccines will be sent to the districts by this evening and administration of vaccines will continue from Monday.” Additional chief secretary and head of health and family welfare department, P.K. Mohapatra told The Telegraph, “We have already administered vaccines to 40 lakh people. We need more vaccines. We have asked for 25 lakh doses. It’s our genuine demand. We are hopeful that more vaccines will reach the state soon.” Even though the state has stepped up its fight against the coronavirus the number of deaths have been increasing with each passing day. Odisha has reported two deaths in the last 24 hours. These Covid patients died while undergoing treatment. With this the total casualty figure in the corona pandemic in the state has gone up to 1,926. Police have also stepped up the Mask Abhiyana after Naveen launched the drive on Friday. The Odisha government has increased the amount of penalty for not wearing masks  in public places from Rs 1000 to Rs 2000. As per the notification issued by the government the violators will have to pay Rs 2000 for first two violations and Rs 5,000 for subsequent offences. “We have also deployed plain cloth police personnel to spot the violators and enforce the mask wearing regulations strictly,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP-Security) Nirmal Satpathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Bihar police officer lynched in North Dinajpur village||A Bihar police officer was allegedly lynched by a mob in a village in North Dinajpur district of Bengal on Friday night where he had gone probe a theft case, police said. Three persons were arrested by Bengal police on Saturday in connection with the incident. Raids were going on to apprehend others involved in the incident. Kishanganj station house officer Ashwini Kumar, 50, had gone with his team to neighbouring Panthapara village in connection with a case of motorcycle theft registered at his police station. “Our Kishanganj SHO Ashwini Kumar had gone to Panthapara to conduct a raid in connection with a case of motorcycle theft in his area. A mob lynched him there,” Purnea range inspector-general of police Suresh Prasad told reporters. Asked whether Bengal police were also present at the spot, Prasad said: “They were also coming. They arrived there. We do not have complete information. We will see what has happened.” However, a media release by the Bihar police headquarters said that Ashwini had gone with the force from his police station and other police stations to the village to question an accused. “The local villagers attacked the police team during the questioning in which SHO Ashwini Kumar was martyred. An FIR under proper sections is being registered against the accused,” the release said. The arrested persons have been identified as Firoz Alam, Abuzar Alam and Sahinur Khatoon. Prasad and Kishanganj superintendent of police are camping at the spot. “The Bengal director-general of police has assured Bihar DGP of full cooperation in the case,” the release said. Ashwini’s body was taken to Islampur sub-divisional hospital in Bengal for post-mortem and then brought to Kishanganj where senior police officers and his colleagues paid tributes. His body will be later taken to his native village Panchu Mandal Tola under Janaki Nagar police station in Purnea district. Ashwini’s wife and three children live in Patna. Asked about the number of police personnel in the team that went with Ashwini, additional director-general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar told The Telegraph that he did not have the exact figure. Asked whether the police personnel who had gone with the SHO were also injured, he said: “The team members have received minor injuries — nothing that could be called worrisome.” However, the incident raises several questions like the reason for the police team to decide to go and question an accused at midnight, the efforts made by the policemen accompanying Ashwini in saving him and whether Bengal police provided the desired cooperation. “These things will come out in the course of investigation. I have talked about the incident. I have nothing to more to say beyond whatever is given in the media release,” Jitendra told this newspaper. However, sources said the entire operation was botched up as the police team had not anticipated that the villagers would get aggressive. The armed police personnel who had gone with Ashwini allegedly fled, they said. Bihar Policemen’s Association president Mrityunjay Kumar Singh alleged: “Our inspector was killed due to the non-cooperation of Bengal police. He had asked them for back-up force, but it was not provided. There is no law and order left in Bengal. We are requesting the Union home ministry to intervene in the matter and take strict action against those responsible for the death of Ashwini.” Bihar police have started the process to provide grants and benefits to the kin of the deceased officer. A member of his family will be provided a government job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
