12-04-2021||India||Sushil Chandra appointed next Chief Election Commissioner||Sushil Chandra was on Monday appointed as the next Chief Election Commissioner, the Law Ministry said. According to a notification issued by the Legislative Department of the ministry, Chandra will assume charge on April 13. Incumbent Sunil Arora demitted office on Monday. ”In pursuance of clause (2) of Article 324 of the Constitution, the President is pleased to appoint Shri Sushil Chandra as the Chief Election Commissioner with effect from the 13th April, 2021,” the notification read. Chandra was appointed as an election commissioner on February 14, 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. He would demit office on May 14, 2022. Under him, the Election Commission (EC) would hold assembly polls in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The term of the assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab ends on various dates in March next year. The term of the Uttar Pradesh assembly ends on May 14 next year. New assemblies have to be constituted before their five year term ends. Chandra was the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes before he joined the EC. Followng the retirement of Arora, the three-member poll body as of now has a vacancy. While Chandra will be the new CEC from Tuesday, Rajiv Kumar is the other election commissioner. Chandra, an IIT graduate, is a 1980-batch officer of the Indian Revenue Service (Income Tax cadre). Since Chandra has expertise in taxation and investigation, he has helped the poll panel in election expenditure by political parties and candidates, a senior EC official said. Before Chandra, T S Krishnamurthy was the other IRS officer to be appointed as election commissioner. He went on to become the chief election commissioner in 2004.       Chandra completed his B.Tech from Roorkee University and LLB from Dehradun and joined IRS in 1980. He has served in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat and Mumbai and has worked in the areas of international taxation and investigation at various places. He was commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) International Taxation at Delhi. Before being appointed chairman of CBDT, he was member (Investigation) in the Board. Besides the last Lok Sabha polls, Chandra also was part of preparations in holding assembly elections in Delhi, Haryana and a few other states. He is also an ex-officio member of the Delimitation Commission tasked to redraw the assembly constituencies of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir has provision for a legislature. At present it is under central rule||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||Spike in Covid cases leave bodies piled up in Chhattisgarh||Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Memorial Hospital in Raipur has run out of space to store bodies as the number of cases continues to rise in the state. Far from freezers as is the procedure, they are now being kept pretty much anywhere with available space, reports NTDV. Hospital authorities plead helplessness and say the bodies of patients who are dying of COVID-19 are piling up at the mortuary faster than they can be cremated. The hospital's intensive care units and oxygen-equipped beds have been at almost 100 per cent occupancy for the past week. "No one could have guessed that there would be so many deaths all at once. We have enough freezers for the usual number of deaths. But we just can't understand how places with one to two deaths are reporting 10-20. If we prepare for 10-20, 50-60 people are dying. How can we arrange freezers for so many people at once? Even crematoriums are overwhelmed," said Raipur's chief medical and health officer Meera Baghel to NDTV. "We were close to winning against Covid in a way thanks to measures like home isolation. But we are not able to size up this new wave yet. We are seeing cases where even asymptomatic patients are deteriorating really fast and dying of heart attacks," she added. According to official sources, 55 bodies are being cremated in Raipur city on an average every day and most of them are coronavirus patients. Among the 10 states that have been worst hit by this ferocious second wave of coronavirus in India, Chhattisgarh on Sunday reported 10,521 new COVID-19 cases, taking its caseload to 4,43,297 while 122 fatalities pushed the number of deaths to 4,899. The worst-hit Raipur and Durg districts - which are under lockdown - accounted for 2,833 and 1,650 new cases, respectively, during the day. While the total cases in Raipur have reached 91,311, including 1,203 deaths, Durg's caseload rose to 55,395, including 939 deaths. Rajnandgaon saw 759 fresh infections, Bilaspur 624 and Korba 455 among other districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||CBI calls former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for questioning||The CBI has called former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for questioning on Wednesday in connection with allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and suspended officer Sachin Waze, officials said. Waze, an assistant police inspector, is under investigation in the case of an explosive-laden SUV found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai. The notice calling Deshmukh to join the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe was issued on Monday morning, a day after his two aides Sanjeev Palande and Kundan recorded their statements before the agency, the officials said. The CBI is carrying out a preliminary inquiry into allegations against Deshmukh levelled by Singh after he was removed from the coveted post of Mumbai Police commissioner. The allegations were reportedly corroborated by Waze in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the SUV case, they said. The Bombay High Court had last week directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations levelled by Singh against Deshmukh. In a letter, Singh had said that Deshmukh had asked Waze to allegedly extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||Covid: Night curfew imposed in Haryana amid surge in cases||The Haryana government on Monday imposed night curfew in the state with immediate effect amid a surge in coronavirus cases.
"Night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am will be imposed from tonight and will remain in force till further orders," Home and Health Minister Anil Vij told PTI.
He said the decision has been taken in the wake of an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state recently.
"The situation will be assessed after a few days after which a decision on continuation of night curfew will be taken," Vij said.
However, there shall be no curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods. Emergency and municipal services, people tasked with law and services, police, military and paramilitary personnel have been exempted from the curfew, according to an order.
Vij said that additional chief secretaries of the home, health and urban local bodies departments have been instructed to ensure people wear masks and follow all other Covid-related guidelines.
On Monday, Haryana reported a record spike of 3,818 cases, the highest in nearly five months, according to a health department bulletin.
In the past several days, there has been a daily surge in the number of cases in the state, with many districts including Gugaon, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Faridabad reporting big spikes.
The order issued by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority said that the Centre and the Haryana government have issued various guidelines from time to time to prevent the spread of Covid-19.
However, there has been a recent surge in number of cases and therefore, it is imperative to put in place strict measures of isolation and social distancing to contain the spread, it said.
It was mentioned in the order that there has been a lot of non-essential movement of people and vehicles during the night.
There shall be prohibition on movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 9 pm to 5 am in Haryana. No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the restricted hours, according to the order.
However, services and movement of persons related to law and order, emergencies and municipal duties have been exempted from the curfew, it said.
Executive magistrates, police personnel, military, paramilitary personnel in uniform, health, electricity and fire personnel, media persons with accreditation, and the government machinery tasked with Covid-19 related duties will face no restrictions, the order said.
Also, those specially issued a restricted movement curfew pass by officers authorised on this behalf are exempted, it said, adding that there will be no curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods.
All vehicle and persons in bonafide transit (inter-state or intra-state) shall be allowed to pass, but only after verification of point of origin and destination, the order said.
Hospitals, chemist shops and ATMs will remain open round-the-clock. Pregnant women and patients going to get medical services and passengers going to or returning from airport or railway stations will be exempted. Those violating the orders will face action under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||Meal services banned in domestic flights under 2 hours||Airlines are not permitted to serve meals in domestic flights that have a duration of less than two hours, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Monday, as coronavirus cases continue to spiral across the country. The ban will come into effect from Thursday, the ministry said in its order. When scheduled domestic flights were resumed on May 25 after coronavirus lockdown last year, the ministry had allowed the airlines to serve in-flight meals under certain conditions. Modifying the previous order, the ministry's fresh directive said: "The airlines, operating flights on domestic sectors, may provide meals services on board, where the in-flight duration is two hours or more." The ministry said it decided to review the on-board meal services in domestic flights due to the "the increasing threat of COVID-19 and its variants". Airlines are permitted to serve only pre-packed snacks, meals and pre-packed beverages on flights that have a duration of more than two hours,. The servicing of in-flight meals must be staggered "among the adjacent seats as far as possible", it added. The ministry said all three coronavirus variants of the UK, South Africa and Brazil demonstrated increased transmissibility, as reported by the World Health Organization. India has surpassed Brazil to record the second-highest number of COVID-19 cases at 1,35,27,717, as a record 1,68,912 new infections were reported on Monday. The active cases have surpassed the 12-lakh mark, while the toll increased to 1,70,179 with 904 more deaths, the highest since October 18. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since last May and under bilateral air-bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries since July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||Covid: Sputnik V emergency use in India waits for final approval||An expert panel of India's central drug authority has recommended granting approval to Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V for restricted emergency use with certain conditions, paving the way for a third vaccine to be available in the country, sources said on Monday. The Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) on Monday deliberated upon the application of Dr Reddy's Laboratories seeking emergency use authorisation for Sputnik V. "After detailed deliberation for grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situations subject to various regulatory provisions," a source said. The recommendations have been sent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for final approval. If approved, it will be the third Covid-19 vaccine to be available in India after Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield, being manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune. According to sources, around 10 crore doses of the vaccine (Sputnik V) is likely to be imported for emergency use in the country in the next six months. The vaccine is indicated for active immunisation to prevent Covid-19 in individuals aged 18 years and above and is to be administered intramuscularly in two doses of 0.5 ml each with an interval of 21 days. It has to be stored at -18 degrees Celsius. According to recommendations by the SEC, the firm has been asked to submit revised factsheets to CDSCO after incorporating the latest safety and efficacy data and other suggestions made during the meeting, another source said. Besides, the firm should submit the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data from the ongoing clinical trials in India and Russia for review as and when available. The firm also has to submit safety data including the data on AEFI and AESI with due analysis every 15 days for the first two months and monthly thereafter till the completion of the ongoing clinical trial in the country. The SEC earlier had reviewed the application by Dr Reddy's in two meetings earlier held on April 1 and February 24. The health ministry earlier had said three more Covid-19 vaccines by Zydus Cadila, Biological E and Gennova are also in the pipeline and are in advanced clinical trials in India. Global healthcare major Johnson and Johnson is in discussions with the Indian government to begin a clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in the country, the company said on Friday. In light of the SEC meeting held on April 1, Dr Reddy's on Monday presented the interim safety and immunogenicity data from phase 2/3 clinical trial including GMT titres for virus neutralising antibodies, comparative phase 3 immunogenicity data generated in Indian and Russian studies and unblinded data of serious adverse events and RT-PCR positive cases among others. In September last year, Dr Reddy's partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V and for its distribution rights in India. Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 91.6 per cent in the interim analysis of phase 3 clinical trial, which included data on 19,866 volunteers in Russia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||Several steps being taken to increase number of beds in Delhi hospitals, says Kejriwal||Several steps are being taken to increase the number of beds in both private and government hospitals in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday after a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation in the national capital. Some government and private hospitals will again be converted into fully COVID facilities, government officials said. The number of daily COVID-19 cases crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time since the pandemic began on Sunday, with the chief Minister describing the situation as very serious and appealing to people not to step out unless it is urgent. In a tweet after the review meeting, Kejriwal appealed to people to follow COVID-19 protocols and avoid rushing to hospitals. "Held review meeting. We r taking several steps to increase beds in both pvt and govt sectors. Urge everyone to cooperate. 1. Pl pl follow covid protocols. 2. Don't rush to hospital unless necessary 3. Go n vaccinate if u r eligible," he wrote on Twitter. The government is alert and taking all necessary steps in view of the growing numbers of COVID-19 patients, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||Karnataka CM doesn't rule out another lockdown amid Covid spike||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said the state government could impose lockdown if the necessity arises. "People need to respond for their own good. If they don't heed then we may have to take stringent measures. If required and if necessity arises, we will impose lockdown," Yediyurappa told reporters in Bidar. Reacting to queries on the growing coronavirus cases in the state, which saw the numbers breaching 10,000 on Sunday, he said the Prime Minister had also spoken to him about the measures taken by his government. "(I told him) we have imposed night curfew in the districts where the coronavirus cases are rising," Yediyurappa said. He insisted that people should wear face masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing. "People need to respond for their own good. If they don't cooperate then we will initiate stringent measures, which people should not give scope for. I want people to cooperate with us," Yediyurappa said. To a question if the Technical Advisory Committee had recommended a lockdown, Yediyurappa reiterated that people have to understand and cooperate. Meanwhile in Bengaluru, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters that the government was not inclined for a lockdown and wanted people to cooperate. "Neither me nor the Chief Minister is saying that we will do it (lockdown). All we are saying is don't compel us to push to that extreme. Our government is not at all willing to impose lockdown," he clarified. He also said that if people cooperate the second wave of coronavirus can be defeated. The talk of lockdown came following reports that the Technical Advisory Committee has recommended lockdown for a brief period to contain the coronavirus. Sudhakar had on Sunday said that the cases may touch around 25,000 to 30,000 by the month-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||SC benches to sit one hour late from scheduled time as Covid cases keep rising||Supreme Court judges would hold court from their residences on Monday and the benches would sit one hour late from their schedule time in the morning as around 44 staffers have tested positive for coronavirus, sources said. On some media reports which suggested that around 50 per cent Supreme Court staffers have tested positive for COVID-19, an apex court official said only 44 employees got infected in the last one week. There are around 3,000 staffers working in the apex court. While some judges had been coming to the apex court premises to hold court, few others have been presiding over proceedings from their residences till now. Amid the rise in COVID-19 cases, the apex court has come out with two separate notifications. One of them said the benches, which used to assemble at 10.30 AM and 11 AM, would assemble one hour late from their schedule time on Monday. All judges would hear cases through video conferencing from their residences and in the meanwhile, entire court premises, including courtrooms, are being sanitised. The other notification suspended physical mentioning of cases for urgent hearing by advocates from Monday till further orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||Active caseload surpasses 12-lakh mark as India records over 1.68 lakh fresh Covid cases||India hit a new coronavirus infection record with 1,68,912 new cases, the highest single-day rise so far, taking the total tally of cases to 1,35,27,717, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has fallen below 90 per cent. The active cases have surpassed the 12-lakh mark, while the death toll increased to 1,70,179 with 904 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 33rd day in row, the active cases have increased to 12,01,009 comprising 8.88 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 89.86 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,21,56,529, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.26 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,78,06,986 samples have been tested up to April 11 with 11,80,136 samples being tested on Sunday. The 904 new fatalities include 349 from Maharashtra, 122 from Chhattisgarh, 67 from Uttar Pradesh, 59 from Punjab, 54from Gujarat, 48 from Delhi, 40 from Karnataka, 24 from Madhya Pradesh, 22 from Tamil Nadu, 21 from Jharkhand, 16 each from Kerala and Haryana and 10 each from Rajasthan and West Bengal. A total of 1,70,179 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 57,987 from Maharashtra, 12,908 from Tamil Nadu, 12,889 from Karnataka, 11,283 from Delhi, 10,400 from West Bengal, 9,152 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,507 from Punjab and 7,300 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||As Covid cases rise, ban on export of remdesivir ||India on Sunday banned the export of remdesivir, a key drug used in the treatment of patients hospitalised for severe Covid-19, amid a sharp spike in demand in parallel with the epidemic’s growth in multiple states. The Centre has also prohibited the export of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) used to produce remdesivir, a drug manufactured by seven Indian companies under voluntary licensing agreements with the US-based Gilead Sciences. India’s count of active patients on Sunday surged to 1.1 million. The Union health ministry said the epidemic’s resurgence over the past two months has led to a “sudden spike in demand” for remdesivir and requirements are expected to increase in the coming weeks. The seven companies have a collective installed capacity of about 3.8 million units per month. Critical care specialists say Covid-19 patients prescribed remdesivir typically need about six vials of 100mg each. The installed capacity would thus support up to 630,000 patients per month, or about 21,000 patients per day. India’s seven-day average of daily new cases has increased from 69,000 on April 2 to 152,000 on Sunday. Doctors say whether this capacity is sufficient for India’s needs would depend on how fast the cases rise in the coming days and weeks. “The number of cases now is pretty large, but there may also be some indiscriminate use of this drug,” said Sumit Ray, head of critical care department at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi. “It is no magic bullet, but may be useful in reducing the length of hospitalisation in a small subset of moderately-ill patients.” The health ministry said all domestic manufacturers have also been advised to display on their websites details of their stockists and distributors to facilitate access to the drug. The ministry has directed drug inspectors to verify stocks and check any malpractices and take other effective actions to curb hoarding or black marketing. The Centre has told states that the national treatment guidelines view remdesivir as an “investigational therapy” where informed and shared decision making with patients or their relatives is essential if patients are considered eligible to receive the drug.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Migrants leave from Delhi, to beat feared lockdown ||Durga Prasad, a loader in southeast Delhi’s Okhla Industrial Area, has seen many of his fellow migrant workers leave Delhi, spooked by fears of another lockdown amid the resurgence in Covid infections. He told The Telegraph he was staying put, at least for now, but would greatly welcome some sort of government assurance that the migrants would not be left in the lurch if a lockdown was indeed imposed. “I have four children in Delhi government schools but they’ve been closed for a week now (after the higher classes had reopened recently). I lost my job in a cable factory last year and have been a day labourer since. I’m struggling to repay the loans I took last year,” Prasad said. “My family in Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) is calling us back. If the government can just give us an assurance of some work if there’s a lockdown and promise us rations, we won’t have to leave. We don’t want to leave.” Not all of Prasad’s peers think like him. Although Delhi has not seen jam-packed outbound trains the way Covid-ravaged Mumbai has in recent days, a steady stream of working-class families has been making its way to the Anand Vihar bus terminus to head to their homes in the east. Anindita Adhikari of the Stranded Workers Action Network, a non-government body, said the current migration owed not to job losses but to fears of another lockdown like last year’s. A government assurance, therefore, could help ease the workers’ mind, she said. Delhi has recently imposed night curfews and reduced the volume of public transport amid a rise in the positivity rate of Covid tests from less than 1 per cent to around 10 per cent over the past few weeks. “The government should issue a statement that the workers will continue to receive wages and the industries will continue to operate,” Adhikari said. She conceded that the workers were “unlikely to take this at face value because of what they faced last time”. Still, she said, the government should “use its database of the phone numbers of the people who took special trains, used ration coupons and so on (last year) to send them messages that reassure but do not cause alarm”. Amid the flurry of notifications imposing more restrictions on gatherings and the enhancement of medical facilities, the Delhi government has been silent on migrant workers. A source in the ruling Aam Aadmi Party said its leaders were wary of spreading alarm, which might lead to rumour-mongering. “Last time, there were rumours that we were assisting migrants to leave as we allegedly wanted to withdraw their subsidised power meters and ration cards,” he said. “As of now, we don’t think that we should do anything, but food distribution will start immediately at 2,000 government schools if a lockdown is imposed. We have also learnt from Kerala, which successfully delivered food packets at doorsteps last year.” On Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a webcast: “If you cooperate and the hospital facilities stay under control, we won’t have to impose a lockdown in Delhi. However, if the number of beds in hospitals starts falling short, we might have to impose a lockdown. I’m not in favour of a lockdown.” Chandan Kumar, national coordinator of the NGO Working People’s Charter, said that simple steps could prevent an exodus like last year’s. “Let the chief ministers of the industrialised states publicly request the workers not to leave and proactively register migrant workers for social security schemes. Right now, not one government is saying: ‘Don’t panic, come to your local government school and avail the benefits of the public distribution system’,” he said. “We found that 70 to 80 per cent of the migrant workers had returned (to their workplaces) after Chhath and Diwali last year but most did not bring their families along. Only a few are returning home right now as the rural economy cannot sustain them, but fears of a lockdown and uncertainty about daily-wage work is weighing on their minds as they know the State will do nothing.” The experience of Mohammed Guddu, who quit his tailor’s occupation in Delhi during last year’s lockdown and returned home to Darbhanga in Bihar, bears out both Kumar’s warning about an inhospitable rural economy back home and his plea for a government assurance to migrant workers. Guddu only occasionally finds work as a day labourer in Bihar, but has not returned to Delhi. “I suffered so much in Delhi (during last year’s lockdown) and had to stand in queues for free food. I have not returned as the tailoring unit I got orders (sub-contracts) from has not returned to full capacity, and at home at least I don’t have to beg for food,” he told this newspaper.
“But it’s very hard to support my family as we are not receiving any support from the Bihar government, either. Boys from our village are returning in large numbers from Mumbai this time.” A special train from Mumbai reached Ranchi on Sunday with 25-odd passengers who returned home from the metropolis fearing another lockdown. The Ranchi division of the South Eastern Railway, said the 21-coach train with 12 general compartments was a “single-trip, superfast special train” and that there was no plan to run more such trains on the route. Besides the passengers who travelled to Ranchi, there were others who got off at stations along the way. Some migrant workers arrived in Ranchi after travelling to Dhanbad or Gomoh on other trains. “Mumbai ka sthiti bigad raha tha, fir lockdown hone se fas jate (The condition of Mumbai was worsening and we would get stranded if another lockdown was declared),” said one such worker, Sanghnu Bhagat of Basia (Gumla) who travelled back with his sister Shanti. Saghnu worked as a labourer and Shanti was a domestic help in Mumbai. Additional reporting by Achintya Ganguly Ahmedabad: Gujarat High Court on Sunday initiated a suo motu PIL on the coronavirus situation, observing that media reports indicate the state is heading towards a “health emergency of sorts”. Titled “Uncontrolled upsurge and serious management issues in Covid control”, this is the second such PIL registered by the high court on the coronavirus situation. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Congress: Don’t hold CBSE exam amid Covid surge ||The Congress on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of pushing the country into crisis again by failing to prepare for a second wave of Covid infections and sought cancellation of the CBSE exams to protect young lives. “No check on corona, no adequate vaccines, no jobs, no paying heed to Kisan-Mazdoor’s grievances, no safety net for MSMEs & middle class… eating ‘aam’ was fine but at least ‘aam aadmi’ should have been spared,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. His post came amid reports from parts of the country about a lack of adequate hospital beds, medicine and ventilators as India led the global charts for new Covid cases. The Congress slammed Modi’s suggestion to celebrate a “tika utsav” (vaccine festival), saying Covid was a cause for concern, not celebration. The party alleged that Modi and home minister Amit Shah had in their obsession with state elections ignored the constant rise in cases since February. It provided a chart tracking the rise in active cases: “February 10 — 139,933; February 20 — 142,684; March 10 — 186,211; March 20 — 306,090; April 10 — 1,102,370.” Rahul tweeted: “In the light of the devastating corona second wave, conducting CBSE exams must be reconsidered. All stakeholders must be consulted before making sweeping decisions. On how many counts does Government of India intend to play with the future of India’s youth?” Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded cancellation of the CBSE exams, describing as “shocking” the board’s decision to hold the exams in May amid the rising Covid cases. “Students prepare for these exams for months.... Yet lakhs of children and parents from all over India have been expressing their fears and apprehensions about assembling at exam centres... in the middle of the second wave of Covid-19,” she wrote to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. Priyanka said it would be “practically impossible to ensure the safety of students at large and crowded exam centres”, and that the teachers, invigilators and students’ families would be at risk too. Besides, “by forcing the children to sit for these exams during a raging pandemic”, the government and the CBSE would have “legal liability” if some of the exam centres “prove to be hotspots where large numbers of children become infected”. “As state after state issues guidelines preventing the assembly of large numbers of people... what moral grounds can we stand on while forcing young children to do exactly that?” Priyanka wrote. She spoke also of the possible psychological impact on the children. “They already face the immense pressure of the exams; in addition, they will now be fearing the conditions in which they will be taking them,” Priyanka wrote. “Being forced to sit for exams donning masks, gloves and other protective gear under the spectre of a deadly disease will cause unnecessary anxiety to these children and impact their ability to perform as well.” She hoped the government would hold “a dialogue with schools, students and their parents so that a safer way for them to fulfil their educational obligations can be found”. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “What does one say when the government wants to call the vaccination drive an ‘utsav’? By no stretch of imagination can it be a festival. The vaccination drive is a crusade.” He added: “Having messed up the management of the production and supply sides of the vaccines, the government is covering up its massive failure through rhetoric and hyperbole. “We were the first to demand universal vaccination and get(ting) rid of the silly app and the need for pre-registration. Vaccination must be a walk-in programme. The government must immediately provide funds to ramp up production in India and increase supplies. “The government must also authorise the use of more approved vaccines and allow their manufacture or import. We have a duopoly of two vaccines, but they are hardly sufficient to vaccinate a nation of 138 crore people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Covid: In Uttar Pradesh, even dead have to queue up||Long lines of crammed ambulances, some carrying up to three dead patients, have formed before Lucknow’s two crematoriums since Thursday. Some of the ambulances are having to wait two days or even longer in the queue with the dead and their relatives. It’s not just costing the bereaved families tens of thousands of rupees in ambulance charges but causing an ambulance shortage in the city. At the root of the crisis, crematorium staff and relatives of the dead say, are two developments: n One of the two electric chambers at the Baikunth Dham crematorium and the only one at Gullala Ghat —each capable of incinerating a body in one hour — have developed snags and stopped functioning.
n The recent Covid resurgence has increased the arrival of bodies. Manish Pandey told The Telegraph on Sunday morning he had been waiting in queue at Baikunth Dham since Friday night, sharing an ambulance with his father’s body and that of another dead patient. He said he would be lucky to be able to cremate his father by Sunday night. Employees at Baikunth Dham said the malfunctioning of one of the electric chambers since Thursday had brought the crematorium’s capacity to burn bodies from 48 a day to 24 while the number of arrivals had increased to 60 because of the Covid surge. They said Covid accounted for around half the dead. “My father died of Covid at King George’s Medical University on Friday night. I shared an ambulance with the family of another dead patient from the same hospital as this was the only option,” Pandey,  a resident of old Lucknow and a soldier posted in Punjab who is on leave, said on Sunday morning. “I have been waiting my turn since then. My father’s body is in the ambulance.” Even a static ambulance costs a client at least Rs 10,000 a day. A crematorium employee said the authorities had from Sunday revived pyre burning, a practice that had virtually stopped over the past few years. “Today, the local authority asked us to bring firewood. We have 10 (concrete) platforms for pyres, so this may help clear the backlog.” A pyre takes about 10 hours from cremation to the recovery of the remains, and firewood costs about double the incineration charge. “There’s one more person apart from me to cremate the bodies. We can burn a maximum of 24 bodies in 24 hours even if we work round the clock. But on average, 60 bodies are arriving every day since Thursday,” said Munna Kumar Singh, an employee at Baikunth Dham. “Covid patient or not, each body comes in a PPE kit. We are issuing tokens to the relatives and asking them to wait their turn.” Awadhesh Prasad had been queuing at Gullala Ghat with the body of his younger brother, who died after a cardiac arrest, since Saturday morning. “The only electric chamber here is not working. Only 19 of the 42 platforms for pyres are usable — the rest are damaged or too dirty,” he said. “Pyre burning takes 10 hours. Some 20 ambulances, most of them carrying multiple bodies, are queuing at the gate.” Prasad hit out at chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “Uttar Pradesh mein hahakar macha hai aur mukhya mantriji chunavbaji mein lage hain (Uttar Pradesh is wailing in distress while the chief minister is busy electioneering),” he said. Adityanath is not only addressing rallies in poll-bound Bengal, he is busy holding meetings with BJP activists for the April 15-29 panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh. Amit Kumar, additional municipal commissioner of Lucknow, said: “We are trying our best to improve the situation.” A state health department report says 12,787 Covid patients were detected between Saturday noon and Sunday noon, of whom 4,059 were from Lucknow. It adds that 48 people died of Covid in the state during this 24-hour period, 23 of them in Lucknow. The death count should be higher, however, if crematorium staff are right about half the arrivals being dead Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Covid: Second wave threatens to sink healthcare services||India’s second Covid-19 wave has begun to overwhelm healthcare services at some places in the hardest-hit states of Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh amid reports of shortages of healthcare workers, including critical care specialists, as well as oxygen and ventilators. Public health teams have reported shortages of healthcare workers in at least eight districts in Maharashtra, three in Punjab and three in Chhattisgarh, oxygen supply concerns in four Maharashtra districts, and a dearth of ambulances in Chhattisgarh. The Centre has requested two states to send ventilators for Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra and expressed concern that ventilators in Punjab’s Rupnagar district are not being used because of shortages of critical care specialists. Maharashtra is expected to receive 700 ventilators from Gujarat and 421 from Andhra Pradesh within three to four days, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said after a meeting with Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday. The Union health ministry, in letters sent to Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh on Saturday, outlined the deficiencies observed by public health teams in the three states. The teams have reported limited oxygen supplies in Pune, Bhandara, Palghar and Osmanabad in Maharashtra and Raipur in Chhattisgarh, a dearth of ambulances in Durg, Chhattisgarh, shortages of critical care infrastructure in Aurangabad, Maharashtra, inadequate facilities for Covid-19 testing in Balod, Durg and Korba in Chhattisgarh, and malfunctioning ventilators in Latur and Satara in Maharashtra. They have reported shortages of healthcare workers in Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Jalna, Latur, Nandurbar, Palghar, Satara and Yawatmal in Maharashtra, Durg, Jashpur and Rajnandangaon in Chhattisgarh, and Patiala, Rupnagar and SAS Nagar in Punjab. Health and critical care specialists had predicted last year that an uncurbed growth of the epidemic would trigger shortages of intensive care unit beds, critical care staff and ventilators and necessitate inter-state transfer of human resources and equipment. India’s count of active patients on Sunday increased by over 61,000 to cross 1.1 million. Maharashtra alone accounted for over 538,000 patients, followed by Chhattisgarh (85,800), Karnataka (61,700), Uttar Pradesh (58,800) and Kerala (40,100). “It’s what we thought would happen without a lockdown — which is the situation we have now,” said Ramanan Laxminarayanan, founder and director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy, a health think tank with headquarters in Washington DC and New Delhi. The Union health ministry had said on Friday that 0.46 per cent of the active patients nationwide were on ventilator, 2.31 per cent in intensive care units and 4.51 per cent on oxygen support. Shortages of ventilators and critical care facilities would depend on how fast and where the caseloads increase in the coming days and whether areas with the fastest-rising caseloads have the required infrastructure, a senior critical care specialist said. India on Sunday recorded over 152,000 new Covid-19 cases with sharp surges in infections in multiple states, including the five most-populated states, threatening to push the epidemic’s second wave — already much beyond the previous peak — even higher. Maharashtra accounted for 36 per cent of the new cases recorded in the previous 24 hours, but the seven-day averages of daily new cases have increased 34-fold in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, nine-fold in Bengal and six-fold in Madhya Pradesh since mid-March. “As new cases emerge, the virus gets more opportunities to spread from person to person — especially when people aren’t taking precautions,” said a community medicine specialist. “The growth we’re seeing now suggests that the daily counts could rise to much higher levels than where we are now. I won’t be surprised if the daily new cases reach 200,000 within days.” India’s seven-day average of the daily new cases spiked from about 69,000 on April 2 to 124,000 on April 10. The health ministry has been urging the states to implement the standard public health measures of aggressively testing people, isolating positive cases, tracing and quarantining contacts, and ensuring that patients receive appropriate treatment early. But public health teams have also observed “pandemic fatigue”, a trend that some community medicine specialists had warned about last year. The guidelines require health staff to trace 20 to 30 contacts for each positive patient and ask them to quarantine themselves. Public health specialists say many Covid-19 patients across the country no longer receive knocks on their door from health staff seeking details about their contacts in the three days before they were detected. “The epidemic has become huge — all the focus should be on preventing deaths,” one expert said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Fire engulfs library built by day labourer in Mysore||Day labourer Syed Issaq, 62, had built a library of 11,000 books and stacks of newspapers to introduce the poor to a world of knowledge that had been shut to him as a child. After the library of his sweat and toil that contained thousands of copies of the Bhagvad Gita, the Quran and the Bible burnt down on Friday, he was shocked but determined not to let the suspected land sharks behind it destroy his life’s work. “I still have it in me to rebuild it all over again,” the father of three grown-up children told reporters on Saturday. “I never had the privilege of a proper education; so I want to provide access to books and newspapers to the underprivileged.” Well-wishers have pitched in, with an online fundraiser having already collected Rs 15.65 lakh by Sunday to help Issaq rebuild the library. A Facebook campaign for book donations that emphasises the “interfaith” character of Issaq’s library has received support from across the country. Issaq had used a portion of his income from cleaning drains and doing odd jobs to set up the library in a small tin-and-bamboo shed in Mysore city, 140km from here, in 2011. It stood on a patch of government land in the Rajiv Nagar Corporation Park slum near Ammar Mazjid, and was known simply as “Public Library”. Although he was occupying government land, the authorities did not disturb him since he was doing it for the public good. Opened with a small number of books and newspapers, the library grew quickly with books donated by the public. Among the charred books were “about 3,000 copies of the Bhagvad Gita, and another 1,000 copies of the Quran and the Bible, almost all donated by people”, Issaq said. More than 80 per cent of the destroyed books were in Kannada while the rest were in English, Urdu and Tamil. Issaq said the library attracted about 150 regular visitors each day, and most of them read the newspapers. He said he spent about Rs 6,000 each month on the library’s upkeep and on the eight daily newspapers in Kannada, Urdu, English and Tamil that it offered its readers. The library operated on trust: Issaq opened it every morning and went to work while visitors walked out with any book or newspaper they wanted and later returned them. There were no fees, deposits, records or library employees. Issaq returned to close it in the evening. “I was asleep at home (near the library) when a neighbour told me about the (pre-dawn) fire. But there wasn’t much I could do to save the books,” Issaq said. An FIR of “mischief by fire or explosive” has been registered on a complaint from Issaq. Police sources said they suspected local toughs who had at least twice tried to shut the library down.
Issaq says the goons had asked him to move out since he was occupying government land. He believes they worked for the land mafia. “There were about 11,000 books, most of them donated by well-wishers. It will take a lot of time and effort to collect all the titles again,” Issaq said. Muzaffar Assadi, head of political science at the University of Mysore, has urged people to donate books to help rebuild the library. “This act of destroying a privately run library established by a poor man in a slum area for the purpose of interfaith dialogue and disseminate the value of knowledge is most condemnable,” Assadi wrote on his Facebook page on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Sharad Pawar in hospital for gall bladder surgery||NCP chief Sharad Pawar was on Sunday admitted to a hospital here for the gall bladder surgery scheduled on Monday, party leader Nawab Malik said. “Sharad Pawar was advised to rest for seven days after he underwent a medical procedure (last month). It was then decided that the surgery for the removal of his gall bladder will be performed after 15 days. Accordingly, Pawar was admitted to Breach Candy hospital on Sunday,” he said. Pawar, 80, had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct at the Breach Candy hospital on March 30, a doctor had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Lynched Bihar cop’s mother dies of cardiac arrest||The mother of the Bihar police officer allegedly lynched by a mob at a village in North Dinajpur died of cardiac arrest on Sunday after knowing that her son was no more. Urmila Devi, 70, had not been keeping well for some time, and the arrival of the body of her eldest son, Ashwini Kumar, at their village in Jankinagar in Purnea district proved to be the last straw. Kumar, 50, had been posted as the Kishanganj station house officer (SHO), around 390km northeast of Patna. He was killed on Friday night at Panthapara village in North Dinajpur in neighbouring Bengal where he had gone with a police team to probe a motorcycle theft case. Three persons have been arrested in connection with the killing. The funerals of Kumar and Urmila were conducted together at the local cremation ground. People from the area, public representatives as well as senior administrative and police officers were present. “My father was an honest and brave police officer. We believe he has been killed as part of a conspiracy hatched by some police personnel and other people. The CBI should probe the incident because I do not have faith in the local police,” Kumar’s daughter Nancy told reporters. Purnea range inspector-general Suresh Chaudhary has suspended an inspector and six constables accompanying Kumar for dereliction of duty. They had been armed but allegedly fled, leaving Kumar at the mercy of the mob. Chaudhary announced that all police personnel posted in the Purnea range would contribute a day’s salary to Kumar’s family. The total amount is expected to be around Rs 50 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Rafale: PIL seeks registration of cases of cheating and criminal conspiracy against Modi||A public interest petition in the Supreme Court has sought the registration of cases of cheating, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy against Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the alleged 1-million-euro kickbacks in the Rafale deal. Petitioner Manohar Lal Sharma has also sought the registration of the same cases against alleged Indian middleman Sushen Gupta, and requested a court-monitored CBI probe into the kickback charges. The petition was moved on April 6 but Sharma made it public only on Sunday. The petition is expected to be heard next week. Sharma has cited the April 5 claim by French anti-corruption body AFA that Rafale-maker Dassault Aviation had paid 1 million euros to Gupta. “That Agence Française Anticorruption (AFA) which functions in a capacity similar to India’s comptroller and auditor general (CAG) was set up in 2017 with the aim of checking whether large companies implemented the anti-corruption procedures set out under Sapin 2, the French anti-corruption law,” the petition says. “However, unlike CAG, the AFA also audits private firms. AFA did audit and disclosed corruption of gift one million euro to the Indian middlemen in the Rafale deal given by Dassault.” In December 2018, a bench made up of then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi and Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and K.M. Joseph had refused to intervene in the Rafale deal or order a court-monitored probe. In November 2019, the apex court had dismissed a batch of petitions that had sought a review of the 2018 judgment on the ground that certain file notings relating to the deal had been concealed from the court during the earlier hearing. However, Justice Joseph had at the same time held that the judicial dismissal of the petitions would not be a constraint on the CBI, and that the agency was free to register an FIR for alleged corruption in the deal. The CBI did not register any such case. Sharma has sought the prosecution of Modi and Gupta under penal code sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, which entails jail for up to 10 years), 420 (cheating, punishable by jail for up to seven years) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). He has made Modi and Gupta respondents and impleaded Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited besides the Union government and the CBI. Sharma has claimed the alleged kickbacks ran foul of Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty), Article 13 (laws inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights) and Article 253 (legislation for giving effect to international agreements). He has raised several questions of law for the apex court to consider:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Over Rs 1 crore collected as Covid fine in four days in Odisha||Odisha police have collected more than Rs one crore as fine from people violating Covid-19 guidelines in the last four days. “Cumulatively, in four days, action has been taken against 44,846 violators of Covid protocols in the state and penal fines amounting to Rs 1,25,32,000 have been collected. Behave responsibly and follow the Covid-19 guidelines,” Odisha police tweeted on Sunday. The punitive action was taken against violators for not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The 10-day mask wearing drive was launched on Friday after chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked the people to put on masks to avoid a lock down. In order to enforce wearing masks in public places, the Odisha government has already enhanced the fine amount. The fine amount for not wearing the mask has been doubled from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 for the first and second offence. For subsequent offences the violator has to pay Rs 5,000. The state on Sunday reported 1,379 Covid-19 positive cases. With 339,603 recoveries, Odisha has now 7,979 active cases. The district administration of Ganjam, the home turf of Naveen that witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 cases last year because of large-scale return of migrant labourers to the district from other parts of the country, has asked government officials and teachers not to leave the district headquarters. The district administration has decided to register the names of all the migrants returning to the district. Meanwhile, the state government has stepped up its campaign to contain the spread of Covid-19 and assigned senior IAS officers the task of monitoring the situation in different districts. They will act as observers and give their feedback to the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||India||Parents die in bike accident on NH-16 in Odisha, daughter critical||A couple was killed and  their seven-year-old daughter critically injured on Sunday after a speeding truck hit the motorcycle carrying them near Neulpur on NH-16 in Odisha’s Jajpur district, police said. The incident occurred at 10 am when the couple along with their daughter was heading to their native village from Bhubaneswar. The deceased persons were identified as Laxmikanta Matia (29) and his wife Manjulata (25), the police said. The minor girl, Gayatri, who received multiple injuries, was initially rushed to Dharmasala Community Health Centre and later shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
