13-04-2021||India||Section 144 in Maharashtra for 15 days from April 14: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Government on Tuesday announced a 15-day long statewide curfew from April 14 amid the spike in coronavirus cases in the state. The curfew, which excludes essential services, will come into effect from 8 pm on Wednesday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said in his address via social media to people of the state. Section 144 (prohibitory orders) of the Criminal Procedure Code will be in force till the "lockdown-like" restrictions are in place, Thackeray said. He refrained from terming the new curbs as a lockdown. There is a shortage of medical oxygen and beds and the demand for Remdesivir has increased in Maharashtra, he said, adding the Centre should help supply oxygen for coronavirus patients in the state by using Air Force planes. "The war against coronavirus has begun once again," he said. There is a severe strain on Maharashtra's health infrastructure due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, he added. The state government will provide three kg wheat and two kg rice free for the next one month to every poor and needy person while the coronavirus-induced restrictions are in place, Thackeray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-04-2021||India||Over 50 million Sputnik V doses to be made in India by this summer, says Russia||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Tuesday said it expects over 50 million doses of Sputnik V vaccine to be manufactured in India by this summer. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Monday registered the vaccine under the emergency use authorisation procedure, based on results of clinical trials in Russia, as well as positive data of additional Phase III local clinical trials in India conducted in partnership with Dr Reddy's Laboratories. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev in a virtual press conference said besides five drug companies that the Russian firm had ties ups with, they are looking for a couple of more firms for the possible production pacts. "We almost think Sputnik V is an Indian-Russian vaccine, because lots of production of Sputnik V will be done in India. We publicly announced five production partnerships in India with some of the largest Indian pharmaceutical companies," Dmitriev said. "We believe more than 50 million doses a month (to be manufactured) in the summer (in a couple of months). This is our plan. By summer we expect to manufacture 50 million doses or more of Sputnik V a month in India, he said. Replying to a query, he said some of the Indian firms have started production of the vaccine under the strict quality checks. In September 2020, Dr. Reddy’s and RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and the rights for distribution of the first 100 million doses in India. Later it was enhanced to 125 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-04-2021||India||Supply of vaccine not the problem, lack of planning is: Centre||Over 1.67 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs, the Centre said on Tuesday, underlining that the problem is not of vaccine shortage but of better planning. Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said so far states and UTs have received 13,10,90,370 vaccine doses, out of which the total consumption, including wastage, has been 11,43,69,677. "As per 11 am data, unutilised doses available with states and union territories for administration is 1,67,20,693. From now till April end, 2,01,22,960 doses are in the supply pipeline to states and UTs," he said. "This clearly shows that the problem is of lack of better planning, not of vaccine doses shortage. We have made available vaccine doses to states and UTs from time to time and as we told you earlier that to bigger states we give supply of four days at once and on fourth and fifth day we replenish the supply. For smaller states, at once we supply 7-8 days vaccine doses and on the seventh or eighth day their supply is replenished," he added. Bhushan said each state government needs to ascertain at cold chain points how many unutilised doses are lying and if necessary then from one cold chain point to another the doses have to be reappropriated based on the consumption patterns. "In any state, the case might be that in one district more consumption is taking place while in another there is less consumption. Our request to state governments to ascertain where the doses can be reappropriated from," he added. Bhushan also said Kerala has zero wastage of vaccine doses while on the other hand there are states which are registering 8-9 per cent wastage. Giving details of coronavirus situation in the country, Bhushan said the previous highest surge has already been crossed and the trend is going upward and that is a cause for worry and that is something they continuously share with the states and UTs and try to help them tackle the pandemic in a more effective manner. "The previous highest surge was 94,372 daily cases in September which is now 1,61,736 every day. There are 53 central teams which are camping in 53 districts of the country which are showing a surge in cases and these central teams are helping the district administration as well the state administration, particularly health department and revenue officials, in tackling the pandemic," he added. The daily deaths are also showing an increasing trend. But the previous surge was 1,104 and it is presently 879 deaths. He said Maharashtra, UP, Delhi, Haryana and Gujarat are among states of concern. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said a serious situation is emerging. While the situation is worse in some states it is a countrywide problem and there has to be continued focus on test, track, trace and treat strategy and following Covid appropriate behaviour as well as embracing the vaccine, he said. "Everyone should wear a mask," he said. Amid reports of shortage of remdesivir, he said the drug is to be given only to hospitalised, serious patients and those on oxygen support, and there is no question of its use in home setting and it is not to be procured from chemist shops. "As shortage of remdesivir was reported in some areas, its export was banned. This medicine is now available in plenty. We appeal to physicians to do rational, judicious use of remdesivir in hospitalised patients," he said. Paul also stressed on embracing Ayush products for boosting immunity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-04-2021||India||India speeds up approval of foreign-made jabs granted emergency access||With an aim to expand the basket of Covid-19 vaccines and enhance the pace of inoculation in India, the central government on Tuesday said it has fast-tracked emergency approval for foreign-produced jabs that have been granted similar clearances in other countries. The first 100 beneficiaries of such foreign vaccines shall be assessed for seven days for safety outcomes before it is rolled out for further immunisation programmes within the country, the Union Health Ministry said. The Centre's decision came after an expert panel recommended that Covid-19 vaccines, which have been developed and are being manufactured in foreign countries and which have been granted emergency approval for restricted use by authorities in the US, Europe, the UK, Japan, or which are listed in the WHO Emergency Use Listing may be granted emergency use approval in India. The expert panel also mandated the requirement of post-approval parallel bridging clinical trials in place of conduct of local clinical trials. "This decision will facilitate quicker access to such foreign vaccines by India and would encourage imports including import of bulk drug material, optimal utilisation of domestic fill and finish capacity, etc., which will in turn provide a fillip to vaccine manufacturing capacity and total vaccine availability for domestic (use)," the ministry said. Currently, two vaccines -- Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and Covishield by Serum Institute of India (SII) -- are being used for inoculation in India. India's drug regulator has also granted permission for the restricted emergency use of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V with certain conditions on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-04-2021||India||Sushil Chandra assumes charge as the Chief Election Commissioner of India||Sushil Chandra assumed charge as the 24th Chief Election Commissioner on Tuesday. Chandra was appointed as the CEC on Monday, the day Sunil Arora demitted office. He was appointed as an election commissioner on February 14, 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. He would demit office on May 14, 2022. Under him, the Election Commission (EC) will hold Assembly polls in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The term of the assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab ends on various dates in March next year. The term of the Uttar Pradesh assembly ends on May 14 next year. Chandra belongs to the 1980 batch of the Indian Revenue Service. He is also an ex-officio member of the Delimitation Commission since February 18, 2020 looking after the process in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Having held several posts in the Income Tax Department for nearly 39 years, Chandra was appointed the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman on November 1, 2016. He spent considerable time as Director of Investigation and Director General of Investigation, Mumbai and Gujarat, respectively followed by his stint as Member (Investigation), CBDT and thereafter assuming the post of Chairman of this apex body. "Transparency and purity of political finance are of vital importance for free and fair electoral process and the creation of a level playing field. Continuing the crusade that he started as CBDT Chairman against the menace of black money, Chandra was proactive as the erstwhile Election Commissioner in curbing the use of money power that vitiates the electoral process," the Commission said on Tuesday. He has constantly emphasised the concept of "inducement-free" elections and it has become an integral dimension of monitoring the electoral process in all ongoing and forthcoming elections, the EC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-04-2021||India||Kejriwal urges Centre to cancel board exams of class 10 and 12 amid Covid spurt||Delhi has reported over 13,500 cases in 24 hours, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday and appealed to the Centre to cancel the Class 10 and 12 board exams and explore alternative methods, including online exams. Warning that conducting the exams may contribute to the large-scale spread of the virus, he said the centres could emerge as major hotspots. "Six lakh children in Delhi are going to write CBSE exams. Nearly one lakh teachers will be a part of it. These (the centres) can become major hotspots leading to large-scale spreading of corona. Children's lives and health are very important to us. I request the Centre to cancel the CBSE exams," he said at a press conference on Tuesday afternoon. The Central Board of Secondary Education can explore other methods, including online exams and promoting students on the basis of internal assessments, he said. "Several countries have done it, some states in India are doing it too. Some alternative methods could be thought of. Children can be promoted this time on the basis of either an online method or internal assessment. But the exams should be cancelled," he added. The CBSE Class 10 and 12 exams are scheduled to begin on May 4. With the exponential increase in coronavirus cases, the chorus for cancellation or postponing the board exams is growing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-04-2021||India||India becomes 60th country to approve Russia's Sputnik V vaccine||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has said that India has become the 60th country to approve the use of Sputnik V against coronavirus and more than 850 million doses of the vaccine are going to be produced in the country annually. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has registered the vaccine under the emergency use authorisation procedure. This is based on results of clinical trials in Russia as well as positive data of additional Phase III local clinical trials in India conducted in partnership with Dr Reddy's Laboratories. The vaccine has been approved for use in countries with a total population of 3 billion people or about 40 per cent of the global population, and India has become the 60th country to approve Sputnik V, RDIF, Russia's sovereign wealth fund, said in a statement. India is also the most populated country to register the vaccine and also the leading production hub for Sputnik V, it added. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said the approval of the vaccine is a major milestone as both countries have been developing an extensive cooperation on clinical trials of Sputnik V in India and its local production. "The Russian vaccine has efficacy of 91.6 per cent and provides full protection against severe cases of COVID-19 as demonstrated by the data published in one of the leading medical journals -- The Lancet," he added. Noting that India is a vaccine-manufacturing hub and a strategic partner for production of Sputnik V, he said RDIF has created partnerships with a number of India's leading pharmaceutical companies for production of Sputnik V which will provide for both vaccination of the population in India and global distribution of the vaccine. "Over 850 million doses of Sputnik V are going to be produced in India annually sufficient to vaccinate more than 425 million people around the world," he said. According to the release, RDIF has agreements with India's Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech aimed at production of more than 850 million doses per year. Sputnik will be the third vaccine to be used in India against coronavirus. In January, DCGI had given the emergency use authorisation for two COVID-19 vaccines -- Covaxin of Bharat Biotech and Covishield of Oxford-AstraZeneca manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune. As per RDIF, Sputnik V has a number of key advantages, including that there are no strong allergies caused by Sputnik V. The price of the vaccine is less than USD 10 per shot and it uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination, providing immunity with a longer duration than vaccines using the same delivery mechanism for both shots, it added. Other countries that have approved use of Sputnik V include Argentina, Bolivia, Hungary, UAE, Iran, Mexico, Pakistan, Bahrain and Sri Lanka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-04-2021||India||India logs over 1.61 lakh fresh Covid cases, 879 casualties in a day||A total of 1,61,736 new coronavirus infections have been reported in a day pushing India's tally of cases to 1,36,89,453, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate dropped further to 89.51 per cent, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,71,058 with 879 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 34th day in a row, the number of active cases rose to 12,64,698, or 9.24 per cent of the total infections. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12, 2021 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,22,53,697, while the case fatality rate has dropped further to 1.25 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,92,07,108 samples have been tested up to April 12, of which 14,00,122 were done on Monday. The 879 new fatalities include 258 from Maharashtra, 132 from Chhattisgarh, 72 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, 55 from Gujarat, 52 each from Karnataka and Punjab, 37 from Madhya Pradesh, 25 from Rajasthan, 19 each from Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand, 14 each from Haryana and West Bengal, and 11 each from Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. A total of 1,71,058 deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 58,245 from Maharashtra, 12,941 from Karnataka, 12,927 from Tamil Nadu, 11,355 from Delhi, 10,414 from West Bengal, 9,224 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,559 from Punjab, and 7,311 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Risky mix of Kumbh Mela, rallies and laxity amid rise in cases||India on Monday recorded 168,912 new Covid-19 cases as the coronavirus rampaged through multiple states amid public laxity in personal precautions, election rallies, the Kumbh Mela and what some health experts say are deficiencies in containment measures. The daily count –  a new high so far – increased the number of active patients in India overnight by 92,922, raising the total number of patients to more than 1.2 million that doctors say will intensify pressure on hospitals and critical care services. The seven-day average of daily new cases has increased in at least 30 states and Union territories over the past four weeks — doubling in Kerala and increasing 20-fold in Delhi, 30-fold in Chhattisgarh and over 60-fold in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The daily Covid-19 death counts too have increased 6-fold nationwide — from 140 deaths on March 12 to 904 on April 11. In Uttarakhand, where thousands of devotees have congregated for the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, defying pleas from health officials to avoid crowds, the seven-day average of daily new cases has increased 15-fold, from 59 on March 12 to 935 on April 11. “It is obvious that the Kumbh Mela has the potential to be a superspreader event. If that happens, we’ll see the impact in the days and weeks to come after the devotees return,” said a senior public health expert, requesting not to be named. The Union health ministry had last month cautioned Uttarakhand that a significant number of pilgrims and local residents were testing positive for Covid-19 daily and iterated the need for all pilgrims to carry Covid-negative reports. Scientists tracking the epidemic’s growth say the R value — a measure of the speed at which the infection is spreading — has decreased slightly in both Maharashtra and Punjab, although the value remains above 1, implying a continued increase in active cases. Maharashtra and Punjab were the first states to report the second wave. “But we see remarkable increases in R in Bengal, Bihar, Delhi, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a researcher at the Institute for Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Among the 18 states with the fastest growth, Bihar has the highest R value of 2. “This means cases there are doubling every five days,” said Sinha. He, however, underlined that every time cases surged in Bihar during the first wave, the spike appeared to “magically go away”. “We don’t know the reason – it’s possible that the clusters of infections are somewhat isolated from each other and just burn out after a rapid rise,” he said. Many believe that the fast-rising daily counts have made the efforts to contain the infection more and more difficult and rendered the task of tracing at least 20 contacts for each positive case -– as recommended by the health ministry -– impractical. “It’s impractical if not impossible,” said Oommen John, a physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “We’re now detecting over 150,000 new cases per day – is it really possible to trace and quarantine three million people every day?” “We have a fragile health system, traditionally understaffed and under-funded,” he said. “Also, (a sizeable segment) of the healthcare staff is now deployed in the vaccination campaign. And other medical requirements -- whether deliveries or cardiovascular conditions --- haven’t vanished just because Covid-19 has hit us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Couple’s funds for cancer hospital and palliative care centre in Bhubaneswar||IT firm Mindtree’s co-founder and Odisha Skill Development Authority chairman Subroto Bagchi and his wife Susmita, who is chairman of Mo School (My School) Abhiyan, have pledged Rs 210 crore for a cancer hospital and another Rs 130 crore for establishment of a palliative care centre, both in Bhubaneswar. A meeting of the Odisha cabinet chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday gave its nod to the establishment of the cancer hospital and palliative care centre. “Susmita and I will donate 340 crores to bring @karunashraya to set up a world class palliative care unit and @shankaracancer for a cutting–edge cancer hospital. Deeply grateful @CMO_Odisha for the shared vision and support. Odisha will soon emerge as a leading oncology player in India,” tweeted Bagchi. Sri Shankara Cancer Care Foundation and Karunashraya Hospice Trust are Bangalore-based charitable organisations. The cancer hospital will be named Bagchi-Sri Shankara Cancer Hospital and Research Institute while the other facility will be called Bagchi Karunashraya Palliative Care Centre. The Odisha government will provide land for the establishment of these two units. The cancer hospital will initially have 250 beds and will be made operational by January 2024. It will be later expanded to a 500-bed hospital. The hospital will have 25 per cent beds reserved for free treatment and another 25 per cent beds will be set aside for patients supported under different government health schemes. The rest of the patients will pay for the services and the revenue generated will be utilised for the expansion of the hospital and supporting the poor patients. It will be an oncology centre of excellence with academic and research facilities, officials said. “The cancer hospital will provide advanced cutting-edge cancer care and evidence–based management of cancer cases,” an official said. The palliative care centre will have 100 beds. The centre will provide holistic palliative care and all patients will receive free service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||BJD seeks Pipili win to check BJP rise in coastal belt||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) is going all out to retain the Pipili Assembly seat in Odisha and checkmate the BJP’s plans of making inroads into the state’s coastal belt by registering its first victory from the constituency. Pipili, around 20km from Bhubaneswar, is considered the stronghold of the BJD and a seat that has never been won by the BJP. The seat fell vacant following the death of BJD stalwart and seven-time MLA Pradeep Maharathy. The BJD has fielded his son Rudra Pratap Maharathy as its candidate in the by-election scheduled for April 17. The Assembly segment is a part of the Puri Lok Sabha constituency. The BJD has deputed a number of MLAs and ministers to this sensitive Assembly constituency, which has already witnessed pre-poll violence. A delegation of BJD leaders met Odisha chief electoral officer Sushil Kumar Lohani and lodged a complaint about the alleged attack on minister Sushant Singh’s vehicle on Sunday. The incident took place when the minister had gone to meet some injured party workers at Delanga. Police have arrested two persons in connection with the attack. Central forces have been deployed in Pipili to bring the situation under control. BJD spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sasmit Patra said: “BJP workers attacked minister Sushant Singh and smashed the front and rear windshield of his car on Sunday. Two BJD workers also suffered injuries and are undergoing treatment in hospital. Violence in politics and elections is nothing new for BJP.” “In the Bijepur by-election in 2018 and in the general election in 2019, the party (BJP) had carried out a series of attacks. They are now using money and muscle power again. Cash worth Rs 50 lakh was recently seized from some BJP workers in Pipili. However, the people of Pipili will defeat the BJP and its agenda of violence,” he said. As political temperature rose in the constituency, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday addressed the people of Pipili through the virtual mode and appealed to them to support his party candidate. He also assured them that it was his responsibility to see overall development of the constituency. Naveen also recalled how the people of Pipili have always supported the BJD and his father Biju Patnaik. BJP heavyweight and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan will campaign for the party candidate Ashrit Pattanayak on April 13. The BJP on Monday accused the BJD of being involved in all sorts of nefarious activities. “Free and fair elections seem a remote possibility in Pipili. BJP workers are being harassed and targeted. The ruling BJD is using the police force. The people of Pipili will vote for Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas mantra of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. “If BJP manages to win the seat, it will be able to gain a firm foothold in the coastal belt which is important for the party,” said senior journalist Ashutosh Mishra, adding that the BJP’s influence has been mainly confined to western Odisha. In view of the sensitive nature of the bypoll in Pipili, the police have stepped up security measures. “We are keeping a close eye on the law and order situation in Pipili. A total 80 booths have been identified as critical. Three companies of BSF, 15 platoons of Odisha police and one platoon of Odisha Industrial Security Force (OISF) have been deployed in the constituency,” said director-general of police Abhay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||No work in cities, say returning migrant workers||As trainloads of migrant workers alight at various railway stations across Bihar, they have a common refrain. They claim that they have not fled the more developed states out of fear of the coronavirus pandemic, but have been forced to leave because of the circumstances, and by the very people for whom they worked. Their faces do not betray any panic, nor their body language shows any fear. They are just stoic masses of human beings believing in fatalism, and accepting that nobody will come with solutions to alleviate their suffering. Naresh Kumar, 30, alighted at Danapur from a special train from Pune, Maharashtra, in the middle of the night and spent the next few hours waiting for dawn to complete the remaining 150km journey to Sitamarhi. He was working in a garment factory in Pune, earning around Rs 15,000 a month. “I was determined not to leave Pune even if the world came to an end. I had come back last year during the lockdown, and had repented the trouble faced during the journey and months of joblessness. However, the factory was shut down again. I could not find any other work and was forced to return,” Naresh said. Asked what he will do now, Naresh said he would look for work or will become a hawker selling different wares. The majority of the people returning on the trains from metropolises and industrial cities are those who had returned during the lockdown last year. Not finding suitable employment in Bihar, they had returned to work in October–November last year after being called backed by their employers. “Our employers had sent us money and tickets last year and requested us to return to work. We did so. But our salary was cut substantially within a couple of months on the excuse that they were suffering losses. When coronavirus cases increased and the weekend lockdown was announced, we were simply told we should come back later as there was no work,” said Muhammad Faiyyaz, who worked as a chef at a restaurant in Mumbai. Faiyyaz is now determined to try his hand at agriculture at Kamtaul village in Darbhanga district. “It’s very hard work and I have no experience of it, but I will give it a shot. I do not want to experience the trauma of losing my job repeatedly. Besides, no government takes care of workers like us. We are forced to live hand to mouth if we lose our jobs,” he added. Several workers who returned from cities like Mumbai, Pune, Delhi and Surat alleged that they had to buy train tickets at higher prices from touts, who had purchased them in advance. Many people who returned to Bihar from other states a week or two before have decided to play safe and stay put at their native places instead of going back to work. Vijay Prasad Chaurasia, 68, a resident of Kudra village in Kaimur district, arrived at Mohania Road station on April 5 to participate in the Ram Navami festival. He and his family members sell merchandise on footpath in Vile Parle (West) in Mumbai, but have decided not to return in the light of the raging pandemic and talk of complete lockdown in Maharashtra. “The previous lockdown made us bankrupt and turned us into beggars. We earned around Rs 400 to Rs 500 daily and managed somehow to pay room rent, electricity bill and survive there. But the income becomes nil if there is a lockdown. We are not returning to Mumbai for the time being. There is nobody who cares about us. Here in our village at least we won’t die of hunger,” Chaurasia told The Telegraph over the phone from Kudra. D.M. Diwakar, social activist and former director of A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, says that the emerging scenario with regard to migrant workers from Bihar is an outcome of various factors. “The Bihar government made much noise about skill mapping of the lakhs of migrant workers who returned from different states during the lockdown last year. It was done in a haphazard manner and without any end result. Had it been done properly, the workers would have become the agents of change in Bihar and contributed to industrialisation of the state. The politicians and the bureaucrats also did not take much interest in it,” Diwakar told this newspaper. He pointed out that the lack of employment in Bihar forced the migrant workers to return, and this time they lost their bargaining power in the process. “These migrant workers are now at the mercy of their employers, who are unwilling to take even a little bit of responsibility. The state and central governments over the past several decades have also not done anything to safeguard these workers or provide them any viable social security cover. The effects of labour laws have also been eroded in the country since 1991,” Diwakar said. He added that the situation could be changed only with drastic policy changes at the state and central level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Post for Babri acquittal judge ||The judge who had acquitted all the Sangh parivar leaders in the Babri Masjid demolition case has, six months later, been appointed upalokayukta or deputy lokayukta of Uttar Pradesh by the Yogi Adityanath government. As a special CBI court judge, Surendra Kumar Yadav had on September 30 last year acquitted all the 32 surviving accused, denying any conspiracy by the BJP and VHP heavyweights and blaming the Babri demolition on “anti-social elements” who had infiltrated the kar sevaks. Yadav had retired the day of the verdict. Governor Anandiben Patel signed his latest appointment letter on April 6, but the matter became public only when the former judge took charge of his new post on Monday. He is one of three deputy lokayuktas in Uttar Pradesh. The lokayukta courts hear corruption cases against state ministers and state government officials. Among those Yadav had acquitted in the Babri case were former Union ministers L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharati, and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh. Yadav had rejected the CBI’s findings in favour of a report by the local police intelligence unit. “There were some anti-social elements among the kar sevaks and they committed the crime. The politicians and the sadhus were continuously making appeals to the mob to maintain peace,” his 2,300-page order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress pushes Narendra Modi for vaccines, cash for poor||The Congress on Monday hoped Prime Minister Narendra Modi would attend to his primary duty of governance instead of devoting all his time and energy campaigning for Bengal elections when the second coronavirus wave is rampaging through the country. The Prime Minister’s obsession with the Bengal polls dominated the massive social media campaign for vaccines run by the Congress on Monday. Wondering how the Prime Minister could be engrossed in electioneering when over a lakh new Covid cases are emerging every day, Congress spokesperson Ajoy Kumar said: “The Prime Minister should have set up a war room with medical experts and top administrators to strategise for Covid management. But the war room is for Bengal. The Prime Minister is addressing three rallies in Bengal today (Monday). Even home minister Amit Shah is there.” The party also highlighted the export of over six crore doses at a time India has not vaccinated all its health and frontline workers and persons with comorbidities. Many senior leaders blasted the government for playing with the lives of people with its casual approach to Covid’s second wave that has made India the country with the second largest number of infections in the world. The Congress spokesperson said: “People elected him to govern, they presumed the Prime Minister will rise to the occasion to help people in crisis. What has Modi done to expand vaccine production? There are 13 vaccines available in the world; has the Prime Minister talked to those manufacturers for making them available in India? Has he any concern for the people? When will Bengal election end?” Many other leaders alleged that Modi was driven by a lust for power and hoped he would get serious about the national crisis after polling ends in Bengal. Most leaders pointed at the government’s failure in bolstering the healthcare infrastructure after the severe Covid shock last year and its decision to export and gift vaccines to other countries, arguing that Modi was more concerned about refurbishing his own image than the lives of Indians. As reports suggested that the government was considering approving Russian vaccine Sputnik, the Congress pounced on Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who had slammed Rahul Gandhi for urging the government to grant permission to other vaccines. Rahul himself put out a video saying: “Modi ji, you said the war against corona will be won in 18 days. You asked people to bang thali, light up candles and show mobile phone torch… but corona intensified. Please stop event-bazi now and arrange for vaccines for all. And provide income support to the poor.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote another letter to the Prime Minister on Monday, expressing concern over vaccine shortage and economic disruption affecting the poor in the aftermath of a surge in Covid cases. She said: “Vaccines are our foremost hope. Sadly, most of the states are left with a stock of just three to five days. While it will be necessary on one hand to substantially ramp up our domestic production capacity, it will also be prudent to allow emergency use authorisation of all the vaccine candidates that have the required clearances without any further delay.” Sonia added: “Accordingly, with enhanced availability, categories eligible for vaccination should be expanded on the basis of need and exposure rather than just age. In the same vein, the numbers allocated to a state has to be based on the prevalence and projection of infection in that particular state. All equipment, instruments, medicine and support infrastructure required to deal with Covid-19 crisis should be made completely exempt from GST. Even ventilators, oximeters and oxygen cylinders currently attract GST as do key life-saving drugs like Remdesivir and Dexamethazone.” Drawing attention to the restrictions and lockdowns being imposed in many parts of the country, she said: “We will again be restricting economic activity that will hit the already beleaguered people — especially the poor and daily wage earners very hard. It is with all earnestness that I appeal to you to put into place the much needed scheme of minimum monthly guaranteed income in place and transfer an amount of Rs 6,000 in every eligible citizen’s account.” She also sought measures for transportation of migrant labourers as reverse migration had already started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Drug regulatory expert panel clears Russia vaccine||India’s drug regulatory expert panel on Monday approved restricted emergency use of Russia’s Sputnik V, paving the way for the entry of a third Covid-19 vaccine in India’s inoculation campaign currently open for people 45 years and older. The subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation approved an application for the emergency use authorisation for Sputnik V submitted by the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, the PTI reported. The Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the country’s sovereign wealth fund and the vaccine’s promoter worldwide, and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, had last year said they would provide India 100 million doses of Sputnik V after its regulatory approval. The SEC’s recommendation would need to be accepted by the CDSCO for Sputnik V to be made available in the vaccination campaign which currently uses Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech. Sputnik V has shown 92 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19, the vaccine’s developers have said, reporting the findings of clinical trials, an efficacy slightly higher than those linked to Covaxin or Covishield. Scientists, however, have underlined that the real-world efficacy of all Covid-19 vaccines are yet to be determined. Health experts have for weeks been advocating the need for India to quickly approve more Covid-19 vaccines to accelerate the campaign and protect more people faster. India has administered 108 million doses of the two vaccines since the start of the campaign nearly three months ago. But only about 13.6 million people have received the two doses of vaccines needed to protect them from the infection. Advisers to the campaign estimate that India will require around 700 million doses to cover an estimated 350 million people during the current campaign. “The entry of Sputnik V could speed up the campaign, but the number of doses would need to be matched by both the capacity to administer the vaccines and potential recipients accepting them,” a member of an advisory panel said. Neither RDIF nor DRL has specified how many doses of Sputnik V would be available to India per month. A senior health official had said earlier this month that the Centre is currently able to procure about 10 million doses from Bharat Biotech and around 70 million doses from Serum per month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Ranjith R Panathur: From watchman to IIM professor||A Facebook post that begins by declaring “This is where I was born and grew up” has taken Kerala by storm with ministers and Opposition leaders joining ordinary netizens in congratulating the writer. The picture accompanying the post shows a two-room shed built with stone and mud, its presumably leaky tiled roof covered with black plastic sheets, in a small village in north Kerala’s Kasaragod district. It’s from here that the writer, Ranjith R. Panathur, 28, rose to become a university lecturer in Bangalore — working as a night-watchman to fund his college studies — and a soon-to-be economics teacher at IIM Ranchi. “My only intention in posting that message and picture of my home was to inspire young people like me to have the same determination to overcome difficulties,” Ranjith, who teaches economics at Christ University, Bangalore, told The Telegraph on Monday. Ranjith, who has a doctorate in economics from IIT Madras, said he had received the IIM job offer recently and would soon be leaving for Ranchi. His post has fetched congratulatory calls from Kerala minister E. Chandrashekaran, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala and the Congress MP from Kasaragod, Rajmohan Unnithan, as well as a Facebook post from state finance minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. Ranjith credits much of his success to his IIT Madras guide, associate professor Subhash Sashidharan, who had helped change his mind when the young man had thought of quitting the PhD course. “I wanted to drop out since I was not fitting in with what was a new environment for me. I was at the time proficient only in Malayalam. But my guide changed my mind and instilled the confidence in me to continue,” he told this newspaper. Ranjith is the eldest of the three children of Ramachandra Naik, a tailor, and Baby R, a regular beneficiary of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme. His Marathi-speaking grandparents had migrated to Kasaragod. Although his parents had studied only up to Class V, they had ensured their children received good education. They sent Ranjith to a government-run model residential school for tribal kids in Kasaragod. “I studied there from Class V to X since it was fully funded for all students,” he said. Ranjith studied higher secondary at another government school in the district. He then enrolled in St Pius X College in Rajapuram, also in Kasaragod, and graduated in economics as the college topper. He worked as a night-watchman at a telephone exchange in his village, Panathur, for five years to fund his higher secondary and BA studies. He had started out on a salary of Rs 3,500, which gradually increased to Rs 8,000 in the fifth year. “It was tough — I had to attend classes during the daytime and work at night,” Ranjith said. He quit the job after clearing the entrance test for the Central University of Kerala in Kasaragod, where he did his master’s. “Apart from a monthly grant of a little more than Rs 1,000, I had to depend on my parents to support me,” he said. Ranjith joined IIT Madras in 2015 and earned his PhD in 2020, writing his thesis on “foreign direct investment and industrial agglomeration”. He has since published two papers. His former guide, Sashidharan, lauded Ranjith’s “hard work and determination”. “It’s a proud moment to see him achieving great heights. I’m happy that I could contribute to his academic journey,” he told this newspaper. Sashidharan recalled how he had sent Ranjith to Japan against formidable odds. He said he had received an invitation from the Western Economic Association International to present a paper in Japan before the Robert Lipsey Memorial Panel. “I suggested that Ranjith present the paper. They were initially not happy with a student presentation but eventually agreed. I came to know later from the panel chair that Ranjith had done a fabulous job,” he said. Ranjith’s sister has a master’s in economics and has completed her BEd; his younger brother works at a hotel in Thrissur, having earned a diploma in hotel management. Ranjith says he wants to build a new house for his parents, who still live in the old house with their daughter. He also plans to help students from poor families. “Once I settle down in my new job, I want to help educate poor children and show them there’s a bigger world out there,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Supreme Court junks plea on Quran||The Supreme Court on Monday termed as “absolutely frivolous” a petiiton filed by ex-Shia Waqf Board chairperson Waseem Rizvi seeking removal of 26 verses from the Quran and dismissed it with a fine of Rs 50,000 on the petitioner. The petition was filed by Rizvi seeking deletion of 26 specific verses from the Quran allegedly because they, according to him, violate the law of the land and promote extremism. When the matter came up for hearing initially, a three-judge bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, B.R. Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy asked senior advocate R.K. Raizada whether he was serious about pursuing the petition. The counsel argued that he was concerned mainly with various madrasas imparting Quran lessons by teaching the impugned verses which he said fomented terrorism in the country. He argued that madrasas are entrusted with the task to maintain the standard of teaching. But the said verses indoctrinate the children with extremist philosophy, he said. Such a right the counsel argued is not protected under Article 25 of the Constitution which gives every person right to practice and profess any religion. “Students are not to be indoctrinated. Salafists and Wahabis are using this. This means internationalisation of terror is happening…” he said According to the petitioner, he had earlier written a letter to the Centre for deletion of the 26 verses, but finding no response from the government was forced to move the apex court. Justice Nariman, heading the bench, after a brief conversation with the other two judges then dismissed the petition saying it was “absolutely frivolous” and imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the petitioner. The petition said: “Our country has been a victim of terrorism for the last over seven decades, specifically Islamic terrorism, which has become the worrying feature of the contemporary life… Islamic terrorism, or radical terrorism are terrorist acts against civilians, committed by violent Islamists. Such attacks have targeted both, Muslims and non-Muslims. “At present the basic edifices of modern Indian state like democracy, state security, rule of law, sovereignty and integrity, basic human rights etc are under attack of Islamic terrorism. “Unfortunately, justifications given by Islamists terrorist groups for the attacks on non-believers/civilians emanate from the 26 verses/suras of the Islamic holy book ‘Quran’. “These justifications include retribution by armed jehad for perceived injustices by non-believers against believers/Muslims, the belief that killing of non-believers (kafirs) is permitted in Islam, the need to establish Islam by forcibly enforcing Sharia law, establishing Islamic State and caliphate as head of the Islamic State within the country, glorifying the terrorists as martyrs, heavenly reward of company of opposite sex for martyrdom and supremacy of Islam over all other religions. “On account of these 26 verses contained in holy Quran, innocent Muslim students studying in the institutions providing elementary education (madrasas) get radicalized at a very tender age which is not only against the peace and harmony of the country but also against unity, integrity and sovereignty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||7,000 retired BHU employees yet to receive pension for March||Nearly 7,000 retired employees of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) have not received their pension for March till Monday. The institution in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency is one of the oldest central universities. Three retired faculty members told this newspaper that the pension payment had been delayed by three to four days in April in earlier years because of red tape. However, the delay up to April 12 this year is unusual, they said. “This has never happened ever since I started working in the BHU 40 years ago. This is unusual. It could be because of lack of funds with the government,” said a retired faculty member. Usually, the retired employees get their pension on the first day of every month. Since November last year, every university has opened a treasury single account (TSA) with the Reserve Bank of India, which is directly sending the salary and pension to the accounts of the beneficiaries. Earlier, the UGC was releasing funds to each institution which in turn was crediting the amount to the staff and pensioners. In the BHU, the employees have got their salary in the first week. The finance officer of the university, Abhay Kumar Thakur, said that the staff salary could be paid from the unspent money allocated under last year’s budget. “We did not receive the grants under the TSA for pension payment. We took the matter up with the UGC and the education ministry. Now the money has been released by the government. We hope to get it in a day,” Thakur said. Separate emails sent by this newspaper to the Union education ministry and the UGC had not elicited any response till Monday evening. The BHU is not an isolated case. The employees and retired staff of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University (SLBSNSU) have not received their salary and pension. For the past 10 months, the central university has been delaying the payment of salary and pension. Its vice-chancellor Ramesh Kumar Pandey said that the issue had been sorted now. The salary would be paid on Tuesday, Pandey said. “Our university was a deemed university earlier. It became a central university last year. The grants were getting delayed because of the conversion of our institution from deemed to central university. Now this has been sorted out. We will pay salary tomorrow (Tuesday) and pension by Wednesday. From this month, the payment will be on time,” Pandey said on Monday. A faculty member said he had been borrowing money every month to pay the EMI on his home loan on the fifth day of every month as he had committed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||UP farmers drive away BJP minister Baldev Singh Aulakh||Baldev Singh Aulakh, the minister of state for Jal Shakti in Uttar Pradesh, who had gone to a village in Rampur district on Sunday to campaign for a BJP-supported candidate in panchayat elections, was driven away by the villagers, mostly farmers, who waved black flags and chanted slogans against him and the party. Eyewitnesses said Aulakh was forced to leave Matkhera in Bilaspur Assembly constituency when residents, most of whom were farmers, gathered around his convoy and started chanting “Aulakh murdabad, BJP murdabad” and “Krishi kanoon wapas lo, wapas lo (repeal the farm laws)”. The minister, however, claimed that nothing of that sort had happened. “There were four-five people who were standing there and created commotion. People don’t oppose me in my Assembly constituency,” said Aulakh, a BJP MLA from Bilaspur, 350km northwest of Lucknow. However, the local farmers claimed that over 250 people didn’t allow the minister to enter the locality and campaign there. “Sardar Gurveer Singh Vikkar, along with 200 farmers from Bilaspur, is protesting against the farm laws at the Ghazipur border (Ghaziabad) for the last 150 days and Aulakh wants to campaign here for his party, which is anti-peasant. We had supported the BJP in 2014, 2017 and 2019, but now we are against it,” said Harveer Singh, a farmer and a resident of Matkhera. He said circle officer Anuj Chaudhary with the help of the police made way for the minister’s convoy to return without meeting the villagers. “The police also wielded lathis to disperse the crowd. The minister and the police tried to hush up the news of protest,” Singh added. “It is our duty to ensure the safety of the people. The minister was in trouble and we took him away,” said a police officer who didn’t want to be named. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been organising protests against the three controversial farm laws at Delhi’s borders, had called on farmers across the country to boycott BJP leaders and ministers and prevent them from entering their villages. Sanjeev Balyan, minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, was forced out of Soram village in Muzaffarnagar on February 23. In retaliation, Balyan’s supporters and the police had allegedly attacked the villagers. On April 10, the villagers of Abbas Nagar in Rampur had attacked some BJP workers when they went there to campaign for the party candidate in the panchayat polls. Roop Singh Baghel, a local police officer, said: “We came to know about the protest and rushed to the spot to maintain peace in the village. We have not received any formal complaint from any side.” There is anger in western Uttar Pradesh against the BJP because many farmers of the region have died during the protests at the Delhi border. Sardar Kashmir Singh, a 75-year-old peasant of Pasiapura village in Bilaspur, had committed suicide at the Ghazipur border on January 3. Found hanging from the ceiling of a toilet, Singh had left a suicide note stating that he was anguished to see that the farmers had been sacrificing their lives to protect agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
