14-04-2021||India||Decision to hold ICSE, ISC exams under review amid Covid surge, says board||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) Wednesday said it is reviewing the Covid-19 situation and will soon take a decision on conducting class 10 and 12 board exams. The CICSE announcement comes following the CBSE's decision to cancel class 10 exams and postpone class 12 papers in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. "We are reviewing the situation and will soon take a decision in this regard," CICSE Chief Executive and Secretary Gerry Arathoon said. He, however, did not delve into what the board was contemplating. The class 10 exams are scheduled to begin from May 5 while class 12 exams have already begun from April 8. The board exams last year had been cancelled because of the coronavirus pandemic. Students were evaluated based on internal assessment. The education board had told the Supreme Court last year that it would not provide students with an option of re-examination and they will solely be evaluated on the basis of internal assessment. As per the scheme, candidates were assessed based on the best three percentage marks obtained in subjects for which board exams were conducted and the marks of their internal assessment as well as project work were taken into account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||India to manufacture 78 lakh vials of remdesivir per month: Centre||The government on Wednesday said it has given approval for stepping up the manufacturing capacity of remdesivir that would enhance the production to around 78 lakh vials per month. The current total installed capacity of the seven manufacturers of remdesivir is 38.80 lakh vials per month, the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers said in a statement. "Fast-track approval has been given for seven additional sites having the production capacity of 10 lakh vials/month to six manufacturers. Another 30 lakh vials/month production is lined up. This would ramp up the production capacity for manufacturing to around 78 lakh vials/month," it added. The issue of availability of remdesivir was reviewed by Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya in meetings with all-existing manufacturers of the remdesivir drug and other stakeholders where decisions were taken to increase production/supply and reduce prices of remdesivir, the statement said. As an additional measure, remdesivir, active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and formulation were placed under export ban on April 11, 2021 by Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) to increase the supply of remdesivir in the domestic market, the ministry said. On government intervention, remdesivir supplies of approximately 4 lakh vials meant for export are being diverted by manufacturers to fulfil domestic requirements, it added. "EOU/SEZ units are also being enabled to supply to the domestic market," the statement said. Manufacturers of remdesivir have volunteered to reduce the price to less than Rs 3,500 by the end of this week, to support the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to fight against COVID, it added. "Manufacturers of remdesivir have been directed to give priority to fulfil hospital/institutional level supplies. Enforcement authorities of states and central government have been directed by Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to take immediate action on incidence of black-marketing, hoarding and overcharging of remdesivir," the ministry said. It also said the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) is continuously monitoring the availability of the drug.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi asks Centre to cancel CBSE Class 12 exams too||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said CBSE board exams must be cancelled for Class 12 as has been done for Class 10 and asserted that keeping the students "under pressure" till June is "unfair". Her remarks came soon after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced that exams for Class 10 have been cancelled and those for Class 12 have been postponed in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases in the country. The exams were scheduled to be held from May 4. "The Class 12 exams have been postponed and a review of the situation will be done after June 1. Students will be given at least a 15-day notice before the exams are conducted," a Ministry of Education official said. Reacting to the development, Priyanka Gandhi said, "Glad the government has finally cancelled the 10th standard exams. However, a final decision MUST be taken for the 12th grade too." "Keeping students under undue pressure until June makes no sense. It's unfair. I urge the government to decide now," the Congress general secretary tweeted. Priyanka Gandhi had on Sunday written to the education minister seeking cancellation of the CBSE Board exams, saying it will be impossible to ensure the safety of students at crowded exam centres. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had also urged the government earlier this week to cancel the exams. Earlier on Wednesday, Priyanka Gandhi had reiterated her call for cancelling the CBSE exams, saying the Centre must not ignore the voice of students and call off the tests due to the COVID-19 situation in the country. In a Facebook post, she said that in the past few days, she heard from many students across the country who raised some important issues related to the examinations amid the second wave of COVID-19. They say that in the last days leading up to the examinations, there was already pressure of preparation and now there was additional pressure of protection against the virus on them, according to Priyanka Gandhi. "Along with that, there is also the danger of safety of teachers engaged in exam duty and families of students," the Congress general secretary said. Many countries have come out with several new methods of assessment in this emergency, she noted. The decision on the CBSE exams was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Shahi snan in Haridwar: Lakhs ignore Covid concerns to take holy dip||Throwing caution to the wind amid rising cases of coronavirus, thousands of seers congregated on Wednesday at Har ki Pairi in Haridwar to take a dip in the Ganga during the third shahi snan of the Kumbh mela. The royal bath' marked Mesh Sankranti and Baisakhi, and fell two days after a similar convergence of sadhus' and other devotees for the second shahi snan -- events where following social distancing norms appears almost impossible. By noon between eight and 10 lakh people had take a bath in the river, Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar, who was supervising the arrangements at Haridwar, said. Sadhus from four of the 13 akhadas were through with the snan' by this time. The officer said the event was going on without any hindrance. He said the crowds at the Ganga ghats were much smaller than expected at the third shahi snan - considered the most important in the series - and attributed this to the Covid restrictions in place. Police personnel were seen distributing masks among people in the Mela area. However, social distancing norms were violated openly by the seers when they and their followers descended the steps at Har ki Pairi to wade into the river. No masks were worn by a large proportion of them. The seers from the akhadas took the dip along with their revered deities carried in ornate palanquins at Har Ki Pairi, which was reserved exclusively for them. Lakhs of common devotees bathed at the other ghats of the river in Haridwar and Rishikesh. Seers and Naga sanyasis of the Niranjani Akhada led by Acharya Kailashanand Giri were the first to bathe in the river along with Anand Akhada seers. They were followed by the Joona Akhada, which has the highest number of sadhus led by Swami Avadheshanand. The Mahanirvani Akhada seers came next, as the batches followed one another according to their allotted time slots. All akhadas have to finish taking a dip at Har Ki Pairi before sunset so time management is very important, Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal said. The shahi snans, and the Kumb Mela, have raised concerns over their role in possibly adding to rising coronavirus cases in the country. Uttarakhand recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 1,925 people testing positive. Dehradun with 775 cases and Haridwar with 594 were the biggest contributors to the day's tally. On the initial hours of the third shahi snan, the DGP said there was no disorder anywhere. He said this was because of the expansion of infrastructure in Haridwar over the past few months, including the addition of more ghats which has helped in better crowd management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Making FASTag mandatory won't breach right to freedom of movement, says govt||The Union government has informed the Bombay High Court that making FASTag mandatory for all vehicles plying on national highways does not breach a citizen's fundamental right to freedom of movement in any way. The Centre made the submission in an affidavit filed in the High Court last week in response to a public interest litigation challenging its decision to make FASTag, the electronic toll collection chip, mandatory for all vehicles at toll plazas on national highways. The plea filed by one Arjun Khanapure, also challenged the government's norm of imposing fines on vehicles flouting the FASTag rules. The Centre, however, submitted that FASTag had been made compulsory on national highways to ensure seamless traffic movement, cut travel time short, and that all decisions had been taken in accordance with the Central Motor Vehicles (CMV) Rules. "The mandate of using FASTag does not violate a citizen's fundamental right to freedom of movement," the Centre's affidavit stated. The petitioner had said that as vehicles without FASTag are prevented from plying on national highways, making the chip compulsory breached a citizen's fundamental right to freedom of movement. However, the Union government said that as per its notification dated February 14 this year, provisions had been made at all toll plazas along national highways to fit the chip in vehicles that did not have FASTag. In cases where it was not possible to fit vehicles with FASTag on the spot for any reason, the vehicle was permitted to still ply on highways, on extreme left of the FASTag lanes. However, such vehicles were required to pay twice the toll amount. Traffic marshalls had also been deployed along national highways to guide vehicle movement and prevent traffic jams or inconvenience to other commuters because of such vehicles, the government said. In its affidavit filed in the High Court on April 6, the Union government urged the court to dismiss the PIL. It said that allowing prayers made in the plea would cause "irreparable loss" to the National Highways Authority of India. The government further said that it did not make FASTag mandatory overnight and had given incentives, including a 10 to 25 per cent cashback to users from 2016 to 2020. The government said it had amended the CMV Rules in 2017 to make FASTag mandatory for all vehicles sold after December 1, 2017. In November 2020, it further amended the CMV rules to make FASTag compulsory for all vehicles on toll plazas along all national highways beginning January 1, 2021. The government also said that the double user fees or penalties imposed on vehicles without FASTag on national highways were in accordance with the National Highway Fee (determination of rates and collection) Rules, 2008. It also contended that unlike what was claimed in the PIL, Aadhar and linking bank accounts were not mandatory for obtaining FASTag. The Centre further said the RBI has announced the enhancement of national electronic toll collection and will allow easy payment options, including UPIs. Currently, 119 state toll plazas also have FASTag and the Centre has provisions of financial assistance for state governments to help make all highways suitable for FASTag vehicles, it said in its affidavit. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni will hear the matter further later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||CBSE cancels Class 10, postpones Class 12 board exams on account of Covid surge ||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday cancelled class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The board exams for class 12 to be held from May 4 to June 14 are hereby postponed. These exams will be held hereafter. The situation will be reviewed on June 1 by the board and details will be shared subsequently. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations," an official of the Ministry of Education (MoE) said. "The board exams for class 10 are hereby cancelled. The results of class 10 board will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the board. Any candidate who is not satisfied with the marks allocated to him or her on this basis will be given an opportunity to sit in an exam as and when the conditions are conducive to hold the exams, the official added. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, the Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, Cabinet Secretary, School and Higher Education Secretaries and other top officials attended the meeting. For schools under the ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education) board, a decision is yet to be announced. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) said on Wednesday it was reviewing the Covid-19 situation and would take a decision on conducting class 10 and 12 board exams soon. The pandemic situation in the country is seeing a resurgence of Covid-19 positive cases in many states, with a few states having been affected more than others. In this situation, schools have been shut down in 11 states. Unlike state boards, CBSE has an all-India character, and therefore, it is essential to hold exams simultaneously throughout the country. Looking to the present situation of the pandemic and school closures, and also taking into account the safety and well-being of the students, the crucial decisions have been taken, the MoE official said. The demands for cancellation of board exams were being raised from various quarters. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia had on Tuesday appealed to the Centre to cancel the exams, saying it can contribute to a large scale spread of the coronavirus. Last week, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi had urged Union Education Minister Pokhriyal to intervene and direct CBSE to reconsider its decision to go ahead with the board examinations in May despite the "massive and uncontrolled" rise in Covid-19 cases. The Shiv Sena had also written to the education ministry, requesting the government to develop a national consensus and possibly reschedule classes 10 and 12 CBSE and other board exams. Over 2 lakh students had signed an online petition demanding cancellation of board exams and the hasthtag "cancelboardexams" has also been trending on Twitter for a week. States including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab have already announced changes in plans for board exams. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of COVID-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes are again being suspended in view of the exponential rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results were announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme. India reported a record single-day rise of over 1.84 lakh new coronavirus infections, according to the Union Health Ministry's data on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Ambani security scare case: NIA probing 'fake encounter' angle||Investigators suspect that suspended cop Sachin Waze had planned a "fake encounter" of two persons to project their link with the explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, sources said on Wednesday. This way, Waze, an "encounter specialist", apparently wanted to claim to have solved the case, but it did not work out, they said. During a search of Waze's house in neighbouring Thane, the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the case, had recovered the passport of a man, whose identity has not been revealed. The investigators suspect Waze had planned to kill the passport holder and one more person in a "fake encounter", the sources said. The "fake encounter" was initially planned in the Maruti Eeco vehicle, which was stolen from Maharashtra's Aurangabad city in November last year, they said. The probe agency suspects that by eliminating two persons, Waze had planned to claim to have solved the case of the explosives-laden SUV and earn praise, but the plan did not work out, the sources said. The NIA earlier claimed Waze was planning to do "something big". Accordingly, the agency is working on the "fake encounter" theory, the sources said. The explosives-laden SUV was found parked outside the south Mumbai residence of Ambani on February 25. Businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. The NIA arrested Waze on March 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath tests positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. He had on Tuesday isolated himself after some officials in his contact tested positive for coronavirus. "After noticing initial symptoms, I got myself tested. My report is positive. I am in self-isolation and following doctors advice. I am doing all the work virtually," Adityanath tweeted from his official Twitter handle. Earlier, he had said, "The officers of my office tested positive for coronavirus. They were in touch with me, therefore, as a precaution, I am isolating myself and starting all my work digitally." Some officials, including his Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Abhishek Kaushik, tested positive for Covid-19. The chief minister, however, had not identified the officials who were tested for the infection. Chief minister Adityanath’s announcement comes just after his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav said he had tested positive for the virus. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "My corona test report has come positive. I have isolated myself and started treatment at home itself. People who have come in contact with me in the past few days should get themselves tested. They are requested to stay in isolation for some days."  Yadav had recently visited Haridwar where the Kumbh Mela is underway and met various religious leaders, including Akhara Parishad chairman Mahant Narendra Giri who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||‘...Then you win’: Rahul on Centre’s foreign vaccine approval policy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday cited a quote of Mahatma Gandhi to imply that the government's decision to fast-track emergency approval for foreign-produced anti-coronavirus vaccines had been prompted by his party's suggestions. Rahul Gandhi had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, urging the government to fast-track approval for vaccines. BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had then accused Gandhi of lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approval for foreign vaccines. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, in a letter to the prime minister, had also requested him to allow emergency use of all the vaccine candidates having required clearances. "First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win," Rahul Gandhi cited Mahatma Gandhi's quote and tagged a media report on the central government saying it has fast-tracked emergency approval for foreign-produced jabs. With an aim to expand the basket of COVID-19 vaccines and enhance the pace of inoculation in India, the central government on Tuesday said it has fast-tracked emergency approval for foreign-produced jabs that have been granted similar clearances in other countries. The move is significant as it may make available several vaccines, including those made by Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, in India with certain conditions. In another tweet, Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to B R Ambedkar on his birth anniversary. A key architect of India's constitution, Ambedkar is an icon for many Indians, especially Dalits, for his relentless work for social reforms and empowerment of the disadvantaged sections of society. "India is now proving that it is indeed possible to regress in time," Gandhi tweeted. "Today, we remember Babasaheb who asked the difficult questions that helped put our country on the path of progress," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||India's National Education Policy is futuristic, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the new National Education Policy is futuristic and as per global standards. "India takes pride in being the mother of democracy as it's values are embodied in our social life," Modi said at the Association of Indian Universities' 95th annual meet and a national seminar of vice-chancellors. The Centre unveiled the new National Education Policy (NEP) last year. "The National Education Policy is futuristic and as per global parameters," Modi said. He said the role of skilled youth is continuously increasing as India walks the path of 'aatmanirbharta' (self- reliance). "Babasaheb Ambedkar has given a strong foundation for us to take forward all our democratic values after the independence," Modi said on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr Ambedkar. The city-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Open University hosted the event. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank', Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani attended the meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Modi to hold meeting on issue of CBSE board exams today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with the Union education minister and key officials on Wednesday to discuss the issue of CBSE board exams, government sources said. Class 10 and 12 exams are set to begin from May 4 amid demand by some leaders, including Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, that they be cancelled amid an alarming rise in the COVID-19 cases across the country. Meanwhile, schools across the nation are being flooded with queries from parents and students on whether CBSE and ICSE board exams will be held on schedule as Covid-19 cases are rising across the country. Several school heads said the preparation for the exams was on across schools but there was an “increasing uneasiness” among the students and teachers. “We are receiving queries from mostly Class X examinees. We have sent a message to parents that students should continue with their preparation...,” said Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. “There is an increasing sense of uneasiness as the days of exams are drawing near,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School, said teachers have been asked to tell students and parents to concentrate on the exams and preparations. “In the run up to the boards, our teachers are asking parents to let the students focus on exams and follow the SOPs so that they remain healthy before the exams,” he said. A call on the examination may be taken in the meeting to be chaired by the prime minister, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh appears before CBI for questioning ||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh appeared before the CBI on Wednesday for questioning in connection with the allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, an official said. Deshmukh reached the DRDO guest house, where a team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is camping to, in suburban Santacruz around 10 am, he said. The CBI on Monday issued a notice calling Deshmukh to join the agency's probe into the allegations levelled against him by Param Bir Singh and suspended police officer Sachin Waze, the official said. Waze, an assistant police inspector, is under investigation in the case of an explosive-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai. The CBI is conducting a preliminary enquiry into the allegations against Deshmukh levelled by Singh after he was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner. The allegations were reportedly corroborated by Waze in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the SUV case, officials earlier said. The Bombay High Court last week directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations levelled by Singh against Deshmukh. In a letter, Singh had claimed that Deshmukh asked Waze to allegedly extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh has denied the allegations. So far, the CBI has recorded statements of Param Bir Singh, Sachin Waze, Deputy Commissioner of Police Raju Bhujbal, Assistant Commissioner of Police Sanjay Patil, advocate Jayshree Patil and hotel owner Mahesh Shetty. It also questioned Deshmukh's personal assistant Kundan Shinde and personal secretary Sanjeev Palande on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||India records highest single-day spike with over 1.84 lakh fresh cases||India reported a record single-day rise of 1,84,372 new coronavirus infections pushing the total tally of cases to 1,38,73,825, while the active cases surpassed the 13-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,72,085 with 1,027 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 35th day in a row, the active cases increased to 13,65,704, comprising 9.84 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 88.92 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,23,36,036,while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.24 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,06,18,866 samples have been tested up to April 13 with 14,11,758 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Centre waives clinical trial preconditions for emergency use of  foreign Covid-19 vaccines||The Centre on Tuesday waived clinical trial preconditions for emergency use authorisation of Covid-19 vaccines approved by select foreign regulatory agencies, seeking to augment India’s vaccine basket and accelerate the inoculation campaign. The Union health ministry has accepted the recommendations of an expert panel to expedite emergency use authorisation of vaccines already approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, the European Medicines Agency, the regulatory agencies of Japan and the UK, and those listed by the World Health Organisation. The move, advocated for weeks by sections of health experts, opens a window of opportunity for companies such as Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson and Johnson to introduce their vaccines in India without the mandatory local clinical trials, health officials said. “This is a liberal regulatory step that will increase access to vaccines manufactured in other countries,” Vinod Paul, chair of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank, said. “We invite vaccine makers such as Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson … to be ready to come to India at the earliest possible,” Paul said, adding that the clinical trial waiver would apply only to Covid-19 vaccines given the current circumstances. The NEGVAC have also recommended that the first 100 beneficiaries of each such foreign vaccine introduced in India should be monitored for seven days for safety outcomes before it is rolled out into the vaccination campaign. Experts have urged the Indian government to allow entry of more Covid-19 vaccines to accelerate the inoculation campaign that has administered over 110 million doses across India since its start on January 16. But only about 13.6 million people — among an estimated 350 million potential beneficiaries — have received the two doses required for protection. The campaign currently uses Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, a homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. An adviser to the campaign has said Serum currently makes about 70 million doses per month, while Bharat produces about 10 million doses a month. “This move will greatly expand the basket of options,” Dr Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore, who is among those who had called for the introduction of additional vaccines into the campaign. Babu and other experts tracking the vaccination campaign expect that the Centre will procure the vaccines and make them available through vaccination centres adopting the same process as with Covishield and Covaxin. “I don’t think private sales are likely in the immediate future,” one expert said. Pfizer has asserted it is selling its Covid-19 vaccines only to governnments worldwide. “We remain committed to continuing our engagement with the (Indian) government towards making the vaccine available for use in the government’s immunisation programme,” a Pfizer spokesperson told The Telegraph. Experts also expect some tricky price negotiations. Pfizer’s price has been reported to be $19.50 per dose, while Moderna’s reported price is $32 to $37 per dose.  The Indian government is procuring Covishield at Rs 210 per dose and Covaxin at Rs 290 per dose. The vaccines are free in public hospitals but those who opt to take them in private hosptials need to pay Rs 250 per dose. “The government could play a facilitator in introducing the vaccines in India — ideally, local manufacturing would make them cost effective,” Babu said. “The government could negotiate a price and introduce them through private institutions with some reasonable margins.” The government is hoping to accelerate the pace of the vaccination campaign to even higher than the current four million doses per day. “As the rate of vaccination increases, there is likely to be a demand-supply mismatch,” said Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. “The entry of more vaccines could help resolve or ease this mismatch.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Kerala minister K.T. Jaleel quits||Kerala minister for higher education and minorities welfare K.T. Jaleel resigned from the state cabinet on Tuesday, days after the Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism in appointing a relative to a government position. Although Jaleel had approached Kerala High Court to quash the Lokayukta order, he resigned before the case came up. He announced his decision in a Facebook message describing it as a “temporary relief for those who wants to suck my blood”. The Muslim Youth League, the youth arm of Indian Union Muslim League, had in November 2018 filed a complaint against Jaleel for allegedly flouting rules to appoint his cousin K.T. Adeeb as the general manager of Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation. An Independent backed by the ruling Left Democratic Front, Jaleel had contested from the Thavanur Assembly constituency in Malappuram in the April 6 state polls. The Enforcement Directorate had earlier investigated the minister for alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act for accepting Ramazan food kits and copies of Quran sponsored by the Consulate-General of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram in 2020. But Jaleel had maintained that he had only helped the consul-general of the UAE organise and distribute food kits to the poor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India|| Metal structures of crematorium furnaces start melting in Surat||Metal structures of furnaces at some crematoriums in Surat have started melting or breaking as they are being used round-the-clock because of the rush of bodies amid the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said on Tuesday. For the past week, around 16 gas-based furnaces at the Kurukshetra Crematorium and Ashvini Kumar Crematorium here in Gujarat are operating 24x7, they said. “Before the coronavirus outbreak last year, around 20 bodies were cremated at the Kurukshetra Crematorium every day. Now, there is a sudden rush of bodies. At present, we are handling about 100 bodies per day,” Kamlesh Sailor, president of a trust that manages the crematorium, said. Sailor said six gas furnaces at their facility are now being operated 24 hours. As a result, the iron frames and chimneys have started melting and breaking, he said. Mechanics are being called to replace those parts. The Ashvini Kumar Crematorium, the oldest in Surat, has decided to increase the number of traditional wood pyres to manage the rush. “We operate 10 gas furnaces and three wood pyres. Earlier, we used to cremate about 30 bodies every day. Now, the number has gone up to 90-95,” manager Prashant Kabrawala said. “We recently installed heat-resistant bricks in two of our furnaces, which were shut for some time. Our maintenance engineers are visiting the crematorium almost daily as we are facing these issues every day,” he said. Kabrawala said they have decided to add two more wood pyres in the wake of these frequent maintenance issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Foundation laid by Pandit Nehru, Bhubaneswar turns 73 ||The Odisha capital, whose foundation was laid by first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on this day in 1948, turned 73 on Tuesday. The city, which has seen tremendous development over the past few decades, was ranked second in the Centre’s Ease of Living Index 2020 with a population of less than a million. A number of functions were held here on Tuesday to mark its 73rd anniversary amidst Covid restrictions. Recalling Bhubaneswar’s journey, Pradosh Patnaik, senior journalist and brother of economist Prabhat Patnaik, said: “The foundation of the city was laid on April 13, 1948, by first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Bhubaneswar was designed by German town planning engineer Otto H. Koenigsberger in 1946. In the course of its journey through 73 years, the city has witnessed unprecedented development.” Pradosh, who is the president of the capital foundation celebration committee, was born in Jatni, around 17km from here, but has been residing in the city since 1958. “As per the master plan prepared by Koenigsberger, the city was to be developed in a 12sqkm area at an estimated cost of Rs 2.89 crore. The city was originally built for 15,000 people. But its growth has surpassed everything.” Patnaik told The Telegraph. Pradosh’s classmate and Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray said: “The efforts to develop Bhubaneswar into a modern city received a fillip when the first session of the Odisha Assembly began here in 1952 in a new building known as Sardar Patel hall. The babus began to arrive in the city after the new Raj Bhavan was set up in 1960. The city was divided into units.” Routray, who has seen many ups and downs in the political history of Odisha, said: “It was Harekrushna Mahatab, the first chief minister of Odisha, who had planned the city. Later chief ministers such as Nilamani Routray, Nandini Satpathy and Biju Patnaik took the work forward. It was J.B. Patnaik who gave a new shape to the city by including more and more areas. During the rule of present chief minister Naveen Patnaik, the city has grown further.” Routray claims that Bhubaneswar is only the city which had a reserve forest covering an area of 150sqkm on its outskirts. “But the biggest problem that the city is facing now is drainage because of its unplanned growth,” he said. Though Bhubaneswar has almost no industries, it has emerged as a major education hub and also boasts of tremendous growth in the health sector with a string of high-end hospitals. The Utkal University was set up on January 2, 1963, and the Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) was established on February 1 the same year. Then the Sainik School came up on January 8, 1964. “Since then the city has never looked back. In the 1990s, a number of private schools, colleges and universities, including KIIT and Siksha O Anusandhan, came up. The city now houses NISER (National Institute of Science Education and Research), IIT Bhubaneswar, International Institute of Information Technology, Xavier Institute of Management, Institute of Mathematics and Applications, National Institute of Information Technology, Institute of Life Sciences and many others. Even Rama Devi Women’s College has got the status of a university,” said Sanjay Mohanty, a city-based doctor. Satyajit Mohanty, a computer professional, said: “The city is now emerging as an IT hub with presence of top-notch IT companies such as TCS, Infosys, Wipro, Tech Mahindra and Mindtree. The recent establishment of a World Skill Centre here has brought the city into international focus. It is slowly emerging as information technology investment region.” Besides educational institutions, the city has also turned into a major health hub with hospitals like the AIIMS, KIMS (Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences), Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital, Apollo, Care Hospital and the AMRI to name but a few. “Even people from the neighbouring states, including Bengal, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, are coming to the city for treatment,” said Dr Meenakshi Parija. Known as the temple city that was founded during the Kalinga empire over 3,000 years ago, modern Bhubaneswar’s tourism potential received a major boost after the Biju Patnaik airport got the status of international airport on October 30, 2013. It facilitated the arrival international tourists in large numbers. Capital Celebration Committee vice-president Pradyumna Mohanty said: “It has got the characteristics of a Metro city and has the honour of being the country’s first smart city. It had been planned like Chandigarh but its unplanned growth over the years has cretaed problems which need to be solved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||SC seeks data from states, UTs on inhuman conditions faced by migrant children ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought data from all states and Union Territories on the alleged inhuman conditions being faced by thousands of children belonging to migrant families allegedly deprived of food, health, education and other basic amenities because of the pandemic. “List the matter after two weeks. In the meantime, all the states/UTs may file their reply affidavit wherein they shall state the number of migrant children present in their respective States/UT and also the conditions of such children,” a bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said in a written order. The court passed the direction while dealing with a PIL filed by an NGO, The Child Rights Trust, through advocate Rukhsana Choudhury seeking enforcement of the aggrieved children’s fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (right to equality), 21 (right to life and personal liberty) 21A (right to education) besides fulfilment of directive principles under Articles 39 (adequate means of livelihood, etc) and 47 (duty of state to raise level of nutrition of various disadvantaged sections). According to the NGO, the severity of the impact of the Covid-19 crisis and the subsequent lockdown announced on March 24 last year had led to a mass exodus of millions of migrants from cities. While there were several measures taken for the protection of migrant workers including their travel back to their hometowns, the impact of all of this on the migrant children has not been addressed by the respondent authorities. It referred to migrant children of the following three categories — children of migrant workers who are left behind in their villages, children who are taken by the migrant families with them and migrant children who migrate for labour of their own. “All of these children have been the most vulnerable during this time and have been the worst affected. Children of migrants and migrating children remain invisible and are the most vulnerable and are denied access to healthcare and proper nutrition, access to education, and are living in makeshift, unfriendly, unhygienic and testing conditions,” the petition said. “Migrant children affected due to Covid are still working in brick kilns, stone crusher units, construction sites, rice mills, plantations and other sectors where children as young as 5 years lend a hand to help their parents earn their daily sustenance. The pandemic is having a discriminatory impact on migrant children and has aggravated their vulnerabilities,” it alleged. It was submitted that migrant children have been deprived of access to food security which is a fundamental right under Article 2l and also a statutory right under the National Food Security Act, especially because schools and anganwadis centres are closed and hence mid-day meals provided in the schools are not available. “Children from 0-6 months and from 6 months to 3 years have other food and nutritional security guarantees under the NFS (National Food Security) Act which are not being complied with. Migrant children … are stranded or in relief camps and quarantine centres at source districts without food or shelter. Children of migrant workers who have been travelling with them, have died due to lack of food. “In addition to food, the children of migrant workers are left in a particularly vulnerable position regarding health. There have been deaths of infants and children due to starvation, malnutrition and tiredness,” the petition said. The matter has been listed after two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Rahul's suggestion to access foreign jabs accepted by Centre||Rahul Gandhi’s suggestion to allow Indians access to vaccines made abroad has been accepted by the Narendra Modi government, four days after he made it and at least two Union ministers responded by calling him names. On Tuesday, the Centre decided that all vaccines developed and manufactured outside the country that have been granted emergency approval in the US, Europe, the UK, Japan or which are on the WHO Emergency Use Listing may be granted emergency use approval in India. On April 9, Rahul had in a letter to the Prime Minister expressed concern at the slow pace of the vaccination drive in the country, pointing out that less than 1 per cent of the population had been fully vaccinated in three months. “Provide vaccine suppliers with necessary resources to increase manufacturing capacity. Fast-track approval of other vaccines as per norms and guidelines. Open up vaccination to everyone who needs it,” the Congress leader wrote. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad immediately pounced on Rahul, questioning his understanding as well as intention. “After failing as a part-time politician, has Rahul Gandhi switched to full-time lobbying? First he lobbied for fighter plane companies by trying to derail India’s acquisition programme. Now he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines,” Prasad tweeted. It did not matter that Rahul had not asked for “arbitrary approval” of foreign vaccines but had in his letter to the Prime Minister specifically mentioned that approval should be granted “as per norms and guidelines”. Lobbying for fighter planes is an unsubstantiated charge the BJP lobbed at the Congress leader after he relentlessly highlighted allegations of violation of laid-down procedures and corruption in the Rafale deal. Rahul had used the word “arbitrary” to describe Prime Minister Modi signing the Rafale deal during his visit to France. Prasad also referred to Rahul’s allegation that India was facing vaccine starvation. “India is not facing vaccine starvation but Gandhi is facing attention starvation…. Rahul Gandhi’s problem is that he doesn’t understand all this and his ignorance is compounded by his arrogance,” the minister tweeted. The tweets demonstrated a breakdown of systemic engagement between the government and the Opposition and the bitterness that overrides every communication between the two sides. Women and child development minister Smriti Irani echoed Prasad. “Part-time politician, full-time lobbyist! Is that a surprise? After all — chor chori se jaye hera pheri se na jaye (A thief will do mischief come what may),” he tweeted, attaching Prasad’s tweet to her message. On Tuesday, after the government decided to allow foreign vaccines, neither Prasad nor Irani explained whether the move was driven by a noble concern for people’s health care or whether lobbyists had had their way. The government has not engaged in constructive dialogue with the Opposition on the pandemic and has been particularly harsh on Rahul, who has been cautioning about the gravity of the health and economic fallout since February last year. Much like the early warning in 2020, which had earned him scorn from the government and the BJP, Rahul again sounded an alarm on February 17 this year. “The Government of India is being grossly negligent and overconfident about Covid-19. It is not over yet,” he wrote. On February 21, the BJP passed a resolution thanking Modi for defeating Covid. On March 15, Rahul tweeted: “As warned earlier, Covid-19 continues to be a big threat. Please keep the guards up — wear masks and follow all precautions.” The country’s top politicians have been appearing without masks in public and leading huge electoral rallies where every Covid protocol has been flouted. The country is now in the middle of a rampaging second wave, which threatens to overwhelm the health care system. The Prime Minister did not appear to have foreseen this when he told the World Economic Forum’s Davos Dialogue on January 28: “India’s stats cannot be compared with any other country as 18 per cent of the world’s population lives here and yet we not only solved our problems but also helped the world fight the pandemic.” He added: “In these tough times, India has been undertaking its global responsibility from the beginning. When airspace was closed in many countries, India took more than 1 lakh citizens to their countries and delivered essential medicines to more than 150 countries. Right now there are two made-in-India vaccines. The World Economic Forum will be relieved to know that in the time to come many more vaccines will come from India. These vaccines will enable other countries to speed up their vaccination process.” Modi is now facing criticism for offering help to other countries without addressing India’s basic vaccination concerns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
