15-04-2021||India||Delhi court grants bail to Umar Khalid in Delhi riot case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to former JNU student Umar Khalid in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February last year saying he was not physically present at the scene of crime on the date of incident. The applicant (Khalid) is not visible in any CCTV footage/viral video(s) pertaining to the scene of crime on the date of incident. There is no identification of the applicant either through independent public witness or any police witness of he being present at the scene of crime on the date of incident, Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav noted in the order. The court further said that even the CDR location of the mobile phone of the applicant was not found at the scene of crime on the date of incident. The applicant has merely been roped in the matter on basis of his own disclosure statement, fourth disclosure statement of co-accused Tahir Hussain and disclosure statement of co-accused Khalid Saifi, it said, adding that no recovery of any sort has been effected from the applicant pursuant to his disclosure statement. The court rejected prosecution's argument that Khalid had been in regular contact/touch with co-accused Tahir Hussain and Khalid Saifi over mobile phone and said that prima facie that does not in any way go on to establish the criminal conspiracy alleged against the applicant in the matter. The FIR in the present case was registered on the statement of Constable Sangram Singh, where he stated that on February 24, 2020 at about 2 PM, a large crowd gathered on the road in a locality in the northeast Delhi and started pelting stones in which he and other police officials got injured as they were thrashed by the mob. They set the vehicles in a parking area nearby on fire, including the motorcycle of the complainant, he said. Though Khalid has been granted bail in this case, he will remain in jail as the former JNU student leader is also accused in some other cases including one related to the criminal conspiracy lodged under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
15-04-2021||India||After CBSE, NEET postponed in view of rising number of Covid-19 cases||In view of a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance test (NEET), which was scheduled to be held on April 18, has been postponed, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. "In light of the surge in #Covid19 cases, GoI has decided to postpone #NEETPG2021 exam which was earlier scheduled to be held on Apr 18. Next date to be decided later. Decision has been taken keeping the well being of our young medical students in mind," he said in a tweet. The decision came a day after CBSE Class 12 examinations were postponed in view of the rising number of cases. Earlier on Thursday, DMK chief MK Stalin in a tweet asked the rationale behind holding the examination. In a tweet, Stalin, whose party is a vocal critic of NEET, pointed out at the cancellation of CBSE class X exams "due to the second wave" of Covid-19. "CBSE exams have now got cancelled due to the second wave of #Covid19. With increasing cases and fatalities, when our doctors are fighting hard against all odds, is this the right time to hold National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for PG courses," Stalin, Leader of Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
15-04-2021||India||Declare journalists frontline workers, get them vaccinated, says Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India on Thursday urged the Union government to declare journalists as frontline workers and ensure priority vaccination for them amid a rise in coronavirus cases. In a statement, the Guild said news organisations have been relentlessly covering the pandemic, elections, and other current affairs in an effort to ensure that the flow of news and information to readers continues unabated. "News media is included in essential services. Therefore, it will only be fair that journalists be given this cover of protection, especially in the face of the number of infected rising to astronomical levels," the statement said. The Editors Guild of India (EGI) urges the Union government to declare journalists as frontline workers and they be allowed priority vaccination against coronavirus, along with other frontline workers, it said. Without the protection of vaccination, media persons are finding it very difficult to discharge their professional responsibilities, the Guild pointed out. The EGI said therefore, it calls upon the Union government to immediately get all journalists, regardless of age, vaccinated so that there is no disruption in their work during this critical time. India saw its highest single-day rise of 2,00,739 COVID-19 infections, pushing the country' tally of cases to 1,40,74,564, according to official data released Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||15-year-old SFI worker stabbed to death in Kerala, family blames RSS-BJP||A 15-year old boy was stabbed to death allegedly by a group of people during a temple festival at Padayanivattom near Alappuzha on Wednesday night, police said. The teenager, a student activist of the Students' Federation of India (SFI) was stabbed to death at around 10pm on the night of Vishu, allegedly by members of the RSS,family sources said. "We have taken into custody and questioned the father and brother of Sajay Datt, a local, who is the accused in the case. We are yet to nab him, a search is on," police told PTI. The CPI(M) has called for a hartal in Vallikunnam area protesting the murder of the tenth standard student. He was supposed to attend the ongoing tenth standard exams in the state. Sources close to the family told P T I that the assailants came looking for his elder brother, a DYFI activist but attacked the minor, killing him. "He is my second son. He lost his mother a year ago. He was just 15. He may have been an SFI activist in school… since he is from a Communist family. I don't understand why he was killed," his father, Ambili Kumar, told the media. CPI(M) Charumood area secretary Binu told the media that it was planned murder. "He was an SFI activist. It was a planned murder by the BJP and the RSS," he said. Meanwhile, BJP denied all the allegations and said it was in no way associated with the murder. "All the allegations raised against BJP and the RSS are baseless. Police have clearly said that it was not a politicalmurder," BJP district president A V Gopakumar said. Recently, after the state Assembly polls, a 22-year- old IUML worker was allegedly killed in a post-poll clash between the league activists and the CPI(M) at Kannur. The teenager is the seventh Left worker killed in the state during the last eight months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||UP shuts schools, imposes 11-hour curfew in 10 districts amid Covid surge||All schools in Uttar Pradesh will be closed till May 15 while board exams for classes 10 and 12 have been postponed till May 20 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the state government said on Thursday. The government also imposed an 11-hour night curfew in 10 districts with more than 2,000 active Covid-19 cases with immediate effect, according to a statement issued here. The decisions were taken at a meeting virtually chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath from his residence, where he has isolated himself after testing positive for coronavirus. The new dates for the board examinations will be decided in the first week of May, an official said. "Schools up to Class 12 are being closed till May 15 and no examinations will be held during this period. Also, UP Board exams for classes 10 and 12 have been postponed till May 20," the official said. Schools up to Class 12 were already shut till April 30. Initially, the UP Board exams were to be held from April 24 but were postponed to May 8 following the steep rise in coronavirus infections in the state. Every year, about 56 to 57 lakh students of classes 10 and 12 appear for the UP Board exams. During the meeting, Adityanath also directed officials to impose a night curfew from 8 pm to 7 am with immediate effect in 10 districts that have more than 2,000 active Covid-19 cases. The districts are in Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gorakhpur, the official said. The chief minister also said that people should also be told about the importance of wearing masks and sanitisation. Since Lucknow is the state capital, he said, it's obvious that more people will come here. So additional arrangements should be made in the city. "King George's Medical University and Balrampur Hospital should be made dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in a phased manner. In private hospitals, too, the number of beds should be increased," he said. On panchayat polls, which began on Thursday, Adityanath said all personnel on duty should follow Covid-19 protocols and gloves, sanitisers and masks should be made available. On migrants returning to Uttar Pradesh from other states, he asked officials to create quarantine centres in every district with necessary facilities. He said the chief medical officer will monitor the availability of oxygen and anti-viral drug Remdesivir and that there should be no shortage of essentials in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Decision on approving foreign-made vaccines to be taken in 3 days, says Centre||India's drug regulator will take a decision on applications seeking approval for restricted emergency use of foreign produced vaccines within three working days from the date of submission, the government said on Thursday. The Central Drug Authority, CDSCO, will process applications for registration certificates (registration of overseas manufacturing site and product; in this case Covid vaccine) and import license within three working days from the date of approval of restricted use in emergency situations. The CDSCO issued detailed guidelines specifying regulatory pathway for approval of foreign approved Covid-19 vaccines after the central government on Tuesday decided to fast-track emergency approvals for all coronavirus jabs that have been given a similar nod by the WHO or regulators in the United States, Europe, Britain or Japan. The Union Health Ministry on Thursday issued regulatory pathways for foreign produced Covid-19 vaccines according to which the CDSCO has prepared detailed guidelines specifying regulatory pathway for approval of foreign approved Covid-19 vaccines. The government had on April 13 approved streamlining and fast tracking of regulatory systems for Covid-19 vaccines approved for restricted use by the US FDA, EMA, UK MHRA, PMDA Japan or which are listed in WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL). This decision will facilitate quicker access to such foreign vaccines by India and would encourage imports including import of bulk drug material, optimal utilisation of domestic fill and finish capacity, which will in turn provide a fillip to vaccine manufacturing capacity and total vaccine availability within the country, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Need to create environment to quickly scale up vaccine production, says Goyal ||There is a need to create environment for quick scaling up of global production of vaccines and other medical products to contain the spread of coronavirus and this requires temporary removal of all hurdles, including related with intellectual property protection in the WTO, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has said. In this regard, he said, India and South Africa along with 57 other WTO (World Trade Organisation) members have co-sponsored a proposal for temporary and limited-scope waiver from certain provisions of the TRIPS (trade related aspects of intellectual property rights) agreement relevant to the prevention, treatment and containment of COVID-19. Goyal said that this waiver is not intended to take away protection given to pharma companies, and it focuses only on COVID-19 vaccines, associated medicines, and cure. "We need to create an environment for quick scaling up of global production, not only for vaccines but also other medical products, such as therapeutics and diagnostics. This requires temporary removal of all impediments to the production of COVID-19 medical products, including where necessary Intellectual Property protection," he has said. The minister was speaking at a WTO event -- COVID-19 And Vaccine Equity: What Can The WTO Contribute? -- on April 14. The minister stated that the world is not producing sufficient vaccines due to limited licensing agreements. To bridge the supply deficit, every tool at our disposal should be used towards producing enough vaccines, he said adding all initiatives must be explored in parallel and in a timely manner to ramp up manufacturing of COVID-19 medical products. Goyal said that every country should strive for resilient supply chains by ensuring unimpeded access to raw materials required for COVID-19 products and failure to do so could prolong the pandemic for many years through cycles of mutation and may cost the global economy trillions of dollars. "The time to act is now," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||More than 1,700 test positive for Covid in Kumbh Mela over 5-day period||A total of 1,701 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela area from April 10 to 14 confirming fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may contribute further to the rapid rise in coronavirus cases. The numbers include both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test reports of devotees and seers of different akharas (ascetic groups) over the five-day period in the entire Mela Kshetra extending from Haridwar to Devprayag, Haridwar Chief Medical Officer Shambhu Kumar Jha said on Thursday. More RT-PCR test reports are awaited and the trend shows that the number of infected persons in the Kumbh Mela Kshetra is likely to climb to 2,000, he said. The Kumbh Mela area is spread over 670 hectares covering parts of Haridwar, Tehri and Dehradun districts, including Rishikesh. A majority of the 48.51 lakh people who took part in the last two royal baths (Shahi Snan) held on the occasion of Somwati Amavasya on April 12 and Mesh Sankranti on April 14 were seen openly violating COVID norms like wearing of face masks and social distancing. Despite their best efforts, the police could not impose the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on the seers of akharas and the ash-smeared ascetics thronging Har Ki Pairi ghat on the two major bathing days due to severe time constraints. As the 13 akharas had to take their holy dip at Har ki Pairi in accordance with their allotted time slots before sunset, the police and paramilitary personnel were hard-pressed to ensure each of them vacated the ghat before the arrival of the next akhara in line to prevent chaos. As seers were averse to undergoing RT-PCR tests till the Mesh Sankranti Shahi Snan of April 14, both testing and inoculation in the Kumbh Kshetra including the areas allocated to the akharas are likely to be stepped up in the coming days, Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Gyms, malls, spas closed in Delhi; weekend curfew to be imposed ||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced sweeping restrictions, including a weekend curfew and the closure of malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums, in a bid to break the chain of Covid infections in the city. There will be no in-house dining in restaurants and cinema halls will be allowed to operate with only 30 per cent capacity, the chief minister said at an online press conference a day after the city recorded the biggest single-day jump 17,282 new Covid-19 cases. Kejrwal said essential services and weddings will not be affected during the weekend curfew and passes will be provided to those attending weddings. The chief minister also said there was no shortage of hospital beds and over 5,000 were still available for Covid patients. Efforts to increase beds on a large scale will also be made, he assured. Restaurants in the national capital will be allowed to do home deliveries, Kejriwal announced, adding that only one weekly market in a zone will be allowed to open per day and steps will be taken to control crowds in those permitted to function. Covid-19 cases, he said, are rising every day in Delhi and the restrictions were needed to check the spread of the virus. The government will also ensure strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, Kejriwal said, noting that many people were still not following it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Congress candidate from Bengal dies after testing positive for Covid-19||Congress candidate Rezaul Haque died, who tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago, died at a hospital here early on Thursday, health department sources said. Haque, 46, the party's nominee from Samsherganj Assembly constituency in Murshidabad district, was initially admitted to a private hospital in Jangipur on Wednesday following bouts of breathing trouble, they said. He was later referred to a medical facility in Calcutta after his condition deteriorated at night. Haque died around 5 am, the sources said. West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury condoled his death and said the Election Commission should take note of the various instances of violation of safety protocols at poll rallies. "I have written to the commission, stating how Covid regulations are being violated. We need to raise the awareness level," Chowdhury said. Samsherganj goes to polls in the seventh phase of the Assembly elections on April 26. India recorded 1,038 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 3, 2020, as  the toll increased to 1,73,123, data released by the Union health ministry showed. A total of 2,00,739 new Covid-19 cases have been registered in a span of 24 hours, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic while the active cases surpassed the 14-lakh mark.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||‘Tika Utsav’ a sham of the Centre to hide poor handling of Covid situation, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked the government over the handling of the Covid-19 situation and alleged that it is only indulging in a "sham" of a 'vaccine festival'. He also alleged that there is no testing, no beds in hospitals, neither ventilators or oxygen and vaccine is also not available. Gandhi also took a jibe asking what PM-CARES is doing, as huge donations were given to the fund for handling Covid-19 situation. "There are no tests or beds in hospitals. There are no ventilators or oxygen. The vaccine is also not there. But there is a sham of a festival. PM-CARES?" he asked. His attack came after the government celebrated the 'Tika Utsav' (vaccine festival) from April 11 to 14. India saw its highest single-day rise of 2,00,739 Covid-19 infections and 1,038 fatalities pushing the country' tally of cases to 1,40,74,564 and the total death toll to 1,73,123, according to official data. The total number of active Covid-19 cases in the country were recorded at 14,71,877 cases. With over 1 lakh infections per day for the ninth consecutive day, India has added 13,88,515 cases in nine days. India’s current Covid-19 vaccine production capacity is insufficient to meet its target of administering five million doses per day, an expert panel underlined on Wednesday, shedding light on shortages flagged by states but denied by the Union health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||India records biggest one day Covid surge, registers over 2 lakh cases||India added a record over 2 lakh new COVID-19 infections in a day pushing the total tally of cases to 1,40,74,564, while the active cases surpassed the 14-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 2,00,739 new COVID-19 cases have been registered in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 1,73,123 with 1,038 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 3, 2020 the data updated at 8 am showed. With over 1 lakh infections per day for the ninth consecutive day, India has added 13,88,515 cases in nine days. Registering a steady increase for the 36th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 14,71,877, comprising 10.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 88.31 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,24,29,564, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.23 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,20,03,415 samples have been tested up to April 14 with 13,84,549 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 1,038 new fatalities include 278 from Maharashtra, 120 from Chhattisgarh, 104 from Delhi, 73 from Gujarat, 67 from Uttar Pradesh, 63 from Punjab, 51 from Madhya Pradesh, 38 from Karnataka, 31 from Jharkhand, 29 from Rajasthan, 25 from Tamil Nadu, 24 from West Bengal, 22 from Kerala, 21 from Bihar, 18 each from Andhra Pradesh and Haryana, 13 each from Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. A total of 1,73,123 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 58,804 from Maharashtra, 13,046 from Karnataka,12,970 from Tamil Nadu, 11,540 from Delhi, 10,458 from West Bengal, 9,376 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,672 from Punjab and 7,339 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Covid: CBSE calls off Class X exams, defers Class XII boards||The government on Wednesday cancelled the CBSE Class X board exams and postponed the Class XII test in view of the spike in Covid cases. Nearly 21.5 lakh Class X students and another 14 lakh Class XII pupils were to take the CBSE board exams, which were to be held from May 4 to June 14. This is the first time a CBSE board exam has been cancelled fully. Last year, the exams had been partially cancelled in the wake of riots in northeast Delhi and rising Covid-19 cases. The situation will be reviewed on June 1 before a decision is taken on the Class XII exams. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the exams. “The results of Class Xth Board will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the Board. Any candidate who is not satisfied with the marks allocated to him/her on this basis will be given an opportunity to sit in an exam as and when the conditions are conducive to hold the exams,” said a release issued by the department of school education and literacy, ministry of education. “The Board Exams for Class XIIth to be held from May 4th to June 14th, 2021, are hereby postponed. These exams will be held hereafter. The situation will be reviewed on 1st June 2021 by the Board, and details will be shared subsequently. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations,” the release added. The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Sunday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had written to the education minister seeking a cancellation of the CBSE exams. She followed this up with tweets repeating the demand. Rahul Gandhi also called on the government to reconsider its decision to hold the exams, as did Arvind Kejriwal and the Shiv Sena. Parents and students appeared relieved by the announcement. School principals and educationists welcomed the decision but cautioned that the board should enforce a robust formative assessment in schools that can be used to grade students. Because of the exponential rise in Covid cases, schools have been shut down in 11 states. States like Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab have already postponed their Classes X and XII board exams. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), another national board, is expected to take a decision soon, an official said. Former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said the boards must put in place a robust formative assessment system. The international boards that cancelled their exams last year had relied on formative assessment that, besides covering internal assessment, includes diagram drawings, group activities, extra-curricular activities, games and surveys. “The boards will have to enforce proper formative assessment in schools. They have to lessen their dependence on one-time paper-pencil tests. In case of any eventuality, the formative assessments should be enough to judge the students objectively,” Ganguly said. Anu Rai, a Class XII student of a Delhi government school, said the project-based learning conducted online did not offer a level playing field for all. “Students who have gadgets and Internet did well. I could not take part in all the online classes. We have one mobile phone at home and we are three brothers and sisters,” she said. Anu said the Class XII exams should be held offline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||India’s current Covid-19 vaccine production capacity insufficient||India’s current Covid-19 vaccine production capacity is insufficient to meet its target of administering five million doses per day, an expert panel underlined on Wednesday, shedding light on shortages flagged by states but denied by the Union health ministry. A 22-member India Task Force has cautioned that monthly vaccine supplies for the inoculation campaign at the current production capacity of 70 to 80 million doses per month would “fall short by half” for the target of 150 million doses per month. “It is critical to ramp up production capacity,” the task force — a group of public health experts, senior government administrators and academic researchers — assigned to propose options to address India’s second Covid-19 wave has said in a report. Its members include K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India; Raman Gangakhedkar, former chief epidemiologist at the Indian Council of Medical Research; Suneela Garg, a senior community medicine specialist; Dhruva Chaudhry, a critical care medicine specialist; and others. The group has also recommended “urgent attention” to three critical elements on vaccines — “alternative sources for imported raw materials that are already in short supply, expansion of fill-finish facilities by bringing other manufacturers, and provision of financial support to manufacturers to ramp up production”. The task force’s recognition of vaccine shortages — flagged last week by vaccination centres in Maharashtra, Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh — contrasts with assertions by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan last week and health officials that there is no vaccine shortage. “Where does the question of (vaccine) shortages arise?” Vardhan had tweeted on April 8. “We’re continuously monitoring and enhancing supply.” A query sent by The Telegraph on Wednesday to the Union health ministry seeking the minister’s response to the states’ complaints of shortages has not elicited a response. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said on Tuesday that states had received over 131 million doses, consumed 114 million doses, had in stock 16.7 million doses and an additional 20 million doses were in the pipeline on their way to states. Bhushan said states should monitor vaccine usage daily and, if required, “reappropriate” vaccines from areas of relative low consumption to areas of high consumption. But a medical expert who is not a member of the task force said that at the current production capacity and the current pace of vaccination made it clear why some areas might be experiencing shortages. The health ministry has said India is administering on average about 4.1 million doses per day and advisers to the vaccination campaign have said the goal is to reach five million per day. A parliamentary panel in the Rajya Sabha had in early March said Bharat Biotech’s production capacity was about 12.5 million doses of Covaxin a month and the Serum Institute of India could produce 70 to 100 million doses of Covishield a month. Even the full production capacity of 112.5 million doses per month would not be enough to administer 120 million doses at the current rate of 4.1 million doses per day. The India Task Force has also sought a nationwide ban on gatherings of 10 people or more for the next two months and proposed that the vaccination net be widened to include all adults with chronic health disorders and phased opening of vaccination for younger people. The group, pointing out that large congregations such as political, religious and social events, such as weddings, or sporting programmes could rapidly spread the coronavirus, has asked for a ban on more than 10 people for the next two months. “Such restrictions will be disruptive, but (we) believe public health concerns need to override any other considerations, given the risk of infection, morbidity and mortality,” said the task force, set up by The Lancet Covid-19 Commission in partnership with the Centre for Sustainable Development, Columbia University, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network. It has also recommended a special focus to ensure all urban poor in the current vaccine eligible group of people 45 years or older receive vaccinations as early as possible in districts with the fastest-growing epidemics and a “phased opening” of vaccinations for younger people “as supplies permit”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Siddique Kappan in jail for six months||Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested in October while on his way to Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras to report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl, completed six months in custody on Wednesday, locked up in a Mathura jail on stringent anti-terror charges. While the prosecution recently filed a chargesheet running into nearly 5,500 pages in a Mathura district court, Kappan’s family back home in Kerala is keeping their fingers crossed waiting for the Supreme Court to list a habeas corpus plea and hear a regular bail application. While the habeas corpus plea was filed a day after his arrest, the bail application was submitted a month later. Neither Kappan’s lawyer nor his family have any clue about the contents of the chargesheet since it’s in Hindi. They are waiting for it to be translated into English. Kappan was arrested on October 5, 2020, along with three others while on their way to Hathras district. The secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), Kappan is a retainer with the Malayalam news portal azhimukham.com. It was the KUWJ that had filed the habeas corpus petition and assigned a Delhi-based lawyer to fight the case in the Supreme Court. Advocate Wills Mathew, who is representing the KUWJ, told The Telegraph that he would like to study the contents of the chargesheet before making any comments. “I am getting it translated by another lawyer and hope to get the English version in a day or two. I am sure Kappan is innocent,” Mathew said. But even Mathew had no answer on the delay in the apex court listing the habeas corpus petition. “Usually habeas corpus pleas are taken up in a maximum of two weeks. We hope it would be taken up without any more delay and the bail plea that was adjourned would be heard too,” he said. Uttar Pradesh police  slapped provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other penal sections against the men for trying to foment law and order trouble in Hathras. Kappan has denied all the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Covid-afflicted elderly veteran dies gasping for breath in Patna||A Covid-afflicted elderly former armyman died gasping for breath on a scorching day in Patna as a premier government hospital in the Bihar capital allegedly dithered on admitting him because the authorities were busy welcoming the health minister. Former jawan Vinod Kumar Singh, 60, a native of Lakhisarai district, had been brought to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in an ambulance on Tuesday afternoon when health minister and BJP leader Mangal Pandey arrived there to inspect the facilities. Vinod’s family members said he was kept waiting for one-and-a-half hours in the vehicle outside the hospital and repeated requests to admit him fell on deaf ears. “We had first taken my father to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, but the people there said there were no beds. We then rushed to the NMCH, but the ambulance was kept waiting for one-and-a-half hours as everybody was busy welcoming the health minister,” said Abhimanyu Singh, son of the deceased ex-armyman. Weeping inconsolably, Abhimanyu added that he kept requesting the hospital authorities to admit his father and start the treatment . “I kept begging them to quickly admit him as the vehicle was standing under the scorching sun. It was very hot outside and my father was in a serious condition. He was having difficulty in breathing. I begged them to at least shift my father to the verandah, but the officials stopped me and said the health minister was coming. My father died before my eyes,” Abhimanyu said as his mother wailed beside the body of her husband. Health minister Pandey arrived soon. When reporters asked him about the death of the Covid patient, he said: “We are trying to provide better health facilities. The number (of patients) in the hospitals has suddenly shot up over the past few days…  Any death is sad and unfortunate because our doctors and health workers are working day and night to save lives. Any incident like this is surely painful.” NMCH superintendent Binod Kumar Singh refuted the allegations. “All of us were not busy in welcoming the minister. Only my deputy superintendent and I were involved in it. Our other doctors were working. They saw the patient. He (Vinod) had been brought dead,” he said. “The reaction of the family members after his death was exaggerated,” he added. Bihar is witnessing an explosion in Covid cases. There are over 20,000 active cases and beds at prominent government hospitals are already full.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress prods ‘callous’ Modi government to act||The Congress on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis was “callous and cruel” as it had left people to fend for themselves. Alleging that the government had blundered through 2020 when preparations could have been made to curb the spread of the virus and bolster health infrastructure, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “We don’t see any improvement when the country is dealing with the second wave. The government’s callous attitude borders on cruelty and has endangered the lives of millions of people.” With Covid cases surging, hospital beds have quickly filled up and there are reports from several states of patients waiting outside in ambulances for admission. Surjewala added: “Is the government a shop for a slanging match? When will they understand it is us versus corona, not us versus you? How can foreign minister S. Jaishankar say we will continue to export vaccines when states are facing shortage of vaccines?” The Congress spokesperson continued: “Please don’t discriminate between people and states, treat everybody as equal. Apart from vaccinating people and providing treatment to the infected, please offer financial assistance to the poor. Learn from the Maharashtra government, which has offered support to the poor despite meagre resources.” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday night announced fresh curbs to break the chain of infections, just stopping short of imposing a total lockdown. He exempted essential services, imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 to curb gatherings and announced a Rs 5,476-crore relief package for those who will be affected by the restrictions. While the popular scheme of cooked food — Shiv Bhojan costing Rs 5 per meal — has been made free, the government will supply 3kg of wheat and 2kg of rice per person free of cost for one month to the beneficiaries of the Food Security Scheme. Five lakh licensed hawkers, 12 lakh auto rickshaw drivers, construction workers and maidservants will be given Rs 1,500 each. Each poor tribal family will be given Rs 2,000 for one month. The Congress thanked the Prime Minister for agreeing to cancel board exams. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had forcefully raised the matter with the education minister, tweeted: “Glad that the government finally cancelled the 10th standard exams. However, a final decision must be taken for the 12th grade, too. Keeping students under undue pressure until June makes no sense. It is unfair. I urge the government to decide now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Dalit boy forced to lick spit, drink urine in Gaya district||A Dalit boy was allegedly forced to lick spit and drink urine as a punishment over a love affair in Gaya district of Bihar. Six persons have been arrested in connection with the incident. The incident happened at Kadhauna village under Wazirganj police station in Gaya district, around 125km south of state capital Patna. It came to light after a video of the purported incident was shared widely on various social media platforms since Monday. The video shows the 17-year-old boy kneeling on the floor of a house and licking spit after being threatened by other people during a panchayat meeting. Several persons are seen spitting on the floor, which the teenager is then forced to lick. He is also supposedly made to drink urine. The Telegraph could not verify the authenticity of the clip. However, the police swung into action after somebody forwarded the clip to Gaya senior superintendent of police (SSP) Aditya Kumar on Monday. The footage was verified, traced, and six persons were arrested. An FIR has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Information Technology Act. “The 17-year-old boy had eloped with a 15-year-old girl of his village on April 2. Both belong to the Manjhi caste. Both were caught by their family members and brought back two days later to the house of former mukhiya Abloo Singh, who chaired a panchayat. The boy was made to lick spit. The girl’s father, uncle and brother were among the people who spat,” Aditya told this newspaper on Wednesday. He said that Abloo, who had recently tested positive for Covid-19, was absconding. Efforts were on to arrest all the persons named in the FIR, he added. The SSP also said that a few anti-social elements tried to portray the incident as a caste conflict and spread tension in the society. “We are identifying those people. Action will be taken against them as well,” Aditya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||BJD and BJP spar over Odisha vaccine shortage ||The war of words has escalated between the ruling Biju Janata Dal and the Opposition BJP over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in Odisha. Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday hit out at Odisha health secretary P.K. Mohapatra for making an “unnecessary” fuss over the vaccine shortage. But the ground reality shows that inadequate supply has led to the stoppage of the vaccination drive in 11 out of 30 districts of the state. Pradhan said: “More than 45 lakh vaccines have been released to the state out of a stock of 11 to 12 crore doses. The shortage of vaccines in Odisha is a non-issue. Every alternative day, around 2.5 lakh vaccines are reaching the state.” “An unnecessary controversy was created over the shortage of vaccines in the state. Odisha health secretary is creating this controversy to show his importance. He is speaking the language of Rahul Gandhi. I congratulate him for that. But he should refrain from all this,” he said. The minister urged Mohapatra, who has the rank of additional chief secretary, not to create unnecessary fuss over the issue. “There is no dearth of vaccines in the country. In order to ensure adequate supply of the vaccines, the Centre is going to allow the use of two to three foreign-made vaccines as well. Last year we had defeated coronavirus and will do this again. We need to use masks and follow the social distancing norms,” he said. The BJD immediately hit back and asked the Union minister not to indulge in vaccine politics. “All are aware that the daily vaccination number has come down from 2 to 1 lakh because of the shortage of vaccines. The Odisha government is finding it tough to prepare the vaccine schedules. Was it a blunder on the part of the health secretary to bring the issue of the shortage of vaccines in the state to the notice of the Centre?” asked BJD spokesperson Pratap Deb. Deb said at a time when the Prime Minister is asking the state to speed up the vaccination drive, shortage of vaccines had severely affected the inoculation programme. Health secretary Mohapatra earned the wrath of the BJP leadership after he consistently highlighted the issue of vaccine shortage. He had first written a letter to the central government. Later health minister Naba Kishore Das had shot off a letter to the Centre demanding 25 lakh vaccine doses. The issue took a political turn when chief minister Naveen Patnaik took up the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week during the latter’s review meeting with chief ministers on the preparedness of the states to fight Covid-19. Though the Centre immediately released 2.5 lakh doses of vaccines in the first batch following Naveen’s appeal, the BJP leadership did not take it kindly, sources said. The BJP has ever since been critical of the state government for raising the issue of vaccine shortage as it is said to give bad publicity to the NDA government at the Centre. A state government source said: “When we are not getting adequate supply of vaccines, there is no point in observing the Tika Utsav (Vaccine Mela). More than 500 vaccination centres have closed down and the vaccination programme has stopped in 11 districts. We are facing the wrath of the people.” “The Centre should immediately release the data showing which state has received how many doses of vaccines. If it releases the list, one will easily known how much Odisha got compared to states like Gujarat. However, our wastage of vaccines is nil. For Odisha’s cause, all our leaders should get united on the issue rather than indulging in politics. Our state needs more vaccines and we should get it immediately,” said a senior functionary of the state government. Odisha has so far received 4,808,650 doses of vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Odisha Congress bypoll candidate dies of Covid||Ajit Mangaraj, the Congress candidate for the Pipili Assembly bypoll in Odisha, passed away on Wednesday. Mangaraj, 53, was being treated at a hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 during the campaign. Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and senior Congress leaders condoled his death. Pradhan, who hails from the state, visited the hospital and expressed his condolence over the death of Mangaraj. Senior Congress leader Pradeep Majhi said Mangaraj’s blood oxygen level dropped to below 30 per cent and he could not recover from it. “It is our fault to hold elections during the pandemic. The Congress candidate became a victim of the infection. There should be no election during the pandemic,” the former MP said. The Election Commission will take a call on whether the by-election, which was scheduled for April 17, should be countermanded or not. The bypoll to the Pipili seat was necessitated following the death of BJD legislator Pradeep Maharathy in October last year. Maharathy had won the seat seven times. The BJD has fielded his son Rudra Pratap, while the BJP has nominated Ashrit Pattanayak. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Covid: 441 security  central paramilitary jawans test positive||As many as 441 security personnel of the central paramilitary forces have tested positive for Covid in the past 24 hours. Out of 441 cases, the BSF has reported 311 cases and the CISF 52 cases. The CRPF has recorded 28 new cases. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has reported 31 cases. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has reported eight new cases while the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the National Security Guards (NSG) have 19 cases together. The CAPF has lost 208 jawans in the past one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Bodies of Covid dead pile up at Lucknow crematoriums||Bodies of the Covid dead are piling at the two cremation grounds in Lucknow as the pandemic surges through Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday afternoon, there were 124 bodies at Baikunth Dham and Gullala Ghat, according to crematorium staff. The figures were 120 and 130 on Tuesday and Monday. The crematorium staff said that based on their conversations with family members, they had learnt that most of the dead were Covid patients who had died in hospitals or while waiting for beds. Usually, around 20 bodies are cremated at Baikunth Dham and 10 at Gullala Ghat. On Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh recorded an all-time high of 20,510 cases, with Lucknow alone reporting 5,433. The official death toll for the state was 68. The two electric incinerators at Baikunth Dham and one at Gullala Ghat have not been enough. On Wednesday afternoon, 60 beds of firewood were laid at the two crematoriums. However, there were still 50 bodies in the queue. “They have made beds of firewood but we need more to cover a dead person before burning the body. The cremation ground staff have demanded Rs 7,500 from us to arrange for more firewood for my father and wait till 4am on Thursday for space at Baikunth Dham,” said Rohit Singh, a postgraduate student whose father died of Covid-19 on Tuesday night. Sanjay Kumar, whose neighbour in old Lucknow died of Covid-19 on Tuesday evening, said: “The police are extorting money from us in the name of traffic rules. They fined my neighbour Rs 4,000 for parking his car in the parking area of Gullala Ghat. Either you bribe them Rs 1,000 or they would impose a fine on you.” “Come to Lucknow if you want to see the dance of death. The vultures are there at every place in the city to blackmail you, extort you or exploit you in the name of the coronavirus,” Kumar added. Dipu Pandit, an employee at Baikunth Dham, said: “The number of the dead has risen sharply in the past three days. We are trying our best to help the relatives of the dead.” “The rate of firewood at the cremation ground is Rs 550 per quintal,” he added. “Some contractual employees of the Nagar Nigam have been deployed here and they are trying to blackmail the relatives and friends of the dead. The police have also started imposing fines on those who park their vehicles outside the Dham. It is happening for the first time here,” said another employee of Baikunth Dham, requesting anonymity. D.K. Thakur, the police commissioner of Lucknow, said: “Those who have been fined for parking their vehicles outside the cremation grounds can contact the helpline for relief.” Ajay Kumar Dwivedi, the municipal commissioner of Lucknow, said: “There is enough firewood at the cremation grounds. We appeal to the people not to pay any heed to rumours.” Social media has been flooded with a video of a senior government administrative official in Lucknow telling doctors during an informal conversation: “People are dying on the roads now.” Kaushal Kishore, a BJP MP from Mohanlalganj in Lucknow, on Wednesday appealed that the impending panchayat polls be deferred. “The situation in Lucknow is out of control. There are dead bodies piling up at the cremation grounds. I appeal to the Election Commission to postpone the panchayat polls in the state (to be held between Aril 15 and 29) as saving the lives of the people should be the priority.” On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh law minister Brijesh Pathak had written to the health department mentioning that he was receiving calls from people every day for hospital beds for their Covid-afflicted relatives but he had failed to help them. Udai Veer Singh, a Samajwadi Party MLC, criticised chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “Lies don’t make a Yogi. It is a killer government of liars and frauds,” he said. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra held a videoconference with leaders of her party in Uttar Pradesh and said: “It is sad that the state government is increasing the capacity of crematoriums instead of beds in hospitals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
