16-04-2021||India||Coronavirus: Union minister Prakash Javadekar tests positive||Union minister Prakash Javadekar Friday said he has tested positive for coronavirus and urged those who came in contact with him in the last few days to get themselves tested. Javadekar, who holds the key portfolios of Environment, Forest and Climate Change; Information and Broadcasting; and Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises; informed about it on Twitter. "I have tested #COVID positive today. All those who have come in contact with me in the last 2-3 days may please get themselves tested," he said. Javadekar had received the first shot of COVID-19 vaccine at a private hospital in Pune on March 5. He had appealed to all the citizens to get vaccinated as and when they become eligible. Javadekar has been busy with engagements related to his ministries till recently, including a bilateral meeting with French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and an event at the French Embassy on Wednesday. Several top political leaders, including Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, have also tested positive for coronavirus recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||UK home secretary approves Nirav Modi's extradition to India ||UK Home Secretary Priti Patel has signed off on the order to extradite Nirav Modi, wanted in India on fraud and money laundering charges related to the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, senior Indian diplomatic sources in the UK said on Friday. Modi, 50, who remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, has 14 days to apply for permission to appeal against the Home Secretary's order in the High Court in London. Back on February 25, the Westminster Magistrates' Court had concluded that the diamond merchant has a case to answer before the Indian courts, leaving the sign off on the order with the Cabinet minister. He had allegedly perpetrated the fraud in the Punjab National Bank in collusion with his uncle Mehul Choksi. After a two year long legal battle, District Judge Samuel Goozee had ruled that Modi only has a case to answer in the Indian courts but that there is no evidence to suggest he would not receive a fair trial in India. He also dismissed the human rights concerns that Modi's medical needs would not be addressed as per several Indian government assurances. "I am satisfied that there is evidence upon which NDM [Nirav Deepak Modi] could be convicted in relation [to] the conspiracy to defraud the PNB. A prima facie case is established," the judge noted. A prima facie case to have been established on all counts of charges brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) money laundering, intimidation of witnesses and disappearance of evidence, he had said. Under the UK Extradition Act 2003, the judge sent his findings to the Secretary of State for Home Affairs. It is the UK Cabinet minister who is authorised to order an extradition under the India-UK Extradition Treaty and has two months within which to make that decision. The CBI had registered the case on January 31, 2018 against Modi, Choksi and others including then officials of Punjab National Bank on a complaint from the Bank on the allegations that the accused had hatched a criminal conspiracy amongst themselves to defraud the public sector Bank by fraudulently issuing Letters of Undertaking. Letters of Undertaking are a guarantee that a bank gives to banks abroad where its client approaches for credit. The figure swelled to Rs 13,000 crore when similar frauds by companies of his uncle Mehul Choksi, an alleged co-conspirator, came to light, officials said. Investigation showed that the accused officials of the Punjab National Bank, in conspiracy with said owners of the firms and others, had fraudulently issued a large number of LoUs to overseas banks for obtaining Buyer's credit in favour of said three firms without any sanctioned limit or cash margin and without making entries in the core system of the bank. The first charge sheet was filed on May 14, 2018 against 25 accused including Modi. The second charge sheet was filed on December 20, 2019 against 30 accused people including the 25 chargesheeted earlier in respect of 150 outstanding fraudulent LoUs which had resulted in wrongful loss of nearly Rs 6,805 crore to PNB. It was also alleged that Modi in conspiracy with other accused had siphoned off the funds obtained as buyer's credit through dummy companies established by him in Dubai and Hong Kong which were shown as exporter of Pearls to three Nirav Modi firms and importer of Pearl studded jewellery from his firms. Modi had escaped from India on January 1, 2018 before registration of case in CBI. A non bailable arrest warrant was issued by the trial court against him followed by a red corner notice in June 2018 by Interpol. He was arrested by the UK Police in London in March 2019 and his repeated applications for bail, were rejected by the Westminster Magistrates' Court and High Court, London. After second charge sheet was filed, additional evidences were submitted to the Court in London for the total fraud amount of Rs. 6,805 crore (approx.). In addition, second extradition request for the offences of intimidating the witnesses and destruction of evidence was also submitted to the UK government. In extradition requests, CBI submitted voluminous oral and documentary evidence to substantiate the charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal misconduct by public servants, destruction of evidence and criminal intimidation of evidence. India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003, which means it is the minister who has the authority to order a requested person's extradition after considering a number of further issues. Under the provisions of the act, the Secretary of State had to consider the possible imposition of the death penalty, in which case extradition cannot be ordered; the rule of specialty, which prohibits a person being dealt with in the requesting state for matters other than those referenced in the extradition request; and whether or not the person was in the UK following extradition from another state, in which case that states permission must be obtained before extraditing to a third state. If these factors do not prevent extradition, the minister had two months within which to sign off on Judge Goozee's February 25 order. The Home Secretary's order rarely goes against the court's conclusions, as she has to consider only these very narrow bars to extradition which did not apply in Nirav's case. However, as witnessed in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya who remains on bail in the UK while a confidential matter, believed to relate to an asylum request, is resolved there is still some way to go before Nirav can be formally moved from Wandsworth Prison in London to Barrack 12 Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and face trial in India. The judge had informed Nirav Modi of his right to seek an appeal in the High Court and has up to 14 days to make that application after the Home Secretary makes her decision known. Any appeal, if granted, will be heard at the Administrative Division of the High Court in London. It is also possible to appeal to the UK Supreme Court but this is only possible if the High Court certifies that the appeal involves a point of law of general public importance, and either the High Court or the Supreme Court gives leave for the appeal to be made. Nirav's legal team did not immediately confirm if he intends to appeal against order and he will remain behind bars at Wandsworth Prison on judicial remand until the next stage in the legal process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||ICSE, ISC exams deferred till June in view of Covid-19 surge||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations on Friday deferred its Class 10 (ICSE) and Class 12 (ISC) examinations until June in view of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases across the country, the board said in a statement. “In the light of the nationwide surge in Covid 19 cases, CISCE has decided to defer the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class 12) board examinations scheduled to be held from May 4, 2021,” board Secretary Gerry Arathoon said in the statement. “The Covid situation will be closely monitored and the deferment of the ICSE and ISC 2021 examinations will be reviewed and a final decision on the conduct of the examinations will be taken by the first week of June 2021,” he added. The statement further said that while the ISC examinations will be held on a later date, the candidates for the ICSE examinations will be given the option to write the offline exams with the Class 12 students or not write the offline exam. “In view of the ICSE candidates opting for the second option, the CISCE will develop a fair and unbiased criterion while preparing the results of such candidates,” the statement said before closing. The decision came two days after the Centre cancelled the CBSE Class 10 board exams and postponed the Class 12 test for the same reason. The situation will be reviewed on June 1 before a decision is taken on the Class 12 exams of the CBSE. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the exams. The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Sunday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had written to the education minister seeking a cancellation of the CBSE exams. She followed this up with tweets repeating the demand. Rahul Gandhi also called on the government to reconsider its decision to hold the exams, as did Arvind Kejriwal and the Shiv Sena.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||Nadda raises question over Mamata's administration skills||Slamming Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for her "gherao central forces" remark, BJP president JP Nadda on Friday wondered how she has been running the administration for so many years and alleged that she failed to protect the Constitution of the country. Speaking at an election rally here in the Purba Bardhaman district, he claimed that Banerjee's government has done nothing to provide adequate security to women as the state has the "maximum" number of cases relating to rape, acid attack and domestic violence. "She has been saying three words 'Maa, Mati and Manush' (mother, land and people) since the time the TMC came to power. What happened to Maa? West Bengal has the maximum number of cases relating to rape, acid attack and domestic violence. Her government does not send crime records to the Centre, and it is clear why it does so," he said. Attacking Banerjee for "not building" agriculture- related infrastructure in the state, he said this place is known for paddy and potato but farmers are deprived of remunerative price for their produce. "How many cold storages and warehouses are here? Middlemen have been exploiting farmers. There is no irrigation facility here," the BJP leader claimed while taking a dig at the TMC's 'Mati' slogan. Nadda also criticised the TMC supremo for depriving 'Manush' of benefits of central schemes such as 'Ayushman Bharat'. He also alleged that the 'Amphan' relief fund was siphoned off by the leaders of the ruling TMC. Criticising Banerjee's 'gherao central forces' remark, the BJP leader said, "If this is her comment, I wonder how she has run the administration for so many years. Her duty is to protect the Constitution, but she has not done that." If the BJP is voted to power, people of the state will get rid of extortion, appeasement politics, dictatorship and cut money culture, he said. Exuding confidence over the saffron party's triumph in the ongoing assembly elections, he said the new year will usher in a real 'Paribartan' (Change) in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||Monsoon to be normal this year, predicts IMD||The Southwest monsoon, which brings more than 75 per cent of rainfall to the country, is expected to be normal this year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. The Long Period Average (LPA) will be 98 per cent with an error margin of plus and minus 5 per cent, said M Rajeevan, secretary of the Ministry of Earth Sciences. Rainfall in Odisha, Jharkhand, eastern Uttar Pradesh and Assam is likely to be below normal, but normal or above normal In the rest of the country, he said while releasing the first Long Range Forecast for the four-month rainfall period from June to September. "The monsoon will be 98 per cent of the LPA which is normal rainfall. It is really good news for the country and will help India have a good agriculture output," Rajeevan said at a virtual press conference. The news augurs well for economy, battered due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Southwest monsoon is one of the primary drivers of the country's economy which is largely based on agriculture and its allied activities. Large parts of the country rely on the four-month rainfall season for agriculture and also for filling reservoirs. This is the first time the IMD has made a specific forecast on spatial distribution. Rajeevan said the IMD will also issue month-wise forecasts during the next four months. The country has recorded above normal rainfall for the last two rainfall seasons. The La Nina and El Nino factors major influence on the Indian monsoon. The former is associated with the cooling of the Pacific waters and brings good rainfall while the latter is linked to the heating of Pacific waters and could lead to deficient precipitation. "There are less chances of formation of an El Nino," Rajeevan said. LPA, the average of the season's rainfall across the country from 1961-2010, is 88 cm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||Modi calls for increasing production of medical grade oxygen to tackle Covid surge||Amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday undertook a comprehensive review to ensure adequate medical grade oxygen supply in the country and called for ramping up its production. With cases hitting a new peak in several parts of the country, the demand for medical oxygen has increased as it is a critical component in the treatment of COVID-19-affected patients. Prime Minister Modi took a comprehensive review to ensure adequate medical grade oxygen supply in the country, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. Inputs from ministries like health, steel, road transport, and the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) were also shared with the prime minister during the review, it said. Prime Minister Modi stressed that it is important to ensure synergy across ministries and state governments, the PMO said. He also took a detailed review of the current situation of oxygen supply and projected use in the coming 15 days across 12 high-burden states -- Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. The PMO said that an overview of district-level situation in these states was presented to the prime minister. He was informed that the Centre and states are in regular contact and estimates for projected demand have been shared with states as on April 20, April 25 and April 30, it said. The PMO said, accordingly, 4,880 MT , 5,619 MT and 6,593 MT have been allocated to these 12 states for meeting their projected demand of medical oxygen as on April 20, April 25 and April 30, respectively. The prime minister was briefed about production capacity in the country to meet the rising demand, it said. He suggested increasing oxygen production as per capacity of each plant. It was discussed that surplus stocks of oxygen supply in steel plants are being offered for medical use, the PMO said. The prime minister also asked officials to ensure seamless and free movement of tankers carrying oxygen throughout the country. The government has exempted all inter-state movement of oxygen tankers from registration of permits to enable easier movement, the PMO's statement said. Prime Minister Modi was informed that states and transporters have been asked to ensure tankers move round the clock with drivers working in shifts to ensure faster turnaround and adequate capacity to meet the surge in demand. Cylinder filling plants will also be permitted to work for 24 hours with necessary safeguards, the PMO said. The government is allowing industrial cylinders to be used for medical oxygen after due purging, it said. Similarly, nitrogen and argon tankers will be automatically allowed to be converted to oxygen tankers to overcome the potential shortage of tankers. During the review, officials also briefed the prime minister about the efforts being made to import medical grade oxygen, the PMO said. India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||Yediyurappa tests positive for Covid-19 for the second time||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday tested positive for COVID-19 for the second time in eight months, and was being shifted to a private hospital for treatment. The 78 year-old Yeddiyurappa was earlier hospitalised on August 2, 2020 after he tested positive for coronavirus. "Upon having mild fever, today I got tested for Covid-19 and my report has come out positive. Although I am doing fine, I am being hospitalised based on the advice of doctors," he later tweeted. He requested all those who had come in contact with him recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine "As the Chief Minister was suffering from fever, he had gone to Ramaiah hospital for general checkup, where COVID test was conducted and as the report has come positive, he will be shifted to the Manipal Hospital," the CMO said in a statement. Yediyurappa was last year admitted to the same Manipal Hospital for nine days, and was discharged on recovery. The chief minister had cut short his campaign programme for bypolls in Belagavi on Thursday, due to high fever and exhaustion, official sources said. Earlier on Friday, he had chaired an emergency meeting with Health Minister K Sudhakar and top officials for about one-and-half hours regarding COVID situation in the state and had addressed the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Lockdown across Uttar Pradesh on Sundays to curb rising Covid-19 cases||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Uttar Pradesh government has announced a lockdown across the state on Sunday. To enforce wearing of masks, the state government has doubled the fine to Rs 1,000 for those caught without masks for the first time and 10 times the fine amount for those caught again. "There will be a weekly closure in all rural and urban areas of the state on Sunday.Only sanitation, sanitisation and emergency services will operate during this period. Necessary awareness works should also be done in this regard," an official statement said here quoting Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath . "A fine of Rs 1,000 will be imposed if someone is caught without a mask for the first time. If caught for the second time, a penalty of ten times the fine amount should be imposed," he said. The state on Thursday reported 104 deaths and 22,439 fresh cases, pushing the fatality count to 9,480 and the total infection number to 7,66,360. The chief minister said that last year, the MLA development fund proved useful in the work related to the spread of the virus. This year also, according to rules, the funds can be used in Covid management on recommendation of legislators. He said the first phase of panchayat elections was completed in a very peaceful manner and strict legal action should be taken against those involved in breaching peace at some places so that it can set an example for other phases of the polls. Earlier in the day, Adityanath also ordered the establishment of a 1,000-bed makeshift Covid hospital in Lucknow to tackle the rising number of coronavirus cases. The Chief Minister made the direction for setting up the hospital during a review meeting with divisional commissioners, district magistrates, chief medical officers and his Team-11 (a core team of 11 officers). "A 1,000-bed Covid hospital should be established in Lucknow. The venue of the Defence Expo may be a good place for this," said a government spokesperson, quoting the Chief Minister. He directed the officials to review the availability of medical oxygen on a daily basis. "Continuous supply of oxygen to Covid hospitals in all districts must be ensured. The control room set up by the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department in connection with this, should remain active 24 hours, he said. The department should ensure adequate availability of Remdesivir, he said, adding: Its monitoring should be done by the Chief Secretary's office. Additional Remdesivir should be purchased while assessing the situation for the next one month. Adityanath directed the officials to ensure smooth operation of ambulance services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams govt's Covid strategy||Taking a dig at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said its strategy to fight the COVID-19 pandemic consisted of imposing a 'Tughlaqi lockdown, ringing bells and singing praises to the Lord. The Congress-led opposition has been criticising the government over its handling of the pandemic and the vaccination drive, while the Centre has maintained that its timely steps have been instrumental in fighting Covid-19. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "The Central government's Covid-19 strategy -- Stage 1- Impose a Tughlaqi lockdown, Stage 2- Ring bells, Stage 3- Sing praises to the Lord." The Congress leader on Thursday attacked the govt as well, saying the Centre is indulging in a "sham" of a 'vaccine festival'. He also alleged that there is no testing, no beds in hospitals, neither ventilators or oxygen and vaccine is also not available. Gandhi also took a jibe asking what PM-CARES is doing, as huge donations were given to the fund for handling Covid-19 situation. "There are no tests or beds in hospitals. There are no ventilators or oxygen. The vaccine is also not there. But there is a sham of a festival. PM-CARES?" he asked. The Congress in the past also has compared some of the government's decisions to those taken by Delhi Sultanate ruler Muhammad bin Tughlaq, to allege that they were arbitrary and not well though out. The Congress has also taken swipes at the government over its 'taali-thaali' call last year in which people across India clapped, rang bells, blew conch shells and beat metal plates in solidarity with health workers fighting the novel coronavirus. Gandhi's attack on the government came amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases in the country with a record 2,17,353 new infections taking India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,42,91,917 on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases keep rising as over 2.17 lakh is infected in the last 24 hours||India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. This is the second consecutive day that the country has reported over two lakh cases. The death toll increased to 1,74,308 with 1,185 new fatalities, the highest since September 19, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 37th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 15,69,743, comprising 10.98 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate dropped to 87.80 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,25,47,866, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.22 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,34,76,625 samples have been tested up to April 15 with 14,73,210 samples being tested on Thursday. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 61,695. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 22,339 while Delhi reported 16,699 new cases. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (349) followed by Chhattisgarh with 135 daily deaths, Delhi with 112, Uttar Pradesh 104, Gujarat 81, Karnataka 66, Madhya Pradesh 53, Punjab 50, Rajasthan 33 and Tamil Nadu 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Covid pyres make Uttar Pradesh build iron curtain  ||Lucknow’s biggest crematorium is being covered on all sides with tin sheets, sparking allegations that the Uttar Pradesh government is trying to hide the spike in Covid deaths. A Lucknow civic official said Baikunth Dham was being covered because passersby were finding it uncomfortable seeing pyres burning. The number of bodies at Baikunth Dham and Gullala Ghat has gone up sharply in the past few days, with staff members saying most were Covid patients. The two electric incinerators at Baikunth Dham have not been enough. On Wednesday afternoon, 60 beds of firewood had been laid at the two crematoriums. On Thursday, the number of bodies at Baikunth Dham was 78, up from 60 a week ago and 20 a month ago. The rise in the number of bodies has prompted allegations that the government was trying to hide the actual Covid toll. Uttar Pradesh on Thursday reported 104 coronavirus deaths and 22,439 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic. Only Maharashtra has reported more daily cases. On Thursday, many social media users uploaded videos and pictures of labourers putting up blue tin sheets along the waist-level grille boundary of Baikunth Dham. Surya Pratap Singh, a retired IAS officer, wrote on Twitter: “An effort is on to hide the dead bodies. Bhainsakund is being covered so that people cannot take its picture. Humanity is dead.” Baikunth Dham is also known as Bainsakund. Singh tagged Narendra Modi and asked: “Prime Minister @narendramodi ji, it was this state which had given you power, why are you behaving like this with us?” Juhie Singh, a Samajwadi Party leader, said: “The government is not ready to accept that it has failed to honour the dead and now it wants to hide this. The government is busy in virtual meetings and at the same time is trying its best to suppress the truth.” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who has tested positive for the coronavirus, has said he will now hold virtual meetings with officials while being in quarantine. A senior official of the Lucknow Nagar Nigam said on the condition of anonymity: “The incarceration chambers are covered. But these temporary pyre beds are in the open. People had complained to us that they were feeling uncomfortable at the sight of bodies burning while passing by Baikunth Dham. So we decided to cover the premises.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Over 1,300 devotees Covid positive, Kumbh to continue ||Over 1,300 devotees, sadhus and officials have tested Covid-positive since Tuesday at the Mahakumbh in Haridwar, marking a surge amid a second wave of the pandemic countrywide. Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, however, made light of the situation on Thursday, saying his administration was following every protocol and boasting how efficient management had ensured a “peaceful” Ganga bath by 13.5 lakh people on Mesh Sankranti, Wednesday. State chief secretary Om Prakash dismissed speculation about an early closure to the Kumbh, scheduled to run till April 30, saying: “We have no such plan.” While the Centre had said that every visitor to the Kumbh would have to carry a Covid-negative certificate, pilgrims say the rule has not been implemented strictly — an allegation that Uttarakhand officials privately corroborate. Visuals from the congregation show teeming crowds milling about on the Ganga’s banks, with no signs of masks or physical distancing. Some 30 lakh pilgrims and sadhus have visited the Kumbh, gathering since mid-March although the event officially started on April 1, and over 20 lakh are currently there. According to the state health department, some 1,854 people at the Kumbh had tested Covid-positive over the past fortnight, including 1,300 since Tuesday. “We are increasing the tests in the Mahakumbh area and making adequate arrangements to prevent the spread of the virus,” Haridwar chief medical officer S.K. Jha said. The chief secretary said three of the four Shahi Snans (auspicious days for sadhus to bathe in the Ganga) had been organised successfully and the last one would be held on April 27. Rawat dismissed the social media comparisons of the government’s attitude towards the Kumbh and the Tablighi Jamaat gathering of less than 3,000 people in Delhi’s Nizamuddin from March 13 to 15 last year. Hundreds of Indian and foreign Tablighis had been arrested across the country — and later acquitted by the courts — although the gathering had police permission and had taken place before the nationwide lockdown. Union and state ministers from the BJP had demonised the Tablighis, blaming them for the epidemic’s spread in the country, while Right-wing trolls accused them — and Muslims in general — of deliberately infecting people. In contrast, the Centre and the Uttarakhand government have turned a blind eye to the danger the Kumbh poses amid a coronavirus resurgence in the country. Rawat’s logic was that the Kumbh was being held in an open area while the Tablighi congregation was organised within a building. “It’s wrong to compare the two religious congregations. People were living in the same building (at the Tablighi event), sharing beds and other things, whereas the Mahakumbh has been organised in a huge area where people live in different tents,” he said. The bigger tents, however, accommodate several dozens of people each. Of those infected, more than 200 are monks, including many Naga sadhus. Narendra Giri, head of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, an umbrella organisation of sadhus, tested positive three days ago. The test report of Kapil Dev, mahamandaleswar of the Ani Nirvani Akhara, came positive on Thursday, three days after he had died at Kailash Hospital in Dehradun, hospital director Pawan Sharma confirmed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Supreme Court directs probe into Isro frame-up||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the CBI to further investigate the alleged attempt by Kerala police and officials to frame then Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) scientist S. Nambi Narayanan in an espionage case in 1994. It asked the CBI to conduct the probe on the basis of a confidential report prepared by a committee headed by a former Supreme Court judge, Justice D.K. Jain, and submit a report within three months. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Krishna Murari passed the directive after examining the sealed-cover Jain report, which has found certain “acts of omission and commission” by some officials in the then Kerala administration. “The committee has submitted a report saying it is a serious issue requiring further investigation,” Justice Khanwilkar said. The bench said a copy of the report would be given to the acting CBI director but the report would not be made public, and not even Narayanan would be entitled to see it. Narayanan, now aged 79, had been arrested in 1994 and acquitted of all charges in 1998. On September 14, 2018, the apex court had awarded Rs 50 lakh in compensation to him and signalled that “malicious prosecution” would not be tolerated. The apex court had at the time formed the Justice Jain committee to determine the appropriate disciplinary action against the accused investigating officers. Among those accused of framing Narayanan were S. Vijayan, then an inspector with the Special Branch, Thiruvananthapuram; K.K. Joshwa, then deputy superintendent, CB-CID, Thiruvananthapuram; and S. Siby Mathews, then DIG (crime) of the special investigation team that probed the espionage case. Justice Jain’s report came up before the bench on Thursday. While awarding Rs 50 lakh in compensation to Narayanan, the top court had clarified that this would be independent of the Rs 1 crore defamation suit he had moved in a Kerala civil court, which is still pending. During Thursday’s hearing, advocate Amit Sharma, appearing for Siby Mathews, had complained that the Justice Jain committee had not examined his client. However, Justice Khanwilkar underlined that the committee was not supposed to adjudicate but only to inquire. Its purpose was only to help the court decide whether a further probe was needed, he added. Sharma said that since certain adverse findings had been made against his client, it would not be proper to make the report public. “My request is, let the report not be published in the media,” he said. The bench agreed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Amit Shah’s remarks putting down Bangladesh rile Dhaka again||Union home minister Amit Shah’s remarks putting down Bangladesh have riled Dhaka again, with the neighbouring country’s foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen describing such statements as unacceptable and potentially harmful to the bilateral relationship. Momen was referring to Shah’s interview with the online edition of Anandabazar Patrika, in which the Indian home minister said that development had not reached the grassroots in the border areas of Bangladesh and, therefore, the poor there still did not get food. “That is why (it’s one of the reasons) infiltration is happening. And the infiltrators are not staying only in Bengal; they are spreading to various states, even Jammu and Kashmir,” Shah had said. Asked for a reaction by Prothom Alo, a newspaper based in Bangladesh, Momen was quoted as saying that such remarks were unacceptable and could create misunderstandings, especially when relations between Bangladesh and India were so deep. “There are many wise people in the world who do not see even after looking, and do not understand even after knowing. But if he (Shah) has said something like that, I would say his knowledge about Bangladesh is very limited. No one dies of hunger in our country now. There’s no monga (seasonal poverty and hunger in the northern districts of Bangladesh), either,” Momen said. Momen seized the opportunity to drive home the fact that Bangladesh was ahead of India on many social indices, particularly picking on the Narendra Modi government’s pet project of building toilets. While almost 90 per cent of people in Bangladesh use fairly good latrines, over 50 per cent of Indians do not have proper toilets, he said. Urging Indian ministers to expand their knowledge, Momen said while there was a shortage of jobs for educated people in Bangladesh, it was not so for the less educated. Besides, over 100,000 Indians work in Bangladesh, he said, emphasising that Bangladeshis do not need to go to India. In the latest edition of the Global Hunger Index — released in October last year --- India was ranked 94 among 107 countries, way below Bangladesh and Pakistan which were at 75 and 88, respectively. Shah’s rhetoric against Bangladesh -- including his reference to Bangladeshis as termites in the past -- has often upset Dhaka. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the country last month to mark the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Bangladesh was marred by violent protests that left 10 dead. This was a first for an Indian Premier in a country that acknowledges India’s role in its emergence as an independent nation. In November 2019, the former Bangladeshi high commissioner to India, Syed Muazzam Ali, had said at a media interaction that the “people of Bangladesh would prefer to swim the Mediterranean and go to Italy than come to India”. His contention was that India does not have much of a pull factor for Bangladeshis as is often projected here, particularly since the difference in the per capita incomes of the two countries is narrowing at a trot. At the time he said this, the Asian Development Bank had just updated its Asian Development Outlook to revise Bangladesh’s GDP growth for 2019 upwards from 8 per cent to 8.1 per cent, and downwards for India from 7.2 per cent to 6.5 per cent. Also, the growth forecast for Bangladesh was retained at 8 per cent while India’s was downgraded from 7.3 per cent to 7.2 per cent. In December 2019, Momen had cancelled a visit to India after openly questioning India’s decision to include Bangladesh in the list of countries where minorities are being persecuted. This was in reference to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which fast-tracks citizenship for minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. Last year, the IMF’s Economic Outlook said Bangladesh had overtaken India in GDP per capita, and that the per capita income of an average Bangladeshi would be more than that of an average Indian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Covid: ‘Brutal’ second wave casts glare on Centre||India’s counts of new Covid-19 cases rose for the first time by over 200,000 on Thursday, reflecting what some health researchers have called a “brutal second wave” for which, they said, the Centre should take responsibility and stop blaming people and states. Health authorities recorded 200,739 new lab-confirmed cases, raising the total number of active Covid-19 patients nationwide overnight by over 100,000 to 1.47 million, about 40 per cent higher than the peak counts of active patients during the previous wave in mid-September. A group of public health researchers and scientists have urged the Centre to stop blaming the second wave on laxity among the public, pandemic fatigue among health workers and incompetence by states. “Blaming people and states for this crisis … is disingenuous, hypocritical and even dangerous, serving only to enable the Centre to evade responsibility for the present situation and give itself an excuse for future inaction or failure,” the All India People’s Science Network has said in a statement. The Union health ministry has cited reports from central public health teams visiting the hardest hit states such as Maharashtra and Punjab flagging public laxity on face masks and crowd avoidance and pandemic fatigue among health workers leading to inefficient control measures. The All India People’s Science Network — a member of the non-government Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (People’s Health Movement), a network of public health experts — has said that while people have become “extremely lax”, the question that emerges is whether the government encouraged this. As daily new cases sharply declined during January-February, reaching a trough of about 9,100 on February 15, the network said, there was an opportunity to attack the shrinking epidemic through rigorous containment and mitigation actions, including expanded vaccinations. “But the government lowered its guard and missed the chance,” the network said. “Encouraged by signals from the Centre, authorities everywhere relaxed restrictions, with offices, malls, restaurants, cinemas, passenger airlines and public transport functioning… virtually in a life-as-usual mode.” Experience from different countries had underlined the importance of continued vigilance and ensuring that precautions against Covid-19 continue. However, the government had itself suggested through a so-called National Covid Supermodel that the epidemic would vanish by February 2021. “Even today, in the midst of this dangerous second wave, huge crowds are attending potentially super-spreader events such as massive gatherings at the Kumbh Mela and rallies and road shows during the state elections frequently addressed by topmost government leaders who are themselves responsible for Covid-19 control measures,” the network said in its statement. India’s epidemic has grown to a point where about half of the medical oxygen the country is producing daily is being consumed by hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, forecasting a steep rise in demand over the next two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Water academy in Odisha soon||In the first of its kind initiative, the Odisha government has decided to set up a Centre of Excellence ‘Odisha Water Academy’ in Bhubaneswar. The academy will function as a pioneering training and capacity building institution in the field of water and wastewater service provision. The main objective of the institution is to enhance the quality and service levels in the sector for customer satisfaction and for better health and environment outcomes, officials said. Minister for housing & urban development, panchayati raj & drinking water, Pratap Jena, said providing safe drinking water and wastewater service provision to each urban household in the state is a priority of the government. The training and capacity building undertaken by the academy will be for both managers and workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||For migrants, hunger deadlier than Covid||Aslam Ansari has had no work for the past four days. The migrant worker wants to go back home not for fear of catching Covid but to escape starvation. The tailor and his family of six live in a one-room dwelling close to Kalwa police station in Thane, near Mumbai. On Thursday, the family from Dumri block in Giridih, Jharkhand, had rations to last just three to four days. “Once the food runs out, we’ll return to Jharkhand. I have tried very hard; there’s no work now,” said Aslam, who worked at a factory, stitching clothes for small children and earning about Rs 15,000 a month. The Centre claims it has implemented a “one nation, one ration card” scheme to enable migrant workers to secure subsidised food from their nearest fair-price shops under the public distribution system. But Aslam said he does not receive subsidised food in Thane. “We are not scared of the corona(virus); our main worry is the unavailability of work. We cannot survive here without an income. There’s no help from any quarter,” Aslam said. Labour economists have highlighted how the loss of work and the absence of government support are forcing migrants to leave their workplaces, especially in states where restrictions and curfews to contain the second wave of the pandemic have constrained economic activity. Small establishments have stopped operations and construction has been hamstrung in these states over the past two to three weeks. Railway stations and inter-state bus terminals in the major cities are crowded with home-bound migrants. According to data released by the private research group, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the national unemployment rate increased from 6.65 per cent to 8.58 per cent between March 28 and April 11. Urban unemployment rose from 7.72 per cent to 9.81 per cent while the rural figure jumped from 6.18 per cent to 8 per cent. Amitabh Kundu, a Distinguished Fellow at the Research and Information System, said migrants were returning home primarily because their earnings had stopped or were likely to stop in a few weeks. They didn’t want to be trapped like they or their peers were last year when the pandemic broke out. “Migrant workers cannot survive even a month without work. They have to pay Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 as rent every month besides meeting other daily expenses,” Kundu said. “Unless they earn at least Rs 10,000, they cannot live in a city like Mumbai. Their major concern is not the coronavirus but job losses.” Kundu said the formal sector too would be hit by the pandemic’s resurgence because of a “lack of demand for their products in the market, poor labour supply and non-availability of cheap intermediate outputs from the informal sector”. He said that when Covid had first arrived from abroad, it was confined largely to the rich, middle classes and the elderly. It spread sluggishly during the initial months since these groups’ social interactions with the working class were limited. But now the pandemic had penetrated habitations with dense populations, such as slums with their congested dwellings where people share toilets and taps, Kundu said. The 2011 census found 39.4 per cent households in rural areas and 32.1 per cent in urban areas living in one-room dwellings. Kundu underlined the need to strengthen insurance schemes for the workers and the jobless. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the four labour laws passed in Parliament over the past two years do not provide for an allowance or insurance for the unemployed. “The government has not learnt the important lessons from its experiences in dealing with the first phase of Covid. There is no provision in the social security code for an unemployment allowance,” Sundar said. “The government missed a golden opportunity to design a universal unemployment assistance scheme and unemployment insurance scheme.” In his recently published book, Impact of Covid-19, Reforms and Poor Governance on Labour Rights, Sundar has highlighted India’s lack of macro-scale social security measures. The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) does provide its members — formal-sector workers who earn below a cut-off — with social security benefits such as medical care and an unemployment allowance under the Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana and the Rajiv Gandhi Shramik Kalyan Yojana. However, although the ESIC covers about 3.49 crore workers and their families, only 10,728 people claimed and secured the unemployment allowance between 2007 and 2017, Sundar said. He said this would be a very small fraction of the unemployed ESIC members. He blamed it on “a lack of awareness about the existing ESIC unemployment allowance among its members” and “stringent conditions that make most workers ineligible” for the dole. Sundar said that under the repealed Industrial Disputes Act, a worker retrenched from a large establishment (one that had over 100 workers) was entitled to a severance allowance worth 15 days’ wages for every year he or she had been employed by that establishment. But the current Industrial Relations Code exempts establishments with up to 300 workers from this allowance, he said. “Migrant workers lack the wherewithal to survive after job losses. Whatever savings they had they exhausted during last year’s lockdown. Now they have decided to leave,” Sundar said. “The state governments are asking them to stay on without any credible assurance about job opportunities.” Sundar has for several months been suggesting that the government provide money directly into the hands of the poor. This, he argues, will not only help the working class survive but also sustain demand and consumption, which is necessary for the economy to revive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Congress slams government for Covid ‘crisis’||The Congress leadership believes the second wave of Covid-19 acquired dreadful dimensions because the Narendra Modi government didn’t anticipate a relapse and failed to undertake the vaccination drive on a war footing. Pointing out the Centre’s casual approach after the infection graph dipped early this year and vaccines were developed, many leaders say the critical advantage of time and resources were frittered away as the government lowered the guard instead of seizing the moment. The Congress feels that the lack of planning manifested in the slow and non-serious launch of the vaccination drive and export of vaccines. Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Thursday: “There is neither testing, nor hospital beds, ventilators or oxygen. Even vaccines aren’t there. But there is a pretense of ‘utsav’ (festival). PMCares?” Rahul was referring to the Prime Minister’s suggestion to hold a four-day-long “tika utsav” (vaccination fest) at a time when tragic scenes from hospitals and crematoriums have shaken the country. Congress communication chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Pracharjeevi (one who survives on publicity), you have amazing achievements in the last seven years. Hospital admission is not available to the alive and crematorium is not available to the dead. Tell us if this happened even in the last 75 years after Independence? Modi hai to mumkin hai.” Asserting that this dreadful crisis was avoidable, party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told The Telegraph: “We strongly believe it is the Modi government’s incompetence, arrogance, inefficiency and premature celebration that has landed us in this crisis. Instead of consolidating the gains where our infections dipped, the reckless chest thumping falsely convinced people all is well. From phrases like ‘the end game’ to ‘bending the curve like Beckham’, irresponsible statements made by the Modi government are responsible for the kind of mayhem we are seeing on the streets today.” Shrinate added: “The government lost precious time in the last one year and instead of augmenting our capacity and preparedness for a second wave, it focused on politics, it took its foot off the pedal and as a result we are seeing the complete collapse of our healthcare infrastructure.” Taking strong objections to the Centre’s denial of vaccine shortage, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said: “I never expected somebody like Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to make an untrue statement that there is no shortage. It is absolutely wrong to say that the states have mismanaged the vaccination drive. Instead of lying, the Centre could have assured the states that enough vaccines will be made available soon. ” Maharashtra minister Sunil Kedar told this newspaper: “ That we vaccinated only three lakh people per day in February and now we are doing over 35-lakh daily proves we started slow and allowed the virus to strike back. It is sad we didn’t kill the monster despite having the potent weapon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Weekend curfew in Delhi to check Covid surge ||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a weekend curfew on Thursday to stem the surge in Covid cases in the national capital that touched a new daily high on Tuesday. After meetings with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and cabinet colleagues, Kejriwal said in a webcast onThursday that total curfew would be in place from 10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday. “Malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums will be closed. Cinema halls will run at 30 per cent capacity. Weekly markets will be allowed in per-day-per-zone format. We will also monitor crowds at weekly markets and release guidelines pertaining to this as well. Dining at restaurants will no longer be allowed. One can avail of home delivery and takeaways for now,” Kejriwal said. He said those who needed to undertake important travel could apply for curfew passes. “Even on the weekend, we understand that there might be important travel that one needs to undertake. For instance, people working in the essential services, people going to the airports, railway stations, marriages that have been planned and arrangements made months in advance. For this, we will be giving out curfew passes and allowing movement. Those who need can apply and we will, in a prompt manner, ensure they are made available,” Kejriwal added. Till the filing of this report, the government didn’t clarify if existing night curfew passes would be valid for the weekend. On Tuesday, 17,282 cases were recorded in the capital along with 104 deaths. The Covid-positive rate stood at 15.92 per cent and there are 50,736 declared Covid patients in the capital. Essential services that include several categories of government staff, medical personnel, production, processing and sale of food, medical consumables, fuel, power, communication facilities, e-commerce deliveries, banking, passengers to and from stations, bus terminuses, airport, journalists, diplomats, those seeking medical help and public transport ferrying the above categories of people are exempt from the curfew. Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at Nizamuddin Markaz during Ramazan, saying there is no direction in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority notification to close down places of worship. The court also noted that there was “no clear stand” of the central government as to whether religious congregations or gatherings were permitted in other places of worship.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Covid: Six states defer board exams||The Haryana and Punjab governments on Thursday cancelled their Class X state board examinations and deferred the Class XII exams amid a rapid rise in Covid cases across the country. The Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh governments have deferred both the exams. The International Baccalaureate has also cancelled its board exam for Indian students this year. Last year, too, the board had cancelled its exam and awarded marks on the basis of internal assessment. The Odisha government said in a media release that it would review the situation in the first week of June before taking a call. Both the exams were supposed to be held in May. In the CBSE-affiliated schools, the Class X board exam have lesser significance as the students study in the same school for the next two years. But in states such as Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, Classes XI and XII are part of junior colleges, which admit students on the basis of Class X marks. The Gujarat government announced that the students of Classes I to IX and Class XI would be automatically promoted to the next class. The board exams for Classes X and XII have been postponed. In Punjab, Class X students will be promoted to the next class. A decision on Class XII exams will be taken later. Madhya Pradesh has also postponed the tests. The CBSE has already cancelled its Class X exams and deferred Class XII exams. The ICSE board will take a decision soon. The Meghalaya board will hold its tests from Friday as scheduled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Covid: Night curfew in 20 Odisha districts||The Odisha government on Thursday announced night curfew in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Puri and other urban areas in 20 districts from Friday. The night curfew will be in force from 9pm to 5am. Night curfew is currently in force from 6pm to 5am in 10 districts of the state bordering Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra told a media conference: “Last year Odisha had fought Covid-19 well. But in view of a sudden spike in Covid cases, the state government has decided to take a number of measures to contain the surge. Complete shutdown on Saturday and Sunday will be enforced in urban areas in the 10 districts bordering Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand from the next weekend.” The bordering districts are Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Baragarh, Bolangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri and Koraput. However, essential services will be permitted during the night curfew. The state government will no longer give permission for any kind of political and religious rallies. All inter-state bus transport will be cancelled from April 19. Cinema halls will operate at 50 per cent capacity. The state government also capped the number of guests at marriages and funeral-related events to 50 and 20 respectively. “All the government offices will run with 50 per cent staff. We will soon issue instructions to private offices and banks to reduce their staff. Heads of the offices will be responsible for maintaining Covid regulations,” said Mohapatra. The chief secretary said the government has also decided to postpone the Class X and XII state board examinations, scheduled to commence from May 3 and May 18 respectively, following the surge in Covid-19 cases. It has also announced that all the students of Classes IX and XI will be promoted to the next class. Earlier, in a media release, the chief minister’s office said the students of Classes IX and XI will be promoted to Class X and XII respectively without appearing for any kind of examination. It said the decision to hold the Class X and XII examinations will be taken following a review meeting on the pandemic situation in the first week of June. The decision to postpone the state board examinations was taken just a day after the CBSE decided to cancel its Class X examination and postpone the Class XII exam. The state government also announced that all schools and hostels in the state will remain closed from April 19. Odisha registered 2,989 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike this year. It also recorded two deaths, taking the total number of fatalities due to Covid-19 to 1,935. Meanwhile, Plus-II students of BJB Autonomous College, Maharshi College and some other colleges on Thursday staged a demonstration demanding the conduct of examinations online. The Nuapada district traders’ association decided to shut down their market for nine days from Friday. Only shops providing essential services will be allowed to remain open.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Nitish hints at lockdowns with rising Covid cases||With Covid-19 on a rampage in Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday indicated that tough steps could be taken to control the continuously deteriorating situation in the state. He also said that the people who want to return to Bihar should do so quickly. These could include curfews and lockdowns because several curbs like the closure of religious places, educational institutions, only 33 per cent staff allowed in offices, ban on functions at public places, and restricting the number of people in personal ceremonies are already in place as part of the government efforts to tackle the pandemic. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had suggested that all-party meetings on Covid should be called on the level of state governors. We requested the governor and he agreed. The all-party meet will be held on April 17 under his leadership. Several suggestions will come at it. We will consider them and take the necessary steps in a better manner,” Nitish said. “We are keeping a tab on everything. Our officials are in touch with people in other states also. Those who want to return from outside should come back as soon as possible. As far as taking steps in our state is concerned… if the situation keeps deteriorating like this we will take whatever steps are required,” Nitish added. The chief minister was talking to media persons after getting the second shot of Covishield vaccine at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna. Nitish had earlier said that the state government will consider imposing curfews if the situation warranted so. Sources in the government told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity that imposition of lockdown and curfew was being actively considered for the past one week, but Nitish thought about playing politically safe, and postponed the decisions in this regard till the all-party meeting on Covid took place. A large number of migrant workers have already started returning to Bihar from industrialised states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. They are taking the special trains being run by the railways and also hiring buses and trucks to reach their native places. Bihar is at present in the throes of the coronavirus pandemic with the infections rising phenomenally this month. Altogether 4,786 new cases were detected on Wednesday, while 21 people lost their lives to the disease. Several senior officials, ministers and legislators have become infected, and are currently either in hospital or in isolation. The state has witnessed around 3 lakh coronavirus positive cases so far. The number of active cases is currently over 26,000. The recovery rate of patients that was around 99 per cent in the first week of March has now slipped to 91.4 per cent. Nitish expressed concern over the movement of people from different parts of the country to Bihar and the spread of coronavirus to rural areas also. He emphasised on the need for getting them tested to detect whether they are infected, as well as, to safeguard others. The chief minister also stressed on the necessity for increasing tests and vaccination of the people. The pace of vaccination in Bihar is much below than the desired level. The state had aimed at vaccinating 16 lakh eligible people between April 11 and 14 in the light of the ‘Tika Utsav’ (vaccination festival) called by the Prime Minister. However, only 5.44 lakh people could be vaccinated during this period. Several vaccination centres faced the shortage of doses and had to stop giving shots to the people for a couple of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||S.A. Bobde says it is time for a woman to be appointed as CJI||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on Thursday said the time had come for a woman to be appointed as the Chief Justice of India, but added that many women lawyers do not take up judgeship because of domestic compulsions. Justice Bobde, heading a bench also having Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, made the oral observation in response to a plea by lawyer Sneha Kalita that more women be made judges. “We think the time has come for a woman Chief Justice of India…. The experience of chief justices of high courts stated that when women lawyers are asked to come in as judges in the bench, they refuse saying they have domestic responsibilities or their children are in Class XI or XII and thus these things have been communicated to me,” CJI Bobde said. Kalita submitted that the memorandum of procedure governing the appointment process of judges does not have anything on women judges being appointed. “We have the interest of women in mind, there is no attitudinal changes in us. It is only that we need capable candidates,” Justice Bobde said. Another advocate, Shobha Gupta, appearing for the Supreme Court Women Lawyers’ Association, also pleaded that women lawyers be given adequate representation in the appointment of judges for high courts and the Supreme Court. CJI Bobde agreed to consider the suggestion positively. Over the past few years, there have been demands for the appointment of more women judges and also for the selection of a woman CJI. No woman has held the post of CJI in independent India. Justice Ruma Pal had served in the Supreme Court from January 28, 2000, to June 2, 2006, but did not become CJI. She retired as the second senior-most judge of the Supreme Court. On Thursday, the court was dealing with the issue of appointing retired judges as additional judges to clear over 55 lakh pending cases in various high courts and also expedite the appointment process of regular judges of high courts. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal assured the bench that the government would expedite the process of judges’ appointments. He said a decision would be taken within three months on 10 names approved by the Supreme Court collegium. The Centre has been sitting on the names despite the collegium’s clearance. Of these, five candidates are from Calcutta. “Mr Attorney, I think this case can be brought to a conclusion if the Centre tells us the timeline which will be adhered to each stage of judges’ appointment,” CJI Bobde said. “We need to know the timeline by the Centre to respond to the Supreme Court collegium’s recommendations…. Please intimate the timeline to us at the next date of hearing,” Justice Kaul told the attorney-general. On December 10 last year, the top court had expressed serious concern over nearly 40 per cent vacancies in various high courts. The Supreme Court had directed the Centre to come out with the details of the pendency of the appointments process so that it could expedite the process. The court had passed the orders after taking on record the preliminary data submitted by attorney-general K.K. Venugopal which showed that against the sanctioned strength of 1,079 high court judges, the working strength was only 669.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Editors Guild of India’s jab plea for journalists||The Editors Guild of India has urged the Centre to declare journalists as frontline workers and be allowed priority vaccination regardless of age against the coronavirus. “News organisations have been relentlessly covering the pandemic, elections and other current affairs in an effort to ensure that the flow of news and information to readers continues unabated. News media is included in essential services. Therefore it will only be fair that journalists be given this cover of protection, especially in the face of number of infected rising to astronomical levels,” the Guild said in a statement. The statement has been signed by Seema Mustafa, Guild president, Sanjay Kapoor, general secretary, and Anant Nath, treasurer. “Without the protection of a vaccination, media persons are finding it very difficult to discharge their professional responsibilities. Therefore the EGI calls on the Union government to immediately get all journalists, regardless of age, vaccinated so that there is no disruption in their work during this critical time,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
