17-04-2021||India||Delhi short of oxygen, remdesivir supply; situation serious, says Kejriwal||Amid escalating cases of Covid-19, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the pandemic situation in the city has become "very serious and worrisome", with oxygen stock, remdesivir and tocilizumab drugs for patients in short supply. The number of Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly with 24,000 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours, he said in an online media briefing. This is the highest single-day surge in the national capital till date. A day before, 19,486 Covid-19 cases and 141 deaths were reported. "The cases of Covid-19 are rising fast in Delhi. In the last 24 hours, around 24,000 fresh cases have been reported. Within a day, the number has gone up from around 19,500 to around 24,000. So, the situation is very serious and worrisome," Kejriwal said. On Thursday and Friday, the city had recorded 16,699 and 17,282 cases, respectively. The chief minister also said he has spoken to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and requested him for augmenting supplies of oxygen stock, and remdesivir and tocilizumab drugs for Covid patients in Delhi. Kejriwal said that the number of beds are also running out fast and the Delhi government is trying to escalate beds on a large-scale in the coming days. "Our biggest target is to augment beds with oxygen supply attached," he said. In the next 3-4 days, the government will add 6,000 more beds, including 1,300 at Yamuna Sports Complex and 2,500 at Radhaswami Satsang premises, he said. Kejriwal warned strict action against hospitals that are denying patients beds despite showing availability on Delhi government's Covid app. He also demanded from the Centre to reserve 50 per cent of the total pool of beds in hospitals run by it in Delhi for Covid-19 patients. The district magistrates have also been directed to keep a tab on the labs and ensure that no new samples are collected by them if they already have pending samples of Covid-19, the chief minister said. Some labs have lifted more samples of Covid-19 suspects than their capacity leading to a delay of 3-4 days in test reports, Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
17-04-2021||India||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu gets bail in Republic Day violence case||A Delhi court has granted bail to actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who was arrested in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day. Special Judge Neelofer Abida Perveen granted relief to the accused on Friday on a personal bond of Rs 30,000 and two sureties of a like amount. Sidhu was arrested on February 9 in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during a farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agriculture laws. The court noted that the accused was in custody since February 9, 2021, with 14 days of remand in police custody. It said that a police plea for further incarceration for the sole purpose of voice sampling was not justifiable. “The prosecution's case rests largely on the contents of video recordings and footage available and accessible to all on social media sites in public domain, and there is therefore a remote possibility of the accused-applicant being able to interfere with the content on such a platform,” the judge said. Rejecting the prosecution's contention that the accused might abscond if released on bail, the court said, “The accused as per the own case of the prosecution is a well-known public figure with deep roots in society and such apprehensions are capable of being allayed by imposing stricter conditions.” It further said, “It would violate and infringe the fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed to the accused, if the accused is denied bail in the present case on such nature of accusations and material only on the ground that the investigating agency is yet to establish the identity of the several other members of the unlawful assembly.” While granting the bail, the judge directed the accused to deposit his passport with the investigating officer and appear before the police station as well as the court as and when required. He shall not influence, threaten, intimidate witnesses nor tamper with evidence in any manner whatsoever, the court said. The court, meanwhile, said that while it was beyond the realm of dispute that dissent and dialogue is fundamental to democracy where the absolute power vests in the people exercised by the people through its elected representatives and that the Constitution of India guarantees the right to protest, the present FIR however is not impinging upon this fundamental right to protest in any manner. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO in Delhi from the Ghazipur border clashed with police, the agency claimed in its FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, adding that many of them who were driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. In the FIR, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protesters who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||At CWC meeting, Sonia slams Centre’s attitude towards issues related to Covid-19||Accusing the Modi government of "gross unpreparedness" and "adhocism" in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday made a slew of suggestions to the Centre to deal with the pandemic such as reducing the immunization age to 25 years and providing income support to people. In her opening remarks, while chairing the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Gandhi also accused the Centre of giving preferential treatment to some states while maintaining "thundering silence" on requests of states ruled by the Congress and opposition parties. The Congress has always believed that fighting the Covid-19 pandemic is a national challenge that should be kept above party politics, she asserted. "We have extended our hands of cooperation right from February-March, 2020. We cannot, however, lose sight of the fact that the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the country with fury. Despite a year to prepare, we have, regrettably, been caught off guard again," Gandhi said. Instead of listening to the constructive suggestions of the opposition, Union ministers are pressed into service to attack leaders of opposition for giving those suggestions, she said. "This convoluted 'me versus you' debate is childish and totally unnecessary," Gandhi asserted. Making a host of suggestions to the government, she said the Centre must also reconsider its priority for vaccine candidates by reducing the immunisation age to 25 years and above as also all younger persons with at-risk health disorders like asthma, angina, diabetes, kidney and liver diseases and other similar ailments. "In the course of my talks with our chief ministers, the question of GST (Goods and Services Tax) came up. They felt that as a preliminary measure, all equipment, instruments, medicines and support required to prevent and treat Covid-19 should be made free from GST," Gandhi said. It is a matter of grave concern that life saving drugs like Remdesivir and medical oxygen as also other basic supplements are subjected to 12 per cent GST, the Congress chief said. "As the central and state governments move ahead to control the situation by resorting to partial curfews, travel restrictions, closure and lock downs; we will again be restricting economic activity that will hit the already beleaguered people, especially the poor and the daily wagers," she said. It is, therefore, imperative to provide monthly income support and transfer an amount of Rs 6,000 in every eligible citizen's account, Gandhi said. Taking on these challenging times as Indians rather than as political opponents will be true 'Rajadharma', she stressed. The CWC meet was also attended by former party chief Rahul Gandhi, general secretaries, other permanent invitees and state in-charges of the party.  Addressing a press conference after the meet, Congress' senior spokesperson P Chidambaram said concrete suggestions made by CWC members would be sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through a letter by former prime minister Manmohan Singh. "We charge the central government with colossal mismanagement of the war against the pandemic," a CWC statement said, accusing the central government of failing on 14 different fronts in handling the pandemic. "We regret to say that the nation is paying a very heavy price for the thoughtlessness and unpreparedness of the NDA government to tackle the gravest disaster that has hit the country and has affected millions of families claiming 1,75,673 lives so far," the statement passed by the CWC said. The working committee meeting, attended by Manmohan Singh and former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, besides general secretaries and other senior leaders, said it is a shame that the country with the world's largest vaccine manufacturing capacity has earned the odium of being among the most affected countries in the world. "With a heavy heart, we caution the people that unless urgent corrective measures are taken the nation faces an unprecedented catastrophe. May wisdom prevail," the CWC statement said. Chidambaram said several Congress leaders including Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi have made valuable suggestions on how to tackle the situation. All of them would be collated by tomorrow and sent to the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||TMC broken, would be vanquished by the end of polling, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday claimed that the TMC has been broken in the first four phases of elections, and asserted that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew would be vanquished by the end of polling in the state. Speaking at an election rally here, in the sprawling industrial town of Asansol, Modi also claimed the Trinamool Congress supremo has an old habit of doing politics with dead bodies and has been trying to politicise the "unfortunate" death of five people at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on April 10. "After four phases, TMC is broken to pieces and "Didi, bhatija will be vanquished after eight phases of elections (are completed)," Modi said. Polling is scheduled in the industrial town in the seventh phase on April 26. Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek have been spearheading the TMC's campaign in the assembly elections in West Bengal for a third consecutive term for their party. Holding that illegal coal mining has flourished in places around Asansol in West Bardhaman district, the prime minister said everyone knows where the proceeds of this trade went. Modi said the West Bengal chief minister's insensitivity was evident once again in connection with the Cooch Behar firing incident, while referring to an audio tape that went viral on Friday. Voices resembling Mamata Banerjee and TMC Cooch Behar district president Partha Pratim Roy, who is also the party's candidate for Sitalkuchi, are heard on tape discussing deaths of four persons in firing by central forces. Banerjee allegedly asked her district party leader to take out a rally. "The truth is that Didi thought of her own political gain from the death of people in Cooch Behar she has an old habit of doing politics with dead bodies," he alleged. Contending that Banerjee has not been attending most of the meetings between the prime minister and state chief ministers on one pretext or another, Modi said that she has also not attended two recent meetings over the emerging Covid situation in the country. The prime minister went on to claim his rival Banerjee has stood as a wall between West Bengal's people and central welfare schemes, depriving them of benefits, including from the PM-Kisan and Ayushman Bharat schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||Not wearing masks on railway premises now punishable offence, can attract fines||Not wearing masks on railway premises and in trains can attract a fine of up to Rs 500, with the national transporter now incorporating it as an offence under the Railway Act, according to an order issued on Saturday. This is the latest in a slew of measures that the railways has taken to ensure compliance of the various Covid-19 protocols issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs to restrict the spread of the virus. "One of the specific guidelines is to wear masks in order to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for movement of trains as brought out by Indian Railways on May 11, 2020, says that it should be advised to all passengers that they shall be wearing face cover/ mask at entry and during travel," order issued by the railways said. The mandatory use of masks and the fine will now be listed under the Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at Railway Premises) Rules, 2012, which also has the provision of fines for those found spitting on rail premises, it said. "In view of the Covid-19 situation, controlling spitting and act of similar nature due to any person not wearing mask and entering railway premises (including trains), is important to avoid creation of unclean and unhygienic conditions which may cause danger to life and public health, " the order said. "Accordingly, to prevent spitting and act of similar nature and thus, to ensure wearing of face masks or face cover by all persons at railway premises (including trains), fines (up to 500) under Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at Railway Premises) Rules, 2012, shall be imposed by railway officials...," it stated. The order also said that this would come into immediate effect for a period of six months till further instructions are issued in this regard. A record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities have pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has surpassed the 16-lakh mark, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active Covid-19 cases has climbed to 16,79,740 in the country, accounting for 11.56 per cent of its total caseload, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 87.23 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||I maintained my cool, says CRPF personnel captured by Maoists in Chhattisgarh||For CRPF commando Rakeshwar Manhas patience was the key to his survival as he spent five days in a Chhattisgarh jungle after being taken captive by Naxals following an ambush that killed 22 members of his team. "I did not lose hope in the most difficult situation and I maintained my cool," said the 35-year-old who returned to his home in Jammu on Friday. Manhas had gone missing during a deadly encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur district on April 3. The gunfight left 22 security forces personnel dead and several others injured. He was released from captivity by the Naxals on April 8. Manhas was accorded a rousing reception by his family and villagers after he reached his native Barnie village on the outskirts of the city. He said his mother's prayers kept him alive while in enemy's custody. "I was not even sure if I would be released. I owe my second life to my mother. Her prayers gave me the fresh lease of life, as no one so far has come back alive from the captivity of Naxals, " Manhas said His mother Kunti Devi said, "I prayed to Mata Vaishnodevi for the release of my son. My prayers were heard and he came back to me safe and sound. It was a blessing of Mata that he is alive today," She said. As Manhas reached home, his family heaved a sigh of relief. His Daughter Raghvi was seen hugging him. His wife Muni said the ‘bad phase’ of their life has ended. "I am happy that my husband is back. It is because of the prayers of the family and hundreds of countrymen that he is with us today. I thank all of them," she said. The villagers expressed admiration for the soldier for his grit and determination while in the enemy's captivity. "We are proud of him. He has been fighting for the nation. We are happy that he is back in his village," said Dheeraj Chand. Manhas says he feels sad for the families of the fallen jawans. We cannot forget their supreme sacrifice. Each one among them is a hero," he said. Mahnas is hopeful to join the force soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||Covid: India records over 2.34 lakh fresh cases, 1,341 casualties in a day||A record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities have pushed India's COVID-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has surpassed the 16-lakh mark, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active COVID-19 cases has climbed to 16,79,740 in the country, accounting for 11.56 per cent of its total caseload, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 87.23 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 1,26,71,220, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.21 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 26,49,72,022 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 14,95,397 on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Maharashtra reported 63,729, followed by Uttar Pradesh(27,426) and Delhi (19,486), according to the data. All three states registered the highest daily spike in the number of coronavirus cases since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. West Bengal, where Assembly polls are underway, also recorded the highest-ever daily jump of 6,910 cases. Maharashtra also reported the maximum number of fresh casualties at 398, followed by Delhi (141), Chhattisgarh (138), Uttar Pradesh (103), Gujarat (94), Karnataka (78), Madhya Pradesh (60), Punjab (50), Tamil Nadu (33) and Rajasthan (31).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||Keep Kumbh participation symbolic, says Modi amid Covid surge||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the ongoing Kumbh in Haridwar should now have symbolic participation due to the COVID-19 crisis. Modi tweeted that he spoke to Swami Avdheshanand Giri of Juna Akhara over telephone and enquired about the health of saints, many of whom have contracted the infection, and also conveyed his appreciation for their cooperation with the local administration. "I prayed that two 'shahi snan' have taken place and Kumbh (participation) should now be kept symbolic. This will boost the fight against this crisis," the prime minister tweeted in Hindi. Yesterday, three akharas had appealed for the Mahakumbh in Haridwar to be closed immediately because of the surge in Covid cases and said they would be leaving from Saturday, their stand dividing the monks at the congregation and inviting attacks. The administration said it had no plans to prematurely wind up the Kumbh Mela, scheduled to run till April 30. Mahant Ravindrapuri of the Niranjani Akhara, one of the country’s 13 main akharas (monasteries), said on Friday morning: “We have decided to withdraw from the Mahakumbh on April 17 and vacate the mela (congregation or fair) area to prevent further spread of the coronavirus.” The Sri Panchayati Akhara and the Anand Akhara endorsed the stand of Niranjani, which chided the government for failing to take tough decisions despite the Covid surge. The Uttarakhand health department has detected 2,400  Covid infections in the Kumbh area since the congregation started on April 1. The ongoing Kumbh, which has seen people from different parts of the country attending the auspicious event in large numbers, has drawn flak from various quarters as the number of Covid-19 cases has zoomed at a rapid pace in the past few weeks. The event has also reported the coronavirus cases in large numbers. The ongoing Kumbh has already been shortened this year to just one month from April 1 to 30 due to the pandemic. In normal circumstances, the event, which comes once in 12 years, is held from mid January to April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||BJP shrouds itself in silence as Covid cases explode across India||The BJP has shrouded itself in silence as Covid cases explode across India, overwhelming not just hospitals but also crematoriums in several states in a second wave that the Narendra Modi government appears to have been little prepared for. As far back as February, the party had declared victory on Covid and hailed Prime Minister Modi for it. In a resolution, the BJP had said: “...It can be said with pride that India not only defeated Covid under the able, sensitive, committed and visionary leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi…. The party unequivocally hails its leadership for introducing India to the world as a proud and victorious nation in the fight against Covid.” Modi himself had told the World Economic Forum’s Davos Dialogue on January 28 that India “not only solved our problems but also helped the world fight the pandemic”. Now, with India’s count of new Covid-19 cases rising for the first time by over 200,000 on Thursday and the country registering the second-highest number of infections in the world, the party has been silent. Led by Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda, most party leaders have immersed themselves in the single-minded pursuit of trying to win the Bengal elections. Even Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in whose state crematoriums are overflowing, was in Bengal campaigning till he himself tested positive. On Friday, Shah and Nadda were again electioneering in Bengal, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee had appealed for the remaining four phases of polling to be clubbed together in view of the sharp spike in cases. The BJP and other Opposition parties did not agree. Modi held a review meeting with various ministries to “ensure adequate medical-grade oxygen supply in the country” during the day, but is expected to be back on the campaign trail in Bengal on Saturday. At election rallies held by all parties, Covid protocols have been trampled with impunity. Barring minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, no BJP leader came out to counter Rahul Gandhi for slamming the Modi government for the Covid crisis. “Central Government’s Covid strategy: Stage 1 — Impose Tughlaqi lockdown. Stage 2 — Ghanti bajao (Ring bells). Stage 3 — Prabhu ke gun gao (Pray to God),” Rahul had tweeted. Naqvi responded: “In the pandemic period don’t spread political pollution, be a part of positive solution.” Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who repeatedly attacks the Congress leader, was quiet. He only posted a tweet urging people to adopt Covid precautions. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, who too is regularly fielded by the BJP to take on the Congress, merely re-tweeted his ministry’s tweets. In the evening, Javadekar tweeted that he had tested positive for Covid. Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa too tested positive, for the second time. Many have attributed the BJP’s silence to the dire situation in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, which are ruled by the party. Local media in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have reported that the state governments have been accused of trying to hide the actual Covid toll. There have been reports of long queues at crematoriums and mass funeral pyres. In Uttar Pradesh, a wall being built outside a crematorium triggered allegations that the government was trying to hide the burning pyres. In the past, BJP spokespersons and leaders had gone all out while attacking Opposition-ruled states, particularly Maharashtra, accusing them of failing to manage the Covid situation. The health minister had earlier this month lashed out at Maharashtra for complaining of a vaccine shortage. But as vaccination centres across different states had to suspend the inoculation drive as stocks ran out, it came to light that vaccine production in the country was half of what was needed now. BJP managers have tried to shield Modi at a time the Congress is ruining a Twitter campaign with the hashtag “WhereIsPM”. “Where is PM Modi, India asks,” one of the many tweets posted by the Congress said, highlighting how Modi was busy campaigning in Bengal while India struggled. To counter this, the BJP’s social media managers pushed the hashtag “Desh_Modiji_ke_saath_hai”. The counter-campaign claimed that Modi’s popularity remained intact. “As per Morning Consult’s latest global leader approval ratings @narendramodi ji has the highest approval rating of all the global leaders at 73% as on 15 th April, 2021,” BJP national secretary Y. Satya Kumar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||Centre asks Chhattisgarh and UP to augment hospital beds, intensive care units and ventilators||The Centre on Friday directed Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh to augment hospital beds, intensive care units and ventilators, signalled plans to import medical oxygen and pledged funds to ramp up Covid-19 vaccine production as India recorded over 217,000 new infections. A senior public health expert tracking the country’s epidemic described those actions as similar to “digging a well after the house is on fire”. Top central government bureaucrats asked officials from Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh to address deficiencies in hospital infrastructure that health officials believe are contributing to inadequate treatment and high numbers of deaths in these states. The Union health ministry said Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh were the only states other than Maharashtra where the numbers of active Covid-19 patients now exceeded 100,000. “Both are reporting very high numbers of daily new cases and high deaths,” the ministry said. The seven-day average of daily new cases has spiked 105-fold over the past month in Uttar Pradesh, from 152 cases on March 15 to over 15,994 on April 15. In Chhattisgarh, the seven-day average has jumped 27-fold, from 476 to 12,800. Shortages of intensive-care-unit facilities and oxygen-supported hospital beds have meant that many patients have lacked access to critical care services. The health ministry said the states had been advised to increase hospital beds, plan for adequate oxygen supply, and curb mortality through early identification of positive cases and adherence to standard treatment guidelines. The 217,353 new Covid-19 infections recorded on Friday have raised the country’s total of active patients by over 97,800 to 1.56 million, about 50 per cent higher than the peak count of about 1 million during the previous wave last September. “It’s absolutely terrible, the numbers are overwhelming. My phone rings constantly for beds (that) we’re hardly able to provide,” a senior physician, who is also the medical superintendent at a leading hospital in New Delhi, told The Telegraph. In Faridabad (Haryana), the family of a 69-year-old Covid-19 patient whose oxygen levels had fallen to dangerously low levels spent hours on Friday unsuccessfully seeking a hospital bed across the National Capital Region. “We tried our best — doctors want to help but just can’t, there are just too many patients,” said Gita Nath, an acquaintance of the family. The patient was eventually admitted to a hospital in Ballabhgarh, a town neighbouring Faridabad. Prime Minister Narendra Modi met senior officials from the health ministry and other departments to review the nation’s oxygen supply status amid concerns that the demand for medical oxygen — now about 54 per cent of daily production — is likely to rise in the coming weeks. The government said it was allowing industrial cylinders to be used for medical oxygen after due purging, and letting nitrogen and argon tankers ferry oxygen to overcome the potential shortage of tankers. Senior officials briefed Modi about efforts to import medical oxygen. Health experts have blamed the Centre’s policy makers of failing to anticipate the surge despite the public laxity on personal precautions, pandemic fatigue among healthcare staff, inadequate control measures and congregations such as election rallies and the Kumbh Mela. “When India’s cases had fallen, small clusters of infections should have been well-controlled. They were like sparks that needed to be extinguished as quickly as possible. Now the fire is everywhere,” a physician and public health expert said. “The actions now are like digging a well after the house is on fire.” The Centre on Friday announced Rs 130 crore to ramp up the production of Covaxin, the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine, from the current capacity of 10 million doses per month to 70 million doses by July-August and 100 million doses by September. The funds will go to Covaxin’s maker Bharat Biotech’s facilities in Hyderabad and Bangalore, the Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation in Mumbai, and two other vaccine-manufacturing units. Experts tracking vaccine development have said India should have foreseen the need for vaccines and ramped up capacity months ago. The Andhra Pradesh government on Friday announced it has no stock of Covid vaccines while chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting that 60 lakh doses be immediately sent. The Odisha government has sought at least 25 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines in a single lot from the Centre. Maharashtra has sought 40 to 45 lakh vaccine vials every week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||Coronavirus lockdown drags middle class to poverty||Ashish Anand had dreams of becoming a fashion designer. A former flight attendant, he borrowed from relatives and poured his $5,000 (Rs 3,73,900) life savings into opening a clothing shop on the outskirts of Delhi selling custom-designed suits, shirts and pants. The shop, called the Right Fit, opened in February 2020, just weeks before the coronavirus struck India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi abruptly enacted one of the world’s toughest nationwide lockdowns to stop it. Unable to pay the rent, Anand closed the Right Fit two months later. Now Anand, his wife and his two children are among millions of people in India in danger of sliding out of the middle class and into poverty. They depend on handouts from his aging in-laws. Khichdi, or watery lentils cooked with rice, has replaced eggs and chicken at the dinner table. Sometimes, he said, the children go to bed hungry. “I have nothing left in my pocket,” said Anand, 38. “How can I not give food to my children?” Now a second wave of Covid-19 has struck India, and the middle class dreams of tens of millions of people face even greater peril. Already, about 32 million people in India were driven into poverty by the pandemic last year, according to the Pew Research Center, accounting for a majority of the 54 million who slipped out of the middle class worldwide. The pandemic is undoing decades of progress for a country that in fits and starts has brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. Already, deep structural problems and the sometimes impetuous nature of many of Modi’s policies had been hindering growth. A shrinking middle class would deal lasting damage. “It’s very bad news in every possible way,” said Jayati Ghosh, a development economist and professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. “It has set back our growth trajectory hugely and created much greater inequality.” The second wave presents difficult choices for India and Modi. India on Friday reported more than 2,16,000 new infections, another record. Lockdowns are back in some states. With work scarce, migrant workers are packing into trains and buses home as they did last year. The country’s vaccination campaign has been slow, though the government has picked up the pace. Yet Modi appears unwilling to repeat last year’s draconian lockdown, which left more than 100 million Indians jobless and which many economists blame for worsening the pandemic’s problems. His government has also been reluctant to increase spending substantially like the US and some other places, instead releasing a budget that would raise spending on infrastructure and in other areas but that also emphasises on cutting debt. The Modi government has defended its handling of the pandemic, saying vaccinations are making progress and that signs point to an economic resurgence. Economists are forecasting a rebound in the coming year, though the sudden rise in infections and India’s slow vaccination rate — less than 9 per cent of the population has been inoculated — could undermine those predictions. The heady growth forecasts feel far away for Nikita Jagad, who was out of work for over eight months. Jagad, a 49-year-old resident of Mumbai, stopped going out with her friends, eating at restaurants and even taking bus rides, unless the trip was for a job interview. Sometimes, she said, she shut herself inside her bathroom so her 71-year-old mother wouldn’t hear her crying. Last week, Jagad got a new job as a manager at a company that provides housekeeping services for airlines. It pays less than $400 (Rs 29,800) a month, roughly half of her previous salary. It could also be short-lived: the state of Maharashtra, home to Mumbai, announced lockdown-like measures this week to stop the spreading second wave. If she loses her new job, Jagad is still the only support for her mother. “If something happens to her,” she said, “I don’t have the money to even admit her in the hospital.” India’s middle class may not be as wealthy as its peers in the US and elsewhere, but it makes up an increasingly potent economic force. While definitions vary, Pew Research defines middle-class and upper-middle-class households as living on about $10 (Rs 745) to $50 (Rs 3,725) a day. That kind of income could give an Indian family an apartment in a nice neighbourhood, a car or a scooter, and the opportunities to send their children to a private school. Roughly 66 million people in India meet that definition, compared with about 99 million just before the pandemic last year, according to Pew Research estimates. These increasingly affluent Indian families have drawn foreign companies like Walmart, Amazon, Facebook, Nissan and others to invest heavily in a country of aspirational consumers. Anil G. Kumar, a civil engineer, was one of them. Around this time last year, he and his family were about to buy a two-bedroom apartment. But when last year’s lockdown hit, Kumar’s employer, a construction chemicals manufacturer, slashed his salary by half. “Everything turned turtle within a few hours,” he said. Three months later, his job had been eliminated. Now Kumar spends his days in his home in a working-class neighbourhood in the western part of Delhi, searching for jobs on LinkedIn and taking care of his son. The family’s middle-class life is now under threat. They survive on the $470 (Rs 35,000)-a-month salary Kumar’s wife draws from a private university. Instead of holding a big celebration for their son’s 10th birthday at a restaurant, which would have cost nearly $70 (Rs 5,220), they ordered a cake and a new outfit for about one-fifth the cost. Kumar also cancelled his Amazon Prime subscription, which he hadn’t used in a while. “Every day you can’t sit on the laptop,” he said. “At times, you feel depressed.” India’s middle class is central to more than the economy. It fits into India’s broader ambitions to rival China, which has grown faster and more consistently, as a regional superpower. To get there, the Indian government may need to address the people the coronavirus has left behind. Household incomes and overall consumption have weakened, even though the sales of some goods have increased recently because of pent-up demand. Many of the hardest hit come from India’s merchant class, the shopkeepers, stall operators or other small entrepreneurs who often live off the books of a major company. “India is not even discussing poverty or inequality or lack of employment or fall in incomes and consumption,” said Mahesh Vyas, the chief executive of the Centre for Monitoring of the Indian Economy. “This needs to change first and foremost,” he said. Most Indians are “tired” and “discouraged” by the lack of jobs, said Vyas, especially low-skilled workers. “Unless this problem is addressed,” he said, “this will be a millstone that will hold back India’s sustained growth.” Anand, the prospective fashion designer, who lives in the industrial hub of Noida in southeastern Delhi, found himself at wit’s end during last year’s lockdown. The family fell behind on the rent. Two months into the lockdown, he collapsed in what he described as a panic attack. “We did not want to live,” said his wife, Akanksha Chadda, 33, a former operations manager at a luxury retail store who also hasn’t been able to find a job. She sat facing a photograph taken three years ago of her son and daughter sitting on a giant turtle at an amusement park. “I didn’t know if I would wake up the next morning or not.” The days when they could afford muesli for breakfast and pizza for dinner are gone, said Anand. On good days, they get some vegetables and banana for the kids. In January, Chadda sold their eight-year-old son’s bicycle to buy milk, lentils and vegetables. He cried for a solid evening. But she felt she had little choice. She had already sold her jewellery the month before. “When you don’t see a ray of hope,” she said, “you lose it.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||Congress meet on Saturday to discuss worsening Covid situation||The Congress Working Committee will meet on Saturday to discuss the worsening Covid situation in the country, amid widespread criticism of the decisions to continue with the unrestricted election rallies and the Kumbh. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday flagged the issue of politicians’ role in spreading the coronavirus by saying: “On the one hand we ask people to follow Covid protocol and on the other hand crowds of lakhs of people continue to gather at election rallies and road shows. It has been going on since the Bihar elections. Politicians continued to aggressively campaign and the crowds kept on gathering. If politicians had wanted, they could have stopped the crowds by using options like virtual rallies.” Gehlot added: “Congress president Sonia Gandhi has rightly said that we politicians are also to be blamed to some extent for the spread of the corona infection. Now a new corona variant has appeared and there is a frightening situation in the country. Stringent measures like lockdown and curfew are being resorted to. “The Prime Minister should talk to the states in detail as he had done earlier. Even the judiciary and the Election Commission of India cannot shy away from their responsibilities. Despite opposition from the states, the Supreme Court and the high courts issued orders for holding panchayat and other local body elections. The Election Commission continued announcing polls simply to discharge its duty.” Sonia had said at a meeting with Congress chief ministers and senior leaders a few days ago: “Should not public gatherings, including election rallies, be cancelled? Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid, for which all of us are responsible to some extent. We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own.” Sources said there was considerable unease among senior leaders about the abnormal involvement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah in elections despite a dangerous surge in Covid cases. The CWC will raise this issue on Saturday. Rahul Gandhi posted an old video of himself on social media in which he had predicted the grim scenario last year with the comment: “One year later, our people continue to suffer, our infrastructure continues to crumble and our Prime Minister continues to turn away from his responsibilities.” He also tweeted: “Central Government’s Covid strategy: Stage 1 — Impose Tughlaqi lockdown. Stage 2 — Ghanti bajao. Stage 3 — Prabhu ke gun gao (Pray to God).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Covid: Three akharas appeal for the Mahakumbh to be shut immediately||Three akharas have appealed for the Mahakumbh in Haridwar to be closed immediately because of the surge in Covid cases and said they would be leaving from Saturday, their stand dividing the monks at the congregation and inviting attacks. The administration said it had no plans to prematurely wind up the Kumbh Mela, scheduled to run till April 30. Mahant Ravindrapuri of the Niranjani Akhara, one of the country’s 13 main akharas (monasteries), said on Friday morning: “We have decided to withdraw from the Mahakumbh on April 17 and vacate the mela (congregation or fair) area to prevent further spread of the coronavirus.” The Sri Panchayati Akhara and the Anand Akhara endorsed the stand of Niranjani, which chided the government for failing to take tough decisions despite the Covid surge. The Uttarakhand health department has detected 2,400  Covid infections in the Kumbh area since the congregation started on April 1. Swaroopanand Saraswati, Shankaracharya of both the Dwarka Sharda Peetham in Gujarat and the Jyotir Math in Badrinath, dismissed Niranjani’s argument, saying: “The mela will continue till April 30.” His disciple Swami Avimukteshwaranand said: “The Mahakumbh…  dates are decided according to planet positions; nobody can change them.” Visuals from the Kumbh, now teeming with 20 lakh pilgrims and monks from across the country, show crowds milling about on the Ganga’s banks without masks and unmindful of physical distancing amid a second wave of the pandemic nationwide. Deepak Rawat, the IAS officer in charge of the Mahakumbh, told reporters: “We haven’t discussed truncating the month-long mela.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Kerala Gold Smuggling case: HC quashes FIRs against ED officials||Kerala High Court on Friday quashed two FIRs registered by the state police’s crime branch against unnamed officials of the Enforcement Directorate for allegedly coercing suspects to name chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his cabinet colleagues in a gold smuggling case. The state police had booked ED officials after prime accused Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair alleged that they were forced to falsely implicate the chief minister and other ministers. The case is related to the smuggling of 30kg of gold from Dubai in July 2020. The petition challenging the FIRs was filed by P. Radhakrishnan, deputy director of ED’s Kochi zonal office. The high court ruled that police had no powers to register the FIR and that they could have approached the special court handling cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Guardians demand CBSE exam fee refund||Shanti Rana, 65, rears goats and stitches clothes to feed and educate her four school-going grandchildren. The family of five lives in the Madanpur Khadar slum in southeast Delhi, and the children are enrolled in a Delhi government school. The children’s father — Shanti’s son — is dead and their mother does not live with them. Last February, Shanti’s eldest grandchild, Kirti, paid Rs 1,800 to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to register herself for her Class X board exams, which were scheduled from May 4 to June 16. With the exams now cancelled because of the Covid surge, Shanti wants the board to refund the money. “I had arranged the fee with extreme difficulty. My granddaughter was studying well and I wanted her to find a good job in future. But now that the CBSE has cancelled the exam, it should refund us the fee,” Shanti said. It’s a demand echoed by many other parents and guardians of Class X CBSE students, particularly those not well off. Ashok Agrawal, member of Delhi University’s executive council and president of the All India Parents Association, said the board must refund the money since it does not have to pay the invigilators and examiners, or spend on setting up exam centres. “The fee covers all kinds of expenses related to the conduct of the exams. Since the board need not make these expenditures now, it must refund the fees,” Agrawal said. The CBSE charged exam fees of Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800 per student depending on the number of subjects they had chosen and the number of practical exams they were to take. Nearly 21.5 lakh students were to sit for the Class X boards. A school principal who did not wish to be quoted said the board may have already spent a portion of the money preparing the question papers, but it should refund the unspent amount to the students. Many parents whose children go to private schools in the cities too have supported the demand for a refund. The CBSE has said it will work out a way of grading the students without a board exam, leaving many students wondering what criteria would be adopted for the allotment of streams in Class XI. The schools usually allot streams on the basis of the students’ board marks. A message sent to board secretary Anurag Tripathi seeking the CBSE’s stand on the refund demand remained unanswered. Teachers at the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan schools have urged the government to restore the original schedule of their annual summer vacation, now that the CBSE has cancelled its Class X board exams and deferred the Class XII exams till June 15. Summer holidays for the teachers were to extend from May 3 to June 20 but the KVS administration later asked them to come to school till June 2 and help conduct the exams. In a letter to the Union education minister, the teachers’ association has demanded reinstatement of the original vacation schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Pandemic worsens plight of Bihar weavers||Fifty-year-old weaver Faiyaz Ahmad is constantly worried about what the future might have in store for him, his 10 family members and co-workers amid the coronavirus pandemic. Faiyaz is one of around 15,000 men, women and children who depend on the 650 handlooms at Sikori in Paliganj block of Patna district of Bihar. It’s been over a year since Covid-19 struck Bihar and the rest of the country. The lockdowns and the “unlocks” followed, but the weaving business did not return to its normal. And now, with the pandemic raging again, things have only worsened. The lack of the continuous clatter and click-clack of the looms that produce towels, bed sheets, lungis, curtains and shirt material tend to aggravate Faiyaz’s worries. “The supply of raw material, especially the threads that come from Tamil Nadu, has been adversely affected due to the coronavirus pandemic. The threads have become costlier too. Very few merchants are coming to buy our products. Only a fourth of what we produced was going to the market so we decreased our production. Our livelihood is at stake,” Faiyaz told The Telegraph. Faiyaz is not the only one facing problems. Over 1 lakh handloom weavers in Bihar are staring at joblessness as the pandemic has led to the lack of raw materials and buyers. And despite several “on paper” efforts by the central and the state governments for betterment of the weavers, they still remain essentially daily wagers or something around that. The state has several traditional hubs of handloom production, including Paliganj, Nawada, Biharsharif, Gaya, Banka, Siwan, Madhubani, Bhagalpur and Rohtas. The weavers, both Hindus and Muslims, are facing similar problems and fate. “Many weavers are leaving the occupation to become labourers, farm workers and construction workers. They don’t want to do so, but how will they survive if they don’t earn. Once the quality of our handloom products was famous in different parts of the country, but now people take pity on our condition,” Vijay Tanti, a weaver of Alinagar in Biharsharif, told this newspaper. Biharsharif is in Nalanda, the home district of chief minister Nitish Kumar. The weavers of Biharsharif are famous for producing good quality tussar silk and cotton products like bed sheets, towels and dress material. “The coronavirus pandemic has hurt us in another way as well. The central government has stopped organising the national handloom expos because of the pandemic. Around 10 to 12 such expos were organised every year in different parts of the country. We used to attend these events and achieve good sales,” Vijay added. Whatever little work is available these days, chiefly includes the weaving of coloured bed sheets for use in government hospitals. The Bihar government has a unique policy of using bed sheets of a different colour on different days of a week. However, the government has not paid the weavers for the bed sheets they supplied since June last year, and the dues are around Rs 3.5 crore. In the meantime, the director of handlooms, a post that comes under the state industries department, issued a letter to the Bihar State Handloom Cooperatives Union (BISHCOTEX) asking why the health department did not pay for the bed sheets that were supplied and why the weavers and the union kept supplying them when the dues were mounting. “The Bihar government should have taken some steps to protect the weavers and their livelihood during the pandemic. It could have prepared their roster and provided some financial help during the crisis. A majority of the weavers are poor and the last one year has broken their back. There is no respite in sight,” BISHCOTEX chairman Naquib Ahmad told this newspaper. Naquib pointed out that several good schemes initiated by the Nitish-led government for the welfare of the weaving community never took off. These included mandatory purchase of handloom cloth for curtains and dresses for patients in government hospitals. “Had the government wished, it could have arranged for the marketing of handloom products and maintained a smooth payment cycle. It purchases paddy and wheat from farmers, but does not do anything for weavers. There is no option left for the poor weavers other than to become labourers,” Naquib said. Even the powerloom weavers and owners in the silk city of Bhagalpur are facing trouble. Silk and linen cloth worth several crores produced by them for merchants of other states are lying at their facilities because they (merchants) have asked them to wait because the demand for such goods is very little because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Puri Jagannath Temple will remain closed for devotees on weekends||The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple in Odisha will remain closed for devotees on weekends in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. On Saturday and Sunday, the temple will be disinfected. The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Friday said the devotee restrictions will come into effect from April 24. “Mostly people come on weekends to the temple. In order to avoid unnecessary crowding, we have decided to shut down the temple for two days (in a week). If the situation persists, the Rath Yatra will be held this year without the participation of devotees like the previous year. The festival will be held in a restricted way where servitors who test negative for Covid will be allowed to participate in the Rath Yatra,” said a senior SJTA official. All devotees visiting the Jagannath temple from outside the state will be required to bring a Covid-19 negative certificate. The test (RT-PCR) must be done 96 hours prior to their visit to the temple or they will have to produce a report confirming they have already received the second dose of Covid vaccine. “All devotees will be required to bring a photo ID card like Aadhaar card or voter card or any other similar document for identification,” an official said. According to the standard operating procedures issued by the SJTA, lighting of diyas (earthen lamps) inside the temple by the devotees will not be permitted at all. “Devotees are requested not to touch the statue or idols inside the temple,” the SOP stated. It has also been decided that 300 servitors who are currently attending the Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand will have to undergo Covid-19 test on their return. “Before entering the shrine, they will have to take the RT-PCR test. Everyone irrespective of whether they are devotees, servitors or the police entering the temple, will have to wear masks. We will impose a fine on those who fail to do so. It will be strictly implemented. We will also educate people on maintaining social distance,” said an official. Thousands of devotees have tested positive for Covid-19 at the Kumbh Mela. Odisha on Friday reported 3,108 Covid-19 cases — the highest daily count so far this year. In view of the rise of in cases, the higher education department on Friday announced the suspension of both theory and practical examinations for college students. The revised schedule will be communicated later to the students after consulting the vice-chancellors. All the hostellers have been asked to vacate their respective hostels by Monday. The state government is worried about the influx of people from neighbouring Chhattisgarh where total cases have crossed the one-lakh mark. Besides a night curfew, adjoining Nuapada district on Friday clamped Section 144 of the CrPC in Khariar Notified Area Council (NAC) to prohibit unnecessary movement of people across the inter-state border. Earlier, the state government had announced a ban on religious congregations and political rallies. The Odisha government on Friday said that it received another three lakh doses of Covishield. The vaccines reached here on a special flight from the Serum Institute of India, Pune. So far 48,10,780 people in the state have been vaccinated, according to officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Nalco granted mining lease of Utkal-E coal block||The National Aluminium Company Limited (Nalco), the Navratna CPSE (Central Public Sector Enterprises), and leading producer of alumina and aluminium in the country has been granted the mining lease of Utkal-E coal block. The lease has been granted by the Odisha government through a notification issued on April 12, Nalco said in a press release issued on Friday. According to the notification, the mining lease of Utkal-E coal block is over an area of 523.73 Ha in villages Nandichhod, Gopinathpur Jungle, Kundajhari Jungle, Kosala and Korada under Chendipada Tahasil of Angul district. The initial capacity of Utkal-E coal block is 2 million tonnes per year with a total mineable reserve of approximately 70 million tonnes, the press release said. Nalco has already executed the mining lease for the Utkal D Coal block in March 2021. “With the grant of Utkal D & E coal blocks, the total mineable coal reserve of the Company will be 175 million tonnes, which will be pivotal in meeting the coal requirement of its Captive Power Plant at Angul, Odisha,” the press release said. Chairman-cum-Managing Director (CMD), Nalco Sridhar Patra said: “The Nalco team is very optimistic on starting the mining operation from Utkal-D coal block in this financial year. With the grant of the mining lease of Utkal E coal block, the planned expansion activities of the Company will get a boost and will contribute significantly to the bottom line of Nalco.” It further said initially Nalco will be able to produce 4 million tonnes coal per year from the operation of Utkal-D & E coal blocks. The lease for Utkal-D & E coal block has been granted to Nalco for 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
