18-04-2021||India||Railways to run ‘Oxygen Express’ to tackle Covid-19||The Railways will run 'Oxygen Express' over the next few days to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders across the country, the national transporter said on Sunday. Amid spiralling coronavirus cases in the country, the demand for medical oxygen in the country has gone through the roof. Empty tankers will begin their journey from Kalamboli and Boisar railway stations in and near Mumbai on Monday to load liquid medical oxygen Vizag, Jamshedpur, Rourkela and Bokaro, officials said. Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra state governments had earlier approached the Railways Ministry to explore whether liquid medical oxygen tankers could be moved by the rail network, they said. On the receipt of the request from the two states, the Railways immediately explored the technical feasibility of transportation of liquid medical oxygen. It has to be transported through roll-on-roll-off service with road tankers placed on flat wagons. "Since the first empty tankers will move on April 19, we hope to begin operations of Oxygen Express over the next few days. We would be able to send oxygen wherever there is such demand. Green Corridor is being created for fast movement of Oxygen Express trains," an official said. A meeting was held between Railway Board officials and state transport commissioners and representatives of the industry on April 17 on issues related to transportation of liquid medical oxygen. "Instructions have been issued to zonal railways to ensure readiness to receive the trailers and load them back. Ramps have to be built at Vizag, Angul and Bhilai and the existing ramp at Kalamboli is to be strengthened. "The Kalamboli ramp would be made ready by April 19. Ramps at other locations would also be ready in a couple of days by the time the tankers reach those locations," the Railway Ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
18-04-2021||India||Ramping up vaccination key to tackle Covid, says Manmohan Singh in letter to PM||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 crisis, stressing that ramping up vaccination was the key to battling the pandemic. In a letter to the prime minister, the veteran Congress leader said one must not look at absolute numbers but the total percentage of population vaccinated. "The key to our fight against Covid-19 must be ramping up the vaccination effort. We must resist the temptation to look at the absolute numbers being vaccinated, and focus instead on the percentage of the population vaccinated," he said in his letter. Noting that India currently has vaccinated only a small fraction of its population, Singh said he is certain that with the right policy design, "we can do much better and very quickly". "There are many things we must do to fight the epidemic but a big part of this effort must be ramping up the vaccination programme," he said while making several suggestions. Singh said he is forwarding his suggestions for consideration in a spirit of constructive cooperation in which he has always believed and acted upon. The suggestions come a day after the Congress Working Committee met and discussed the efforts required to fight the Covid pandemic. Singh said the Centre should publicise vaccine dose orders placed and accepted for delivery over the next six months. He said the government should indicate how vaccine supplies are to be distributed to states. India has seen a massive surge of Covid-19 cases with over two lakh cases being reported every day in the past four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
18-04-2021||India||Modi reviews Covid situation in his Lok Sabha constituency, Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency, and stressed the need for vaccination of everyone over 45 years of age. He asked the local administration to help people with full sensitivity and asserted that the cooperation of society as well as the government is necessary to curb the pandemic. According to a statement, Modi emphasised on implementing 'tracking, tracing and testing', saying this has to be fully followed to check the virus' spread in the same manner the first wave was curbed. Modi’s move comes at a time when cremation ghats in Varanasi are overflowing with bodies of the Covid dead with queues sometimes stretching into residential areas. Speaking to local officials and people's representatives, the prime minister asked the administration to ensure that preventive measures like social distancing and the use of masks are practised. "The prime minister underlined the importance of the vaccination exercise and asked the administration to raise awareness among everyone over 45 years about it," the statement said. As the member of Parliament from Varanasi, he has also been taking regular feedback from people, Modi said, adding that expansion and modernisation of medical infrastructure in the city have helped in fighting the pandemic. The availability of beds, ICU and oxygen facilities is being increased, he said. Noting that the administration has set up the 'Kashi COVID Response Centre', the prime minister said other steps should also be carried out swiftly. He was also informed about the mechanism put in by the administration, including a control room for contact tracing, a command and control centre for home isolation and a dedicated phone line for ambulance service. Also, telemedicine was being made available through a control room to deal with the rising Covid cases. The statement said 1,98,383 people have got the first dose of the Covid vaccine, while 35,014 have got both the jabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
18-04-2021||India||India becomes fastest country to inoculate 12cr beneficiaries with Covid shots||India took only 92 days to reach the mark of 12-crore vaccinations, the fastest country to do so, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. It is followed by the US which took 97 days and China which took 108 days. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 12 crore as part of the world's largest vaccination drive, it said. Cumulatively, 12,26,22,590 vaccine doses have been administered through 18,15,325 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 91,28,146 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 57,08,223 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,12,33,415 FLWs who have received the first dose and 55,10,238 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 4,55,94,522 and 38,91,294 beneficiaries aged more than 60 have been administered the first and second dose respectively and 4,04,74,993 and 10,81,759 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the first and second dose respectively. Eight states account for 59.5 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country. "The four states Gujarat (1,03,37,448), Maharashtra (1,21,39,453), Rajasthan (1,06,98,771) and UP (1,07,12,739) have so far administered more than 1 crore doses each to their population. Gujarat completed 1 crore vaccinations on April 16 while the other three states achieved it on April 14," the ministry said. "India took only 92 days to reach 12 crore vaccinations, the fastest country to do so. It is followed by the US which took 97 days and China (108 days)," the ministry stated. Over 26 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on day-92 of the vaccination drive (April 17), 26,84,956 vaccine doses were given. A total of 20,22,599 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 39,998 sessions for the first dose and 6,62,357 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine, it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
18-04-2021||India||Thank you for sparing your time: Chidambaram’s dig at Modi||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, thanking him for sparing "a little time" amidst the "urgent war to conquer West Bengal", to review the coronavirus situation in the country. He also criticised the prime minister for his "Didi-O-Didi" remark, asking if this is the manner in which the prime minister should refer to a chief minister. "Thank you Prime Minister for sparing a little time for Covid amidst the urgent war to conquer WEST BENGAL and annexe it to the BJP's empire," Chidambaram said on Twitter.  His remarks came after Modi chaired a Covid-19 review meeting with government officials on Saturday, amid a big surge in infection cases in the country, with over 2 lakh cases being reported everyday for the past four days. Referring to the PM's remarks on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Bannerjee, the Congress leader asked, "Is this the manner in which a prime minister should refer to a chief minister?" "I cannot imagine a Jawaharlal Nehru or a Morarji Desai or a Vajpayee speaking that language," he said. In another tweet, Chidambaram said while "no vaccine" boards hang on the doors of most hospitals, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan claims that "there is no shortage in the supply of vaccines". "Believe the minister, there is no shortage of vaccines, oxygen, Remdesivir, hospital beds, doctors and nurses. There is only a shortage of patients!," he said, taking a dig at the health minister. The former Union minister alleged the central government, which assumed all powers and authority, failed to ensure adequate production and supply of Covid19 vaccines. "Central government is solely responsible for the catastrophe faced by the nation," he said after the prime minister's review meeting on Saturday. The spread of the infection can only be contained with massive vaccination, he noted. Tragically, vaccines are in short supply and states have run out - or are running out - of vaccines, Chidambaram claimed. "Media is reporting that the PM said we defeated Covid last year, we can do it again', WRONG. Covid was not defeated in 2020. Covid exacted a heavy toll and waned on its own, no thanks to the central government, because the central government did little or nothing," he said in another tweet on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Covid situation getting worse in Dekhi, less than 100 ICU beds vacant: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said around 25,500 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi and the positivity rate has increased to nearly 30 per cent in the last 24 hours. He also said that the Delhi government has sought the Centre's help in ensuring adequate beds and supply of oxygen for Covid-19 patients. Less than 100 ICU beds are vacant in Delhi hospitals, and the situation is worsening every moment, Kejriwal said, adding that he spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah this morning and stressed on the need for making more beds available. "We are constantly in touch with the Centre and getting help from it," he said. The chief minister said due to the fast pace of increasing Covid-19 infections, hospital beds and oxygen for patients are depleting fast in the city. The Centre should reserve at least 7,000 of 10,000 beds in hospitals run by it in Delhi as Covid beds and ensure immediate supply of oxygen, he said. The Delhi government in next 2-3 days will come up with 6,000 beds at Yamuna Sports Complex, Radha Swami Satsang Beas premises and schools. It is also arranging high flow oxygen beds for the patients, Kejriwal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi cancels all rallies in Bengal in view of Covid spike in India||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday cancelled all his public rallies in poll-bound Bengal following a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in the country. He also advised all other politicians to think about the consequences of holding large public rallies. "In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal.I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances," he said on Twitter. The Congress has been critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for holding political rallies amid the rise in coronavirus cases in the country. Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram has accused the prime minister of shocking callousness for holding big political rallies in poll-bound Bengal amid the rise in Covid-19 cases. He said the prime minister should be at his job, sitting at his desk and coordinating with chief ministers in handling the Covid pandemic. Prime Minister Modi has been addressing public rallies in Bengal for the eight-phase Assembly elections in the state. India has been witnessing a massive surge in coronavirus cases. A record single-day rise of 2,61,500 coronavirus infections has taken the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,47,88,109, while active cases surpassed the 18-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||JEE-Mains, set to be held from April 27-30, postponed amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains scheduled to be held from April 27-30 has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 situation, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Sunday. "Given the current #covid19 situation, I have advised @DG_NTA to postpone the JEE (Main) 2021 April Session. I would like to reiterate that the safety of our students & their academic career are @EduMinOfIndia's and my prime concerns right now," Nishank tweeted. According to an official order by the National Testing Agency (NTA), "looking at the present situation of Covid-19 pandemic and also taking into account the safety and well being of candidates and examination functionaries, it has been decided to postpone JEE-(Main) April session". "The revised dates will be announced later on and at least 15 days before the examination," the order said.  Starting this year, the exam will be conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. While the first phase was conducted in February followed by the second phase in March. The next phases were scheduled to be held in April and May. Over 6.2 lakh candidates appeared in the first session while 5.5 lakh candidates appeared in the second session of the exam. As per the policy, after the February, March, April, and May Session of JEE(Main)-2021 Exam, the ranks of the candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores. Earlier this week, the CBSE had cancelled class 10 board exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of the exponential rise in cases. The CISCE board followed the move besides several state boards who have either cancelled or postponed board exams. A record single-day rise of 2,61,500 coronavirus infections has taken India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,47,88,109, while active cases have surpassed the 18-lakh mark, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,77,150 with a record 1,501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Covid-19: India witnesses deadliest day with 1,501 deaths||A record single-day rise of 2,61,500 coronavirus infections has taken India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,47,88,109, while active cases have surpassed the 18-lakh mark, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,77,150 with a record 1,501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 39th day in a row, the active cases stand at 18,01,316, comprising 12.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 86.62 per cent, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,28,09,643, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.20 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 26,65,38,416 samples have been tested up to April 17 with 15,66,394 samples being tested on Saturday. The 1,501 new fatalities include 419 from Maharashtra, 167 from Delhi, 158 from Chhattisgarh, 120 from Uttar Pradesh, 97 from Gujarat, 80 from Karnataka, 66 from Madhya Pradesh, 62 from Punjab and 39 from Tamil Nadu. These fresh fatalities also include 37 each from Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, 34 each from Bihar and West Bengal, 32 from Haryana, 30 from Jharkhand, 27 from Kerala, 15 each from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and 12 from Himachal Pradesh. The ministry said a total of 1,77,150 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 59,970 from Maharashtra, 13,270 from Karnataka, 13,071 from Tamil Nadu, 11,960 from Delhi, 10,540 from West Bengal, 9,703 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,834 from Punjab and 7,388 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Covid: Spiralling deaths stir hospital question||The record-breaking rise in the number of deaths linked to Covid-19 in India has triggered concerns that as hospitals come under intense strain, some patients who could have been saved may be lost. India on Saturday recorded 1,341 Covid-19 deaths over the previous 24 hours, the highest single-day count since the epidemic’s start. Ten states accounted for over 86 per cent of these deaths with the highest count in Maharashtra (398), followed by Delhi (141), Chhattisgarh (138), Uttar Pradesh (103) and Gujarat (94). Analysts believe the country’s Covid-19 death counts will continue to rise in the coming days as there is a lag between the new cases detected and the occurrence of deaths and as the coronavirus has spread into states and districts with weak healthcare infrastructure. “I think the worst is still ahead — our daily numbers are still rising, our death counts will also increase,” said T. Sundararaman, a community medicine expert and a coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a global network of health specialists. The previous highest daily death count was 1,290 on September 15, marking the peak of the first wave. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in a review meeting on Saturday with the health ministers of 11 hardest-hit states exhorted them to increase hospital and oxygen-supported beds and other infrastructure to manage the epidemic’s surge. Vardhan said the Centre, which had supplied 34,228 ventilators to various states last year, would now provide 1,700 more to Uttar Pradesh, 1,600 to Gujarat, 1,500 to Jharkhand, 1,121 to Maharashtra, 232 to Chhattisgarh and 152 to Madhya Pradesh. But public health experts are worried that the healthcare infrastructure in many districts across some states is understaffed and too fragile to be able to deliver the levels of critical care required to manage patients with severe Covid-19. “Ventilators alone may not help,” Sundararaman told The Telegraph. “Clinical management of the coronavirus disease is complex and requires trained doctors and nursing staff. Some districts are unlikely to have the staff or staff in the numbers required to handle increasing caseloads.” Under these circumstances, medical experts and officials fear that patients who could be potentially saved through appropriate and timely treatment could die. “We had ample time last year to prepare for what’s going on — the lockdown was intended to buy time,” said Oommen John, a physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “It looks increasingly as if India squandered away that opportunity to prepare.” Experts say the inadequacies of healthcare systems were apparent long before Covid-19. “We know snakebite victims in rural areas are more likely to die because of lack of treatment facilities such as critical care,” John said. “Now, it is only the large numbers that are highlighting long-standing inadequacies.” But even cities are reporting bed shortages. Household members of patients or friends, struggling to find beds, are turning to social media. The Delhi government has asked for additional beds in central government hospitals. The Centre and states have so far set up over 1.8 million beds for Covid-19 patients, including about 468,000 beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Doctors say they expect no more than 10 to 15 per cent of patients to need hospital care. India on Saturday recorded over 234,000 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of active patients to about 1.67 million. If 10 per cent of these patients need hospitalisation, the overnight extra bed requirement would be about 23,400.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Covid: India devastated by second wave because of Centre's mismanagement, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday said India was devastated by the second Covid-19 wave because of “colossal mismanagement” by the government, pointing out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi continued to treat the crisis with callousness by remaining engrossed in the Bengal election instead of sitting at his desk in Delhi to coordinate efforts to salvage the situation. The Congress Working Committee listed the Prime Minister’s specific failures in an extremely critical resolution that said: “India’s first case of Covid-19 was detected on January 30, 2020. India’s first vaccine shot was administered on January 16, 2021. Between the two dates, and thereafter, there is a saga of tragedy, incompetence and colossal mismanagement. “As we meet today, the cumulative number of infections is 1,45,26,609 and the cumulative death toll is 1,75,673.” Briefing on the CWC deliberations, former finance minister P. Chidambaram said in response to a question: “It is shocking callousness on the part of the Prime Minister to be addressing rallies in Bengal instead of staying in Delhi and coordinating among ministries to control the situation. We all know this is a one-man government and all the decisions are taken by the Prime Minister’s Office.” Chidambaram added: “Modi should have been in Delhi, sitting at his desk, coordinating augmentation of supplies, talking to chief ministers, solving problems. Is it the time for the Prime Minister to hold mega rallies and spend crores of rupees on mobilising crowds? Where would the Prime Minister be if there was a war today? We hope the people of Bengal will take note and give a befitting reply to his callousness.” Senior leader Ajay Maken, who jointly briefed the media with Chidambaram, said: “The Centre captured all the powers under the Pandemic and Disaster Management Acts and the Prime Minister is busy in pure politics by remaining in Bengal the whole day. States have no power. Can the states decide on importing oxygen? Even minor details like who gets vaccine are decided by the Centre. Who should be blamed for the failures? The Prime Minister is responsible.” Explaining what a Prime Minister’s foresight and dedication could have achieved, Chidambaram said: “The ministers ridiculed Rahul Gandhi when he sought clearance for vaccines available in the world. We have finally cleared the vaccines but are those firms in a position to supply to us now? The US and the European countries have already placed their orders and booked the entire production in advance. The Serum Institute said it needs Rs 3,000 crore to ramp up production. A Congress government would have sanctioned the amount immediately, without cabinet approval.” Responding to a question about Modi’s plea to check celebrations at Kumbh in Haridwar, Chidambaram asked: “How many days has the Kumbh Mela gone on already? This is a case of locking the stable when the horses have bolted.” The Kumbh, where lakhs of people have gathered, has been on for more than two weeks. To another question on the eight-phase Bengal polls, the Congress leader said: “Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry together have 404 seats where polls happened on a single day. Why can’t Bengal, which has 294 seats, have polls in one day?” Stressing the need for urgent corrective measures to control the spread of the virus and avoid catastrophic consequences, the CWC resolution said: “The initial response measures of the central government were ludicrous, to say the least. The Prime Minister went on national television to exhort people to clang plates; and after two weeks he went on national television to exhort people to light lamps. Medical experts held back their criticism of such superstitious rites; and knowledgeable persons cautioned the government that it ought to take scientific measures to confront the pandemic.” Listing the failures of a Prime Minister who was addressing two or three rallies a day in Bengal and other election-bound states when the second Covid wave was crippling the country, the resolution said: “Failed to create sufficient public awareness that a waning pandemic could be a precursor to a second wave that may be more devastating than the first wave, failed to rapidly scale up the production and supply of the two approved vaccines, failed to resort to compulsory licensing and production of the two approved vaccines in other pharma manufacturing facilities in India.” The resolution continued: “Failed to universalise vaccination, to get rid of pre-registration and bureaucratic control over the vaccination programme, to leave the vaccine rollout to the state governments and public and private hospitals, to adopt a need-based, fair and equitable allocation of the vaccine doses to states, to curb the exports of large quantities of vaccine doses to other countries, to provide adequate funds to the state governments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Bengal lost out because Left and Mamata were busy fighting the Centre, says Amit Shah ||Union home minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah discusses his love for Bengal, politicisation of the administration and the BJP’s grand plans of overhauling education in a freewheeling conversation with the Editor Emeritus of The Telegraph Digital. The interview was conducted during the second week of April. TTOnline: This election has proved to be a boon for you. You could travel across Bengal. (Shakes his head smiling) How many times have you come to Bengal? I had come for the Ganga Sagar mela once when I was young. But I have travelled across Bengal from 2016, and have managed to visit 38 to 40 per cent of tehsils. I have had this desire to travel and see the country since I was a child. By God’s grace I became the president of the BJP and ended up travelling to about 93 per cent of districts. But not so much West Bengal, even though Bengal has always attracted me. The likes of Swami Vivekananda, Ramakrishna Paramhans, Chaitaniya Mahaprabhu have always attracted people to Bengal. As for literature, I have read Gurudev Rabindranath and Bankim Chandra Chattopadhya, and I have always harboured an interest to know more about them. In that case, if the BJP is able to form a new government here, you could become tourism minister? Ha, ha… (laughs). I can’t say who will be tourism minister. The new chief minister will decide that. Have the attractions of Bengal as a tourist destination diminished? The one thing I am certain about is that all of India looked up to Bengal for its deep awareness and knowledge of philosophy, literature and nationalism. But first the Left and now the Trinamul Congress have managed to destroy these three pillars. This doesn’t indicate that people have lost their interest in Bengal. But unless you present these plus points to the people, the rest of India will stay disconnected. I sincerely believe that once a BJP government is in place, Bengal will be the cynosure of all eyes in India and abroad. How many speeches have you given, and in how many constituencies? Not sure. Since October, I think I have done roadshows and addressed meetings in about 48 constituencies. You were in Bengal during the elections of 2014 and 2019, were you not? Not in 2014 as my responsibilities were different. But I came to Bengal in 2016 and 2019 and visited several places. So, will you touch 100 rallies and roadshows? Should be more. By the time this election is over, the number will be in the range of 125 and 130. Then it will be a Guinness record. No, nothing like that. But yes, I have travelled to a number of states, like Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Bihar, Manipur, Tripura and Assam. Don’t you feel tired? No, on the contrary, I feel encouraged. I feel energised. Don’t you find it monotonous? Not at all. You will find it monotonous, or feel tired, if you consider this to be a burden. But if you understand and enjoy your responsibilities, then you never feel bored or tired. I do what I am asked to do diligently, with all my attention to the best of my abilities. What about the press conferences and interviews that you do? I do a lot of them. And at times, the questions are repetitive. But one can’t get angry about it. They represent a newspaper or a television channel. And they need answers. Those who are answering their questions, they should do so patiently. They may not wish to repeat themselves if the questions are similar, but I believe it is important for them to listen to them patiently. This approach doesn’t tire me out, neither mentally nor physically. You seem to have a lot of patience? Patience? Perhaps your analysis is not accurate (laughs). It’s not that I have immense patience. But I understand that is their job, they need answers. Why should I feel irritated? I keep saying everyday: Get rid of this extortionist government. Get rid of this government propped up by illegal aliens. Get rid of this corrupt government. Do people find it monotonous? This is my job. If the masses don’t feel that my speeches are repetitive, then I too must not feel the same way after listening to journalists’ questions. But you are in various constituencies in front of different sets of people? Still, everyone’s watching everything on TV. In spite of that it is my responsibility to tell them these things. Just as it is the responsibility of journalists to get answers for their respective organisations. You have said in your speeches that Bengal hasn’t seen progress. But that is not confined to Didi’s tenure. There has been no progress since the time of Jyoti Basu. Between them, they were in power for 44 years. Will a BJP government be able to change this? We can certainly stop the degradation. The beginning will be good too.  I cannot tell you how long it will take for Bengal to regain its hallowed past, but I am certain we can stop Bengal’s decay. This I am sure of. As soon as a new government is sworn-in? A new government will usher in a renewed effort. From the first Left government of 1977 to the government of Mamatadidi, the only politics that was pursued was that of confrontation with the Centre. For narrow political gain, the Centre’s schemes and initiatives weren’t allowed in Bengal. They feared the Union government would get popular in Bengal whoever that may be. Our government has been in power at the Centre for about six and a half years. Before that, the Atal Behari Vajpayee government was in power for some time. Before that Indira Gandhi, the Congress… It was the duty of Bengal governments to engage with the Centre on Bengal’s needs and rights. They did not, thereby depriving the people of Bengal of that right. As soon as you take the oath? New efforts will begin with the new government. Since 1978, first the Left and then Mamata Banerjee have been doing the same politics - fight with the Centre! They did not allow the projects of the central government to enter Bengal for their own vested political interests. They want the central government not to become popular in the state! That is whatever the government. Our government has been in power for six and a half years. Before that the government of Atalji had some time. Indira Gandhi had a government. There was a Congress government. They should have talked to the Indian government at that time about the rights of Bengal. They have deprived the people of Bengal of that right. An example? For example, Narendra Modi has come up with a plan to povide Rs 6,000 to each farmer. This scheme has been going on for three years. But Bengal’s farmers have not got it yet because Didi did not send the list (of beneficiaries). She did not send bank account numbers. We offered another scheme, that of providing Rs 5 lakh for the treatment of every poor person. This should also be available to the poor people of Bengal, but they aren’t. And it is because Didi is not allowing it to continue. Similarly, the Prime Minister's Rural Road Scheme is not being launched because she fears it will make him (Narendra Modi) popular. The people of Bengal also have a right to the keys of the Central government’s coffers. Whether it’s Jyoti Basu, Mamtadidi or Buddhadeb babu, they have all deprived the people of Bengal of that right. The Centre has committed no wrong to Bengal. The rulers of Bengal have. Buddhababu too? Yes, he too. Because the cadres of his party wielded the knife against him. I have analysed and studied this in great detail. Many people think that Jyoti Babu was able to remain chief minister because he did not try to accomplish anything. Similarly, Didi has been in power for 10 years because she too hasn’t done much. Buddhadebbabu tried to do things, worked towards development, and tried to bring in industry. That is why the people of Bengal got rid of him. Bengalis do not like to work, and the people who do. That's not the point. I think there was a dichotomy between his (Buddha's) cadres. There is no dichotomy in Bengali society. The communists never contested elections on the basis of Bengali society. They fought as cadres. Buddhadeb Bhattacharya was never accepted by his cadres. This is my political explanation, which could be wrong. But it’s not that Buddhadeb Bhattacharya lost the election because he wanted to accomplish something. He wanted to bring in the Tatas. He also tried to set up a chemical hub in Nandigram. Such one-off, symbolic initiatives can’t usher in transformation. The biggest thing he could do was to stop the politicisation of the government and make the administration independent. Buddhadebababu made no attempt to do so. The party was sitting on his head. The party controlled the administration. As long as the administration is not independent, no state can reach out to the people, to the truly poor. Cadres come in between. Buddhadeb Bhattacharya made no attempt to make the administration independent. Projects like Singur and the like are good for an image boost and get a few pictures on the front pages of newspapers. That’s about it. What should have been done? Consider Uttar Pradesh. There too the administration was totally politicized. We came to power and rid the administration of politics. No one can threaten a district magistrate, no one can pelt shoes at anyone. No one can force a transfer. The SP also has total freedom. In UP, officers used to be transferred, on an average, within three months. Now that’s become three years. Neither Buddhadeb Bhattacharya nor Mamtadidi has been able to do this. Is it even possible? People think political masters run the administration. The party decides who will be posted or transferred. During the Left regime, these decisions would be taken at Alimuddin Street by Anil Biswas. For Didi, it used to be Mukul Roy. Now that Mukul has left, Abhishek is doing that. It will be, after May 2. No extra-constitutional system allows the administration to succeed. My party believes that there should not be any extra-constitutional system. Can you change a ‘tradition’ of the last 44 years? If you have the will it can be done - as in many states. At one time Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh were called sick states. These four states have been on the path of development since the BJP came to power. Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are better than before. Rajasthan is no longer sick. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have also, by and large, come out of that situation. States that have been sick for the last 25 years, we have been able to change in five to ten years. The BJP's track record says so. But those who have worked in this state for long know of one system. It was started at the time of Jyotibabu. Didi has maintained the same system. If you want to change that, you will have to re-educate bureaucrats. Bureaucracy or the administration is like water. If you put him in a glass, he will be like glass. Put him in a cup, he will be like a cup. The water will take the shape of the reservoir.  If the pot is right, the water will be right too. The UPA government saw corruption to the tune of Rs 12 lakh crore. Even then it was the same administration. But we haven't had a major financial scandal in six and a half years. No one has been able to complain. And it is the same administration. There’s been no 2G or 4G. So how will you go about it? Decisions will be taken by the elected government. The administration will implement it. But if you involve cadres in implementation, that’s where the problem starts. If the elected government takes constitutional decisions the administration will have to ensure the benefits reach the lowest level. If you try to break the chain, then distortions will creep in _ which is what has been happening in Bengal for years. When we come to power, recruitment or transfer will have no political influence. This is not the first government we are going to set up. There are 16 BJP governments in this country. And these are all running well. An example? Look at Assam. When we said, ‘we will create an agitation-free Assam’ or a ‘militant-free Assam’, no one believed us. But in the last five years there hasn’t been a single agitation in Assam. More than 2,000 militants have surrendered. Assam is walking on the road to development. So is Tripura. And Manipur? It used to be shut down (bandh) for 200 days. There would be blockades. There hasn't been a single bandh or blockade since the BJP government came to power there three and a half years ago. This is what administration is meant to be. What is the magic behind this? There is no magic. You need to understand your dignity and act accordingly. What will be your first task when you come to power? The first task will be to synergise everyone and everything else towards the development of Bengal. This has not been done in Bengal for many years. Both parties have run the state with their cadres. Every Bengali has to be associated with the development of Bengal. Every Bengali should connect with the honour, glory and self-respect of Bengal. This is very important. The communists did not do this. Mamata did not try it too. Even after being down in the doldrums for so long, Bengal, I believe, has the most possibilities. Why? In the state where I live, water is found 1,200 feet below the ground. Here, there’s water barely 60 feet below. The river, Ganga, brings the fertility of the whole country to this state. Bengal can be the largest centre for business in eastern India. All markets of east India will open up. The road that will be opened after the exchange of enclaves with Bangladesh will make communication with the Northeast easier and quicker. By building two or three more ports, Bengal can be the gateway for industries of Bihar to Assam. Bengalis never lacked intelligence. Gokhale said, what Bengal thinks today, the whole country thinks tomorrow. Hence, I think, if someone guides that intellect in the right direction and with foresight, then the situation will change. It will lead to amazing change. After the conquest of Murshidabad, Lord Clive wrote a letter to the East India Company stating that there were 86 London properties in Murshidabad. I am talking of London of that time! Here we have fertile soil, no shortage of water, intelligent people, and a glorious past. I don't think there is anything lacking here except political will and hard work. Land holdings are small in Bengal because it is fertile. There will be problems for industry. Those who have experienced development create such myths. In Gujarat, 25 lakh women work in Amul, milk for which reaches all parts of the world. Here, one has to spend one tenth of that to raise a cow at home. Raising a buffalo also costs one tenth of what it is in Gujarat. But no cooperative dairy has been set up here? There’s been no agitation for it. On the contrary, all cows were trafficked to Bangladesh! Each state has some plus and minus points. If the land holdings are small, one will have to work much less to earn a living. Just keep going in the right direction. Every human being has a way of earning. Zamindari belongs to one person. As many as 1,200 people have land here. It is a great power. There is so much government land in Bengal that if a land bank was to be set up faithfully, there’s enough land for industry for the next 20 years. Buddhababu also used to say this. Didi also says so. But no one did anything! See the website of West Bengal and tell me how much land there is in the Sundarbans for industry? All state websites have all the information. Open the Gujarat website and you can find out how much land there is in Mandbi taluka of Kutch district. In Jammu and Kashmir too, all the information has been posted on its website in the last five months. The land ceiling act has been repealed everywhere but not here. It is there in my state too. But once non-agricultural land gets a no-objection certificate, there is no upper limit law. The land ceiling act is to protect agricultural land holdings. In Ahmedabad city, there is no land ceiling act. It has been annulled across the country. But it is still here in Calcutta. I think that law should be repealed in Calcutta too. We repealed the law during the time of the NDA government. Bengalis love holidays. Russia did not announce a holiday on the centenary of Lenin's birth. But Jyotibabu announced a holiday in Bengal! Mamtadidi also gives a lot of leave. There is a culture of laziness here. No, I don't think there is a culture of laziness in Bengal. In terms of GDP, Bengalis used to contribute 30 per cent. That is the culture of a hundred and fifty years. It has taken 650 years for this country to move from dhoti to pajama. Culture doesn’t change so easily. It is in the DNA. As a central leader, I cannot say whether the holiday culture will end when the BJP government comes to power in Bengal. The government of the day will have to decide. If need be, it may consult the Centre. But if I take such decisions from Delhi, it doesn't look good. Those who are elected here, the chief minister, ministers will decide. There is no debate about who will be chief minister if Didi returns to power. But who will it be for you? Our chief minister is yet to be decided. You see, our political strength is that we have not yet decided on the name of any chief minister. Our strength is also that Didi's name has been fixed as their chief minister (laughs). Are you happy with the work of those who have joined your party from other parties? We have an all-India team. Wherever our party has grown, leaders and activists from other parties have joined us. In Tripura, 20 per cent of those in the Communist Party has joined us. In Assam, people from the Congress joined us. In Uttar Pradesh, 30 per cent MLAs have come from SP and BSP. They are 100 out of 300! But when they accept the ideology, and leadership of the BJP, they have to abide by our party’s discipline. Otherwise, the party will take action against them. But why should I think they will not abide by the party rules. I am an optimist. This happens during every vote. Where did Didi come from? From the Congress. Her entire party came from the Congress. How can she complain about defections? Mamata says there are a lot of issues among old timers and newbies in the BJP. She should stop worrying about what is happening in our team and think of how she will survive (laughs). Our ability to cushion problems is strong. Both the Congress and the CPI(M) gained support while in power. But both lost their support base after losing power. This has been seen election after election. If Mamata's government goes, what will happen to Trinamul? What is your prediction? This is not for me to predict. But the way she has run Trinamul or her government, it will be difficult for her to sustain the party! For example, in Uttar Pradesh, we formed the party while in the Opposition. The same is true in Assam and Rajasthan. Vashundhara Raje lost. But the party remained. In Manipur and Tripura, we formed the party while in the Opposition. Elections come and go, we win some, lose some. But our vote does not decrease. We stay on. The Congress, for example, is finished in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Bengal. But we didn’t get wiped out anywhere. Win or lose elections, we have increased our influence in every state. But democracy needs a strong Opposition? If there is no Opposition in West Bengal, we will end up with small district-wise parties. Will that be good for the state? Agreed democracy needs a strong Opposition. But it is not my job to provide that. That is the job of the people. I don't believe that in the absence of a primary Opposition, there will be small area-based parties. Politics does not offer such space. But someone or the other will come and fill in that space. In Uttar Pradesh, for example, the Congress party is finished. SP-BSP has been formed in its place. In Bihar, the Congress is finished.  In its place, we have the BJP, Janata Dal and Lalu’s party. There is no vacuum in politics. Even if that happens, our responsibility to perform increases 20 per cent. And we should be ready for that. I think the people decide what happens in a democracy and not theoreticians like Aveek Sarkar (laughs). It is better to leave it to the people. Once upon a time, education was very strong in Bengal. There was a lot of improvement during the time of Shyamaprasad Mukherjee. I have studied it in detail. It used to be very good. But in the current situation, the education infrastructure and hierarchy will have to be rebuilt. How? We have created a fund of Rs 20,000 crore and worked out detailed plans for infrastructure upgrade of all educational institutions. We call it Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar Fund. I have created a Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay fund of Rs 10,000 crore to fill the gaps. Suppose there are 13 colleges for one lakh children which is much lower than the national average. So, we have to open polytechnic colleges, medical colleges, general colleges. Only then will educational facilities increase. What is there now needs to be developed. Staff vacancies etc need to be filled quickly. From primary to post graduation, from technical to medical education and legal education, we have allocated Rs 20,000 crore as mentioned in our manifesto. We will build 100 government colleges, 50 new polytechnic colleges and create 20 medical colleges. And the Government of India will help. And Santiniketan? For Santiniketan, we have created a fund of Rs 20 crore which will bring the focus of the world back on Gurudev Rabindranath's dream. We have to do something new. I think Santiniketan is in itself a solution to many of the world's problems. Gurudev’s idea of creating a complete man, a fearless man who develops his own will independently does not look like happening anywhere in the world till the next 23rd or 24th century. We will emphasise on this. We will announce academic chairs in the name of various great men of Bengal like Rishi Aurobindo, Rabindranath Tagore, Subhash Babu, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu all across the country. We are moving towards full integration on the basis of advice we received while framing our manifesto. When the government is formed, when the administration is in our hand and we analyse its shortcomings, we will draw up a complete blueprint of our plans. But we will definitely try to improve education. For example, we have created a 'Child University' in Gujarat. Learning begins when a baby is in the womb. Take three days off and visit our university. There’s nothing like it in the rest of the world. In the Mahabharat, Abhimanyu's education began in the womb of his mother whose good behaviour, good thinking influenced her unborn child. No one in the world thinks about this. But now people from all over the world come to see this university. There will be such experiments here too. But until we can form a government, we will not be able to say exactly where the shortcomings are. That is why we have made big sketches. After coming to power, all of these will be scrutinised and a detailed blueprint made for the betterment of education. Since the time of CPI(M), intellectual resources have been moving out of the state. Many have gone to Delhi or Bangalore. I think many more Bengalis should be sent out. They will be the brand ambassadors of Bengal. There is no shortage of intelligence in Bengal. The system is lacking. Every Bengali has the best intelligence in the world. As many Bengalis go out, they will become your ambassadors. Don't stop them (laughs). Instead, improve the environment here so that the Bengalis who live here also get job opportunities. This is a political answer. But if there are no good people left who will teach? No, it wasn’t a political answer. It’s my belief. Don't think of it as a political response. I think people have become despondent because there is an atmosphere of fear. A lot of people will come out when an open atmosphere is created. Those people will do very well not just in education, but in literature, music, art and elsewhere. Earlier, 90 per cent people used to go abroad to study space science or space technology. Now barely 10 per cent go because their education is being fully utilised in the country. Then why go! We have opened up space science to the private sector. Now the possibilities are so vast in this country that there is a need to create new colleges for space science. Tomorrow Question: Will industry come from Gujarat? Answer: Of course. Industry will come from Maharashtra too||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Last rites of 108 people performed according to coronavirus protocol in Bhopal||The last rites of 108 people were performed according to coronavirus protocol in Bhopal on Thursday, according to records maintained by crematoriums and graveyards and officials working there, the number far higher than the Madhya Pradesh government’s claim on Covid-19 fatalities that day. The government had said only eight persons had died of the infection in Bhopal district on Thursday. According to the records with two crematoriums and a graveyard, the last rites of 156 people were performed on Thursday in the state capital. Of them, 108 were coronavirus-infected, the documents showed. “Eighty-eight people were cremated in our crematorium on Thursday. Of them, 72 had died of coronavirus,” Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat (crematorium) secretary Mamtesh Sharma said. Of the 72 Covid deceased, 45 were from Bhopal, while 27 were from other districts, he said. “The last rites of 51 people (21 of them Bhopal residents) were performed at our crematorium on Thursday,” Subhash Nagar Vishram Ghat manager Sobhraj Sukhwani said, adding that of these, 26 had died of the respiratory disease. “Burial of 17 people took place in our cemetery. Of them, 10 were the ones who died of coronavirus. Eight of the deceased were local while the two hailed from other districts,” president of Zada Graveyard Committee, Jahangirabad, Rehan Golden, said. According to a state government bulletin on Thursday, 666 patients had died of Covid-19 in Bhopal district since the outbreak. District chief medical and health officer Dr Prabhakar Tiwari could not be contacted for his comment. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s explanation for the gap in numbers was that last rites of suspected Covid patients were also performed as per the Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Covid: Bodies pile up at cremation ghats in Varanasi||The cremation ghats in Varanasi are overflowing with bodies of the Covid dead with queues sometimes stretching into residential areas. Bodies line the stairs of the Harishchandra Ghat along the Ganga in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency. Staff members at the crematorium said the body count had been 125 on Friday and 127 on Saturday, almost 10 times higher than the 15-odd bodies that used to be cremated daily. According to a crematorium employee, the ghat has two electric incinerators and three platforms for wood pyres. “Officially, there were bodies of 11 coronavirus infected persons on Friday and 12 on Saturday. But the total numbers of the dead has become unusually high,” said Mohit Chaudhary, a staffer. Another staff member said on the condition of anonymity: “We are treating every body as that of a Covid-19 patient and handling them carefully. Most bereaved relatives are saying that the deceased had fever and other Covid symptoms. Either they could not be tested or they died before the results arrived.” “We managed to cremate 80 bodies over the past 24 hours by setting up more pyres. However, bodies are piling up at the ghat. You can see bodies kept even in the streets near the ghat as there is no space here,” the staff member added. Rajesh Yadav, the Nagar Nigam councillor of the area, said: “The situation is clearly out of control. There is fear of the infection spreading in areas near Harishchandra Ghat. We are sanitising the streets and appealing to the people to ensure they use PPE kits and that clothes of the deceased are not left behind after the cremation is completed.” The scene is similar at Manikarnika Ghat. Ramesh Rai, who had brought his uncle’s body to the ghat on Saturday morning, told reporters: “My uncle had fever and breathing problem for the past six days. He had been admitted to a private hospital and a Covid test was done. But we didn’t get the report even after his death.” “There are 52 bodies in the queue and one has to wait for a minimum of one-and-a-half hours for the electric incinerator and five hours for a wood pyre. I think I will have to wait till Sunday night,” Rai added. According to the health department, there are 11,500 active Covid patients in Varanasi. Gaurang Rathi, the municipal commissioner of Varanasi, said: “We are trying to manage the situation. A large number of employees have been deployed at the cremation grounds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Covid: NEET postponement disappoints aspirants||Pulkit Santoshi has been preparing for the postgraduate medical entrance exam for the past two years. Three days ahead of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (postgraduate), scheduled to be held this Sunday, the government decided to defer the exam in view of the second wave of the pandemic. Without clarity on a fresh date for the exam, Santoshi said it was discouraging to “pursue a goal when the goalpost is nowhere to be seen”. Many students preparing for admission to MD, MS, DNB and PG diploma courses expressed disappointment at the decision to defer the test indefinitely. The National Board of Examination (NBE) conducts the NEET (PG) in January every year. This year, the NBE had deferred the test to April 18. Nearly 1.76 lakh candidates have applied for nearly 35,000 postgraduate seats in government and private institutions except the Institutions of National Importance like AIIMS. The NBE had issued admit cards. “Preparation for the NEET (PG) involves a strategy. For that you need to know the date of the exam. Today, we do not know when the test will be held. It is disappointing,” Santoshi said. He pointed out that AIIMS, which conducts its own entrance exam, had gone ahead with the test last year in May when the lockdown was in force. The NEET (undergraduate) was also conducted by the National Testing Agency in September when daily Covid cases had been in excess of 90,000. “The country needs more doctors to attend to corona(virus) patients. We would have joined duty in hospitals after our admission,” Santoshi said. While the NEET (PG) has been deferred, AIIMS on Saturday conducted the INI Combined Entrance Test for DM and M.CH superspeciality courses. On Tuesday, the Union health ministry had written to all states to consider the entrance test to be conducted by AIIMS as an essential activity. The postgraduate entrance exam is slated to be held on May 8. Santoshi said the exam should be held soon so that students’ admission was not delayed. Another student, Happy Kumar, said the decision to postpone the test was logical but “harsh” considering the preparations undertaken over several months. “I can understand why the test has been postponed. Some candidates and invigilators may be suffering from Covid. They may spread it. But if you consider the preparations and coaching, it is a harsh decision,” Kumar said. He suggested that the government should consider holding the NEET (PG) entrance exam on the same date as the AIIMS (PG) test. Nearly 70,000 candidates have applied for the AIIMS exam. An NEET candidate in Calcutta supported the government’s decision. He said students could never celebrate their achievements if they contracted the coronavirus at exam centres and passed it onto their family members. “The usual admission time is till August-end. The government postponed the exam because the daily Covid cases have crossed 2 lakh. Once the situation improves, the exam will be held. There won’t be much of an academic loss,” he said. He said there were several logistical issues as well, such as travelling to other cities to take the test. Local curfews have been imposed in many places. “The exam duration is three-and-a-half hours. But a student will have to spend four-and-a-half hours, including formalities. In case a person is corona(virus) positive, several students will be infected,” he said. Vaibhav, a doctor in Gwalior, said that if there was a delay in admission to postgraduate courses, the promotion of first-year students would also be pushed back. The award of degrees to final-year students would also be delayed. “The current first-year students are doing Covid duty. They can pursue their specialisation only when the fresh batch takes admission,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Covid: Sonia Gandhi reminds Narendra Modi of ‘rajdharma’||Congress president Sonia Gandhi reminded the Prime Minister of his “rajharma” on a day a chief minister struggling with a Covid surge in his state revealed that he had tried to reach Narendra Modi to seek help on oxygen supplies, only to be told the Prime Minister was busy with the Bengal election campaign. “Maharashtra needs oxygen supply…. I contacted Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the need for oxygen supply, but he wasn’t available on phone… since he was busy with the West Bengal poll campaign. But the Centre is cooperating with the state,” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is quoted as saying in a release issued by the chief minister’s office. Maharashtra, which is among the states reporting the highest number of new coronavirus cases, has been repeatedly flagging the need for more oxygen. Union minister Piyush Goyal lashed out at Thackeray, accusing his government of being “corrupt” and “inept”. Maharashtra had received the maximum oxygen supply, he said. Sonia regretted that the Modi government was resorting to political brinkmanship at a time people faced unprecedented miseries. Recalling that there was no response to her letter to the Prime Minister on certain measures she suggested, Sonia said at the Congress Working Committee meeting: “There has been thundering silence on the part of the government. Instead of listening to the constructive suggestions of the Opposition, Union ministers are pressed into service to attack leaders of the Opposition for giving those suggestions. This convoluted ‘me versus you’ debate is childish and totally unnecessary.” Arguing that callous mismanagement by the government has pushed the country into crisis again, she added: “Let us ensure that the suggestions our party puts forward are considered by the government in the spirit of true democratic traditions. Taking on these challenging times as Indians rather than as political opponents will be true rajdharma (a ruler’s duty).” Various suggestions given by the senior leaders at the CWC meeting on Saturday are being collated and will be part of a letter former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will write to Modi on Sunday. Some leaders said while vaccines being given to the poor and underdeveloped countries was understandable, gift and export to rich countries was avoidable. Sonia said: “Considering the highest infection rate in the world in our own country, shouldn’t vaccine export be held back and priority given to protect our citizens? How is boasting about our generosity to other countries going to help the thousands of our people who are dying.” Sonia also reiterated the party’s demand for transferring Rs 6,000 to the accounts of poor people immediately in the wake of economic disruption caused by partial lockdowns. Asked if a total national lockdown was called for, senior leader P. Chidambaram said: “The government’s mismanagement is pushing states towards that. But lockdown will hit the economy, which is already in a dire state.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Modi expresses concern about Kumbh Mela’s potential to weaken the country’s fight against Covid ||Sections of political leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Saturday voiced concern about the Kumbh Mela’s potential to weaken the country’s fight against Covid-19 after lakhs of devotees and seers had congregated at the Haridwar Kumbh for days. Modi, in a telephone conversation with Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Poojya Swamy Avdheshanand Giri Ji, requested that the Kumbh be kept “symbolic from now on as two Shahi Snans (holy bathing rituals) have already taken place,” the Press Information Bureau, the Centre’s public information office said. “This will strengthen the fight against the pandemic,” the PIB quoted Modi as saying. The Acharya has replied respecting the Prime Minister’s request and has asked devotees not to come for bathing in large numbers and to follow Covid-19 appropriate precautions, the PIB said. At present, there are around 20 lakh people, including sadhus and devotees, in the Mahakumbh mela area along the Ganga and they are to start returning home after the last Shahi Snan (royal bath) on April 27. On Saturday evening, Swami Avdheshanand, mahamandaleshwar (supreme sadhu) of Sri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhara, tweeted in Hindi: “The people of India and the safety of their lives is our first priority. We have done the immersion of all the gods and goddess according to the rules of the Kumbh in view of the corona(virus) pandemic. The immersion is systematic closure of the Kumbh by Juna Akhara.” He tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat in his tweet. Avdheshanand, who is known for his proximity to the rich and the powerful, had in the morning tweeted: “We respect the appeal of the honourable Prime Minister ji. Saving the lives is a holy work. I appeal to the religious people not to come in large numbers for the holy bath and follow the rules.” “How many days has the Kumbh Mela gone on already? This is a case of locking the stable when the horses have bolted,” Congress leader P. Chidambaram said. The Kumbh had started on April 1 and has been allowed to go on although the country is in the grip of a brutal second wave of Covid. Avdheshanand held a news conference in Haridwar mela area around 11am on Saturday and said: “Since only one Shahi Snan (April 27) is left, we have decided to do it symbolically.” About an hour later, Srimahant Rajendra Das, head of Sri Panch Nirmohi Ani Akhara, told reporters in the mela area: “I had a long discussion with home minister Amit Shah today (Saturday). All the rules would be followed during the Shahi Snan of April 27. The saints would be there in limited numbers during the holy bath.” On Friday, some sadhus of Niranjani, Sri Panchayati and Anand akharas had said they were disillusioned by the health management in the Kumbh and decided to conclude it in the interest of the people. However, this was opposed by many akharas besides Swaroopanand Saraswati, Shankaracharya of both Dwarka Sharda Peetham in Gujarat and Jyotir Math in Badrinath. “The Kumbh will continue till April 30. It cannot be shortened,” he had said. Gujarat’s chief minister Vijay Rupani and Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar on Saturday independently called for testing of those returning from the Kumbh. Rupani said people returning to Gujarat after attending the Kumbh will have to undergo an RT-PCR test before they are allowed to enter their cities or villages, a Press Trust of India report said. “Collectors of all districts in Gujarat have been directed to keep watch on the Kumbh Mela returnees and enforce a nakabandi (security check) to prevent their entry into their hometowns without an RT-PCR test,” Rupani said. “Officials have been directed to isolate those people found infected during testing.” In Mumbai, mayor Pednekar said those returning from the Kumbh to their states will distribute the coronavirus as “prasad” and that the call for a stop to the Kumbh now “will not protect us.” “All these people should be quarantined in their respective states at their own cost and tested,” Pednekar was quoted as saying by Asian News International. “In Mumbai also, we’re thinking of putting them under quarantine on their return.” Public health experts have been worried about the potential impact of the Kumbh on the epidemic. The Union health ministry had last month cautioned the Uttarakhand government that the Kumbh could rapidly spread the virus given the significant number of daily Covid-19 positive cases detected among local residents and devotees ahead of the mela.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Editors Guild of India asks J&K police to withdraw advisory forbidding live coverage of protests||The Editors Guild of India on Saturday asked Jammu and Kashmir police to withdraw its advisory forbidding live coverage of gunfights and protests, saying it was “draconian and undemocratic.” The guild said such an advisory enabled the security forces escape any kind of media scrutiny about the flow of events behind the violence, echoing the journalist associations in the Valley who had claimed that the move was aimed at stopping them from reporting facts. Kashmir inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar had recently directed senior superintendents of police to take legal action if mediapersons went near encounter sites or “law and order” situations. The IGP cautioned against the coverage of operational content that had the “potential to incite violence” or was against the “maintenance of law and order or which promotes anti-national sentiment”. “Nothing can be further from the truth. Visibly, the police is giving an impression of trying to maintain peace by attempting to control the fallout of violence in a high strung environment, but what is being instead done is an attempt by the security forces to escape from any kind of media scrutiny about the flow of events behind the violence,” the guild said in a statement. The guild statement said live reporting from conflict areas, including gunfights between government forces and militants, was one of the most important journalistic duties of any responsible media and required “extreme grit and determination on the part of reporters”. “At best, there may be some guidelines that can be issued with respect to reporting from such scenes, with the aim of protecting the integrity of tactics and plans of security agencies, as well as to avoid journalists from interfering with the evolving situation and from sensationalising the issue that can stir up emotions at audience’s end. Globally those have been the norms adopted by responsible governments,” it said. “The advisory of Kashmir Police is draconian and undemocratic, and flies in the face of the stellar role journalists have played in reporting conflict in the country.” Therefore the advisory must be withdrawn immediately.” Kashmiri journalists are up in arms against the advisory and have asked police to withdraw it. The media bodies in Kashmir have reacted sharply to the advisory. A joint statement by 12 media bodies in the Valley last week said journalists in Kashmir worked under precarious circumstances and had upheld courageous and upright journalism. “The advisory was a coercive tactic to preclude on-the-spot reporting,” it said. “If this is a part of the official policy of police then it appears to be a tactic to coerce journalists into not reporting facts on the ground.” The journalist bodies claimed the directive seemed to be a part of the “string of measures taken by the authorities to suppress freedom of press in the region”. “Summoning journalists to police stations, filing FIRs and seeking informal explanations for their work has intensified in the past two years,” it said. The directive came at a time the Valley had been witnessing a surge in stone-pelting incidents that had left the administration red-faced as the government had for months claimed it had succeeded in restoring normalcy after the scrapping of Article 370 in 2019. The government seems to be a looking for a scapegoat to divert the attention from its own failures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Suicide of young Kerala bank manager brings to fore unhealthy working conditions||The suicide of a young Kerala bank manager, a widow and mother of two, has once again brought to the fore the extreme pressure and unhealthy working conditions that many bank employees have to face daily. Prolonged working hours, a sharp increase in targets that include the selling of even third-party financial and insurance products, a shrinking workforce, mergers and privatisation, and abusive seniors have come together to exert tremendous pressure on bank employees, staff and union leaders said. K.S. Swapna, 38, manager of Canara Bank at Kuthuparamba in Kannur district, was found hanging at her branch on April 9. She left a brief note in her diary stating that she was taking the extreme step as she had failed in her banking job. Security cameras later showed her entering the branch at 8.10am. She committed suicide before the rest of the employees arrived 30 minutes later. A widow with two young children, Swapna who hails from Thrissur had assumed charge in September 2020. Her husband had died after a heart attack two years ago. Swapna is the third bank manager in Kerala to commit suicide over the past year apparently due to work pressure. M.D. Gopinathan, Kerala general secretary and all-India joint secretary of the All India Bank Officers’ Association, told The Telegraph that the managers of two banks, in Guruvayur and Palakkad, had committed suicide before Swapna. The manager of the Guruvayur branch of Corporation Bank, K.P. Ayyappan, 57, had been found hanging from the ceiling fan of his cabin. “I don’t remember the name of the SBI manager who committed suicide in Palakkad about eight months ago. But there are several such cases across the country,” Gopinathan said. “Our unions have regularly highlighted the issues and demanded a proper work-life balance for all bank employees. But the situation is getting worse,” said Gopinathan, who is the manager of Canara Bank’s Vellimadukunnu branch in Kozhikode. “Swapna’s death is very unfortunate. This is exactly why we have been seeking proper working hours for officers who bear the brunt of the banking industry although a lot of clerical staff also rise to the occasion to help us handle the workload,” he said. Harassment and abusive remarks are another problem faced by bank officers and managers, he said. “The branch managers’ meet (of particular banks) sees a lot of abuses flying around. All this puts managers under tremendous pressure,” Gopinathan said. According to him, five trade unions that represent clerical staff and four unions of officers and their umbrella organisation, the Indian Banks Association, have time and again told the Centre about the human crisis. The 2001 voluntary retirement scheme that led to the exit of 1.25 lakh bank employees and the subsequent recruitment ban that lasted nearly 10 years are the main reasons for the current crisis. “We had sought regulated working hours and a proper work-life balance in 2006 itself since the workload had multiplied with regular retirements further shrinking the workforce,” Gopinathan said. These factors made working conditions miserable. “From just three targets — deposits, advances and recovery — officers and managers now have 30 targets specific to products like insurance, mutual funds, government schemes and even third-party products,” Gopinathan said. “Officers usually work into the night and are called for work even on weekends although there are branches where the workload is manageable,” he added. The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has ordered the Canara Bank Kerala circle to submit a report on what led to Swapna’s suicide. The commission has also asked the State Level Bankers’ Committee to submit a report on the pressures faced by bank employees in the state. BinoyViswam, a Rajya Sabha member from Kerala, has in a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman called for immediate intervention. The CPI leader has urged her to take “holistic steps that will ensure that such working conditions do not become the ‘working culture’ in banks across India”. “The rights of employees cannot be jeopardised due to failures of the management and strategic decisions of the government and its corporate interest,” Viswam stated, demanding an inquiry into the working conditions at banks. The Left parties protested across Kerala on Tuesday, seeking better working conditions for bank employees. M. Vijin, central committee member of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) who led a protest at Swapna’s branch in Kuthuparamba, told this newspaper that the agitation would continue until the demands were met. “While the Centre is not keen on recovering huge loans taken by corporate companies, bank officers and managers are penalised if they fail to recover small loans from the common people. This is the change of attitude brought about by unbridled mergers and privatisation of the banking sector,” said Vijin, who contested as the Left Democratic Front candidate from Kalliasseri in Kannur in the recent Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Maoist attack: Probe blames leaders and intelligence gap||A probe by security agencies has revealed “procedural lapses” and intelligence failure that resulted in the massacre of 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh early this month, sources said on Saturday. The Maoists had ambushed and killed the jawans inside the forests on the Bijapur-Sukma border in a four-hour gun battle with the security forces. “The report has revealed grave procedural lapses on the part of the top brass of the CRPF and Chhattisgarh police in launching an offensive against the ultras inside the jungle. According to the standard operating procedure, the forces should not have advanced into the forest without carrying an area domination exercise,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. He said it was a blunder on the part of the top brass, especially the commanders as they failed to read the telltale signs of the impending attack. “They walked into a trap meticulously planned by the Maoists resulting in a huge casualty. There was also complete intelligence failure as the security personnel did not anticipate the presence of over 250 rebels who surrounded them from all sides and started firing,” the official added. According to SOP, the road opening patrol team, which provides security to the troop movement, is usually sent to secure the area. On April 3, around 2,000 security personnel had launched a concerted operation in Maoist-hit Bijapur and Sukma districts after learning that rebels led by the dreaded Madvi Hidma had gathered in the forests in large numbers. “The CRPF top brass has been asked to submit a detailed report on the encounter and also the names of the commanders who had led the operation,” a home ministry official said. The CRPF reports to Union home minister Amit Shah. CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh has denied any lapses. Eight of the dead jawans were from the CRPF — seven from the elite Cobra commando unit — while the rest were from various state police units. This was the highest casualty the security forces have suffered at the hands of the insurgents since April 2017 when rebels ambushed and killed 25 CRPF personnel near Burkapal in Sukma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Fodder scam: Lalu Prasad to walk free, RJD celebrates||A wave of joy swept through the rank and file of the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar on Saturday after Jharkhand High Court granted bail to party national president Lalu Prasad in a fodder scam case, paving the way for his release. The bench of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh granted bail to Lalu in the case relating to illegal withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore from the Dumka (then in Bihar) treasury by animal husbandry department officials between 1991 and 1996 when he was the chief minister. The court directed him not to leave the country without permission nor change his address or mobile phone number. Lalu will have to provide two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each and two personal bonds of Rs 5 lakh each. The completion of bail formalities could take two to three days. Granting the bail, Justice Singh said the RJD chief had already served half the tenure (3.5 years) of his sentence in the case. A special CBI court in Ranchi in March 2018 had sentenced Lalu to 14 years’ imprisonment — seven under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections and seven under the Prevention of Corruption Act — and fined him Rs 60 lakh in the Dumka treasury case. The 72-year-old former chief minister is currently undergoing treatment in custody at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. He was moved to the national capital from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, in January this year. As soon as information about the bail in the fourth of five fodder scam cases reached RJD workers and supporters, they rushed to the 10 Circular Road residence of Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi to celebrate. Slogans in favour of Lalu rent the air, sweets began to be distributed, while a few more enthusiastic party workers burst crackers. However, senior RJD leaders intervened before the celebrations could break out on a larger scale in violation of Covid-19 protocols. “We request all well-wishers, supporters and party workers to observe all the coronavirus pandemic protocols and stay in their homes instead of any celebration. There will be more occasions in the future when we can share our joy with Lalu Prasad. We should also ensure that no negative comments are passed against anybody,” RJD state president Jagadanand Singh said. Expressing faith in the judiciary, Lalu’s younger son and former deputy chief minister Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said the “messiah of the poor and downtrodden will soon be present among them. There is a wave of joy in the country. He is the need of the hour for the country”. However, Tejashwi said he and his family will “act as per the advice of the doctors at AIIMS Delhi over whether he should stay at the hospital or come home. He is suffering from several diseases”. Rabri and eldest daughter Misa Bharti, who is a Rajya Sabha member, were in Delhi and went to meet Lalu after getting news about his bail. Lalu’s younger daughter Rohini Acharya tweeted: “My Ramzan and Navratra have been successful. The God has given me Eidi (Eid gift).” Buoyed by the development, several RJD leaders called for a national front against the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). “Just wait for Laluji to come out. We will form the government in Bihar. This is the right time to move for a national front against the BJP and our party president (Lalu) will lead the charge. He is the need of the time,” senior RJD legislator and party spokesperson Bhai Virendra said. The RJD with 75 MLAs is the single largest party in the 243-member Bihar Assembly. Other Opposition parties, including the Congress, welcomed the bail granted to Lalu. Six cases were registered against Lalu in the Rs 1,000 crore fodder scam that rocked Bihar politics in 1990s. He was convicted in four of them — two for fraudulent withdrawals from the Chaibasa treasury, and one each related to Deoghar and Dumka treasuries. The RJD chief has now secured bail in all the four fodder scam cases in which he was convicted. In October 2020, Lalu had obtained bail in the case pertaining to the fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 33.76 crore from the Chaibasa treasury. In July 2019, Lalu got bail in the Deoghar treasury embezzlement case of Rs 84.53 lakh. A case related to illegal withdrawal from the Doranda treasury is still at the trial stage, while he was acquitted in a case involving allegation of disproportionate assets. These cases have kept Lalu continuously in jail since December 2017, except for a few days when he was out for treatment. He also attended his eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav’s marriage in May 2018. Lalu is still an accused in various cases related to railways tender scam, money laundering and Patna zoo soil purchase scam. The CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and the income tax department are investigating them. Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee from Ranchi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Covid: Allow open-market sale of vaccine, says Naveen Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the sale of Covid-19 vaccines in the open market so that people who can afford can purchase them. The state also demanded 25 lakh doses of vaccines immediately from the Centre. The chief minister made the request at a time when Odisha and several other states are struggling to administer Covid-19 vaccines to all eligible people amid complaints of a shortage in supply from the Centre while the number of cases and deaths continue to mount. During the last 24 hours, four persons died in Odisha due to Covid-19 with the total toll reaching 1,942. So far 364,594 people in the state have been affected by the virus with the detection of 3,144 fresh cases during the last 24 hours. The Congress candidate for Pipili Assembly by-election, Ajit Mangaraj, died after contracting Covid-19, forcing the Election Commission to countermand the poll which was scheduled to be held on Saturday. Mangaraj’s mother also succumbed to the disease on Friday night. Explaining the need for making the vaccines available in the market in a letter to the Prime Minister, Patnaik said: “Covid-19 vaccines may be made available outside the government supply chain in the open market so that willing citizens, who can afford the vaccine, can avail them. This will help the government to have a focused approach towards vulnerable sections of the society.” Urging Modi to intervene to supply 25 lakh vaccine doses to Odisha, Naveen said: “We are getting huge responses from the people to get vaccinated. However, the intermittent supply is creating a challenge in meeting the demand. In this backdrop, I had requested for 25 lakh vaccine doses to help us administer three lakh doses every day. Even at full capacity, it will take us 160 days to fully vaccinate the eligible population of our state (above 45 years).” So far Odisha has vaccinated 47 lakh people above 45 years of age, officials said. Naveen’s letter comes at a time when the number of daily inoculations has come down from 2 lakh to 91,195 and only 781 vaccine centres out of 1,476 sites are operational in the state. The vaccination programme has been suspended in urban areas in 10 districts. “At an appropriate time, adequate quantity of vaccines should be made available for the states to procure and scale up their vaccination process,” Naveen said. In the meantime, the state government is strictly enforcing the observance of Covid guidelines by the people. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC has been clamped in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack after 9pm along with the night curfew. Night curfew is currently in force in all the urban areas of the state. Meanwhile, the Puri district administration announced that no devotees will be allowed to enter the Shree Jagannath Temple after 8pm. All the devotees have to leave the shrine before 8.30pm as the night curfew is also in force in the pilgrim town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik asks district collectors to hand over unused govt assets to women self-help groups||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has directed the district collectors to hand over unused government properties and assets at the district, block and panchayat level to women self-help groups under the Mission Shakti Mahasangha (Federation) within two months to further aid their socio-economic empowerment. Mission Shakti, which was launched by the state government in 2001, has brought nearly 70 lakh women in its fold, officials said. The state government is committed to provide work orders worth Rs 5,000 crore to these women self-help groups, they said. According to the direction of the chief minister, unused government buildings, government outlets and ponds lying unused at different levels right from district to panchayat level will be handed over to women SHGs under Mission Shakti. “They would utilise the properties for the overall socio-economic development of the area,” an official said. Naveen said: “Empowerment of women is the top priority of the government. Mission Shakti has become the agent of change. The decision taken by the state government will strengthen the silent movement waged by the mothers of our state.” On International Women’s Day on March 8, the chief minister had said: “The mothers, who take the entire responsibility of their families, will have no problem in taking the responsibility of the society as well as the country. There is a spark of leadership in each mother. It’s our responsibility to give them the opportunity to showcase their leadership qualities. We need to utilise their leadership qualities in the inclusive development of the nation.” An exclusive department for Mission Shakti started functioning from April 1. The Naveen government has been campaigning for implementation of 33 per cent reservation for women in state legislative assemblies and in Parliament. It had enhanced the women’s quota to 50 per cent in the panchayats and urban bodies in 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
