19-04-2021||India||Private hospitals allowed to buy vaccine from manufacturers||Everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible to get vaccinated against COVID-19 from May 1, the Centre said on Monday as it liberalised the vaccination drive to allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure doses directly from manufacturers. Under the third phase of the vaccination drive commencing next month, vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the Union government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market. Manufacturers would have to make an advance declaration of the price for 50 per cent supply that would be available to the state governments and in the open market before May 1, 2021, an official statement said. Based on this price, state governments, private hospitals, industrial establishments, etc would be able to procure vaccine doses from manufacturers. Private hospitals would have to procure supplies of COVID-19 vaccine exclusively from the 50 per cent supply earmarked for entities other than those coming through the central government channel. The private vaccination providers would need to transparently declare their self-set vaccination price and the eligibility through this channel would be opened up to all adults, that is everyone above the age of 18, the statement added. Vaccination will continue as before in government of India vaccination centres free of cost to the eligible population -- healthcare and frontline workers and all people above 45 years of age. The Union health ministry said the important decision to allow vaccination to everyone above the age of 18 from May 1 was taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The Prime Minister said that the government has been working hard for over a year to ensure that maximum number of Indians are able to get the vaccine in the shortest possible time. He added that India is vaccinating people at world record pace and we will continue this with even greater momentum," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Second wave more severe; young getting infected, but fatalities low||The government has opened up vaccinations to everyone over 18 from May 1 onwards even as India’s second Covid-19 wave hit a record 273,802 new infections in the last 24 hours with no peak in sight. Aggressive containment steps along with enforcement of strict Covid protocols like masking and curbing public gathering are needed to tame the infection tsunami, experts say. “We’re seeing classic exponential growth,” says one medical expert, “and it’s being driven by more contagious mutations, super-spreader election rallies and religious events and reckless individual behaviour.” “It will take three to four months to substantially ramp up vaccine production which must be done. So, right now the best defence is what we can do ourselves,” says virologist Shahid Jameel. “The protection is to mask up, socially distance and avoid crowds,” he says. In fact, wearing two masks rather than one “makes common sense” as double-layering not only adds filtration but helps cover mask gaps, says White House Advisor Dr Anthony Fauci. The second wave is already far more severe than the first one which peaked at 97,000 daily new cases last September. How bad can this surge get? Infection modeller Brahmar Mukherjee has suggested India could peak at around 300,000 to 400,000 new infections daily but experts are quick to add there’s no certainty on what could be the possible highest number. “The peak is not (yet) visible,” Jameel says. India could see a short spike and a fast fall as has been witnessed in other countries (it’s known as the “phenomenon of the second surge) and some experts suggest that the worst-hit state, Maharashtra, might start turning the corner at the end of April or in early May. Most healthcare experts did not anticipate a second wave as catastrophic as the one the country now is suffering. After new infections slid to a tenth of the country’s previous peak, some politicians and scientists even said India’s pandemic was in the end game. With the beginning of the vaccine rollout, complacency set in. “Hospitals were also thinking the worst was over,” said a government health official. “People also thought there would be some magic with the vaccine,” he added. Doctors say the variants -- the UK one B.1.1.7 and the potentially more contagious Indian “double mutation” that may be better at evading immune systems -- are making the situation even more unpredictable. India has now topped both Brazil and the US in its daily fresh infection count. (And the infection numbers could be undercounted as testing facilities are being overwhelmed and India has always lagged behind many other countries in daily testing relative to the size of its population. The Government says there have been fewer fatalities in the current wave. The ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava, however, said more patients are coming to hospitals short of breath and needing oxygen. Another government expert says that mutant strains “are playing a big role in Bengal” where there have been large state election rallies. “A big chunk of the new infections there are definitely variants,” he said. And, as in other countries, in contrast with the previous wave, younger people account for the many of the Covid cases. That’s led both Delhi and Maharashtra to push the central government to open up vaccinations to age groups over 18. Some young people are going from hospital admission directly to the ICU. And children are also getting infected. Last month, in Bangalore for instance, 472 children below 10 fell sick with Covid. Younger people have been “revolting. They are refusing to wear masks. And, they are falling ill with COVID-19 in large numbers,” says Partha Majumder, the government’s National Science Chair. Majumder who has been doing a study on hospitalised infectious cases for over a year. “In this surge, our samples are mostly from the young.” The latest lineage called B.1.617 which has two mutations -- the E484Q And L452R -- was originally reported late last year by a scientist in India and has now leapt to 10 other countries including the UK, Australia and Germany. So far, the Indian government which acknowledged the existence of the double mutant late last month isn’t calling it a “variant of concern.” However, in some Maharashtra districts, the variant was detected in over 60 per cent of new infections. “Having two of these mutations, which have been seen in other variants around the world, (combined) are concerning,” says Maria Van Kerhove, the World Health Organization’s technical lead officer on Covid. The double mutation makes it easier to break into the human immune system and is more efficient in attaching itself to the human host cells and multiplies more swiftly, doing more damage than the original Covid strain. The Government of India has established the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics” (INSACOG) – an all-India network – to rapidly identify and track genomic variations arising in the SARS-CoV-2. However, INSACOG is sequencing only about 1 per cent of the COVID-19 samples collected. “Unless sequencing of the coronavirus is scaled up, and relevant data are collected and compiled rapidly and systematically, we will never be able to know whether the “double mutant” is a variant coronavirus of concern and is a significant factor in the current surge in infection,” says Majumder. However, the National Institute of Virology in Pune has reported that out of 361 Covid samples taken from Maharashtra from January to March and genome sequenced, 61 per cent had the double mutation. The biology journal BioRiv said the L452R mutations “significantly increased infectivity” and lowered antibody efficacy compared to the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein without mutation and “warranted close surveillance.” The L452R mutation is estimated by US researchers to boost transmission by 20 per cent and lower antibody efficacy by more than 50 per cent. If this variant becomes dominant and is capable of so-called “immune escape” behaviour -- ie is able to evade post-infection or post-vaccination antibodies, it could have major implications for India, and also the world’s vaccination rollouts. Indeed, India is not the only country facing a surge in infections amid continued setbacks globally in rolling out vaccinations. Sixteen months since the outbreak of Covid, the pandemic’s trajectory is “growing exponentially” with more than 4.4 million new cases reported over the last week, says Kerkhove. Cases climbed globally by 9 per cent worldwide last week, marking the seventh straight weekly rise. “This is not the situation we want to be in 16 months into a pandemic where we have proven control measures,” says Kerkhove. “Vaccines are coming online but everyone has to take stock and have a reality check of what we need to be doing,” she says. More than 80 per cent of India’s cases are being recorded in 10 states, including Punjab and Maharashtra, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala. In a departure from the previous wave, the infections have fanned out to smaller towns and remote regions with fewer health services. Health officials also say the reported figures are not current because testing centres are being overwhelmed by the rising numbers. In Kerala, where infection numbers have been steady for several months, the number of cases climbed to over 18,257. State government officials attributed the higher number to increased surge testing carried out over the last two days to get a broader picture of the situation. Back on February 13, the weekly average positivity rate of Covid-19 testing fell to a record low of 1.47 per cent but then it started rising. The average was 10.7 per cent in the most recent week. A positivity rate of 5 per cent is the threshold for considering the pandemic to be under control, according to the WHO. The only silver lining may be that the death rate could be lower than in the previous wave, said the government official. “The protocol has been standardised. The fatalities may be less because the medical professionals know more how to deal with Covid,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh tests postive for Covid, admitted to AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to AIIMS with a mild fever on Monday afternoon. Dr. Singh, 88, has been admitted to the AIIMS trauma centre here, which is a dedicated COVID facility, sources said, adding his condition is stable. They said Dr. Singh had a mild fever in the morning and later tested positive for Covid-19. The doctors are monitoring his condition. Dr Singh has received his two vaccine doses (of Covaxin) - the first on March 4 and the second on April 3. Sources said he was shifted to hospital as "a matter of precaution". On Saturday, Dr Singh participated in a meeting with top Congress leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on the Covid situation in the country. Following this, he wrote to prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, to offer some advice on handling a pandemic that has infected over 1.5 crore Indians and killed nearly 1.8 lakh. He urged Modi to allow states to define categories of frontline workers that need to be vaccinated against Covid on priority "even if they are below 45 years of age" - something experts and the chief ministers of several Congress-ruled states have also flagged. (With inputs from NDTV.com)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Second Covid wave in Delhi likely to peak within a week, says experts||The second wave of coronavirus in Delhi is likely to peak within a week after possibly hitting a positivity rate of 50 per cent before the numbers start to go down, senior medical experts said on Monday. Dr Jugal Kishore, the head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said, "The virus spreads from person to person in close proximity. Over the last few months, people have been meeting each other at a greater pace without following Covid-appropriate behaviour. The results are before us." Citing the findings of a serosurvey conducted in February, he said around 50 percent of Delhi's population has already been exposed to coronavirus, and there are "very few" cases of re-infection. According to the fifth serosurvey, conducted between January 15 and January 23, around 56 percent of Delhi's population have developed antibodies against the deadly virus. "Even if we say only 40 percent of people have been affected so far...Delhi may achieve herd immunity if 30-35 percent of the remaining population is exposed to the virus," he said. When a large part of the population develops antibodies and becomes immune to the virus, the chain of transmission is broken, and this is called herd immunity. Dr Kishore said, "Delhi is likely to hit the peak of the second wave within a week", considering the exponential increase in cases. Dr Yudhvir Singh, Assistant Professor of critical care at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said this Covid-19 wave is nearing peak in Delhi and the next week is going to be crucial. "The positivity rate may as well touch the 50-percent mark," he said. Cases will start receding by April-end and the situation will be comparatively better by the second week of May, Singh, who is a member of the "COVID Clinical Management Team" at AIIMS, said. Asked about the reasons behind such a high number of cases in Delhi this time, Dr Singh said people let their guard down and didn't take proper precautions at a time when it is likely that the second wave was being fuelled by the highly infectious "double mutant" strain of the virus. "Entire families are turning out to be positive. Ninety percent of the people threw caution to the wind ... didn't follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour," he added. Another reason is that a large number of non-Delhi residents have been coming to the national capital for treatment. They comprise some 30 percent of all COVID patients admitted in hospitals here, he said. He said, "The virus will evolve with time and may become weak or strong, anything is possible. "Most viruses tend to become less deadly after mutations, he added. The number of people getting vaccinated in the coming months will also determine how severe the situation will be," he said. Dr N K Ganguly, the former head of the Indian Council of Medical Research, however, said the capital might have "hit the peak already" of this wave of coronavirus. "The cases will start coming down next week. Similar trends (positivity rate and death rate) were witnessed in the US when it was grappling with a second wave of Covid-19," he said. Dr Ganguly said several superspreader events, including the Kumbh, farmers' protests, weddings and election rallies, led to the present situation in Delhi and elsewhere. The mutant virus is attacking children and younger populations in larger numbers, he said. Delhi recorded over 25,500 cases on Sunday, the highest single-day tally since the pandemic began ravaging countries. The city has registered 1,46,934 cases in the last 10 days. The positivity rate has shot up from 7.79 percent on April 9 to 29.74 percent on April 18. Meanwhile, hours after a weekend curfew ended Monday morning, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown, till 5 am on April 26, in a bid to contain the spread of the virus. He said Delhi's health system is under stress but has not collapsed yet despite around 25,000 cases coming up every day. Hospitals in the city are grappling with shortage of oxygen supply and crucial drugs. On Sunday, the CM said less than 100 ICU beds were available for coronavirus patients in the city, even as the government explored options to set up Covid hospitals in schools and Covid care shelters in gated housing societies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Punjab extends night curfew by an hour amid Covid surge||Amid rising COVID-19 cases, the Punjab government on Monday announced stricter curbs, including extension of night curfew by an hour and closure of bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres and sports complexes in the state till April 30. The fresh restrictions will come into effect from Tuesday, officials said, adding that curfew timings will now be from 8 pm to 5 am, instead of the earlier 9 pm to 5 am. The new restrictions, which also include closure of all malls, shops and markets on Sundays, coupled with the ones imposed earlier, will remain in effect till April 30, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said after a COVID review meeting here. Restaurants and hotels will remain open but only for takeaway and home delivery from Monday to Saturday. Gatherings of more than 20 people, including weddings and cremations, have also been banned across the state. Prior approval of the district administration is needed for all gatherings of more than 10 persons, except for cremation, a government statement said here. Rates for RT-PCR tests and Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) by private labs have been reduced to Rs 450 and Rs 300 respectively (with additional charges for home collection), in a bid to promote increased testing, it said. The chief minister also ordered that people flying into Punjab should have a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. Otherwise, they would have to undergo RAT testing at the airports. He also instructed that people who have attended large gatherings anywhere (religious/ political/social) be mandatorily home-quarantined for five days and tested as per existing protocols. The chief minister directed the transport department to restrict the number of passengers in buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws to 50 per cent of the vehicle's capacity. Mohali district, along with the rest of the tri-city, will remain under complete lockdown on Wednesday on the occasion of Ram Navami, to avoid gatherings amid surging COVID-19 cases in the region, Singh said. The tri-city region refers to Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali. The chief minister said he has received a request from the Chandigarh UT adviser for a lockdown in Mohali, as part of a lockdown in the entire tri-city area, and necessary notification would be issued accordingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Delhi announces six-day lockdown to curb rising Covid cases in the city||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown from 10 pm on Monday till 5 am on April 26 which he said was necessary to deal with the rising number of COVID-19 cases as the city's health system was stretched to its limits. The national capital's health system is stretched although it has not collapsed yet, he said, adding that despite around 25,500 cases coming up every day, Delhi's health system is still functioning. But any system has its limit, he said while addressing an online press conference. The lockdown is needed to prevent the health system of Delhi from collapsing under the increasing number of patients as there is an acute shortage of medicines, beds, ICUs and oxygen, Kejriwal said. Noting that the decision to impose lockdown was not an easy one, Kejriwal appealed to migrants in the city not to leave Delhi. The government will take good care of them, he said, adding that essential services will be allowed during the lockdown. Kejriwal said that his government will improve the health system in this period. In its order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said that movement of people will be allowed for marriage related gatherings and up to 50 people will be permitted to attend a wedding, but they will have to show soft or hard copy of the marriage card. For funerals, 20 people will be allowed to attend. Essential services will be allowed during the lockdown, but private offices and other establishments like shops, malls, weekly markets, manufacturing units, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, assembly halls, auditoriums, public parks, sport complexes, gyms, spas, barber shops, saloons and beauty parlours will remain closed. In the order, the DDMA said that swimming pools (except those being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national and international events), construction activities (except where labourers are residing onsite) will also remain shut. Stadia will be permitted to remain open for organising national and international sports events without spectators, said Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the chairperson of DDMA's executive committee. It stated that public transport such as metro and buses with their 50 per cent capacity will be allowed to run. In taxis, not more than two people will be allowed. According to the DDMA, e-passes obtained by a person for movement connected to essential goods and services during night curfew and weekend curfew will also be valid for the six-day restrictions. During the press conference on Monday, Kerjiwal said that this decision to impose lockdown was not an easy one for the AAP government as it hurts the poor, daily wagers the most. "I appeal to people not to leave Delhi during the lockdown. We will take care of you. I am there to ensure it," the chief minister said. He said that he has been strictly against lockdown, adding that he believes it can slow the pace of infections but its not a solution. "It should be imposed only when health system reaches its limits. I appeal to people to completely follow the lockdown. We will together overcome this fourth phase of COVID19- as we did in the earlier three waves," he said. He said that the AAP government never concealed facts and figures of tests, cases or deaths. "We shared information with people whether the condition was good or bad. This is a huge responsibility and the government cannot carry it without cooperation of the people. Cooperation of the people cannot be ensured without correct information," Kejriwal also said. During the lockdown, pregnant women and patients going for medical services along with an attendant will be allowed on production of valid I-card or doctor's prescription or medical papers. According to the DDMA's order, people who are going for COVID-19 testing or vaccination are also exempted on the production of a valid I-card. Those going to airports, railways, ISBTs have been allowed movement, but they will have to show a valid ticket. Electronic and print mediapersons have also been exempted from the restrictions. Delhi on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily COVID-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent -- meaning almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Govt working to save lives, livelihood, Sitharaman tells India Inc||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said she has taken inputs from various industry chambers on concerns of India Inc with regard to the management of COVID pandemic and the centre would continue to work with state governments to save lives and livelihood. She sought feedback from businesses to deal with the impact of the second COVID-19 wave on the country's economy. It is to be noted that the economy contracted by a whopping 23.9 per cent in the first quarter (April-June) of the previous financial year due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. "Spoke on telephone with each of the following business/Chamber leaders. Took their inputs on industry/Association related matters. Informed them that GoI at various levels from @PMOIndia is responding to #Covid management. Working together with states for lives and livelihoods," she said in a tweet. The Finance Minister had interactions with heads of industry chambers including CII president Uday Kotak, Uday Shankar, president Ficci, and Vineet Agarwal president Assocham. She also spoke to many business leaders like Tata Steel managing director T V Narendran, L&T chairman A M Naik, TCS managing director Rajesh Gopinathan, Maruti Suzuki chairman R C Bhargava, TVS Group chairman Venu Srinivasan and Hero Moto Corp managing director Pawan Munjal to take their feedback on situation arising out of surging COVID-19 cases and local containments. Last week, the Finance Minister made it clear that the government would not go for lockdowns in a big way and only resort to local containment to break the COVID-19 chain. "Even with the second wave, we are very clear that we are not going in for lockdowns in a big way. We don't want to totally arrest the economy. The local level isolation of patients, or households which have people in quarantines are the methods through which the crisis will be handled, the second wave will be handled. There shall not be lockdown," Sitharaman had said. Daily average COVID-19 cases across the country crossed 1.7 lakh on Sunday. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed 1.50 crore with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||India records over 2.73 lakh fresh Covid cases, 1,619 casualties in a day||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed the 1.50-crore mark with around 25 lakh cases being added in just 15 days, while active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The nationwide tally of COVID-19 cases mounted to 1,50,61,919 with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810 coronavirus infections. The death toll increased to 1,78,769 with a record 1,619 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country's total COVID-19 infections had surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 after which it took 107 days to cross the 1.25 crore on April 5. However, it only took 15 days for the cases to cross the 1.50-crore mark. Registering a steady increase for the 40th day in a row, the active cases increased to 19,29,329, comprising 12.81 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 86 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,29,53,821 and the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.19 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,78,94,549 samples have been tested up to April 18 with 13,56,133 samples being tested on Sunday. The 1,619 new fatalities include 503 from Maharashtra, 170 from Chhattisgarh, 161 from Delhi, 127 from Uttar Pradesh, 110 from Gujarat, 81 from Karnataka, 68 from Punjab, 66 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Jharkhand, 42 each from Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, 29 from Haryana, 28 from West Bengal and 25 from Kerala. A total of 1,78,769 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 60,473 from Maharashtra, 13,351 from Karnataka, 13,113 from Tamil Nadu, 12,121 from Delhi, 10,568 from West Bengal, 9,830 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,902 from Punjab and 7,410 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||How to do it: Manmohan writes to PM on Covid||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, in a letter to his successor Narendra Modi, said on Sunday that ramping up the vaccination drive was critical to the fight against the coronavirus and offered suggestions how this could be done. “The government should publicise what are the firm orders for doses placed on different vaccine producers and accepted for delivery over the next six months. If we want to vaccinate a target number in this period, we should place enough orders in advance so that producers can adhere to an agreed schedule of supply,” Singh wrote. The government should also “indicate how this expected supply will be distributed across states based on a transparent formula”, which would allow the states to plan the rollout, he said. The Centre could retain 10 per cent of the supplies for emergency distribution, Singh suggested. The senior leader, who as Prime Minister had shepherded India through the global downturn of 2008 and as finance minister had pulled the country out of its worst economic crisis into an era of prosperity, advised Modi to invest in the vaccination campaign. Over the past few decades India has emerged as the world’s largest producer of vaccines, Singh said, with the capacity largely in the private sector. “At this moment of a public health emergency, the government must proactively support vaccine producers to expand their manufacturing facilities quickly by providing funds and other concessions,” he wrote. “In addition, I believe this is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law, so that a number of companies are able to produce the vaccines under a licence,” Singh said, noting that this was done earlier in the case of medicines for HIV/AIDS and that Israel had done so for Covid-19. Singh also suggested allowing the import of any vaccine that has been cleared for use by “credible authorities such as the European Medical Agency or the USFDA” without insisting on domestic bridging trials. The relaxation could be for a limited period during which the bridging trials could be completed in India, the former Prime Minister said. In the meantime, people taking these vaccines should be informed that these were being used based on approvals abroad. “Many parents have not seen their children, living in different cities, in over a year. Grandparents have not seen their grandchildren. Many have lost their source of livelihood, and several millions have been pushed back into poverty. With the second surge that we are currently witnessing, people are beginning to wonder when their lives will get back to normal,” Singh wrote. “There are many things we must do to fight the epidemic but a big part of this effort must be ramping up the vaccination programme.” The former Prime Minister argued in favour of allowing the states the flexibility to decide on the categories of frontline workers who can be vaccinated even if they are under 45. “We must resist the temptation to look at the absolute numbers being vaccinated, and focus instead on the percentage of the population vaccinated. Currently, India has vaccinated only a small fraction of its population. I am certain that with the right policy design, we can do much better and very quickly. I hope the government will accept these suggestions immediately and act on them promptly,” Singh wrote. The senior leader underlined that he was giving suggestions “in a spirit of constructive cooperation in which I have always believed and acted upon”. The Modi government, which is given to treating Opposition suggestions with disdain and even mocking them, will find itself in a spot over Singh’s call to make public the vaccine orders it has placed for delivery in the next six months. The government has been caught napping with the country already facing a shortage of vaccines, as the domestic production is half of what is needed at present. The government decided to allow vaccines made abroad to be imported only this month, after Rahul Gandhi had made the demand. But with the US and Europe placing advance orders, the companies will find it difficult to serve India soon. Congress leader P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Manmohan Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi containing five specific suggestions to fight the pandemic. He has requested the PM to accept them immediately and act on them promptly. Whether the Government is open to good suggestions will be known from the action taken on the letter. Also, whether the Government is serious about containing the spread of the pandemic will also be known from its response.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||How India landed in Covid vaccine mess||India’s shortage of Covid-19 vaccines that precludes immediate inoculation for all adults is rooted in the Narendra Modi government’s lack of funding for key vaccines under development and evaluation, experts have said. The experts, who have tracked global vaccine efforts, said the Indian government’s lack of investments contrasted with the actions of many countries, including America and Britain, that provided advance funding to vaccine makers and signed purchase pacts with them. The Centre had last November announced a Rs 900-crore project, coordinated by the Union science ministry’s department of biotechnology, for Covid-19 vaccines. But none of this money went to either Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India at Pune, or Covaxin, the home-grown vaccine made by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. Instead, a part of it was given to candidate vaccines that were at more nascent stages of development. An epidemiologist who asked not to be named described this as a “botch-up”. The Serum Institute invested $270 million (Rs 2,012 crore) of its money and $300 million (Rs 2,236 crore) from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to build production capacity for its vaccines, while Bharat Biotech relied almost entirely on its internal resources. The Centre covered the costs of the Covishield clinical trials by the Serum Institute and supported Bharat Biotech’s efforts through laboratory research and animal studies at the National Institute of Virology in Pune, an arm of the Indian Council of Medical Research. The department of biotechnology had on April 16 — three months after the launch of India’s vaccination campaign — announced it would provide Rs 65 crore to Bharat Biotech to increase production from the current 10 million to 100 million doses of Covaxin per month by September 2021. It also pledged funds to three public sector units to produce an additional 35 million doses per month by September. Covid-19 vaccines are currently being offered in India only to people 45 years or older. Health officials have underlined the “finite” supply to argue against suggestions that the campaign be widened to cover younger adults, at least in the areas hit the hardest by the pandemic. India had by early October 2020 drawn up a tentative timeline for a Covid-19 vaccination programme — 250 million people by July 2021 — a number that has since been revised to around 350 million people. But while the policy makers recognised the need for Covid-19 vaccines and acknowledged the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech as the earliest possible sources of vaccines for India, the  finance to scale up production did not materialise, experts say. “This was a botch-up — the government knew the companies’ production capacities and should have foreseen the need to ramp up manufacturing ahead of inoculations. Others did exactly this,” the epidemiologist who requested anonymity said. The US government invested about $6 billion (Rs 44,724 crore), distributed across several vaccine companies including Moderna, Pfizer and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), in July and August last year on candidate vaccines that were still under evaluation. The British government had in May last year pledged £65.5 million (Rs 488 crore) to University of Oxford researchers for work on the AstraZeneca vaccine. By October, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, and the European Union had pacts for one or more candidate vaccines. (See chart) “Public investment in research and development and advance purchases, often at risk, has been critical for early access to vaccines,” Krishna Udayakumar, associate professor at the Duke Global Health Center in the US, told this newspaper. Two members of India’s expert group on the Covid-19 vaccination policy and another senior government official are yet to respond to queries from this newspaper about why India did not provide early support for vaccine production. An independent, 22-member India Task Force — a group of health experts and senior administrators — had said on April 14 that India’s current production capacity would not meet even half the monthly requirement of 150 million doses. “It’s unfortunate. We sometimes view our private sector with great suspicion but also want them to solve our problems,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy, a research think tank based in the US and India. Earlier this week, the Indian government had invited foreign vaccine makers, including Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson, to bring their Covid-19 vaccines into the country. But experts say those companies are probably overbooked. “There doesn’t seem to be any significant excess capacity in vaccine manufacturing anywhere in the world at the moment,” Udayakumar said. “So it’s unclear whether this action will result in significant additional doses in the next few weeks. It could make a difference over several months.” The department of biotechnology has committed Rs 500 crore of the Rs 900 crore Covid-19 vaccine project to supporting five candidate vaccines under advanced clinical development, three animal challenge facilities, and 19 clinical trial sites, a department official said. The official said the department had also provided Rs 100 crore for 15 candidate vaccines under development by industry and public-sector labs. “Three of these have moved from proof-of-concept to clinical development stage and are currently undergoing clinical trials,” said Shirshendu Mukherjee, mission director in the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council. Among the vaccines the council has supported are a DNA vaccine from Zydus Cadila, an mRNA vaccine from Gennova, and a nasal vaccine from Bharat Biotech, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Covid: 162 oxygen-generating plants planned, 33 set up ||An exercise to install oxygen-generating plants on-site in 162 government hospitals across India to support Covid-19 treatment announced last October and sanctioned with funds in January this year has set up only 33 plants at a time India stares at depleting medical oxygen reserves. The Union health ministry on Sunday said five plants in Madhya Pradesh, four in Himachal Pradesh, three each in Chandigarh, Gujarat, and Uttarakhand, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Telangana, and one each in nine other states have been installed. The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund trust had in January this year allocated Rs 201.5 crore for the installation of 162 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen-generating plants in public hospitals in 32 states. An on-site medical PSA oxygen-generator can produce medical-grade oxygen 24 hours a day, seven days a week and reduce a hospital’s dependence on the traditional store-and-supply system that is currently experiencing intense strain under India’s second Covid-19 wave. The health ministry has said the significant surge in demand for medical oxygen has reached 60 per cent of the total daily oxygen production and is expected to rise further in the coming weeks. The Centre in consultation with 32 states had proposed 162 public health hospitals where the PSA oxygen-generating plants were to be installed. Maharashtra, the state hardest-hit by Covid-19, was to get 10 PSA plants while Bengal was to get five plants. Neither state has received a plant yet. The health ministry tweeted on Sunday that 59 more plants will be installed in April and the balance in May. A query from this newspaper to the ministry asking whether there has been a delay in implementation or this was the planned timeline did not elicit a response. India has several PSA oxygen-generator suppliers, said a chemical engineer in a top government research institution, and efforts to install the PSA plants simultaneously across multiple sites could have added to India’s available medical oxygen supplies. “A PSA oxygen-generator is not a very challenging technology, but it uses special materials and certain components of the plant’s control panels might be imported — there must be some weak link, some pain point, that might explain the slow progress,” said the engineer who requested anonymity. The demand for oxygen has increased in at least 12 states — Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan — all with fast-growing Covid-19 epidemics. The Centre on Sunday also announced restrictions on the supply of industrial oxygen from April 22 to make it available for medical-grade oxygen, citing the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and the resultant rapid demand for oxygen. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to states saying the Centre’s empowered group of officials has “recommended to prohibit the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes by manufacturers and suppliers, with the exception of nine specified industries.” The nine sectors exempted are ampoules and vials, pharmaceuticals, petroleum refineries, steel plants, nuclear energy facilities, oxygen cylinder manufacturers, waste-water treatment plants, food and water purification, and process industries requiring uninterrupted furnace operations. India on Sunday recorded 261,500 new Covid cases and 1,501 deaths, raising the total number of active patients to over 1.8 million and the total deaths to 177,150.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Finger at BJP over Covid drug cache||A police probe into the stocking of a Covid-19 medicine in Maharashtra has led to allegations of a BJP ploy to starve the Opposition-ruled state of the life-saving drug, a charge India’s ruling party has denied. News agency PTI reported that the police had detained and questioned the director of a pharmaceutical company for stocking 60,000 vials of remdesivir, whose export has been banned. The executive was allowed to go after he showed the necessary documents for the stock, PTI said. However, several BJP leaders met police officers soon after the executive was detained and questioned the probe. PTI quoted Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister, Nawab Malik of the NCP, as saying on Sunday: “…When two leaders of Opposition (Devendra Fadnavis and MLC Praveen Darekar) and two legislators go to the police station late in the night after detention of (a director of Bruck Pharma, Rajesh Kailash) Dokania, something is fishy…. The BJP is trying to ensure that Maharashtra doesn’t get its stock of remdesivir.” Malik added: “Why did the state BJP leaders get scared? The BJP leaders should explain to the people of Maharashtra why they were ‘favouring’ Dokania.” BJP leader Fadnavis told reporters: “Daman-based Bruck Pharma Private Limited was one of the exporters of remdesivir, whom we (BJP members) had contacted to supply the stock to Maharashtra as the state is facing shortage of remdesivir vials. We have even informed the state food and drug administration minister (Rajendra Shingne of the NCP) about it and approached the Union government seeking necessary permissions.” He added: “The Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers, Mansukh Mandviya, has also given necessary orders enabling the sale of exportable stock of remdesivir in Maharashtra. However, I was shocked to find (out) that one of the OSDs (officers on special duty) of the state FDA minister had contacted the owner of Bruck Pharma and allegedly threatened him, over him approaching the Centre on the suggestions of BJP leaders.” The political slugfest had begun on Saturday morning with Malik accusing the Centre of stalling the supply of the drug. He had tweeted: “It is sad & shocking that when government of Maharashtra asked the 16 export companies for #remdesivir, we were told that central government has asked them not to supply the medicine to #Maharashtra. These companies were warned, if they did, their licence will be cancelled.” Earlier this month, the BJP had drawn flak in neighbouring Gujarat after its state unit president C.R. Patil procured 5,000 vials of the drug — normally sold only to medical institutions and not individuals or parties — for distribution in Surat. Jayant Patil, minister and chief of the NCP’s state unit, tweeted: “With shortage of remdesivir, last night @MumbaiPolice rightly fulfilled their duty to check any supply malpractices/ hoarding. The real Q is: Can any BJP leader, without any info to state govt/ local authorities/ police, procure lakhs of lifesaving drugs @PMOIndia? It’s a new low.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||CPM: Modi demonstrating that his role as campaigner is more important than his role as PM||Narendra Modi is demonstrating that his role as his party’s election campaigner is more important than his role as Prime Minister, the CPM said on Sunday. “As we Indians suffer under a raging pandemic, we unfortunately don’t have a union government. What we have is a PR company, with an electoral campaigner, callously and brazenly unleashing pain, misery and devastation over the masses,” CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said. “Modi demonstrating his role as a partisan party campaigner is more important than that of India’s Prime Minister. That’s why his priority is the election campaign, if any time is left, he does something perfunctory for TV images & headlines. A sorry state,” Yechury said in a series of tweets. “India is facing its gravest crisis in decades which a former army chief says is like war. But Modi is busy campaigning, unavailable to state CMs and doing a gimmick of a meeting after he has finished with his superspreader events,” he added. The Left leader underlined that his party and the Congress have announced they would not hold large rallies in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Kumbh to continue, never mind PM’s call||An acharya’s appeal for an immediate end to the Kumbh following a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi was dismissed by his akhara head on Sunday, raising the possibility of thousands of sadhus staying on for weeks even beyond the scheduled April 30 closure. “The Prime Minister said something to an acharya and he began talking.... But the Kumbh will continue,” Mahant Hari Giri, international patron of the Juna Akhara, told The Telegraph over the phone from Haridwar on Sunday. “There remain at least four occasions for holy baths. They include Shankaracharya Jayanti on May 18 and Buddha Purnima on May 26. At least 400 senior sadhus of the Juna Akhara will take the holy dip on May 26 before vacating the area.” Several senior monks from other akharas (monasteries) echoed Hari Giri, saying they would stay on till May 26. Modi had on Saturday tweeted that he had spoken over the phone to Swami Avdheshanand Giri, acharya mahamandaleshwar of the Juna Akhara, and proposed that the remaining Kumbh rituals be kept symbolic to boost the fight against the Covid surge. Swami Avdheshanand subsequently said the Kumbh should be called off. But Hath Yogi, a senior member of the Digambar Ani Akhara, backed Hari Giri’s stand that tradition cannot be violated although he castigated the government for allowing the Kumbh in the pandemic. “The government should have postponed the Kumbh keeping the pandemic in mind, but organised it with political motives,” he told reporters. “The Mahakumbh should have started from April 2022, when Brihaspati (Jupiter) will be in Kumbh Rashi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Modi minister seeks Covid bed help on Twitter ||When a Covid patient from his constituency failed to find a hospital bed, Union minister and Ghaziabad MP V.K. Singh picked up his phone on Sunday and — did not make a call. He sent out a tweet, appealing to the Uttar Pradesh administration for help. Proving, as the Twitterati have been hammering home since then, that the Narendra Modi government has mismanaged the Covid crisis so badly that not only are hospitals out of beds but even ministers can only plead helplessly on Twitter instead of issuing direct instructions. The Hindi tweet, which tagged the district magistrate of Ghaziabad, said: “@dm_ghaziabad Please check this out. Please help us, my brother needs a bed for corona treatment. No beds are available in Ghaziabad. @shalabhmani @PankajSinghBJP @Gen_VKSingh.” Scorn poured in. “A Union minister pleading for help on Twitter for a hospital bed for his brother. This is a broken republic,” a social media user, Mandakini Gahlot, tweeted. Military veteran Sushant Singh did not spare the former army chief: “This is a Union minister of the Modi government asking for help in his own constituency, neighbouring Delhi. That the man is also a former army chief is incidental. This is the real state of affairs in UP and at the Centre.” A while later, V.K. Singh posted another tweet clarifying he was not related to the patient by blood. “Clarification: I tweeted this request so that the district administration can reach the person in need and provide him with medical care that his brother requires. He is not my brother by relation, but by bond of humanity. I think it’s an alien concept to some.” Later, the minister of state for road transport and highways deleted the original tweet and the clarification. The avalanche of derision continued. Twitter user Kalkeya posted: “MP of Ghaziabad, ex-army chief has to ask for help via Twitter itself explains the situation in UP the largest state of India.” Raj Kishore Pandey tweeted: “Shocked!!! An MP who is also a Union minister has to take the help of Twitter.” Late on Sunday afternoon, V.K. Singh lashed out at the critics. “Am amazed at IQ level of trawls (sic) and fastest finger channels. Tweet was forward of a tweet to DM and says ‘please look into this’. Forwarded tweet is in hindi. Bed needs have been sorted out by DM & CMO, hence to DM. Suggest correct your understanding,” he tweeted. If the minister did not compose the tweet, it’s puzzling that his earlier “clarification” had remained silent about this and, instead, claimed the patient was his brother by “bond of humanity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Privatisation spree will increase inequality: Prabhat Patnaik||It’s time the NDA government’s privatisation spree — with even public-sector banks and the trustworthy and profitable Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) being put up for partial sale — is halted, argues Prabhat Patnaik, economist and professor emeritus at JNU. He tells the author, a professor of human science, that the LIC is not only profitable but serves the crucial interest of the common people. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s critics have accused his government of selling public corporations and institutions at will. They say the Modi government will soon put the entire country up for sale. Do you agree? Patnaik: The argument advanced for the sale of public-sector enterprises, namely that it is a way of mobilising resources for government spending, is fundamentally wrong. Selling public enterprises is no different from a fiscal deficit in its macroeconomic impact: in one case the government spends money and recovers that money by selling bonds to the public; in the other case the government spends money and recovers it by selling equity to the public. There is really little difference between the two cases. The real criticism of fiscal-deficit-financed government expenditure in a demand-constrained economy like ours is that it exacerbates wealth inequality; this holds also for public-assets-sale-financed government expenditure. And gratuitously exacerbating wealth inequality in India is inexcusable; resources have to be raised instead through wealth taxation. But using this false theory, endorsed by the IMF and finance capital generally for ideological reasons (since they want the public sector dismantled), the Modi government is starting a privatisation spree. The public sector does not just represent government ownership; it represents social ownership. It is subject to parliamentary scrutiny, which should be made stricter. In fact, governments should not be allowed to sell off public assets at their whim. Each such sale should be subject to parliamentary discussions and approval and should be on grounds other than the spurious one of raising resources. Otherwise, there is indeed nothing to prevent the sale of the country. There could be a case for the privatisation of Air India or BSNL (Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited),which are running at severe losses. But why are profitable institutions like public-sector banks being targeted? Patnaik: I don’t agree that there is a case for privatising Air India or BSNL. My reasons are two: first, their loss-making is itself engineered by the government to prepare the case for privatising them. There was, for instance, massive and sudden retrenchment from BSNL which led to a disastrous drop in the quality of its service and to inconvenience for its customers. Likewise, the drop in Air India’s service quality that has — besides palpably unwise past investment decisions — contributed towards its losses has occurred before our eyes. Second, judging a public-sector unit by its profitability is fundamentally wrong. The public sector, representing social ownership, is meant to serve society in diverse ways, not just by making profits. The reason for keeping public-sector banks public (and this was the argument behind bank nationalisation) is not that they make profits but that they give institutional credit to sections of the population that would otherwise never get it. This wide disbursal of credit is what made possible the Green Revolution and the achievement of such food self-sufficiency as we have. The whole discourse around the public sector is, therefore, wrong and motivated. The two-day strike launched by the bank unions was a shining success. Does this imply the common man is gradually turning against the government’s “sell off” policy? Not only that, they have now decided to launch a spirited battle against the overall economic policy of the Modi dispensation. Patnaik: The Modi government’s economic policy is what I would call “ruthless neo-liberalism”. A crucial component of it is opening up the petty production sector, including peasant agriculture, for encroachment by big capital. The three farm laws are indicative of this. This sector, employing 85 per cent of the country’s working population, takes time to awaken but when it does it resists quite single-mindedly. This sector has now started resisting. Privatisation affects it deeply, since public ownership — say, of financial institutions — is of direct help to it. The trade unions have always been opposed to privatisation. The coming together of workers, white-collar workers and peasants is of momentous significance for the country. The government’s economic policy never had many takers among them; the government pushed it while diverting people’s attention through a communal polarisation. I think such subterfuges are not going to work henceforth, which would make the government more repressive and its pro-corporate partisanship more open and odious. Is there a personal axe to grind? The commanding heights of the Indian economy nurtured and nourished by Jawaharlal Nehru are being listed for sale one by one. Nehru, as we know, is the bête-noire of the BJP and the RSS. Patnaik: There is no doubt an element of truth in what you say. But I would say that Modi and his circle have little understanding of economics. They have imbibed certain simple-minded neo-liberal ideas from the ideologues of finance capital that are in conformity with what their crony capitalists tell them. They stick to these ideas with their characteristic ruthlessness. Trying to offload the shares of a profitable organisation like BPCL (Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited), and particularly the LIC, is surprising. Why is Modi acting like this — to satisfy his crony capitalists or use the resources gathered for national reconstruction? Patnaik: It’s not just that he listens to his crony capitalists but his crony capitalists themselves lack any breadth of vision. In the US, when Elizabeth Warren proposed a 2 per cent wealth tax on the very rich during her campaign for presidency, 18 billionaires endorsed her proposal. Would the corporate-financial oligarchy in India support a wealth tax? On the contrary, the entire argument supporting privatisation for raising resources is meant to increase wealth inequality and thereby undermine democracy. Experts, highly critical of Modi, have said that the privatisation policy and its implementation is but one important aspect of the entire economic rationale and agenda of the government. From the demonetisation and the goods and services tax (GST) to the petrol and diesel price hikes, every far-reaching step is meant to oppress the poor and the middle class. He is a thorough neo-liberal and his advisers are blind followers of Milton Friedman and Jagdish Bhagwati. Patnaik: The demonetisation was a huge blow to the petty production sector and the millions of unorganised workers employed therein. It pushed that sector into greater debt, which hangs like a millstone round its neck. The rise in petro-product prices raises the input costs for the peasantry which, in the absence of a corresponding increase in the guaranteed minimum support price, pushes it further towards destitution. The GST effectively redistributes the tax burden from the large-scale sector to the petty producers. Every one of these measures is in conformity with neo-liberalism and is a blow against the peasants, agricultural workers and unorganised workers in general, and even organised workers who suffer as consumers. Common people, the struggling middle class in particular, are having sleepless nights, now that they have heard that public-sector banks and, above all, the LIC will be put up for sale. What can we do to assuage them? Patnaik: What we are seeing is a shift of concern away from the workers, peasants and lower middle class towards the rich, which is immanent to neo-liberalism but is now accelerated. Consider the LIC. Private insurance companies all over the world employ huge armies of lawyers to fight against insurance claims which no lower-middle-class client can match. In India, however, such a person could put his money into the LIC, assured of getting a fair treatment; and the LIC has a settlement-to-claims ratio (almost 98 per cent historically) that is higher than anywhere else in the world. This assurance will now go. What is needed now is a mass movement against this animosity towards the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Bihar imposes night curfew till May 15 ||The Bihar government on Sunday opted for an eight-hour night curfew daily till May 15 and increased restrictions on normal life to tackle the coronavirus pandemic rampage. It also appealed to all the people, who want to return to the state, to do so as soon as possible. “Night curfew from 9pm to 5am will be implemented in entire Bihar till May 15. There will be no curbs on travel, essential services, marriage ceremonies,” chief minister Nitish Kumar said. Nitish’s announcement came after a marathon meeting with all district magistrates, followed by the crisis management group created by the state government. The night curfew has attracted much criticism across the country by experts who have pointed out that the coronavirus does not differentiate between day and night. Besides, few people venture out at night. In any case, Bihar has no worthwhile nightlife and lack of industries has ensured that there are almost no industrial institutions in the state that function during the late hours. However, Nitish said the Covid-19 situation in the state would be continuously monitored and further decisions would be taken as required. The state witnessed 8,690 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of active cases beyond 48,000. Bihar has so far seen 3.24 lakh cases. All public and private educational institutions will now remain closed till May 15 and there will be no examinations during this period, though job-related exams will be held according to their schedule. The chief minister also said that all parks, gyms, cinema halls and clubs across the state would be closed till May 15. Restaurants, eateries and dhabas would not be able to serve food to customers during this period, but could provide takeaways. He announced a month’s extra pay for doctors. With migrant workers returning to Bihar from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and other states in large numbers, Nitish appealed to them to return quickly. “We appeal to our people who want to come back, to do so as soon as possible. Right now their number is less, but it is going to increase in the coming days. We want them to return quickly. We will assist them in employment,” Nitish said. The migrant workers had returned to Bihar during the Covid-19-induced lockdown last year in an exodus-like situation never seen since the partition in 1947. Officially their numbers stood around 30 lakh, but various estimates suggested that around 50 to 60 lakh workers and labourers returned from more developed states owing to lockdown related loss of employment and residential facilities. The closure of all religious institutions has been extended from April 30 to May 15. Shops and business establishments will have to close by 6pm, but there will be no curbs on industrial units. Government and public offices, already functioning with one-third staff on a rotation basis, will now close at 5pm instead of 6pm earlier. The district magistrates will have the option to shift markets to reduce the density of gatherings, and could also impose Section 144 of the CrPC to prevent the assembly of people. Nitish said that containment zones would be established wherever infected people are found. Similarly, quarantine centres would be made operational at the sub-divisional level. Public awareness campaigns about the need to wear masks, wash hands and maintain social distancing would be run across the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
19-04-2021||India||Nabard gives Rs 22,709 crore to Odisha||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development’s financial support to Odisha has touched Rs 22,709 crore during the financial year 2020-21. The money has been given to the state government, banks and corporations. On Nabard’s support, the drinking water projects are expected to provide clean and safe drinking water to 25.46 lakh rural population across 3.50 lakh household in 1,335 villages of the state. “Nabard, Odisha has disbursed Rs 1,700 crore under Special Liquidity Facility (SLF) to Cooperative Banks and Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs) during covid-pandemic,” said a press release issued by Nabard. It further said to promote capital formation in agriculture and allied sectors, Nabard disbursed long term refinance of Rs 1,551.85 crore to commercial banks, Odisha State Cooperative Bank and MFI during the year. “During the finance year 2020-21, refinance for short term crop loans to the tune of Rs 12,193 crore was disbursed to Cooperative Banks and Regional Rural Banks (RRBs),” the release said. Nabard has sanctioned Rs 3234.25 crore to Odisha under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) tranche on building agricultural and rural infrastructure. “This sanction includes 2,510 Community Based Lift irrigation Projects under Bharatiya Kaushal Vikash Yojana (BKVY) scheme, 11 Megalift schemes, 74 rural bridge projects, seven mega piped water supply projects, eight Flood Protection and one System Improvement Project. These irrigation projects are envisaged to create/stabilise/develop an irrigation potential of 97256 ha in the state of Odisha apart from bridge projects to provide the necessary rural connectivity,” said the press release||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
19-04-2021||India||Covid: Odisha to buy more oxygen cylinders ||The Odisha government has decided to procure more than 18,000 oxygen cylinders because of increasing demand for oxygen from the hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. It has also decided to increase the number of beds in hospitals by five times. Secretary, health and family welfare, P.K. Mohapatra, who is also the additional chief secretary of the state, told The Telegraph, “Compared to the last year, the demand for oxygen has gone up. The requirement of oxygen cylinders will be 10 times more than what it was during the peak time last year. Considering this we have decided to procure more oxygen cylinders.” On being asked about patients who died because of alleged shortage of oxygen cylinders, Mohapatra said, “Such a situation has not risen in the state in the state so far. We don’t have a shortage of oxygen. Our steel plants are producing oxygen. They have been asked to supply more oxygen cylinders. They have assured to do so.” At present, the state produces 129.68 metric tonnes of oxygen cylinders and production of liquid medical oxygen is to the tune of 375 metric tonnes. On the issue of increasing the number of beds, Mohapatra said, “Keeping in mind the rising graph of corona cases we are preparing ourselves to provide medical treatment to each person infected with the virus.” The state government has asked all the district administrations to take necessary steps to ensure more beds in Covid hospitals. “Collectors have been directed to enhance the number of beds in four categories- general beds, beds with oxygen support, ICU beds and ICU beds with oxygen support and other required infrastructure. The number of ICU and High Dependency Unit beds will be enhanced as per the requirement,” said director of public health, Dr Niranjan Mishra. According to rules, six per cent of beds in a hospital are to be treated as ICU beds. However, the rules have been modified keeping in view of the caseloads. “Patients are now provided with 25 per cent general beds and 60 percent of ICU beds,” officials maintained. With report of 3,664 new cases, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state has gone up to 3,68,258. Besides, the death toll has reached 1,944. On the other hand, the night curfew is being enforced strictly in urban areas across the state to ensure that the chain of infection breaks. Amid the demands for more vaccine doses, the state received another batch of 2 lakh vaccines from Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
