20-04-2021||India||No lockdown as of now, Prime Minister assures nation||In a televised address as India battles a surge in Covid cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on states to declare lockdowns only as “the last option” and instead focus “on creating micro-containment zones.” “We have to protect the nation from lockdown,” Modi said. He was speaking as India is currently recording more Covid-19 cases than any other country in the world. Modi said that the government is seeking to “save as many lives as possible” and is trying to meet soaring demands for oxygen and hospital beds. But he said the government was also trying to ensure that the economy keeps running smoothly. “We have to improve the economic health and take care of countrymen’s health,” he said. “We are fighting another war against Covid-19. Things were better over the last few weeks but now we are experiencing the second wave,” he told the country in his evening address. “It is a big challenge but we can face it together,” Modi said during the 20-minute broadcast which came after several days when the government has appeared to be far behind the curve on fighting the virus. “We should not lose our patience even at the hardest of times,” Modi urged viewers, declaring that the country was “working day and night” to tackle the Covid surge. Soon after Modi’s speech, TV channels broadcast stories about hospitals around the country that have only a few hours of oxygen left for their patients and the desperate quest by patients for hospital beds. Maharashtra worst hit Modi’s comments came as Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters earlier in the day that all state ministers had asked Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to put Maharashtra under full lockdown. Maharashtra is the worst hit by Covid and is reeling from patient oxygen shortages. The state has said it will decide late on Wednesday on whether to order a lockdown. In order to avoid a repeat of last year’s disastrous return of migrants to their home towns due to Covid, Modi asked states to allay workers’ fears that they would lose their jobs. He asked the states to inform the workers they would receive vaccinations in the coming days. Modi’s speech came after he held a video conference with vaccine producers earlier in the day in which he pressed them to boost production in order to vaccinate all of India’s citizens in the shortest possible time. “We gain confidence from the fact that our healthcare workers, frontline workers and a large part of our senior citizens have already been vaccinated," Modi said, noting proudly that India “has made the cheapest vaccine.” .All adults over 18 will be eligible to be vaccinated as of May 1. Not as bad as last year Modi asserted that the latest wave had come “like a hurricane,” but insisted that the situation was not as bad as last year when we had not had any equipment like PPE kits. He praised India’s doctors and said that in a short time they had established protocols on how to treat patients. “Last year the situation was much worse. There was no medical infrastructure and no PPE production,” he said. India’s health ministry reported 259,170 fresh Covid infections in the last 24 hours, pushing the total number of Covid-19 cases to 15,321,089. Deaths have totalled close to 179,000. India now has more than two million officially recorded active Covid-19 cases, second in number behind the United States. The prime minister pledged to roll out the vaccine programme faster and he said that the pharmaceutical sector has already increased its output of medicines and will hike it further. He added that the government was working towards increasing beds and building more hospitals. “We gain confidence from the fact that our healthcare workers, frontline workers and a large part of our senior citizens have already been vaccinated," he said. Free vaccination to continue Modi assured viewers that free vaccinations would continue to be available at government hospitals and added that, according to the new policy outlined by the government, 50 per cent of the vaccines would go to the states. Modi called on citizens, especially the young, to help the needy and form committees in their areas to create awareness about how people can protect themselves against Covid. He urged young people to make sure relatives do not leave their homes except for an important reason. The prime minister made no reference to massive election rallies held in Bengal and the large Kumbh Mela gathering that are believed to have helped stoked the latest surge in cases. Initial reactions to his speech were negative with one person commenting, “He told people what to do. But didn’t say anything about what he and his government were doing for the people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
20-04-2021||India||Some hospitals left with few hours of oxygen, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged the Centre "with folded hands" to provide medical oxygen to Delhi, saying some hospitals are going to run out of it in a few hours. "Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi... Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen," he tweeted. In another tweet he said, "I urge the Central government with folded hands to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi." Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said they have just eight hours of oxygen left. The hospital has 485 Covid beds, of which 475 are occupied. Around 120 patients are currently in the ICU. Its chairman D S Rana said, "6,000 cubic meters of it is left, which at the rate of current consumption will last till 1 am. Need urgent replenishment." Kejriwal had on Sunday termed the shortage of oxygen for coronavirus patients an "emergency". He had also written to Union Minister of Commerce and Industries Piyush Goyal, seeking his intervention in the matter. On Monday, the Delhi government set up a 24-member committee to ensure "rational" use of oxygen for treatment of Covid-19 patients. An order issued by the Health Department said the 'Oxygen Audit Committee' will identify areas of wasteful consumption. The consumption of oxygen has undergone a quantum increase with the admission of a large number of serious patients who require oxygen support, it said. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said the Centre should be "sensitive and active" in handling the situation so that there is no clamour among states over its supply. Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 management in the national capital, said he is getting SOS calls on oxygen shortage from all hospitals. He also alleged that people involved in supplying oxygen are being stopped in different states. "Getting SOS calls on shortage of oxygen from all hospitals. People involved in supplying oxygen are being stopped at different states. To ensure that there no 'jungle raj' among states over supply of oxygen, the Central government should be very sensitive and active to handle the situation," he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
20-04-2021||India||Ban industrial use of oxygen now, HC tells Centre||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said that economic interests can not override human lives and in view of various hospitals in the national capital running low on oxygen, the Centre should immediately implement the ban on industrial use of oxygen instead of waiting till April 22.  A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said oxygen supply of various hospitals will run out in 4-8 hours and in such a situation there was no justification in implementing the ban from April 22 as the need was now.  The court directed the Centre to forthwith implement the ban and divert the oxygen to hospitals running out of the same as any further delay will lead to loss of precious lives.  The court also issued notice to INOX, which produces oxygen, as to why contempt action be not initiated against it for not complying with court orders to supply oxygen and directed the presence of the company's Managing Director on the next date of hearing on April 22.  The court also sought the presence of the Uttar Pradesh government on the next date.  The direction came after senior advocate Rahul Mehra told the bench that INOX did not supply oxygen as directed by the court claiming that doing so would lead to a law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh from where the supply was to come.  The court in its order also directed the Centre to issue appropriate orders and also meet the representatives of the steel and petrochemical industries to divert some portion of their oxygen for medical needs for a period to tide over the prevailing pandemic.  The court said these industries can reduce their production for now and if the lockdown continues then everything would come to a halt and therefore, what would be the need for steel, petrol and diesel during such a situation.  "During lockdown, what would be the development," the court said and asked the Centre why it was waiting till April 22 to ban industrial use of oxygen.  "Shortage is now. You have to do it (ban) now. Look into taking some oxygen from steel and petroleum industries. They have big pockets and big lobbies, but tell them if they have to cut production, then they can cut production. Lives have to be saved," the bench said.  The court cited the example of a central government counsel whose father was admitted in hospital and was on oxygen support, but due its scarcity, oxygen was being provided at a reduced pressure to him to conserve it.  "Can you ask him to hold on till April 22," the court asked.  It said if nothing was done, then "we are heading for a bigger disaster".  "We might end up losing nearly a crore of people. Are we willing to accept that," the bench said.  It also suggested increasing the COVID beds in hospitals which have their own oxygen generating capacity.  The observations by the bench came after perusing the Centre's affidavit which said there was presently no gap in oxygen supply to Delhi and that industrial use of oxygen was banned with effect from April 22.  The Ministry of Health, represented by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, told the high court that there has been an inordinate increase of 133 per cent in the projected medical oxygen required, as on April 20, between the initial estimate of 300 metric tonnes and revised estimate of 700 metric tonnes submitted by Delhi.  The ministry said all the States, including Delhi, have to rationalize the use of oxygen and prohibit abnormal usage and administering oxygen to the patients who do not clinically require the same.  "States have to undertake oxygen consumption monitoring in hospitals including private hospitals and to undertake facility-wise/hospital-wise oxygen inventory mapping and advance planning for timely replenishment so that supply can be efficiently managed," it said.  It said that states of Kerala and Madhya Pradesh have come out with simple guidelines to efficiently manage use of oxygen in view of its scarcity.  Earlier in the day, the court had asked the Centre whether oxygen supplied to industries can be diverted for COVID-19 patients.  "Industries can wait. Patients cannot. Human lives are at stake," the bench said.  It said it has heard that doctors at Ganga Ram Hospital were being forced to reduce oxygen being given to COVID-19 patients admitted there as there was scarcity of oxygen.  The ministry, in the affidavit filed through central government standing counsel Monika Arora, has also said that in order to increase the capacity of medical oxygen in Delhi, eight Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Oxygen Generation plants are being installed by the support of PM CARES Funds.  "These plants would enhance capacity of medical oxygen by 14.4 metric tonnes," the ministry's affidavit said.  The observations by the bench came during the hearing of a disposed of petition related to COVID-19 tests and the high court revived it on April 19 by noting that the virus has raised its "ugly head" once again and the pandemic is raging with much greater intensity and "it is evident that the healthcare infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Congress bats for ‘one nation, one vaccine price’, slams Centre on ‘inequitable’ plan||A day after the government tweaked its Covid-19 vaccination policy to widen the coverage, the Congress Tuesday alleged the changes will worsen the inequality between states as well as between poor and rich Indians, and demanded uniform pricing for the jabs at all health facilities. Questioning the pricing modalities under the new policy, which allows manufacturers to fix the prices of their shots, the Congress said the plan was "regressive, inequitable and anti-competitive". The party also said the new policy would put additional burden on states which are already cash-strapped. The Centre announced Monday that all above 18 years of age will be eligible for Covid-19 vaccination from May 1, while private hospitals and states will be able to buy doses from manufacturers. It also said the vaccine manufacturers would be free to supply 50 percent doses to state governments and in the open market for which they will have to make an advance declaration of the price before May 1. "This is a government that believes in one nation one tax', one nation one election', but this is a government that does not believe in ''one nation, one price'," Congress leader Jairam Ramesh told an online press conference. He said the new policy will lead to multiple pricing for Covid-19 shots at central and state government hospitals, and private facilities. "Why can't we have 'one nation, one price' for vaccines. I think this is a legitimate demand," he said, advocating the Centre, state governments and private hospitals get the shots at the same price. Ramesh alleged the Central government will get 50 per cent of the vaccines and the rest 50 per cent will be divided among private hospitals and state governments. "This is very unfair. This is inequitable. We want states to get greater responsibility. But, this is actually not giving the states any responsibility. So 'one nation, one price'. We cannot have 'one nation, multiple prices'," he told reporters. Chidambaram claimed the Union government has finally acknowledged the problem of vaccine shortage and other deficiencies in the current policy. "While we welcome the positive changes made to the policy...the modified vaccine policy is, in crucial respects, regressive and inequitable," he said. "Under the modified vaccine policy, the Union government is running away from taking responsibility, overburdens the states, encourages vaccine manufacturers to profiteer, and will worsen the inequality between states as well between poor and rich Indians," he also said. Nowhere in the world has any government left its vaccination programme to be determined by the vagaries of market forces, the senior Congress leader noted. Chidambaram said under the modified vaccine policy, states will bear the responsibility and cost of vaccinating the poorer sections who are below the age of 45 years and are neither healthcare workers nor frontline workers, as defined by the central government. The former union minister alleged that the Union government appears to have abdicated its responsibility towards the poor by excluding them from the Centre's vaccination programme. "In a country where the median age is 28 years, to leave those who are below the age of 45 years out of a public-funded programme is, to say the least, callous," he noted, adding that migrant workers who are lifeblood of the economy will be the worst affected by this directive. Chidambaram also alleged that by liberalising the pricing of vaccines, and by not fixing a price for states at the same rate as it is available to the Union government, the government is paving the way to unhealthy price bidding and profiteering. "States with limited resources will be at a considerable disadvantage. States that are already weighed down by shrinking GST revenues, lower tax devolution, reduced grants-in-aid and increased borrowing would have to bear this additional burden," he said, questioning where the funds collected under PM-Cares have been spent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Maharashtra grocery shops to function till 11 am to curb Covid cases||Grocery and food shops will remain open only between 7 am to 11 am till May 1, the Maharashtra government announced on Tuesday as part of its efforts to curb the alarming rise in coronavirus cases. The new restriction will come into effect from 8 pm on Tuesday and remain effective till 7 am on May 1. The state has been adding more than 50,000 Covid-19 cases daily over the last two weeks. Various other restrictions are already in place under the state's `Break the chain' program to control the spread of the virus. The latest order was issued by the Disaster Management and Relief and Rehabilitation department. "All grocery, vegetable shops, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries, confectioneries, all types of food shops including chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs, shops related to agricultural implements and farm produce, pet food shops, shops related to materials for impending rainy season" will remain open from 7 am to 11 am, said the order. Home delivery from such shops may be allowed between 7 am to 8 pm, but the time window can be changed by local authorities, it said. Local authorities can include additional services or entities in the essential services category only after the consent of the state Disaster Management Authority, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Rs 4,500 cr advanced to vaccine makers Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech||Looking to ramp up supplies ahead of the opening of Covid-19 vaccination to all citizens over 18 years of age, the government has approved a payment of about Rs 4,500 crore as advance to vaccine makers like Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech against future supplies, sources said. SII will supply 200 million doses and Bharat Biotech is to supply another 90 million doses to the government by July at a pre-agreed rate of Rs 150 per dose. Sources said the finance ministry has relaxed rules to allow advance payment without bank guarantee to help the vaccine makers ramp up production. SII will get Rs 3,000 crore in advance and Bharat Biotech about Rs 1,500 crore. Commenting on the decision during a media briefing, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal said the finance minister has approved to provide credit line to vaccine manufacturers and this approval does not require vetting by the Cabinet. "I think the finance minister has approved and this is part of her powers to approve these funds because it is in the form of credit line, and will be backed with the adequate supplies of vaccines to support the government procurement and vaccination programme of the government of India," he said. Serum Institute hails decision Earlier this month, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla had said that the company would require around Rs 3,000 crore to ramp up production capacity for making vaccines for COVID-19. The decision to provide credit line was hailed by SII. "On behalf of the vaccine industry in India, I would like to thank and applaud Shri @narendramodi Ji, @nsitharaman Ji, for your decisive policy changes and swift financial aid which will help vaccine production and distribution in India," Poonawalla said in a tweet on Tuesday. Bharat Biotech scales up production Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said it has scaled up its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin manufacturing capacity to 700 million doses per annum. According to a press release issued by the city-based vaccine maker, manufacturing scale up has been carried out in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad and Bangalore. Sources said the company had 200 million doses capacity when it started producing Covaxin in the beginning. Capacity expansion in vaccines manufacturing is a long and tedious process, requiring investments and several years, the release said. "Bharat Biotech is able to expand Covaxin manufacturing capacity in a short timeline, mainly due to the availability of new specially designed BSL-3 facilities, first of its kind for manufacturing in India that have been repurposed and pre-existing expertise and know how to manufacture, test and release highly purified inactivated viral vaccines," the firm said. Manufacturing partnerships are being explored with our partners in other countries, who have prior expertise with commercial scale manufacture of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment, Bharat Biotech said. Tie-up with IIL To further increase capacities, Bharat Biotech has partnered with Indian Immunologicals (IIL) to manufacture the drug substance for Covaxin. The technology transfer process is well underway and IIL has the capabilities and expertise to manufacture inactivated viral vaccines at commercial scale and under biosafety containment. Bharat Biotech uses a proprietary adjuvant Algel- IMDG, which has now proven to be a safe and effective adjuvant, especially to stimulate memory T cell responses. The synthesis and manufacture of the IMDG component has been successfully indigenized and will be manufactured at commercial scale within the country. This is the first instance where a novel adjuvant has been commercialised in India. Emergency use nod Covaxin has received Emergency Use Authorisations  (EUA) in several countries across the globe with another 60 in process. EUAs have now been obtained from Mexico, the Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, Zimbabwe, among several other countries. EUAs are in process in the USA and several European countries. Pricing for international markets and supplies to governments under EUAs have been established between USD15 - 20/ dose, the vaccine maker said. Vaccination drive opened up The government on Monday allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive Covid-19 vaccination from May 1 as it seeks to control the rapid spread of the virus. Under the third phase of its vaccination strategy, manufacturers will be required to supply 50 per cent of their monthly doses to the government and the rest to state governments or the open market. Vaccination will continue as before in the government of India vaccination centres free of cost for the eligible population -- healthcare and frontline workers and all people above 45 years of age. Second-worst affected nation Latest data showed that over 2.59 lakh coronavirus infections pushed overall cases in India to more than 1.53 crore, making the country the second-worst affected nation after the US, which has reported more than 3.1 crore infections. India's deaths from COVID-19 rose by a record 1,761 to over 1.8 lakh. With regard to impact of surging COVID-19 cases on the economy, Goyal said, India Inc is completely satisfied with the steps taken by the government to deal with the situation. The government decision on vaccination for all above 18 years taken on Monday will give a boost in maintaining economic activity, he said. The Commerce Minister said he had discussions with three industry chambers and they have informed that their members would like to pay and implement the vaccination for their employees. Chambers have their intention to import vaccine if at all available, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech scales up Covaxin production to 700 million doses annually||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said it has scaled up its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin manufacturing capacity to 700 million doses per annum. According to a press release issued by the city-based vaccine maker, manufacturing scale up has been carried out in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad and Bangalore. Sources said the company had 200 million doses capacity when it started producing Covaxin in the beginning. Capacity expansion in vaccines manufacturing is a long and tedious process, requiring investments and several years, the release said. "Bharat Biotech is able to expandCovaxin manufacturing capacity in a short timeline, mainly due to the availability of new specially designed BSL-3 facilities, first of its kind for manufacturing in India that have been repurposed and preexisting expertise and know how to manufacture, test and release highly purified inactivated viral vaccines," the firm said. Manufacturing partnerships are being explored with our partners in other countries, who have prior expertise with commercial scale manufacture of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment, Bharat Biotech said. To further increase capacities, Bharat Biotech has partnered with Indian Immunologicals (IIL) to manufacture the drug substance for Covaxin. The technology transfer process is well underway and IIL has the capabilities and expertise to manufacture inactivated viral vaccines at commercial scale and under biosafety containment. Bharat Biotech uses a proprietary adjuvant Algel- IMDG, which has now proven to be a safe and effective adjuvant, especially to stimulate memory T cell responses. The synthesis and manufacture of the IMDG component has been successfully indigenized and will be manufactured at commercial scale within the country. This is the first instance where a novel adjuvant has been commercialised in India. Covaxin has received Emergency Use Authorisations in several countries across the globe with another 60 in process. EUAs have now been obtained from Mexico, the Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, Zimbabwe, among several other countries. EUAs are in process in the USA and several European countries. Pricing for international markets and supplies to governments under EUAs have been established between USD15 - 20/ dose, the vaccine maker said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi tests positive for coronavirus||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. The former president of the party announced the news in a Twitter post. “After experiencing mild symptoms, I’ve just tested positive for COVID. All those who’ve been in contact with me recently, please follow all safety protocols and stay safe,” Gandhi tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished him a speedy recovery. "I pray for the good health and quick recovery of Lok Sabha MP Shri Rahul Gandhi ji," he tweeted. Messages for his early recovery poured in from various quarters, with former Union minister P Chidambaram saying he was deeply concerned. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Wishing you a speedy recovery Rahul Gandhi ji. In these challenging times, the nation needs your leadership more then ever." This comes a day after senior Congress leader and former prime minister Dr. Manmohan Singh got infected with the virus. Singh has been shifted to AIIMS in Delhi following his diagnosis. On Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's wife Sunita Kejriwal has tested positive and is under home isolation, a Delhi government official said. Kejriwal has also quarantined himself, he added. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma also tested positive for the virus on the day and has been shifted to a private hospital in Gurgaon, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson seeks permission for clinical trial of vaccine in India||Global healthcare major Johnson & Johnson on Tuesday said it has sought approval from India's drug regulator to conduct a bridging clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in the country. The US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) had in February approved Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine that works with just one dose for emergency use. "Johnson & Johnson is partnering with health authorities and the world's best scientists to provide the safety and efficacy data necessary to support worldwide emergency use of the Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate," the company said in a statement. This comes close on the heels of the central government last week deciding to fast-track emergency approvals for all foreign produced coronavirus jabs that have been given a similar nod by the World Health Organization or regulators in the United States, Europe, Britain or Japan. Such vaccines will be given emergency use approval mandating the requirement of post-approval parallel bridging clinical trial in place of conduct of local clinical trial under the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules 2019, the health ministry had said. "In line with this commitment, we have submitted an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) requesting approval to conduct a bridging clinical study of our single-dose Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India to comply with local regulations", the statement added. Johnson & Johnson's vaccine can be stored at refrigerator temperatures. So far, two vaccines -- one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and the other developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research - National Institute of Virology -- are being used in India. Both the vaccines are being manufactured within the country by domestic firms. While the Oxford/Astrazeneca vaccine 'Covishield' is being manufactured by Serum Institute of India, the indigenously developed 'Covaxin' is being manufactured by Bharat Biotech. A third vaccine Sputnik V -- developed in Russia and to be imported and sold in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories -- has also been approved by the Indian drug regulator. The government, meanwhile, on Monday decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 years of age to get vaccinated from May 1 and permitted state governments, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the doses directly from manufacturers. A bridging study is defined as a study performed in the new region to provide pharmacodynamic or clinical data on efficacy, safety, dosage and dose regimen in the new region that will allow extrapolation of the foreign clinical data to the population in the new region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||India likely to waive customs duty on Covid vaccine imports||The government is likely to waive 10 per cent customs duty levied on imported vaccines in a bid to keep low the cost of overseas vaccines that are being eyed to supplement domestically made shots ahead of opening COVID-19 vaccination to all citizens over 18 years of age, sources said.While Russia's Sputnik V vaccines are due to arrive this month or latest by next month, manufacturers like Moderna and Johnson and Johnson have been urged to seek emergency use approval in India. The government presently levies 10 per cent customs or import duty plus a 16.5 per cent I-GST and social welfare surcharge on vaccines coming from overseas. These taxes would make the imported vaccines costlier than the ones made by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech. "A customs duty wavier is being considered," a source aware of the matter said. Another source said a decision is likely to be made "very soon." As and when, foreign vaccine manufacturers approach the government with a formal proposal for allowing import of vaccine, the waiver would be given, government sources explained. No proposal has been made so far, finance ministry sources added. The government earlier this month allowed emergency use of imported vaccines to curb spread of coronavirus infections. With 2.59 lakh new infections, the caseload has crossed 1.53 crore, making India the second-worst affected nation after the US, which has reported more than 3.1 crore infections. India's deaths from COVID-19 rose by a record 1,761 to over 1.8 lakh. Sources said discussion on duty exemption on vaccines started sometime in December last year when overseas manufacturers such as Pfizer sought approval to supply its vaccines to India. The finance ministry and its indirect tax collection arm had done some preliminary calculations on the implications of a duty waiver but a decision was put off until the government approved use of imported vaccines, they said. The government, which on Monday allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive COVID-19 vaccinations "from May 1, currently regulates the sale and purchase of all Covid shots in the country. Under the third phase of its vaccination strategy, manufacturers will be required to supply 50 per cent of their monthly doses to the government and the rest to state governments or the open market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||SC grants interim stay on HC order directing UP govt to impose restrictions in 5 cities||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted interim stay on the Allahabad High Court order directing the Uttar Pradesh government to impose strict restrictions till April 26 in five cities amid surge in COVID-19 cases. There shall be an interim stay on the order of the high court, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said while hearing the state government's plea against the order passed on Monday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said the state has taken several steps to contain the spread of coronavirus but to lockdown five cities by a judicial order may not be the right approach . He said the state government has issued several directions and taken adequate precaution on the issue. Mehta said the high court order would create immense administrative difficulties. The apex court, while granting interim stay on the high court order, appointed senior advocate P S Narasimha as amicus curiae to assist in the matter. The bench directed that the matter be listed after two weeks. Earlier in the day, the apex court agreed to hear the plea of the Uttar Pradesh government against the high court order after the state requested urgent listing of the matter. The high court had directed the Uttar Pradesh government to impose strict restrictions including closing of malls, shopping complexes and restaurants till April 26 in five cities, but stopped short of calling it a "complete lockdown". Allahabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Nagar and Gorakhpur are the cities in which the high court has directed curbs. The high court had said these curbs are "nowhere close to a complete lockdown".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Telangana imposes night curfew till April 30||The Telangana government on Tuesday announced a night curfew in the state between 9 pm and 5 am till April 30, following a surge in coronavirus cases. The restrictions will come into effect from April 20. "The various measures to control COVID-19 in the state have been reviewed. "It is decided to introduce night curfew in the state for the period from 9 PM to 5 AM till 30th April 2021 as a further measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19," Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said in an order. The state has 42,853 active cases and counting. Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao also tested positive for the virus on Monday. During the curfew period all offices, firms, shops, establishments, restaurants etc shall close at 8 pm except hospitals, diagnostic labs, pharmacies and those dealing with supply of essential services such as media, e-commerce deliveries and Petrol pumps among others. Movement of all people shall be prohibited from 9 pm onwards barring government officials, medical personnel and those coming from or going to airports, railway stations, bus stands on production of valid ticket, among others. The order said there shall be no restriction on inter- state and intra-state movement or transportation of essential and non-essential goods and no separate permission or pass will be required for such movement. Public transport services including autos and taxis shall be allowed to function within stipulated time for the transportation of exempted categories of people during the period of night curfew, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||JNU issues strict guidelines inside campus for week-long lockdown||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has issued strict guidelines and imposed several restrictions on the campus during the week-long lockdown in Delhi to curb a surge in COVID-19 cases. The latest restrictions have been imposed after the Delhi government's direction to observe city-wide lockdown from 10 pm on Monday to 5 am on April 26. The JNU, in an order issued late on Monday, said all dhabas and eateries will remain out of bounds for customers, however, home delivery service will be allowed. It also restricted the movement of hawkers and "domestic help/maids, drivers, gardeners and car cleaners hired by the residents" on the campus. "Visiting to another home or hostel inside the residential area/hostel complex is strictly prohibited. The movement within the campus shall be restricted during the curfew timings," the university said. It also prohibited any mass gathering or congregation in the campus along with walking, running, or jogging in the stadium or road. On Monday, the varsity had announced to keep the central library closed for the duration of the week-long lockdown. The movement of people engaged for emergency and essential services, medical emergency and supply of goods during the curfew period on production of a valid identity card has been allowed. "Persons coming from or going to airport, railway station/ISBTs allowed to travel on production of a valid ticket. Shops dealing with essential food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booth, pharmaceuticals and ATMs are allowed to function," it added. The essential service departments, including security and transport, university health centre, academic branch, administration branch, finance departments, engineering (electric/civil), sanitation, communication and information services, and central laboratory animal research will remain operational during the period, it said. "All other staff members/persons in schools/centres/library and places not listed above, shall work from home or as per the roster and permissions/directions of the departmental heads," the university said. It also instructed the security personnel to "barricade the sensitive area in order to restrict the non-essential movement". Delhi on Monday recorded 240 deaths due to COVID-19, the highest since the pandemic began over a year ago, and 23,686 cases with a positivity rate of 26.12 per cent, according to data shared by the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||India registers over 2.59 lakh new Covid cases, record 1,761 casualties in a day||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 1,53,21,089 with 2,59,170 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while active cases surpassed the 20-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,80,530 with a record 1,761 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 41st day in a row, the active cases increased to 20,31,977, comprising 13.26 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 85.56 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,31,08,582, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.18 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,94,14,035 samples have been tested up to April 19 with 15,19,486 samples being tested on Monday. The 1,716 new fatalities include 351 from Maharashtra, 240 from Delhi, 175 from Chhattisgarh, 167 from Uttar Pradesh, 146 from Karnataka, 117 from Gujarat, 83 from Punjab, 79 from Madhya Pradesh, 53 from Rajasthan, 46 from Jharkhand, 44 from Tamil Nadu, 41 from Bihar and 38 from West Bengal and 33 from Haryana. A total of 1,80,530 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 60,824 from Maharashtra, 13,497 from Karnataka ,13,157 from Tamil Nadu, 12,361 from Delhi, 10,606 from West Bengal, 9,997 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,985 from Punjab and 7,437 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Allahabad High Court orders restrictions in five Uttar Pradesh cities till April 26||Allahabad High Court on Monday ordered restrictions in five Uttar Pradesh cities till April 26, acting at a time harrowing images of Covid’s impact have added to the perception of a breakdown in governance in the key state. “It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave, it never planned things in advance,” the bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar said. Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur are the cities earmarked by the court for the restrictions to check the spread of Covid-19. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is in isolation after testing positive for Covid-19. Between March 16 and April 8, he had addressed 20 election rallies in Bengal for the BJP. The court also asked  the state government to “consider imposition of a complete lockdown in the entire state for at least a period of two weeks”. Late at night, the state government said it would not impose a lockdown but would increase the fine for not wearing masks and take other steps. A government official hinted the state would urge the court for a rethink on Tuesday morning. But by late evening, panic buying had begun in Lucknow with thousands thronging the markets. While issuing the directive, the bench of Justices Varma and Kumar said the night curfew “in the name of corona curfew and the weekend curfew are nothing else but a mere eyewash”. Uttar Pradesh has been observing night curfews — which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has suggested should be called “corona curfews” — between 9pm and 6am, and weekend curfews from Friday evening till Monday morning. The bench observed that the second wave of the pandemic had “virtually incapacitated all our medical infrastructure in the state of UP”, especially in the five cities mentioned. It cited how “patients have outnumbered the hospital beds and people are just running from pillar to post” and how, in Allahabad, “people are getting... influenza-like infections in every fifth house of every mohalla”. “If hospitals are not able to provide beds and oxygen, we are sure that cities like Prayagraj (Allahabad), Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur... cannot provide medical aid to even 10 per cent of the populations,” the court said. “Economy, economy and economy is the only tune that the government is all the time harping upon, but bread and butter, if you take to a person who needs oxygen and medication, it will be of no use to him,” the court said. “You may have grocery shops full of eatables and industries which produce bikes and cars but all these won’t be of any use if your medical shops run out of stock of life-saving drugs like remdesivir in the current surge of pandemic.” The bench issued Monday’s directive while hearing a public interest plea on the poor conditions at quarantine centres relating to hygiene, sanitisation, medicines, food and beds. It will review the directive on April 26. ⚫ All government and private establishments to be closed except for financial institutions and financial departments, medical and health services, industrial and scientific establishments, essential services including municipal functions and public transport. ⚫ The judiciary will “function on its own discretion”. ⚫ All malls, hotels, eateries, schools, colleges to be closed. Medical stores can remain open but not with more than three workers. ⚫ Vendors including those selling fruits, vegetables, milk or bread to go off the roads by 11am. ⚫ Road traffic banned except for medical emergencies. ⚫ No social events or gatherings allowed. ⚫ All public religious activities to be suspended and religious establishments closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid-19: All-adult vaccine ploy on day of ingratitude||Everyone aged 18 or above in India may receive Covid-19 vaccines from May 1, the Narendra Modi government said on Monday evening in a somersault that drew on some of the easier tips offered by Manmohan Singh who was treated to uncommon churlishness and ingratitude earlier in the day. The Centre’s policy shift, which appears to have been aimed at calming a Twitter backlash against the Prime Minister in the middle of a brutal second wave of Covid-19, will also make available up to 50 per cent of vaccine stocks in the private open market. Not that all recommendations made by Manmohan have been accepted.  Neither did Manmohan suggest all the steps the government announced. For instance, those aged below 45 will have to pay for the vaccine at a market-determined rate that will have to be announced earlier. Right now, vaccination is available for those aged 45 and above for free at government hospitals or for Rs 250 per dose at private facilities. What stood out on Monday was the extraordinary length the Modi government went to put down Singh, the former Prime Minister who had 24 hours ago shared with his successor through a letter suggestions on addressing the pandemic crisis. During the day, Manmohan tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to AIIMS with fever. Prime Minister Modi did not extend the courtesy of replying to his predecessor. Instead, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday in an aggressively worded letter to Manmohan blamed the Congress for the slow pace of vaccination coverage and, dripping sarcasm, said: “… As a senior leader, we expect that you shall offer the same advice and wisdom to your own party leaders as well.” In a tweet accompanying the letter, complete with a thumbs-up emoji that suggested he was pleased with his retort to Singh, the minister wrote: “History shall be kinder to you Dr Manmohan Singh ji if your offer of ‘constructive cooperation’ and valuable advice was followed by your @INCIndia leaders as well in such extraordinary times.” A few hours later, Vardhan’s ministry announced the policy change. What Manmohan said: States should be given some flexibility to define categories of frontline workers who can be vaccinated even if they are below 45. What the Centre did:  All stakeholders given flexibility to customise to local needs. States empowered to procure additional vaccine doses directly from the manufacturers, as well as open up vaccination to all people above the age of 18. Vaccine manufacturers empowered to release up to 50 per cent of their supply to state governments and in the open market at a pre-declared price. The catch: Experts cautioned that limited domestic production capacities and high global demand for vaccines are likely to pose challenges to any rapid expansion. “India doesn’t have nearly enough supply to vaccinate everyone over 18 starting 5/1, especially since those approved are double dose. GoI knows this. So it buckpasses to states, rich ones will hoard, poor ones will die. And Modi will wash his hands of a colossal federal failure,” MIT associate professor Vipin Narang tweeted. What Manmohan said:  The government must proactively support vaccine producers to expand their manufacturing facilities quickly by providing funds and other concessions. What the Centre did: Vaccine manufacturers incentivised to further scale up their production, as well as attract new national and international players. The Prime Minister is also meeting vaccine makers on Tuesday. What Manmohan said but the Centre has yet to do: The government should publicise the firm orders for doses placed with different vaccine producers and accepted for delivery over the next six months. “If we want to vaccinate a target number in this period, we should place enough orders in advance so that producers can adhere to an agreed schedule of supply,” Manmohan had written. This information, which would have helped understand whether the Centre had acted with foresight, is not yet in the public domain. What Manmohan said but the Centre has yet to do: The government should indicate how this expected supply will be distributed across states based on a transparent formula, which would allow the states to plan the rollout. This is the most important component that will help states prepare for a spike in the demand for vaccines.  The information is still awaited. All-adult U-turn: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi had said on April 7: “It’s ridiculous to debate needs and wants. Every Indian deserves the chance to a safe life.” Virtually ruling out an all-adult rollout, Prime Minister Modi had said the next day: “Developed countries of the world, who have all the resources, even they have fixed criteria for vaccination. India isn’t different from them. You know how much vaccine is manufactured. It’s not that big factories can be set up overnight. Whatever is available, we have to prioritise.” Vardhan had said: “States asking to open up #COVID19vaccine supplies to everyone over 18 haven’t even achieved desirable coverage of healthcare workers, frontline workers & senior citizens. This shifting of goal posts is an attempt to deflect scrutiny from their poor vaccination efforts.” Under the policy announced on Monday, the Centre would procure 50 per cent of stocks and the balance could go to states or the open market. Imported ready to use vaccines may be entirely used in the private market. Vaccine makers would need to make declarations before May 1 of the prices at which they would sell their vaccines in the open market. The campaign currently open to adults 45 years or older uses Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. But the government has approved Russia’s Sputnik V and invited companies such as Pfizer and Moderna to bring their vaccines into India. Johnson & Johnson has applied to India’s drug regulator seeking permission to conduct phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose vaccine in India as well as import licence, PTI quoted sources as saying. Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, said: “There is a sizeable population in India that would pay for the vaccines. This would also reduce the financial burden on governments, allowing them to focus on providing vaccines to those unable to afford them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress slams Centre’s ‘vile, sadak chhaap’ reply ||The Congress on Monday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s failure to respond to predecessor Manmohan Singh’s letter himself and dismissed health minister Harsh Vardhan’s reply as “vile and pedestrian”. Singh had in a letter to Modi on Sunday suggested strategies to scale up the Covid-19 vaccination campaign. Vardhan’s reply on Monday avoided any discussion of the proposals’ merits while accusing Congress leaders of promoting vaccine hesitancy by “spreading falsehoods” and suggesting Singh’s party follow his advice first. Congress leaders said the government should have flagged the flaws and shortcomings in Singh’s letter, if any, instead of resorting to scorn and partisan accusations. They viewed Modi’s move to have a junior engage with his predecessor as an affront in itself. Singh, who tested Covid-positive and was admitted to hospital on Monday, had avoided political rhetoric in his letter. Soon after the former Prime Minister was admitted to AIIMS, Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Dear Dr Manmohan Singh Ji, wishing you a speedy recovery. India needs your guidance and advice in this difficult time.” While social media erupted over what many users saw as an ungracious reply by Vardhan, the news of Singh’s illness later in the day put the government in an embarrassing position. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Who is the health minister to write to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh? Why did Modi not respond to the constructive suggestions given by Manmohan Singh, a leader respected the world over? “A health minister who has put out 40 tweets on political rallies in the last few days has failed in his job. It is shocking he stooped so low as to indulge in a political slanging match instead of dealing with substantive issues despite being a medical professional himself. “This letter written by the health minister is a new low in Indian politics, (adopting a) low-level language and accusatory tone instead of responding to constructive suggestions.” Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan, who addressed the media along with Shrinate, said: “The government’s pedestrian reply is shocking. People are distressed and they are not interested in leaders’ statements. They want oxygen, medical help, vaccines.” Chavan added: “Manmohan Singh has enormous administrative experience. He wrote in the spirit of cooperation and gave valuable suggestions. There was no need for hollow rhetoric by the health minister. This is the time to provide succour to the people together. “Modi should have engaged with the former Prime Minister. But the failed health minister offered a sadak-chhap (pedestrian) answer. The country would have benefited had the constructive suggestions been taken seriously.” Shrinate said: “Harsh Vardhanji claimed that permission (to bring in and use) other vaccines available in foreign countries had been given before Singh’s letter. When Rahul Gandhi first demanded it, cabinet ministers blasted him, accusing him of lobbying for foreign firms. “He (Vardhan) blamed the Congress for spreading misinformation. Valid concerns about a vaccine that had not completed trials are not misinformation.” Shrinate asked the minister: “What was your vaccine plan? You put all your eggs in one basket.... Did you know about vaccine hesitancy in advance? You are only trying to mask your own incompetence and failures by blaming the Congress.” She added: “Testing is not being done in many states, including Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. People are not getting oxygen, remdesivir — and BJP leaders are in possession of medicine worth crores of rupees. People have to wait for cremation for 15-16 hours and the Prime Minister and home minister are campaigning in Bengal.” Chavan regretted that Union ministers had attacked the Maharashtra government when it complained that its vaccine stocks would last only three days. “The need of the hour is cooperation. Shouldn’t a vaccine shortage be brought to the Centre’s notice? The Prime Minister announced a ‘tika utsav’ (vaccine festival) without ensuring an adequate supply of vaccines. In Maharashtra, 35 out of 127 vaccination centres are closed for want of stocks,” Chavan said. “There is an issue of remdesivir shortage. When the Mumbai police call a distributor accused of hoarding and black marketing, former (BJP) chief minister Devendra Fadnavis goes to the police station to mount pressure. Are they supporting black marketeering?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid curbs on Kerala temple festival||The Kerala government on Monday decided to limit Thrissur Pooram, one of the biggest temple festivals in the state, to just rituals without public presence or celebrations. The decision was taken by the state administration after meetings with the festival’s organisers who wanted some leeway to allow the presence of people. Now, only those directly connected with the festival, including temple musicians, priests and organisers, would be permitted near the venue in Thrissur city. The state Covid core committee meeting also decided to go for night curfew from 9pm to 5am starting Tuesday in view of the rising Covid cases. But there won’t be any restriction on essential services, including public transport. While Thrissur Pooram received government clearance before the April 6 state elections in view of the reduced Covid cases at that point, many, including writers, expressed fears of the festival turning into a super-spreader like the Kumbh mela as it usually attracts over 10 lakh people. One of the most popular and colourful temple festivals that parades large numbers of caparisoned elephants amid traditional percussion ensembles and fireworks, Thrissur Pooram has traditionally been a major tourist attraction for travellers from the West. But now that daily Covid cases are inching towards 20,000 and the state’s reputed healthcare system is once against under duress, people from all walks of life have come out against permitting visitors to the festival to be held on April 23 at the Vadakkunathan Temple. The festival is a competition of sorts between two temples — Paramekkavu Bhagavathy temple and Thiruvambadi Sri Krishna temple — whose committees spend big money to prove their might in the courtyard of the Vadakkunathan Temple. The administration had initially ordered that only those who have RT-PCR negative certificates and have had at least one vaccine shot would be allowed anywhere near the premises in the heart of the city. But in view of the precarious Covid situation in the state, the administration decided to allow entry only to those who have completed their two-dose vaccinations. With the rising demand for cancelling the festival or limiting it to just rituals, state chief secretary V.P. Joy on Monday convened a medical review board to assess the risks of such a large gathering. A final decision would be taken on the board’s recommendation, said government sources. The BJP had already slammed the district administration for “intolerance” and “false propaganda” against the festival. “Some adamant officials, including the DMO (district medical officer), are unleashing false propaganda against Thrissur Pooram,” the party’s state spokesman Sandeep Varier said in a Facebook message. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress on Monday backed any move to have a rituals-only event. “There is nothing wrong in allowing the rituals, but we need to keep in mind the backdrop of Covid-19. Since the situation is very bad, we need to proceed by following all safety protocols based on a consensus after discussions with all sides.” Spiritual leader Swami Sandeepananda Giri made a fervent appeal to the people to speak out against organising the festival. “I humbly request the people of Thrissur to make sure Kerala’s cultural capital wouldn’t become a city of funerals,” Giri, a critic of the Sangh parivar, wrote on Facebook. Noted writer N.S. Madhavan was among those who demanded the festival to be scrapped since the state’s positivity rate is more than 17 per cent. “That’s dangerously high. Stop super-spreader gatherings like Thrissur Pooram.” Kerala reported 13,644 fresh Covid cases on Monday from 87,275 samples tested over 24 hours, a positivity rate of 15.63 per cent. The state had reported 18, 257 cases on Sunday from 1,08,898 samples.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Chorus on Twitter:  Modi, resign||The hashtag #ResignModi trended on Monday with tweets roasting the Prime Minister over the Covid resurgence, while the Right-wing ecosystem remained surprisingly subdued in what appeared a tacit acknowledgment of the scale of the crisis and the difficulty of defending the government’s role. By evening, the hashtag had notched more than 2.38 lakh tweets that bombarded cyberspace with cartoons and graphics showing Narendra Modi fiddling like Roman emperor Nero at a time the glut of Covid bodies has led to crematorium parts melting, pyres being lit on pavements and hospitals staggering the release of the dead. Several of the tweets were from verified handles linked to the Congress, Trinamul and DMK. Former Karnataka chief minister P.C. Siddaramaiah wrote: “#Covid19 struggle in India is the reflection of @narendramodi govt. Assuming the govt was caught off guard for the 1st time, What is the status now? The preparedness is hopeless even now!! Modi feels he is bigger than India.” The tweets carried images showing Modi playing musical instruments as pyres burned behind him. Congress spokesperson Roshni Kushal Jaiswal tweeted a video of herself at a crematorium on the Ganga’s banks in Varanasi. She questioned Modi’s decision to address rallies in Bengal while death plagued his constituency as it did most places in India. Bengal minister Sujit Bose tweeted a photo of several burning pyres and said: “Dear Mr Prime Minister, last year in March, you assured that Covid situation will be over in next 21 days. This is the picture of April, 2021, more than a year has been passed. This picture shows how incapable you are to serve this country.” Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tej Pratap Yadav said: “When Rome was Burning the Nero was Playing the flute. #ResignModi” DMK medical wing secretary Kanimozhi Somu hit out at health minister Harsh Vardhan for his acerbic reply to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who had advised Modi on ways of scaling up the vaccination campaign. “Dear @drharshvardhan as you are talking Staying updated. Let’s talk about updates now. Kindly update the people of the country why your diplomatic brained government gave permission to ‘Khumbh Mela’ when world countries warned about a second wave?” she tweeted. “Remember when your government asked people to come out on roads and scream ‘Go Corona Go’ what possible improvement did this government achieve by doing that? “When your PM is addressing people of Bengal he says ‘I’ve never seen such a revolutionary crowd’ and when he addresses the people of the country he says maintain social distancing and wear masks?” “PS: Kindly don’t respond by saying Congress government did all of this please! We’ve heard enough! So kindly stop pointing your fingers at others and kindly explain what this government has done to the people of the country during this pandemic other than fascist activities.” Former IPS officer K. Annamalai, who contested the Tamil Nadu election on a BJP ticket, tweeted: “Trust our Hon PM shri @narendramodi ji & his team to get this done. Vaccine to be made available for all adults above 18 from May 1 is something no country can dare to attempt going by the sheer numbers & the challenges right from manufacturing, sourcing & to last mile delivery!” A Tamil news aggregator handle reminded him that Rahul Gandhi had already last week demanded the vaccination of all adults.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma cries oxygen bias||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma on Monday accused the Centre of discrimination in the distribution of oxygen, needed for Covid-19 patients, claiming that 1,200 metric tonnes was being sent to BJP-ruled Gujarat while his state had got only 124 metric tonnes although both had reported similar numbers. Referring to a liquid oxygen plant in Alwar which was under the state’s control, the minister said: “There was no lack of oxygen last time. This time, when there is more need of oxygen, the Centre has taken over all the medical oxygen generator plants and the oxygen distribution network.” “There are an equal number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan and Gujarat. In Gujarat, 1,200 metric tonnes oxygen is being supplied, whereas Rajasthan is getting only 124 metric tonnes,” he said. Rajasthan has a Congress government. “If oxygen is not made available adequately, how will we save lives of people?” the minister asked. On Sunday, Union minister Piyush Goyal had advised state governments to keep demand for medical oxygen under control, triggering outrage. “Demand-side management is as important as supply-side management. Containing Covid spread is the responsibility of state governments and they should fulfil this responsibility,” Goyal said. Sharma said the Rajasthan government has ordered 1,500 oxygen condensers, which will provide oxygen to 3,000 patients, but more oxygen will be required to fight the disease. The health minister also targeted the Centre over the shortage of vaccines, and said seven lakh vaccine doses are required daily in the state. The Rajasthan government wrote to the Prime Minister and the Union health minister, after which the state received 14 lakh doses, which will be administered in two days, Sharma said. The state has storage capacity and a stock of 15 days should be provided, which will help it save many lives, he added. Sharma said the shortage of tocilizumab and remdesivir should also be addressed by the Centre. Sharma appealed to people to follow lockdown-like restrictions during the “Public Discipline Fortnight” which began on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Dead having to queue at ‘smashan’ and ‘kabristan’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had pitted 'smashan' against 'kabristan' in a polarising election speech in Uttar Pradesh. The coronavirus is treating them the same, killing both Hindus and Muslims in large numbers. The dead are having to queue not just at Lucknow’s two electric crematoriums — turned into smashans (traditional cremation grounds) by rows of burning pyres — but also at the city’s half-dozen kabristans (Muslim graveyards). On Monday, 44 graves were dug between 4am and late afternoon at Aishbagh Kabragah in the heart of Lucknow. “I’ve asked my family to send my lunch and dinner here. I won’t be able to go home the next few days, if not weeks,” said Manjit Kushwaha, 40, a Hindu gravedigger employed at Aishbagh for the past three years. “The number of the arriving dead has multiplied three to four times over the last six-seven days. We have talked to the families — it’s clear that most died of Covid.” A Covid grave takes longer to dig, for the government has specified it must be six to eight feet deep in contrast to a normal grave that is four to five feet deep. Graveyard caretaker Hafiz Mateen said: “Soon there will be no space for more graves. We had never before faced such a horrible situation. Relatives of the dead are being forced to wait hours for their turn.” The situation is the same at the Suppa, Nishatganj, Dalibagh and Khadra graveyards in Lucknow. Hafiz Salimuddin, an employee at the Suppa graveyard in Haidarganj locality, said: “From two or three a day, we are receiving a dozen bodies in 24 hours. Soon, there will be no space left.” Usman Ali Shah, caretaker at the Dalibagh graveyard, said: “From 20 bodies a month, we are receiving 20 bodies a week.” Shah said the gravediggers, who used to charge Rs 300 a grave, were demanding between Rs 800 and Rs 1,000. A combined average of 140 bodies is arriving daily at the city’s two crematoriums, which can together burn barely 120 bodies a day. Their three electric incinerators have a maximum combined capacity of burning 72 bodies a day, while the rest are burnt on pyres. So, bodies are piling up. Corruption too seems to be making no distinction between smashan and 'kabristan'. A relative of a dead person, seeking anonymity, alleged the graveyard authorities are seeking bribes to provide space. “We paid Rs 5,000 and still had to wait three to four hours,” he said. Tuhin Shekhar, who had visited the Baikunth Dham crematorium on Monday to attend a neighbour’s funeral, said: “You need to pay between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 to speed up the cremation. This includes Rs 7,500 for the firewood to prepare a pyre, although Nagar Nigam officials claim the total cost of firewood and other material shouldn’t be more than Rs 4,500.” Modi had dog-whistled the cremation ground-graveyard distinction at an Assembly election rally in Fatehpur on February 19, 2017. “If a 'kabristan' is built in a village, a smashan should also be constructed there,” he had said, implying the then state authorities favoured Muslims. The state government, ruled by Modi’s party, seems to be continuing with the smashan-kabristan distinction. While both crematorium complexes have been fenced on all sides with tin sheets — apparently to hide the ugly Covid truth from people — officials said there were no such plans for the graveyards. Muslims make up 28 per cent of Lucknow’s population of 37 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Farm laws: Farmers renew “Phir Dilli Chalo” call||Farmers protesting against the three new farm laws on Monday gave a “Phir Dilli Chalo” call, announcing a return to the protest sites on the capital’s borders at a time there is a worry the Narendra Modi government might try to cite the pandemic as a reason to forcibly evict the protesters. Arrangements are being made to beef up medical facilities at the protest sites to deal with coronavirus, spread mask awareness and organise vaccination camps in line with government regulations. Briefing mediapersons at Delhi’s Singhu border, Ashish Mittal of All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha said the call to return to the protest sites will be given for April 24, the 150th day of the protests. This mobilisation will continue for a week. The All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha is a part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner farmers from across the country are protesting against laws that they see as their “death warrant”. The mobilisation at Tikri border will begin even earlier, on Wednesday, as Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) — which is not part of the Morcha umbrella but coordinates with it — has given a call for returning to the protest site on April 21. The protests at Delhi’s borders, which began on November 26 last year, had thinned over the past month because farmers had to return to their fields for the harvest. The harvest season has now ended and the mobilisation being planned is also aimed at ensuring a large participation for the march to Parliament scheduled for the first fortnight of May. The march was planned before the second Covid surge engulfed the country. Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan, another member of the Morcha, took a dig at the Prime Minister’s “aapda mein avsar (opportunity in a calamity)” call and said the government thinks that because they could do it once, they can do it again. The reference was to the Shaheen Bagh protests, which were lifted when a lockdown was imposed during the Covid surge last year. “This movement is different,” Yadav added, warning that a crackdown on the protests would be counterproductive. Mittal, Yadav and Zafar Mewati of the Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Union pointed out how on a day the Prime Minister advised against large gatherings at Kumbh, he spoke glowingly about the large size of the crowd at an election rally in Bengal. On Saturday, when over 2 lakh new coronavirus cases were reported in the country, a visibly elated Modi had told the rally in Asansol he had never seen such a big crowd. The farmer leaders billed Modi’s advice on the Kumbh as “pakhand’’ (hypocrisy). Despite Modi’s call, the Kumbh continues. “The government’s hypocrisy on coronavirus has been exposed. Ministers and leaders have been holding election rallies. They have no right to question others,” Yadav said. The leaders also pointed out that although the farm protests had started way back in June last year, when the government brought the laws as ordinance during the lockdown, until now no Covid hotspot had been reported from any farmer protest site. The farmers had protested from June to November in their own states, seeking a rollback of the three laws. When these went unheeded, they arrived outside Delhi on November 26 and have stayed put, spending a harsh winter in the open and braving a hostile government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Arvind Kejriwal announces 6-day curfew in Delhi amid surge||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day curfew on Monday prompting serpentine queues outside liquor shops and a heavy flow of outbound passengers at the Swami Vivekanand Inter-State Bus Terminus in Anand Vihar. Kejriwal, in a webcast on Monday, said the city’s health infrastructure was bursting at the seams. “If 25,000 cases come up daily then any system can crack… I checked the app today and it showed that there are less than 100 ICU beds in Delhi. There is a shortage of oxygen as well… We are falling short of medicines, especially remdesivir,” he said. To check the rapid spike in Covid cases, he announced a curfew from 10pm on Monday till 5am on April 26 with the usual exemptions for essential services and weddings with only up to 50 people. “The last time when the lockdown was imposed in the entire country, we saw how a large number of migrant workers began returning to their villages. I would like to appeal to them, with my hands folded, this is a short lockdown for six days. Please do not leave Delhi. You would lose a lot of time, money, and energy in travelling. Stay in Delhi. I have full faith that this short period of lockdown would not be extended. We might not have to extend it. Trust me that if we fight this together, we would be able to overcome this. I assure you, the government will take full care of you,” he said. The Aam Aadmi Party government, however, is yet to announce any plan to start distributing food to the poor. Migrant workers, already hit by job losses, have flocked to Anand Vihar for buses heading eastwards. The nationwide lockdown, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had begun with an eight-day notification in March last year but was repeatedly extended with a gradual reduction in restrictions from May. The current curfew in Delhi exempts most public servants, health workers, vendors, people accessing health services, all establishments and people related to the production, transport and sale of food. Essential services like the financial sector, telecom and broadcasting, fuel, power, manufacturing of essential commodities, journalists, diplomats, security guards, examinees and delivery services are also out of the ambit. While e-passes are being issued for private employees under several of the above categories, they are not required if one is walking. “Persons coming from/going to airports/railway stations/ISBTs are allowed to travel on production of valid ticket,” said a notification by chief secretary Vijay Dev. Public transport, including taxis and autos, will ply but with a cap on the number of passengers. “During curfew, movement of persons for marriage-related gatherings up to 50 persons (on production of soft or hard copy of marriage card) and funeral/last rites-related gatherings up to 20 persons is continued to be allowed. Any other gathering is prohibited,” the notification added. Sports tournaments can be organised in stadiums without an audience. The construction sector, a major employer of daily wage earners in the capital, has only been allowed to operate if workers live on-site — a practice adopted in large projects. Restaurants will remain shut but takeaway and delivery of food, not liquor, will be allowed. On Monday, police had to be deployed outside several liquor stores to control queues that spilled onto thoroughfares where social distancing was absent. “The decision of the Maharashtra government to allow home delivery of liquor has helped contain panic reactions to lockdown there. We urge the Delhi government to think of such steps,” the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies said in a statement. The Indian Railways on Monday stopped the sale of platform tickets at all major stations in the national capital like New Delhi, Old Delhi, Hazrat Nizamuddin and Anand Vihar Terminal hours after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day curfew. Trains already in operation will continue to run.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Weekend shutdown in urban areas of Odisha||The Odisha government on Monday announced weekend — Saturday and Sunday— shutdown in all the urban areas of the state. The state has already clamped night curfew in all the urban areas of the state. Announcing it Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said: “The second wave of the Covid-19 is spreading at a fast rate. There is no alternative except to strictly implement the new guidelines. It will be effective from April 24. All the emergency services and essential services, including milk booths, distribution of papers and ATMs will be allowed to operate. The people will also be allowed to travel but have to show their tickets.” Jena said: “Marriage and funeral functions will be held with permission of local authority. The organisers will have to give the list of people attending the function. If during the marriage function, any deviation is noticed, the vehicles, band parties will be seized. Action will be taken against the organisers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
20-04-2021||India||Covid surge: Test must for Kumbh Mela returnees in Odisha||The Odisha government has begun the process to trace people who have returned to the state after attending the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, Uttarakhand. Locating their whereabouts has become a challenge for the government, but making them undergo Covid-19 tests has become a must in a view of the prevailing situation in the state. The government feels that unless tested and made to undergo mandatory 14-day isolation, the Kumbh returnees were likely to spread the virus in the areas where they are living. Owing to the surge in Covid cases, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday tweeted that his party, Biju Janata Dal (BJD) will not hold public rallies or campaign meetings in Pipili where a bypoll is scheduled to take place on May 13. The by poll had been scheduled for April 17 but it got postponed after Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj, 53, died of Covid on Wednesday. “Every life is precious and I always consider people of Odisha as my family members. In this extremely serious Covid-19 situation, the BJD has decided not to hold any political rallies or campaign meetings for Pipili bypoll,”  Naveen said. Terming the BJD as a responsible party that doesn’t want to put the lives of people in danger, Naveen tweeted: “We contest the elections to serve people. If the campaign has potential to endanger lives, I would certainly appeal to political parties to reconsider both the duration and method campaigning.” The chief minister also said that India is a mature democracy and together its people should find a solution to the virus. Naveen’s tweet came at a point when the Leader of Opposition and senior BJP leader Pradeepta Naik has tested positive and has undergone self-isolation. On the Kumbh Mela returnees, special relief commissioner (SRC) P.K. Jena told The Telegraph: “We have asked the district administrations to trace the people who had gone to the Kumba Mela. We are also in touch with the Uttarakhand government. We have made a 14-day quarantine mandatory for all those returning from the Mela.” The state government has also asked these people to get their RT-PCR test done before entering the state. Though, the state claimed that around 400 people of 150 families have attended the Mela, it still suspects more people might have gone there from Delhi and other cities and returned to Odisha. “We have appealed to all the people to cooperate. We don’t want to take any risk at this point. Direction has been issued to collectors and municipal bodies to contact all these returnees and find out the location, travel plan and ensure that their RT-PCR test is done before boarding train or flights,” a senior official said. The number of deaths in the state reached 1,948 with the death of another four persons. Odisha on Monday registered the highest ever spike of 4,445 cases. The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple administration has said as many as 50 people linked to the temple have tested positive. They include servitors, workers at the shoe stand and staff of the temple administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
20-04-2021||India||Odisha govt constitutes special squads for Covid-19 medicines||The Odisha government has constituted a state-level committee under the leadership of additional director general (ADG), Crime Branch, to keep a tab on the shortage and black marketing of Covid-19 medicines and supplies. Crime Branch ADG Yaswant Kumar Jethwa told reporters, “Flying squads have been constituted to keep a tab on the movement of medicines. While seven flying squads would work in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack another 15 flying squads would work in the rest of the state. They will conduct intensive drive to ensure that there is no hoarding and black marketing of medicines.” Jethwa warned of criminal action if anyone indulged in unethical practices. As per the state government order, it would conduct raids and verify the stocks. The district police and commissionerate police will assist and coordinate with the special squads to ensure that there is no illegal trade of these essential medicines. The team includes members of the enforcement wing of Drug Controller, Crime Branch and police. The ADG claimed that they have not yet received any complaint of any illegal trade of Covid medicines though they have come across media reports in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
