21-04-2021||India||Over 21,000 people tested positive after getting first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||More than 21,000 people tested positive for Covid-19 after taking the first dose of either Covishield or Covaxin, while over 5,500 contracted the infection after taking the second dose, the Centre said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said 0.04 per cent of 17,37,178 individuals, who received the second dose of Covaxin, were positive for Covid-19, while 0.03 per cent of 1,57,32,754 people, who took the second dose of Covishield, contracted the infection. Bhargava who presented the data said vaccines reduce the risk of infection and prevent death and severe infection. "After vaccination if one gets infection then it is known as breakthrough infection," he said. So far, 1.1 crore doses of Covaxin have been administered. Out of which 93 lakh received the first dose and out of that 4,208 (0.04 per cent) people got the infection which is four per 10,000 individuals. About 17,37,178 people received the second dose of which only 695 (0.04 per cent) tested positive for Covid-19, Bhargava said. Of Covishield, 11.6 crore doses have been given. Ten crore received the first dose and 17,145 i.e. 2 per 10,000 people contracted the infection. About 1,57,32,754 individuals took the second dose of covishield and of that 5,014 (0.03 per cent) got infected. Two to four per 10,000 breakthrough infections have occurred, a very small number. This was mainly healthcare workers prone to more occupational hazards, he said. According to the data, 5,709 people contracted the infection after the second dose of either of the two vaccines. "This is a very small number and not at all worrisome. Secondly, the highly transmissible second wave also contributes miniscule to the percentage so this could have been even zero per cent," he said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul noted that there is a risk even after taking vaccination so "we stress people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour even after taking the vaccination". Amid oxygen shortage in the country, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that 7,500 metric tonnes of oxygen is being produced in the country per day and 6,600 metric tonnes is being supplied to the states for medical use. "Presently, we have issued instructions that, leaving a few industries, the supply of industries will be restricted so that more and more oxygen can be made available for medical use. We have allocated 6,600 MT out of 7,500 MT to states," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
21-04-2021||India||Covaxin shows 78% efficacy against mild, moderate severe Covid cases||Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said its coronavirus vaccine Covaxin has shown efficacy of 78 per cent against mild, moderate and severe cases of Covid-19, as per Phase III interim analysis results. The vaccine maker noted that the second interim data of the Phase III study also showed that chances of hospitalisation due to the infectious disease were reduced by 100 per cent after taking the Covaxin jab. “Due to the recent surge in cases, 127 symptomatic cases were recorded, resulting in a point estimate of vaccine efficacy of 78 per cent against mild, moderate, and severe Covid-19 disease,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement. The efficacy against asymptomatic Covid-19 infection was 70 per cent, suggesting decreased transmission in Covaxin recipients, it added. "Efficacy against SARS-Cov-2 has been established. Covaxin has demonstrated an excellent safety record in human clinical trials and in usage under emergency use. Covaxin is now a global innovator vaccine derived from R&D in India," Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella said. The efficacy data against severe Covid-19 and asymptomatic infections is highly significant, as this helps reduce hospitalisations and disease transmission, respectively, he added. The protocols for manufacturing, testing and release of inactivated vaccines have been tried, tested and validated across several of the company's vaccines. These also meet the requirements of WHO as well as Indian and other regulatory authorities, Ella said. "These protocols have delivered consistent results over a 15-year period with more than 300 million doses supplied globally, with excellent safety and performance record," he added. Bharat Biotech said safety and efficacy results from the final analysis will be available in June. The final report will be submitted to a peer-reviewed publication. The Phase III study for Covaxin enrolled 25,800 participants between 18-98 years of age, including 10 per cent over the age of 60, with analysis conducted 14 days post the second dose. Covaxin has been developed with seed strains received from the National Institute of Virology. The Phase III clinical trial was co-funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), making it a public private partnership towards public health. "The tireless efforts of our scientists at ICMR and Bharat Biotech have resulted in a truly effective international vaccine of the highest standards and efficacy. "I am also happy to note that Covaxin works well against most variants of SARS-CoV-2. These findings together consolidate the position of our indigenous vaccine in the global vaccine landscape," Secretary, Department of Health Research and ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
21-04-2021||India||Ramesh Pokhriyal tests positive for Covid-19||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The 61-year-old minister said he is following medical advice after his report came positive. "This is to inform you all that I have tested COVID positive today. I am taking medication and treatment as per the advice of my doctors. Request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant, and get themselves tested," he tweeted. "All the work of @EduMinOfIndia is being conducted normally observing necessary precautions," he added. The education minister on Tuesday had announced that UGC NET December 2020 exams set to be held in May 2021 has been postponed due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. "Keeping in mind the safety and wellbeing of candidates and exam functionaries during COVID-19 outbreak, I have advised the National Testing Agency to postpone the UGC-NET December 2020 cycle (May 2021) exams," he had said. Pokhriyal is one of the many political leaders who tested positive for Covid-19. On Tuesday, senior Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Anand Sharma got infected by the virus while on Monday former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh was shifted to AIIMS in New Delhi following the same diagnosis. A total of 2,95,041 fresh Covis-19 infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, the health ministry said on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
21-04-2021||India||24 Covid-19 patients dead after oxygen leakage in Nashik||At least 24 COVID-19 patients on ventilator support died on Wednesday due to an interrupted supply of medical oxygen at a civic-run hospital at Nashik in Maharashtra caused by the leakage of the gas from a storage plant, officials said.

A senior civic official said of the 150 patients admitted to the hospital, 23 were on ventilator support at the time of the incident while the rest were on oxygen support.

"As per the current information, 22 people have died due to the interrupted supply of oxygen at the Zakir Hussain municipal hospital. The patients were on ventilators as well as on oxygen supply, which got interrupted after the leakage in the oxygen supply tank," district collector Suraj Mandhare told reporters. He later told that two more people had died in the incident.

He said the municipal corporation immediately shifted dura cylinders from other facilities in the city to help the patients at the Zakir Hussain Hospital. According to local officials, the oxygen leakage was noticed around 12.30 pm, following which hospital authorities were alerted.
Hospital officials in turn contacted municipal commissioner Kailash Jadhav seeking technical help to stop the leakage, they said.
Mandhare said a private company looks after the maintenance of the oxygen storage tank located on the premises of the hospital.
"We have given all the information to the government.
As far as the oxygen supply is concerned, the NMC has received dura cylinders from places where the consumption is less.
Oxygen will be supplied to the patients from these cylinders," he said.
Divisional Revenue Commissioner Radhakrishna Game said a 13 KL (kilolitre) oxygen tank was set up on the premises of the hospital, located in Dwarka area in the north Maharashtra city.
"Around 10 am, a socket of the oxygen storage tank broke and the leakage started. When the hospital staff came to know about it, they deployed jumbo cylinders to supply oxygen to the patients and started shifting some of the patients," he said.
Game said the leakage has been stopped, the tank repaired and the oxygen supply is being normalised.
"As the incident happened, people rushed to the hospital wards which created hurdles in the rescue operations.
When this happened, an oxygen tanker reached the hospital premises. Technicians who came with that tanker and technicians at the hospital broke open the lock of the tank and closed the valve which prevented the further leakage of oxygen," Game added.
Expressing grief, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the 22 deceased, including 11 men and 11 women, died due to a low supply of oxygen caused by the leakage from the storage tank.
They all were on ventilators and COVID-19 positive, he said, adding the kin of the deceased will be given financial assistance from the CM relief fund, which will be announced by the chief minister's office.
Commenting on the leakage from the oxygen tank, Tope said, "The liquid oxygen which was filled in the tank has the temperature of around (minus) 180-degree celsius. There is extreme pressure on the walls of the tank which supplies the oxygen to patients on ventilators. It is more of a technical issue".
Tope said a probe will ascertain whether the leakage was caused due to negligence or due to any other issue.
Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Kailas Jadhav said no patient is in serious condition now.
"Out of the 150 patients admitted in the hospital, 23 were on ventilator support at the time of the incident while the rest were on oxygen supply," he said.
Jadhav said the oxygen level was around 25 per cent in the storage tank at the time of the incident.
Sources said two oxygen tanks were recently set up at the hospital and the task of maintaining the oxygen storage and maintenance has been given to a private company.
They also said the incident occurred when oxygen was being filled in one of the tanks from a tanker, which disturbed the supply to the patients who were on ventilators as well as to those dependent on oxygen for breathing.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while expressing his grief over the incident, tweeted, "The tragedy at a hospital in Nashik because of oxygen tank leakage is heart-wrenching. Anguished by the loss of lives due to it. Condolences to the bereaved families in this sad hour."
Union Home Minister Amit Shah has expressed deepest condolences to the family members of patients.
"I am distressed to hear the news of the accident of oxygen leak in a hospital in Nashik. I express my deepest condolences to those who have lost their loved ones in this accident.
"I pray to God for the speedy recovery of all the other patients," Shah tweeted in Hindi. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged the Maharashtra government to provide all assistance to the families of he victims. "The news of patients' death at Nashik's Zakir Hussain Hospital is extremely tragic. My heartfelt condolences to the aggrieved families.
"I appeal to the state government and party workers to provide all possible assistance," Gandhi tweeted.
BJP MLA and former Maharashtra minister Girish Mahajan demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation for the kin of the deceased.
"We fear more patients will die due to the lack of oxygen supply as the government has failed to upgrade the health infrastructure in the state," Mahajan said.
Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, alleged the government has become lethargic in addressing the woes of people, which is a cause of worry. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday announced financial assistance of Rs five lakh each to the families of the victims.
"These deaths in Nashik bear testimony to the government's failure in saving lives of people," he added. He also announced a thorough probe into the incident.
Meanwhile, senior police officers and personnel rushed to the hospital to control the situation.
Police dispersed the crowd of onlookers and restricted entry to the hospital.
Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey said the tragedy occurred due to the oxygen leakage while filing up the storage tank.
Police personnel are deployed in large numbers at the hospital.
Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in India both in terms of the number of COVID-19 cases and fatalities.
The state on Tuesday reported 62,097 fresh infections, taking the tally to 39,60,359, while 519 more patients succumbed to the infection, as per the state health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
21-04-2021||India||Serum Institute hikes Covishield price to Rs 400 for states, 600 for private hospitals||Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine maker, on Wednesday announced a price of Rs 600 per dose for Covid vaccine supplies to private hospitals and Rs 400 per dose to state governments. In a statement posted on its Twitter handle, SII said it will address the limited capacity by scaling up the vaccine production over the next two months. "Going ahead, 50 per cent of our capacities will be served to the Government of India's vaccination programme, and the remaining 50 per cent of the capacity will be for the state governments and private hospitals," it said. SII said Covishield vaccine will be available to state governments for Rs 400 per dose and to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose. It also clarified that its vaccines will still be more affordable than foreign jabs that cost between Rs 750 to Rs 1,500 per dose. "We would urge all corporate and private individuals to access the vaccines through the state facilitated machinery and private health systems. Post four-five months, the vaccines will be made available in retail and free trade," the statement further read. SII’s announcement comes two days after the government liberalised the vaccination drive to allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure doses directly from manufacturers. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Wednesday criticised the Union government over differential pricing of Covishield vaccine, saying the Centre getting it at Rs 150 per dose and states at Rs 400 is no cooperative federalism. He demanded the Centre and state governments pay the same price for the Covid-19 vaccine. He said overcharging state governments for the anti-coronavirus shots will bleed dry their already stressed finances. "The Central government will continue to pay Rs 150 per dose for Covishield. State governments will now be charged Rs 400 a dose. This is not cooperative federalism. This will bleed dry the already reeling state finances. Atrocious," he said on Twitter. "We demand One Nation, One Price for Centre and State governments," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
21-04-2021||India||UP police get clean chit in Vikas Dubey encounter case||The three-member inquiry commission probing the encounter killings of gangster Vikas Dubey and five of his alleged associates has given a clean chit to Uttar Pradesh Police because of lack of evidence, sources said on Wednesday. The commission is headed by former Supreme Court judge B S Chauhan. The other two members are former Allahabad High Court judge Sashi Kant Agrawal and former UP Director General of Police K L Gupta. The panel submitted its report to the state government on Monday, eight months after it was set up. "Yes the commission has submitted its report to the state government on Monday. A copy of the report will be submitted in the Supreme court also," Gupta told PTI. He, however, did not elaborate on the contents of the report. Asked about it, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said, "I would not like to comment on it." According to the sources, the inquiry commission has found no evidence of wrongdoing by the state police. Speaking to PTI, a senior police official said, "No witnesses came forward to challenge the police claims even after advertisements in newspapers and media. Also, no one from the media came forward to get their versions recorded." There were, however, witnesses supporting the police version, he added. On July 3 last year, eight policemen were killed in an ambush in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Vikas Dubey. Police later killed Prem Prakash Pandey (55) and Atul Dubey (35) in an encounter in Kanpur on July 3. On July 8, Amar Dubey (30), who carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on him, was killed in an encounter in Maudaha village in Hamirpur district. On July 9, Praveen Dubey, alias Bauwa (48), and Prabhat, alias Kartikeya (28), were killed in separate encounters in Etawah and Kanpur districts. Six PILs were filed in the Supreme Court after this to seek a court-monitored probe into the encounter killings. The apex court had then on July 22, 2020 approved the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to institute the inquiry commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
21-04-2021||India||India registers over 2.95 lakh fresh Covid cases, record 2,023 casualties in a day||The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections inched closer to 3 lakh, pushing India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,56,16,130, while the death toll increased to 1,82,553 with a record 2,023 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. A total of 2,95,041 fresh infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the active cases crossed the 21-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 42nd in a row, the active cases have increased to 21,57,538, comprising 13.82 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 85.01 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,32,76,039, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.17 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,10,53,392 samples have been tested up to April 20 with 16,39,357 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 2,023 new fatalities include 519 from Maharashtra, 277 from Delhi, 191 from Chhattisgarh, 162 from Uttar Pradesh, 149 from Karnataka, 121 from Gujarat,77 from Madhya Pradesh, 64 from Rajasthan, 60 from Punjab, 51 from Bihar, 48 from Tamil Nadu, 46 from West Bengal, 45 from Jharkhand and 35 each from Haryana and Andhra Pradesh. A total of 1,82,553 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 61,343 from Maharashtra, 13,646 from Karnataka ,13,205 from Tamil Nadu, , 12,638 from Delhi, 10,652 from West Bengal, 10,159 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,045 from Punjab and 7,472 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
21-04-2021||India||Covid impact: Centre drags feet, migrants back on knife edge||Migrant worker Bibhuti Khatua has mostly been confined to his one-room dwelling in Kotla Mubarakpur here with his ailing wife since Saturday. After the weekend lockdown, the plumber in his mid-40s had on Monday reported for work at the construction site where he is employed. But the state government then announced a total lockdown from Tuesday morning till the next Monday morning. For the next five days, therefore, Khatua will be dipping into his meagre savings of Rs 4,000 to meet his daily needs and buy medicines for his wife. Returning to his village in Kendrapada, Odisha, will cost him his entire savings without offering hope of work back home. Staying back means surviving five days on the uncertain hope that the lockdown would be lifted on Monday and work will resume. Khatua has chosen the second option but remains anxious. “I get worried when I think of next week. If the lockdown is extended, I’ll be in a mess. I shall possibly have to borrow money and return home,” he said. His wife has been ill six months and regularly visits AIIMS, where her next date for consultations is August 31. The couple’s son is a BSc student at a college in Bhubaneswar. Khatua said: “Even if I go home I have to come back in August. I’ll have to pay these four months’ rent for my lodgings, where I shall be leaving my belongings. That’s a costly affair too.” He said that if the government provided some sort of help like subsidised rations, he could have stayed on longer. The Centre claims to have implemented a “one nation one ration card” (ONOR) scheme since last year that allows migrant workers to obtain PDS food at their place of work. “Last month I visited the ration shop here and requested the owner to enrol me. He said, ‘No’,” Khatua said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked the states to appeal to migrant workers to stay put. “States should appeal to workers to stay wherever they are. In some days, they will get the vaccine,” Modi said, implying this would help a return to workplace normality. However, with the Centre having put the onus on the states and the private sector to vaccinate those aged 18 to 45 — and amid a lack of clarity on the pricing of the doses and the volume of the supply — it’s unclear when the millions of migrants might get vaccinated. While Khatua is undecided, thousands of his fellow migrant workers have already started leaving Delhi, nervous at the uncertainty and the looming spectre of joblessness and mindful of the miseries the community faced after the nationwide lockdown was announced last year. The inter-state bus terminal and railway station in Anand Vihar were crowded on Tuesday with migrants looking for transport back home, as were railway stations in the various other big cities. Among those who have decided to return home is Meraj Ansari, who works at a dress-making factory in Mumbai that has been shut 10 days. With him will be returning five of his co-workers from their village in Giridih district, Jharkhand. All six share a single-room lodging in Wadala, paying a monthly rent of Rs 6,000. “We are all going back tomorrow. What is bothering us is the lack of clarity on how many days the lockdown-like situation will continue,” Ansari said. “There’s been no word from the factory when work might resume. Last year, we had suffered a lot without food; we don’t want to take that risk.” He added: “If we were given the assurance that things would become normal after a week or, say, 10 days, we could have stayed. We could have stayed on also if the government had provided food and rent.” Labour economists have for weeks been stressing the uncertainty in the labour market and urging the government to support the working class with food and rent wherever necessary, and provide more jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and start a similar scheme for urban areas. No state government has begun providing any relief or assistance yet to the migrants. Database concern Labour economist Ravi Srivastava regretted that no comprehensive database of migrant workers had yet been created a year after the nationwide lockdown inflicted untold horrors on the community across the country. The Centre and the states never implemented the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 1979, which stipulated that all migrant workers be registered with the state labour departments. The 1979 act has now been subsumed under the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, passed by Parliament last September, which mandates the creation of a database of unorganised-sector workers. However, the Centre is yet to notify the rules, so the efforts to create the database are yet to start. Srivastava said that collecting data on each migrant worker’s home and workplace address would enable governments to arrange help during crises like the current one. “Without data on the identity of workers, aid cannot be ensured,” he said. Srivastava said that many of the migrant workers had to borrow money last year, and the current crisis would further impoverish them. “The government should provide free rations and give them some money through funds transfer, enhance the MGNREGA and start a job guarantee scheme in urban areas,” he said. “Eventually the government should establish universal social security as an entitlement for all workers. There is an urgent need to improve healthcare facilities in urban areas.” A labour ministry official said that the Labour Bureau, an arm of the ministry, had launched a survey last month to track the socio-economic conditions of migrant workers. The survey is to collect data on the migrant workers’ condition before the Covid outbreak, during the first peak of the outbreak, and now. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the survey would take six months to generate the data. He said such data about migrant and other unorganised-sector workers could have been collected under the existing laws between August 2020 and March 2021, when the pandemic situation was better. In his recently published book, Impact of Covid 19, Reforms and Poor Governance on Labour Rights, Sundar has highlighted the poor implementation of laws mandating social security and registration of workers. “There is an immediate need to work out a database of workers and provide them assistance. It’s still possible to do it. The government can collate some data on migrant workers from its different schemes and services,” Sundar said. The rural development ministry has data about the fresh job cards issued — mostly to returned migrant workers — under the rural job guarantee scheme last year, he said. The railways have data on the workers who returned home on the Shramik Special trains. Since the food ministry claims that 65 crore of the eligible 81 crore people have been enrolled under the ONOR scheme, it should have data on how many had secured PDS rations outside their native places, Sundar suggested. He said that funds should be diverted from non-essential projects like the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train to provide welfare to the workers. Last month, in a reply to Parliament, labour minister Santosh Gangwar had quoted data provided by the state governments to say that about 1.14 crore migrant workers had returned to their native places during last year’s lockdown. Srivastava said this was “a huge underestimate” that highlighted the need for a comprehensive database. “Nearly 10 to 12 crore workers migrate with their family members in search of work every year,” he said. Even if only half of them had returned home last year, the number would be far higher than 1.14 crore, he argued. Last year, tens of thousands of migrant workers had attempted to walk hundreds of miles home during the lockdown in the absence of transport, and hundreds of them had died on the way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
21-04-2021||India||Narendra Modi rules out countrywide lockdown, asks states to opt for it as last resort||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday ruled out a countrywide lockdown and urged the states to use the measure as a last resort. In an address to the nation amid signs that the healthcare system is being overwhelmed in some states, Modi emphasised expanding the vaccination campaign and the health infrastructure. “Humein desh ko lockdown se bachana hai (We have to save the country from a lockdown),” Modi said in the 20-minute address. “I would urge the states to use the lockdown as a last resort. Our focus should be on micro-containment zones,” he said. “We will take care of the economic health as well as the health of the countrymen,” he added, betraying fears of the economy getting further crippled if there was a lockdown. Modi mentioned that Ram Navami falls on Wednesday and hailed the importance of Ramazan while urging people to observe Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||National health crisis: All-adult vaccine scepticism grows||Two sets of figures have brought out the enormity of the task confronting the states that seek to procure Covid-19 vaccines, strengthening a perception that the Centre is keen on passing the buck during a national health crisis. ⚫ The Centre’s decision to allow Covid-19 vaccination for adults aged 18 or above more than doubles the target population from May 1. The number of the potential beneficiaries rockets from around 350 million to nearly 900 million, jacking up the number of required doses from 700 million to nearly 1.8 billion. India currently has access to around 90 million doses per month of vaccines made within the country. Although production capacities are being ramped up and a scramble for imports has intensified, the surge in demand and the lag in supply augmentation are likely to aggravate vaccine shortages in the coming weeks. Any crisis on this front will then be laid at the door of the state governments, feel analysts. ⚫ Open market pricing (those aged below 45 will have to pay these rates) is another issue. On Tuesday, G.V. Prasad, co-chairman and managing director of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, told a television channel that the Sputnik V vaccine that the company intends to import from Russia will be priced at $10 per dose — or Rs 740 per shot. (The government-set price for the vaccines now is Rs 250 a dose but private companies will have the freedom to set pre-announced prices for those aged below 45 from May 1.) Dr Reddy’s has secured approvals to make the Russian Sputnik vaccine under the guidelines for emergency use authorisation but will meet the initial demand through imports. Prasad said the imported vaccine would be sold at a price equivalent to $10 a dose — which is the rate at which it is offered everywhere else in the world. But he was quick to add that this would not be the price of the domestically made vaccine. “We will not profiteer out of this; $10 will be the maximum price… and it will be lower (for the domestically manufactured vaccine),” he said. However, late in the evening, the company did a quick about-turn by clarifying that the price of the imported vaccine had not been fixed yet and negotiations were still on with the government. The caution is understandable, given the conspiracy theories and profiteering fears swirling around the Centre’s “liberalisation” of the vaccine policy on Monday night. Such is the feverish speculation that brokerages have started quick calculations to assess the profits that pharmaceutical companies will earn from their Covid vaccine production strategies. Motilal Oswal said that considering a base case scenario where the domestically produced vaccine will be priced at an equivalent of $2 per dose, Dr Reddy’s would stand to rake in revenues of $300 million (around Rs 2,220 crore). The humungous potential demand and the lack of clarity on price have muddled the field with many suspecting that the Centre is now cutting its losses and running, leaving the states to face a possible backlash from the public. India could have had much larger supplies of Covid-19 vaccines than it has access to at present if the Centre had provided financial support to vaccine makers during the second half or third quarter of 2020 as had many other countries. The Centre did not sign advance purchase pacts with vaccine makers, either, and directed the states not to independently engage with vaccine companies. India’s pledge of Rs 4,500 crore to vaccine makers, announced this week, should have been similarly made at that time. “We’ve already seen shortages reported with the pace of vaccinations increasing in recent weeks. The question is, where will the extra doses come from, starting May 1? We’re hoping the government will explain this,” said a public health specialist who requested not to be named. The Centre has entrusted the responsibility for the expanded vaccination campaign to the states and the private market, saying it would procure 50 per cent of doses and allow the balance to be sold to the states or in the private market. “We’ve never had a precedent of our states procuring vaccines. This is like the Centre abdicating its responsibility — this could create conditions where states will have to compete with each other to procure vaccines and where states will be at the mercy of the companies from whom they choose to (procure) at rates fixed by them,” said K. Sujatha Rao, former Union health secretary. The Centre has announced grants to help both Serum and Bharat to ramp up production, but this is expected to take weeks to months. Bharat’s production capacity, for instance, is expected to increase to 100 million doses per month by September 2021. India has also approved Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, which will be manufactured in India, but the government has not specified yet how many doses will be available in the coming weeks. A senior vaccine industry executive who requested anonymity said the decision to open up vaccination for all adults appeared “abrupt and resulting from a mix of strategic and political reasons”. T. Sundararaman, a community medicine expert and coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a global network of health specialists, said: “A vaccination campaign of this size would be very challenging — for supplies and logistics. This would allow the Centre to blame the states for any problems or shortages they might face.” While the Centre has invited foreign companies such as Pfizer and Moderna to introduce their Covid-19 vaccines in India through a fast-track process, experts say India is unlikely to get large numbers of doses from them in the immediate future. “Most vaccine manufacturers are so oversubscribed relative to short-term supply that there isn’t much spare supply that could quickly be redirected to India,” said Krishna Udayakumar, associate professor of global health at the Duke University in the US. “It will likely take months, not weeks, for any substantial increase in supply,” he told The Telegraph. “But private sales of domestically manufactured vaccines could help raise additional revenue for those manufacturers that could be reinvested to increase capacity.” Udayakumar said the large majority of vaccine doses abroad had been government-purchased. The few examples of private sector purchases and sales, he said, have taken place in the Philippines, Pakistan, Thailand and Brazil. Public health activists fear that private sales can inject inequity into the campaign. “Ideally, the campaign should have moved downwards from the most vulnerable ages,” said Leena Menghaney, a New Delhi-based public health lawyer. “In the private market, we might see some vulnerable people left out while younger people get access to vaccines.” Duty waiver plan The Centre is likely to waive the 10 per cent customs duty on imported Covid-19 vaccines, official sources said. The government currently levies 10 per cent customs or import duty plus a 16.5 per cent integrated GST and social welfare surcharge on imported vaccines. These taxes would make the imported vaccines costlier than the ones made in India. On Tuesday night, the government notified a full customs duty waiver on remdesivir’s active pharmaceutical ingredients, on beta cyclodextrin which is used in the manufacture of remdesivir, and on remdesivir injections. Remdesivir is an anti-viral medication prescribed for the treatment only of hospitalised Covid-19 patients. The customs duty waiver on vaccine imports is still awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Covid: Poor Indians bear the brunt of “pandemic policing”||Poor Indians are bearing the brunt of “pandemic policing” as the country struggles to contain a deadly second wave of Covid-19 cases by imposing stricter curfew rules and curbs on movement, rights advocates said. Hawkers, slum dwellers, food couriers and migrant workers are most likely to fall foul of lockdown rules — from fines for failing to wear a face mask or being out in the street to having roadside stalls closed down, according to unions and activists. “Our ground experience shows police target the poor, marginalised and those who cannot speak up,” said Dharmendra Kumar, secretary of Janpahal, a charity that works with street vendors. “As micro-containment zones are being set up and markets shut, the police are in charge on the streets. On the pretext of pandemic policing they victimise hawkers, pedestrians and the poor,” he said. Police enforcing lockdown rules have faced accusations of arbitrary and heavy-handed treatment, especially since the deaths in custody of a father and son locked up for violating a nationwide coronavirus lockdown last June. A policeman was caught on camera beating customers and staff at a restaurant in Tamil Nadu last week after ordering them to close even though they were not in breach of lockdown rules. It is the uneven enforcement of lockdown rules that has led to the targeting of marginalised communities, tribes and other vulnerable groups, according to a study by the Criminal Justice and Police Accountability Project (CPAProject). The independent research body analysed 500 police complaints and 34,000 arrests in Madhya Pradesh, and found officers were using “enormous” discretion in enforcing restrictions. “The police decided who had a valid reason to be out and who didn’t... even in cases where a person was out to refill their gas or buy essentials. All police complaints said was ‘reason not satisfactory’,” said Nikita Sonavane, co-founder of the CPAProject. The proportion of cases against pedestrians increased from 50 per cent in the first lockdown to 89 per cent during the third lockdown, with shopkeepers and street vendors among the largest category of “offenders”, the research found. Dayashankar Singh, president of Azad Hawkers Union, which represents about 31,000 vendors in Mumbai, said roadside fruit and vegetable sellers had been asked to shut shop. “I submitted a letter to the police that they should follow government instructions and fine those flouting guidelines, not act against the entire community of hawkers,” he said. “Food vendors are threatened that their food will be thrown away. We also got complaints that their pans and cooking oil were being seized by the police,” Singh said. Such stories were an “eye-opener” for illustrator Anurag Ekka, who worked with the CPAProject to create a comic called “Policed during the lockdown”. Based on a fictional vegetable seller who struggles to understand her rights and make a living under lockdown, the comic has been translated into 10 Indian languages and is being used as an advocacy tool by human rights organisations. “Facts and figures are always very abstract and the idea was to put a face to the numbers,” Ekka told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. While the comic’s protagonist Phullobai has her vegetables thrown to the ground by a police constable and a man out to buy medicines for his parents is fined, a driver found breaking the lockdown is let off. For street traders struggling to scrape by as restrictions keep many customers home, such incidents have aggravated their pandemic woes. Joginder Verma, 23, a fruit vendor in Mumbai who comes from Uttar Pradesh, said last year police refused to let him set up his stall — forcing him to join an exodus of migrant workers out of the big cities. “My fruits were rotting and I had to dump them in the garbage before leaving for my village,” he said. “Now I have a loan of Rs 20,000. I never had a loan before.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Supreme Court allows high courts to appoint ad hoc judges to clear massive backlog of 57 lakh cases||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a slew of directions to the Centre for expediting appointment of judges besides exercising its extraordinary powers to permit appointment of retired judges as ad hoc judges of high courts to clear the massive backlog of 57 lakh cases. The directions were passed by a special bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant while taking suo motu cognisance of 40 per cent vacancies in high courts across the country. The development comes in the backdrop of frequent irritants between the Centre and the top court on the judiciary. While the Supreme Court and the collegium has often criticised the Centre for delaying the appointments, the government had passed the buck to the judiciary saying the recommendations for appointments were being made considerably late beyond the six-month period prescribed under the MoP (memorandum of procedure) which governs the appointment/transfer process. Under the MoP, the appointment process to fill up a vacancy must commence six months before the actual vacancy. Against the sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges in high courts, there are only 664 judges and 416 posts are vacant. “The high courts are in a crisis situation. There are almost 40 per cent vacancies in the high courts, with many of the larger high courts working under 50 per cent of their sanctioned strength,” the bench said. The directions given by the apex court follow: ⚫ The Intelligence Bureau (IB) should submit its report/ inputs within 4 to 6 weeks from the date of recommendation of the high court collegium to the central government. ⚫ It would be desirable that the central government forward the file(s)/recommendations to the Supreme Court within 8 to 12 weeks from the date of receipt of views from the state government and the report/input from the IB. ⚫ Government to thereafter proceed to make the appointment immediately on the aforesaid consideration and undoubtedly if government has any reservations on suitability or in public interest, within the same period of time it may be sent back to the Supreme Court collegium with the specific reasons for reservation recorded. ⚫ If the Supreme Court collegium after consideration of the aforesaid inputs still reiterates the recommendation(s) unanimously such appointment should be processed and appointment should be made within 3 to 4 weeks. “We are conscious that the aforesaid exercise is collaborative in nature and we would expect promptness in this process to facilitate the larger cause of dispensation of timely justice. With the above directions, we close this proceeding,” the bench said. Ad hoc judges The apex court said that in view of the large vacancies in the high courts, it has decided to activate a dormant provision of the Constitution — Article 224A — for the appointment of ad hoc judges to deal with the unprecedented situation arising from the backlog of over 57 lakh cases and the consistent ratio of vacancies of almost 40 per cent. Article 224 deals with the appointment of additional and acting judges. Its objective is take care of any temporary increase in business of the high court, or by reason of arrears of work therein.  The appointment of an additional judge duly qualified to be the judge of a high court has to be for a period not exceeding two years, or as the President may specify. The Supreme Court said on Tuesday the high court chief justices are free to appoint two to five ad hoc judges and laid down the guidelines for such appointments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka hospitals stare at imminent shortage of medical-grade oxygen||Hospitals in Karnataka are staring at an imminent shortage of medical-grade oxygen, with the rising number of Covid-19 patients with severe respiratory distress threatening to increase the demand fourfold. While the total consumption of medical-grade oxygen in the state was around 280 tonnes on Saturday, it had crossed 300 tonnes on Monday, sources in the state health department said. “Our statewide requirement could go up to 1,200 tonnes per day if the spike continues in this manner for another couple of weeks,” a health department official, who declined to be named, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Karnataka has seven plants that manufacture liquid oxygen, with a total daily capacity of 810 tonnes. The shortage, currently limited to some small hospitals in rural and semi-urban areas, could soon hit the bigger hospitals if oxygen production was not ramped up, the source said. Dr K. Harish, associate dean in-charge of the Covid-19 wards at the Ramaiah Medical College Hospital and the Ramaiah Memorial Hospital in Bangalore, said the two facilities had stocks of about 20 kilolitres (approximately 7 tonnes) of oxygen. “Usually this stock lasts six days, but now we have to refill the (storage) plant every alternate day. Such is the rise in the demand for oxygen,” he said. The two hospitals together had 550 Covid patients on Tuesday morning. A doctor who works at the Covid ICU in the government-run Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital here painted a grim picture. The doctor said the Charaka Superspeciality Hospital, launched in October 2020 as part of the state government’s plan to ramp up facilities to treat Covid-19, lacked a dedicated oxygen storage facility. “Any big hospital should have a proper oxygen manifold system that maintains a steady supply to the wards and operation theatres. But Charaka does not have one yet. So we are forced to use regular cylinders to administer oxygen to patients with severe respiratory issues,” the doctor, who requested anonymity, said. An oxygen manifold is an array of inter-connected oxygen cylinders linked to an oxygen pipeline that caters to patients. The doctor said the oxygen shortage had already begun to bite government hospitals in Karnataka. “Ideally, all Covid-19 patients who need respiratory support should be provided ‘high-flow’ oxygen. But the way the shortage is staring at us, I fear tough times ahead unless the government ramps up manufacture and supplies,” the doctor said. An aide to health minister K. Sudhakar told this newspaper: “Oxygen manufacturers have assured full cooperation in ramping up production since we would need between 800 and 1,000 tonnes daily if the spike continues for a few more weeks.” Also, some Karnataka hospitals are short of the drug remdesivir, used to treat Covid patients. “Our daily requirement is 120 vials of remdesivir but yesterday (Monday) we could manage just 40 vials,” Dr Harish said. “We don’t know how things will pan out with the shortage of remdesivir and an impending shortage of oxygen.” R. Ashok, state revenue minister and vice-chairman of the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority which is in charge of Covid management, dismissed the fears. “Today we are releasing 20,000 vials of remdesivir — 10,000 each for government and private hospitals,” he told reporters ahead of an online meeting with chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is under treatment for Covid. Karnataka recorded 15,785 Covid cases on Monday, which took its total active cases to 142,084. The state’s Covid death toll is 146.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress accuses Modi govt of abdicating responsibility to ensure free vaccines||The Congress on Tuesday accused the Narendra Modi government of abdicating its responsibility to ensure free vaccines to all, alleging the modified policy announced on Monday indicated the Centre had “passed the buck” to the cash-strapped states. “Who will bear the cost of vaccination to citizens between 18 and 45? Has the Centre passed the buck to the states?” former finance minister P. Chidambaram said at a news conference, which he addressed jointly with fellow party seniors Jairam Ramesh and Ajay Maken. The Congress has steadfastly been demanding free vaccination for every citizen although private hospitals have been allowed to sell the vaccine at Rs 250 a dose and millions have accepted that option. Chidambaram said the government should have months ago worked out a comprehensive vaccination protocol and placed the necessary orders. “The government did nothing for the last three-four months. They took their eye off the ball and started taking credit for defeating (the) corona(virus),” he said. Rahul Gandhi, who tested Covid-positive on Tuesday, tweeted: “No free vaccines for 18-45 year olds. Middlemen brought in without price controls. No vaccine guarantee for weaker sections. Government of India’s Vaccine Discrimination-Not Distribution-Strategy!” A statement issued by Chidambaram, Ramesh and Maken said: “Under the modified vaccine policy the Union government is running away from taking responsibility. (The modified policy) overburdens the states, encourages vaccine manufacturers to profiteer, and will worsen the inequality between states as well between poor and rich Indians.” It added: “Nowhere in the world has any government left its vaccination programme to be determined by the vagaries of market forces, and for good reason.” The statement, though, thanked the government for acknowledging the vaccine shortage and deficiencies in the current vaccination policy. “(The) states will now bear the responsibility and cost of vaccinating the poorer sections who are below the age of 45 years and are neither health workers nor frontline workers, as defined by the central government,” it continued. “The Centre appears to have abdicated its responsibility towards the poor by excluding them from the government’s vaccination programme. In a country where the median age is 28 years, to leave those who are below the age of 45 years out of a public-funded programme is, to say the least, callous. “The migrant workers who live and work in other states and are the lifeblood of the economy of our cities will be the worst affected by this directive. “By liberalising the pricing of vaccine, and by not fixing a price for states at the same rate as it is available to the Union government, the Centre is paving the way to unhealthy price bidding and profiteering. “States with limited resources will be at a considerable disadvantage. States that are already weighed down by shrinking GST revenues, lower tax devolution, reduced grants-in-aid and increased borrowing would have to bear this additional burden. Meanwhile, nobody knows where the thousands of crores of rupees collected under PM-CARES are being deployed.” Recalling that the government had advocated one-nation-one-election, Ramesh asked: “Why has it not ensured one price for the vaccine throughout the country? There will be one price for the Centre, one for the state, one for the private, one in the black market….” Chidambaram said: “How will the price for the states be fixed? Will the two manufacturers (Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech) decide the price together? If yes, that will be an anti-competitive practice.” The joint statement said the government had failed to grasp that the issue was not only one of production but also one of financing, procuring and distributing the vaccines, and of coordinating with the states. “Ignoring the suggestion of Manmohan Singh in his letter to the Prime Minister, the modified vaccine policy does not provide funds for capital investment to the vaccine manufacturers to ramp up production. Furthermore, the modified policy does not invoke the provisions in law for compulsory licensing to allow other domestic vaccine manufacturers to manufacture the approved vaccines and augment total supply,” it said. The Congress leaders underlined that there was no clarity whether any foreign manufacturer had agreed to export its vaccine to India and, if so, whether it had promised to supply adequate quantities according to an agreed schedule. “It is also not clear if the central government will take the initiative to import foreign-made vaccines and distribute them among the states,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan urges Centre to ensure free jabs to states||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged the Centre to ensure that the states are provided with vaccines free of cost and not made to compete with private players to purchase from the open market as announced by the Union government. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vijayan on Tuesday sought reassurance from the Centre on free supply of vaccines in view of its announcement on Monday that 50 per cent of doses would be distributed to states and in the open market while the remaining 50 per cent would be earmarked for the Union government. “The state governments have constitutional obligation in the health sector and do need an assured quota of Covid-19 vaccine which has to be provided free in the pandemic situation. It is imperative that vaccines are provided to the states as a public good, free of cost,” Vijayan wrote. The Kerala chief minister highlighted the additional financial burden faced by the states due to the handling of the pandemic and noted it was imperative to provide vaccines free of cost. “The state governments are already facing additional financial commitments from the consequences of the pandemic. Given the present scenario, we have to provide vaccine to the public free of cost. As the economic downturn is still persisting, the additional burden of purchasing Covid vaccine will place considerable strain on state finances,” Vijayan wrote. The requirement for vaccines is set to increase manifold as the Centre on Monday announced that everyone above 18 years of age would be eligible for Covid jabs from May 1. While Vijayan welcomed the decision to provide vaccines to more people, he noted that his state was already facing shortage of vaccine supply. “I would like to bring to your notice that we had requested 50 lakh doses of vaccine to implement our vaccination plan. We have received only 5.5 lakh doses, due to which we have been constrained to stop on-the-spot registration affecting our effort to deal with the rapid surge,” Vijayan stated, urging Modi to allot the remaining doses at the earliest. The chief minister sought a unified government channel involving all states for distributing vaccines. “Though the policy states that the government of India will provide vaccine free of cost to the state governments from its 50 per cent quota based on criteria, the states need a reassurance that they will not be left to compete with open market players. Instead of having a government of India channel, we need to have a government channel which will include the state governments through whom the vaccine will be distributed.” He also called for fixing the price for a specific quota of vaccines meant for the open market. “The open market distributors may be permitted to have a specified quota of vaccine for which affordable price has to be fixed so that unscrupulous players do not exploit the public,” Vijayan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Delhi High Court to Centre: Get oxygen, save lives||Delhi High Court on Tuesday said that lives were more important than economic interests and suggested a reduction in steel and petroleum production to divert oxygen to Covid patients. “Industries can wait, patients cannot. Human lives are at stake,” the bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the central government, alluding to the shortage of medical oxygen amid a Covid resurgence. The court asked the Centre why it had banned industrial use of oxygen only from April 22. “Shortage is now. You have to do it (impose the ban) now. Look into taking some oxygen from steel and petroleum industries. They have big pockets and big lobbies, but tell them if they have to cut production, then they can cut production. Lives have to be saved,” the bench said. It cited how a central government counsel’s father was being provided oxygen at a reduced pressure because the hospital wanted to conserve its scarce stocks of the gas. “Can you ask him to hold on till April 22?” the court asked. It said it had heard that doctors at Delhi’s Ganga Ram Hospital were being forced to reduce the oxygen flow to Covid patients because of a shortage. The court argued that if the lockdown continued, all activities would come to a halt and there would be no immediate need for steel, petrol and diesel. “During lockdown, what would be the development?” the bench said. It said that if nothing were done, “we are heading for a bigger disaster”. “We might end up losing nearly a crore of people. Are we willing to accept that?” it said. The bench suggested increasing Covid beds in hospitals that can generate their own oxygen. Earlier, the health ministry had in its affidavit claimed there was no gap in oxygen supply to Delhi and added that all the states must rationalise oxygen use, refraining from administering it to patients who do not need it. Waste ‘criminal’ The court said the waste of even a single shot of the Covid vaccine was “criminal” and directed the Centre to vaccinate whoever it could to ensure each vial was used fully. It said the waste was a result of the age restrictions on eligibility (over 45 only) for vaccination and suggested the government register volunteers aged 18 to 45 who would be inoculated with the leftover doses after 5pm every day. The bench cited news reports about a daily wastage of six per cent of the doses amid a vaccine shortage. It noted that 44 lakh of 10 crore vaccine doses (overall) had been wasted, with the highest wastage reported from Tamil Nadu. “This is a huge wastage. Give it to those who want it. Whomsoever you can vaccinate, please vaccinate. Whether 16-year-old or 60-year-old, all need vaccination. The pandemic does not discriminate,” the court said. “In our view, wastage of a single dose of vaccine, which has proven to be life-saving, is a criminal waste.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Supreme Court stays Allahabad High Court’s order on Covid curbs in UP cities||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed Allahabad High Court’s order on Monday imposing restrictions in five cities of Uttar Pradesh — Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakphur — to check the spread of Covid-19 after the state government rushed to the top court seeking an urgent hearing. The apex court, however, made it clear that the state government has to report back to the high court on the steps taken by it to deal with the pandemic situation. The court also directed the state government to delete the name of Allahabad High Court as a respondent in the matter. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramaniann passed the order after solicitor-general Tushar Mehta appearing for the State sought an immediate stay pleading that a blanket order would not be “appropriate”. Mehta further argued the State had already taken several steps and was also willing to abide by other directions passed by the court. “Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor-General of India, seeks permission to delete the name of respondent no. 1, that is, High Court of Judicature at Allahabad from the array of the parties. Prayer is allowed. The name of respondent no. 1 is deleted from the array of the parties,” the apex court order said. “Mr Mehta, learned Solicitor-General, states that the State Government has issued several directions to contain the spread of coronavirus and are taking adequate precautions at their own. He further submits that the directions issued by the High Court vide the impugned order are as rigorous as a lockdown though the High Court has observed that ‘they are nowhere close to a complete lockdown’. Issue notice. Until further orders, there shall be an ad interim stay of the impugned order passed by the High Court. “However, the petitioner — State Government — shall immediately report to the High Court about the steps it has taken and proposes to take in the immediate future within a period of one week in view of the current pandemic. “We appoint Mr P.S. Narasimha, learned Senior Counsel, as amicus curiae to assist the Court in the matter...The Registry of this Court is directed to furnish a copy of the present petition to the learned amicus curiae forthwith. Put up after two weeks,” CJI Bobde said while dictating the order. On Monday, in a scathing attack on the Yogi Adityanath government’s handling of the massive surge of Covid cases, a division bench of Allahabad High Court had observed: “It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave, it never planned things in advance...” While issuing the directive for imposition of the restrictions in the five cities, the bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar had said the night curfew “in the name of corona curfew and the weekend curfew are nothing else but a mere eyewash”. Chief minister Adityanath is in isolation after testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Kumbh mela returnees in Odisha test positive for Covid||Twenty-three Kumbh mela returnees have so far tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha. While 13 were found to be infected with the virus while undergoing RT-PCR tests at the Cuttack railway station the rest who have tested positive belong to Rayagada in southern Odisha. So far 70 people have returned to the state from Kumbh and all are in self-isolation. “We are keeping a close watch on these people. Special squads have been deployed at all the railway stations to ensure that those returning from Haridwar undergo the corona test mandatorily. “As per the official records more than 400 people from the state had gone to Kumbh mela to take a holy dip in river Ganga,” said officials, adding that passengers coming from Haridwar need to produce the RT-PCR negative reports not more than 72 hours-old. Meanwhile, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made RT-PCR negative reports mandatory for passengers de-boarding at the Biju Patnaik International Airport to prevent the rise of covid cases in the city. Keeping in mind the exponential rise in corona cases the BMC has also announced to keep all the religious institutions closed for devotees from Wednesday. Only daily rituals will be allowed to be carried out in them. “All religious institutions, including temples, mosques, churches will be closed for the devotees for the time being. Once the situation improves, the restrictions will be eased,” said BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary. In Puri, the 12th Century Shree Jagannath temple is open for devotees but devotees from outside the state have to produce RT-PCR negative reports. With reports of five more deaths, the death toll in the state reached to 1,953 on Tuesday. While the situation in the coastal belt of Odisha is grim, the condition in western Odisha districts adjoining Chhattisgarh has worsened further despite the night curfew. “As people from districts adjoining Chhattisgarh are frequently visiting Raipur and other cities of Chhattisgarh, the corona cases in the bordering areas are increasing alarmingly. Besides, people coming from Covid hotspot states are also instrumental in the rise of positive cases in Odisha,” director Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) Ajay Parida told reporters. Parida further maintained that Odisha need not worry much as the virus mutants of Brazil and South Africa have not been found here. “Only three to four per cent cases of double mutation of Covid variant of the United Kingdom have been found here,” Parida maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Covid: BJP questions Nitish Kumar's decision to implement night curfew till May 15||The BJP has questioned the decision of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to implement a night curfew from 9pm to 5am in the state till May 15 wondering how such a measure could help halt the raging pandemic. “How will the night curfew contain the pandemic?” asked state BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal on social media, expressing concerns about the “half-hearted” measure announced by Nitish on Sunday. “The Bihar government has taken several essential decisions. I am no expert but these are very good decisions. However, I am unable to understand how the night curfew will stop the spread of coronavirus,” Jaiswal further said. Advising that the infection chain could be broken only with a weekend lockdown from Friday evening to Monday morning, Jaiswal argued that it will keep the people confined to their homes and control the spread of Covid-19 to some extent. “The situation in Bihar will become akin to Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh if strict curfew is not imposed,” Jaiswal asserted. The Bihar BJP chief had given these suggestions at the all-party meeting on Covid-19 chaired by governor Phagu Chauhan on the request of Nitish following a suggestion by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Nitish had said that his government will take into account all the suggestions while deciding about the measures to tackle Covid-19. However, not taking into account the suggestions of Jaiswal, who is a qualified medical practitioner and is also on the board of directors of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, was seen as a snub to ally BJP by Janata Dal United (JDU) leader Nitish. It was said to be the main reason behind Jaiswal criticising the night curfew in public domain. There have been no reactions from the JDU on his criticism so far. The JDU and the BJP are partners in the NDA government in the state, but have been at loggerheads over issues ranging from ministerial berths to allocation of departments and nomination of MLCs, among other things. The JDU had held the BJP responsible for propping up Chirag Paswan and his Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) against it to cut votes in the Assembly polls held last year. The JDU had asserted that this was the reason behind it’s debacle in the elections — in which it was relegated to the third position with 43 seats — while the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the BJP won 75 and 74 seats respectively. However, the JDU tally is now 45 after the two MLAs of the LJP and the Bahujan Samaj Party of Mayawati merged with it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
