22-04-2021||India||Former Delhi minister A K Walia succumbs to Covid||Senior Congress leader and former Delhi government minister A.K Walia died of Covid-19 in the early hours of Thursday, party leaders said. He was 72. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal among others condoled his demise. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar expressed grief over the former MLA's death. He said Walia breathed his last at the city's Apollo Hospital. A four-time MLA, Walia headed several portfolios, including health and finance, in the Sheila Dikshit government. Party leaders said Walia, who represented the Laxmi Nagar constituency in the assembly, was admitted to the hospital a few days ago after testing positive for coronavirus. He died around 1.30 am on Thursday, they added. In his message, Rahul Gandhi said Walia was a "very helpful" member of the party with a deep social consciousness. "I'm saddened by the death of AK Walia ji. He was a very helpful member of the Congress party with a deep social consciousness. My condolences to his family & friends," he said in the message on Telegram. Family members of the deceased Congress leader said his last rites were performed in adherence with COVID-19 protocols at the Saray Kale Khan cremation ground. In a tweet offering his condolences, Kejriwal prayed for strength to the bereaved family. Priyanka Gandhi recalled how Walia helped many people in distress. "I personally witnessed Shri A.K.Walia help so many people in distress as Health Minister of Delhi. We are all deeply saddened by news of his passing. May his soul rest in peace," she tweeted. AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also condoled Walia's death, saying he promoted positive politics in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
22-04-2021||India||Ensure hassle-free supply of oxygen in Delhi, HC orders Centre||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed the Centre to ensure oxygen is supplied to the national capital as per the allocation order and is transported without any hindrance. The high court said there has to be strict compliance of oxygen allocation order issued by the Centre and non-compliance would attract criminal action. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the Centre's allocation of oxygen for Delhi from plants in other states like Haryana was not being respected by the local administration there and it needs to be resolved immediately. It directed the central government to provide adequate security to lorries transporting oxygen and to form dedicated corridors for the same. The directions came after the Delhi government told the court that oxygen that was to come from Panipat in Haryana was not being allowed to be picked up by the local police there. The Delhi government also told the court that oxygen which was to be picked up from some units in Uttar Pradesh could also not be lifted from there. With regard to Delhi government's suggestion to transport oxygen by air, the bench said research by its legal researchers has shown that airlifting of oxygen was very dangerous and it has to be transported either by road or rail. Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta told the bench "If there is any roadblock by any individuals or any officers, the officers have been instructed that if they are involved in any such activity they will be departmentally dealt with". He said if Individuals are involved, then protection would be provided to ensure the commitments are met. "We must respond with a sense of urgency and sense of responsibility which the situation demands," the SG said. The high court on Wednesday issued strong strictures against the Central government and private industries and had ordered the Centre to "forthwith" provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing shortage of the gas in treating serious Covid-19 patients, observing it seems human life is not important for the state . "You are not exploring all avenues to augment oxygen supply. Beg, borrow or steal," the court had told the Centre, and asked why it was not waking up to the gravity of the emergency situation. It also warned that certainly all hell will break loose with the stoppage of medical oxygen to the hospitals. The observations and directions by the court came on Wednesday during hearing of a plea filed by Balaji Medical and Research Centre, which owns and runs various hospitals in the name of Max, contending that if supply of oxygen is not replenished on an immediate basis, the lives of the patients who are critical and on oxygen support will be endangered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
22-04-2021||India||Registration for Covid vaccination for those above 18 to begin from April 28||Registration for vaccination against Covid-19 for all those aged above 18 will begin on the CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu app from April 28, officials said on Thursday. The inoculation process and documents to be submitted to get the jab remains the same. The central government had announced that the vaccination for those above 18 years will begin across the country from May 1 as part of the third phase of the inoculation drive. Certain modifications, including the age criteria and a few other features, have been done and the CoWIN platform is ready to meet the rising demand as is expected once the vaccination for all is opened up, an official said. From May 1, the present system of private COVID-19 vaccination centres receiving doses from the government and charging up to Rs 250 per dose will cease to exist and private hospitals will procure directly from vaccine manufacturers. According to the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy, COVID-19 vaccination will continue to be free for eligible population groups comprising healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above 45 years of age in government vaccination centres, which receive doses from the government of India. Vaccine manufacturers would make an advance declaration of the price for 50 per cent supply that would be available to state governments in the open market before May 1. Based on this price, states, private hospitals, industrial establishments may procure vaccine doses from manufacturers. Private hospitals would have to procure their supplies of COVID-19 vaccine exclusively from the 50 per cent supply earmarked for other than the government of India channel. "While the Centre has liberalised the vaccination policy, it does not mean that vaccines will be sold in pharmacists or chemist shops in the open market," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had clarified on Wednesday. The price charged for vaccination by private hospitals would be monitored, he said. "The present dispensation where private COVID vaccination centres receive doses from the government and can charge up to Rs 250 per dose will cease to exist," the Union health ministry said. Vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the government of India and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market. For government of India vaccination centres, the eligible population would be the same, which exists today, that is healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) and population above 45 years of age. For other than the government of India channel, the eligibility would be all adult citizens of the country, the document said. Vaccination against COVID-19 will continue to be free for eligible population groups in all those government COVID vaccination centres which receive vaccine doses from the central government. All vaccination (through government of India vaccination centres and other than the government of India channel) will be part of the National Vaccination Programme, will follow all existing guidelines, will be captured on the CoWIN platform along with the stocks and price per vaccination applicable in all vaccination centres, will comply with Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) management and reporting, digital vaccination certificate and all other prescribed norms. The division of vaccine supply, which would mean 50 per cent to the government of India and 50 per cent to other than the government of India channel would be applicable uniformly across for all vaccines manufactured in the country. However, the fully ready to use imported vaccine would be allowed to be utilised entirely in the other than government of India channel, it said. The Centre from its share will allocate vaccines to states and union territories based on the criteria of performance (speed of administration, average consumption), extent of infections (number of active COVID-19 cases), the document stated. Second dose of all existing priority groups i.e. HCWs, FLWs and people aged above 45, wherever it has become due, would be given priority, for which a specific and focused strategy would be communicated to all stakeholders. This policy would come into effect from May 1 and would be reviewed from time-to-time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
22-04-2021||India||Amid tussle with states, Centre orders ‘uninterrupted’ supply of oxygen across country||The Centre directed states to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transportation along inter-state borders on Thursday, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired a high-level meeting to review oxygen supply across the country. In its order, the Centre said the district magistrate and superintendent of police of the district concerned will be held responsible if there is any violation. The directive under the stringent Disaster Management Act 2005 was issued by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla in the wake of reports that some states blocked supply of medical oxygen to other states amid sudden spike in coronavirus cases and demand for it. At the review meeting, Modi asked top officials to work rapidly on increasing oxygen production, boosting speed of distribution and using innovative ways to provide oxygen support to health facilities. Modi also said that states must act against any hoarding of oxygen and directed officials to ensure that the oxygen supply to various states happens in a smooth, unhindered manner and called for fixing responsibility with the local administration in cases of obstruction. The meeting also discussed ways and means to boost oxygen availability amid demands from many states for an increase in its supply. Bhalla said the availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen is an important prerequisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19 and with the increasing cases, the medical oxygen supply will need to keep pace with the requirements of the states and union territories. "Therefore, to ensure the uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country for management of Covid-19 patients, in exercise of powers conferred under section of the DM Act, the undersigned, in the capacity as chairperson, National Executive Committee, hereby directs the state and Union Territory governments and state and Union Territory authorities to ensure the following measures within their areas of jurisdiction," the home secretary said. The order said there should be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen between the states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free inter-state movement of oxygen carrying vehicles. “No restrictions shall be imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the oxygen supplies only to the hospitals of the state and the union territory in which they are located. There shall be free movement of oxygen carrying vehicles into the cities, without any restriction of timings, while also enabling inter-city supply without any restriction,” it said. “No authority shall attach the oxygen carrying vehicles passing through the district or areas for making supplies specific to any particular district or area,” it further said. Supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except those (nine specified industries) exempted by the government, is prohibited from April 22, 2021 and till further orders, according to the directive. The order said that the states and union territories shall strictly abide by the supply plan of medical oxygen prepared by Empowered Group-I and as revised from time-to-time. The district magistrates, deputy commissioners and senior superintendents of police, superintendents of police, deputy commissioners of police will be personally liable for implementation of the above directions, it said. Modi in his meeting discussed ways and means to boost oxygen availability amid demands from many states for an increase in its supply, and was told that the supply of life-saving gas to states has been steadily increasing. Railways is being used for rapid and non-stop long-distance transport of tankers,a statement said. The first rake has reached from Mumbai to Vizag to transport 105 MT of the liquid medical oxygen. Similarly, empty oxygen tankers are also being air-lifted to oxygen suppliers to reduce one-way journey time in oxygen supply. The prime minister was informed that an elaborate exercise is being done in coordination with states to find their demand for oxygen and ensure adequate supply accordingly, the statement said. Various measures are being undertaken to rapidly increase the availability of cryogenic tankers through conversion of nitrogen and argon tankers, import and airlifting of tankers as well as manufacturing them, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
22-04-2021||India||Almost a national emergency, says Supreme Court on Covid-19 ||The Supreme Court Thursday termed the Covid19 situation as almost a "national emergency" while agreeing to hear Vedanta's plea for opening of its Sterlite copper unit at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu on the ground that it would produce thousand tonnes of oxygen and give it free of cost to treat patients. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde was unimpressed with the objection of Tamil Nadu government which initially sought hearing of Vedanta's plea on Monday and opposed its opening on various grounds including that it has been rejected by the apex court earlier. "We understand all this. We will ensure compliance of all environmental norms by the plant and its oxygen producing facility would be allowed to operate. We are on the oxygen plant," the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said when senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan for Tamil Nadu objected to the plea of the company. "There is almost a national emergency and you (Tamil Nadu) don't put spokes in the solution. We will hear it (plea of Vedanta) tomorrow," the bench said in the hearing conducted through video conferencing. "The country is in dire need of oxygen and the Centre is augmenting oxygen from whichever source. Vedanta wants to make its plant operational, but let Vedanta only make it operational to manufacture oxygen for health purposes," Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. “Between protecting the environment and protecting human life, we must lean in favour of protecting human life,” Mehta said. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Vedanta, sought urgent hearing of the plea during the day itself and said people are dying on a daily basis and we can produce and supply oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients. "We can start in five to six days if you give a go ahead today. The company can manufacture tonnes of oxygen there everyday and is ready to supply them free of cost," Salve said. The Tamil Nadu government, however, referred to the records and said no oxygen production can be started by the company before two to four weeks. The bench would hear the interim application on Friday. The copper unit was closed after a May 23, 2018 order by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board following violent protests against the unit which left 13 people dead in police firing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||SC wants national plan on Covid situation, oxygen supply||As the country grapples with the current wave of COVID-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court on Thursday told the Centre that it wants a national plan on issues including supply of oxygen and essential drugs for treatment of patients infected with the virus. Taking suo motu cognisance of the prevailing grim situation across the country, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said it would also consider the matter pertaining to the method and manner of COVID-19 vaccination in the country. The bench, also comprising Justices L N Rao and S R Bhat, said it would examine the aspect relating to judicial power of the high courts to declare lockdown amid the pandemic. It further said that at least six high courts are hearing COVID-19 related matters, leading to "confusion and diversion of resources" based on different priorities. The apex court appointed senior advocate Harish Salve as an amicus curiae to assist it in the suo motu proceedings. The bench issued notice to the Centre and said it would hear the matter on Friday. We, as a bench and as a court, wish to take suo motu cognisance of certain issues, the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The top court said at least six high courts -- Delhi, Bombay, Sikkim, Madhya Pradesh, Calcutta and Allahabad -- are dealing with issues pertaining to the prevailing situation. It said these high courts are exercising their jurisdictions in bona fide and in the best interest. What is happening is that it is creating some kind of confusion and diversion of resources, the bench observed. One high court thinks there is priority for one group while the other thinks there is priority for others. We want to know with regard to four issues -- supply of oxygen, supply of essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination. We want to keep the power to declare lockdown to the State and this should not be by judicial decision.., the bench said. We want to issue notice on these four issues, it said, adding, We want to see a national plan on these four issues . As the apex court said it would issue notice to the Centre and hear the matter on Friday, Mehta asked the bench whether the government would respond to the high courts on the COVID-19 issues pending there. The top court said the Centre may present the national plan to the high courts. The bench also observed that it might withdraw certain issues pending before the high court and deal with them. Mehta said he would intimate the high courts that the apex court has taken suo motu cognisance on the issue. India registered over 3.14 lakh new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest-ever single-day count recorded in any country, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the country to 1,59,30,965. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday, a total of 3,14,835 fresh infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,84,657 with a record 2,104 new fatalities. Issuing unusually strong strictures on the Modi government and private industries, the Delhi High Court had on Wednesday ordered the Centre to "forthwith" provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing shortage of the gas in treating serious COVID-19 patients, observing it seems human life is not important for the state . "You are not exploring all avenues to augment oxygen supply. Beg, borrow or steal," the high court had told the Centre, and asked why it was not waking up to the gravity of the emergency situation. It also warned that certainly all hell will break loose with the stoppage of medical oxygen to the hospitals. "Fact of the matter is there is an oxygen shortage. It is there for us to see. We cannot shut our eyes to it, the high court had said during an extraordinary hearing of a plea on the matter on a public holiday, and added that the government cannot say it cannot provide more oxygen and people can be left to die on roads. The Central government, represented by the Solicitor General, had thereafter, assured the high court that it will facilitate supply of the increased allocation of 480 metric tonnes of oxygen to Delhi and the same will reach the national capital without any obstructions. The high court was conducting an urgent hearing on a public holiday on a plea filed by Balaji Medical and Research Centre, which owns and runs various hospitals in the name of Max, stating that if supply of oxygen is not replenished on an immediate basis, the lives of the patients who are critical and on oxygen support will be endangered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Abandonment of Centre’s responsibility towards youth, Sonia tells PM on vaccines||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the new Covid-19 vaccine policy, terming it as arbitrary and discriminatory and urged him to intervene immediately to reverse it. In a letter to the prime minister, the Congress chief alleged that the new vaccine policy implies that the central government has abdicated its responsibility of providing free vaccines to all Indians between 18 and 45 years of age. "It is surprising that despite the harsh lessons of last year and the pain inflicted on our citizens, the Government continues to follow an arbitrary and discriminatory policy, which promises to exacerbate existing challenges," she said in her letter. "The policy implies that the Government of India has abdicated its responsibility to provide free vaccination for citizens between the age group of 18 and 45 years. This is complete abandonment of the Government's responsibility towards our youth," she said. Noting that any reasonable person will agree on the benefit of a uniform price for vaccination, she urged prime minister Modi to intervene immediately and "reverse this ill-considered decision". The Centre on Monday announced a liberalised vaccine policy, making all adults above 18 years of age eligible for getting vaccination from May 1. The Serum Institute of India on Wednesday announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||India records highest-ever single-day Covid spike in any country||India registered over 3.14 lakh new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest-ever single-day count recorded in any country, taking the the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the country to 1,59,30,965. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday, a total of 3,14,835 fresh infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,84,657 with a record 2,104 new fatalities. The national COVID-19 recovery rate fell below 85 per cent. Registering a steady increase for the 43rd day in a row, the active cases have increased to 22,91,428 comprising 14.38 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 84.46 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,34, 54,880. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.16 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,27,05,103 samples have been tested up to April 21 with 16,51,711 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 2,104 new fatalities include 568 from Maharashtra, 249 from Delhi, 193 from Chhattisgarh, 187 from Uttar Pradesh, 125 from Gujarat and ,116 from Karnataka. A total of 1,84,657 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 61,911 from Maharashtra, 13,762 from Karnataka ,13,258 from Tamil Nadu, 12,887 from Delhi, 10,710 from West Bengal, 10,346 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,114 from Punjab and 7,510 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Sitaram Yechury's elder son succumbs to Covid in Gurgaon hospital||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday said his son Ashish died of COVID-19 in the morning. Ashish, a journalist by profession who would have celebrated his 35th birthday on June 9, was recovering well at Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital, people close to the family added. They described his sudden death at 5.30 am after a two-week battle with the disease as a shock. "It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son Ashish Yechury to COVID-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us," Yechury said on Twitter. Ashish, who studied at the Asian College of Journalism, Chennai, worked in several publications, including the Times of India in Delhi, before moving to Pune. Journalists who worked with him remembered him as a mild-mannered and warm professional who was knowledgeable and well read. The CPI(M) Politburo issued a statement announcing the death and offering its condolences to the family. "We are deeply sorry to announce the passing away this morning (22 April) of Ashish Yechury, son of Sitaram Yechury and Indrani Mazumdar. He died of Covid related complications. He was 35 years old. "The Polit Bureau conveys it deepest condolences to Sitaram and Indrani, his wife Swati, his sister Akhila and all other members of the bereaved family," the statement said. As news of the death came in, condolences for the family poured in from political leaders, including from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Condolences to Shri Sitaram Yechury Ji and his family on the tragic and untimely demise of his son, Ashish. Om Shanti, Modi said on Twitter. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said he was devastated by the news. There is no greater loss for a parent to endure. May you find the strength to bear the inexpressible grief of your loss. My heart goes out to you at this painful time," he said. "Deeply saddened and pained to hear about the loss of Ashish Yechury. I offer my heartfelt condolences to Comrade @SitaramYechury, his family and friends at this difficult time," tweeted DMK leader MK Stalin. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her "shock" at Ashish's death. "Shocked and very saddened to hear about the untimely passing away of Ashish, son of @SitaramYechury Ji. My deepest condolences to the grieving family," tweeted Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh hospitals rip oxygen veil, blame Yogi||Several private Covid hospitals in Lucknow have put up notices accusing Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the Centre of failing to provide oxygen and requested families to shift patients elsewhere, prompting some helpless relatives to bemoan a “non-existent government”. In the notice pasted at its gate on Wednesday afternoon, Mayo Medical Centre at Gomti Nagar and Make Well Hospital and Trauma Centre said: “After repeated request to the UP CM/Central Govt, we are not able to get enough oxygen supply. Hence we are requesting the family members of those patients who are on oxygen support (to) please take their patients to (a) higher centre for further management. We are extremely sorry for the inconvenience.” Hours later, 10 jumbo oxygen cylinders were sent to Mayo Medical Centre from the government-run King George’s Medical University. Nishant, the manager of Make Well Hospital, told The Telegraph: “We have made some arrangements for the 44 patients in our hospitals and hope that the government will resume the supply of oxygen by Thursday morning.” Shantived Institute of Medical Sciences said in an “urgent announcement”: “Even after repeated requests to the appropriate authorities, continuous/regular supply of oxygen cannot be maintained. In the midst of this pandemic the supply and demand ratio remains unmet. In this scenario the safety of patients on continuous oxygen support cannot be overlooked. “…We request the family members of all patients on oxygen support to please transfer within the next hour the said patients to any centre where continuous oxygen supply can be ensured. We regret this deplorable situation and the inconvenience caused.” The majority of government and private hospitals in Uttar Pradesh are facing an acute shortage of oxygen at a time Covid cases have ballooned. The state reported 33,106 cases on Wednesday, the highest after Maharashtra. The death toll for the day was 187, although overflowing crematoriums and graveyards have spawned allegations that the real number of deaths was being hidden. When journalists reached Mayo Medical Centre to report about the notice and interview crying relatives of patients, a middle-aged woman came out of the hospital around 5.30pm and said: “I cannot let people die in my hospital. I can show you a WhatsApp group in which the state and the central government have added us for providing quick support to those suffering from Covid-19. We are frantically trying to tell them to provide us the promised oxygen or the patients would start dying soon. They are silent.” The woman didn’t reveal her identity but said it was the decision of the hospital management to speak out. A source in Mayo Medical Centre told this newspaper: “When the state government turned us into a dedicated Covid hospital five days ago, we were promised more than 400 oxygen cylinders. But we have got less than 100 cylinders till date. We have at least 40 patients who need round-the-clock oxygen. Tomorrow, the government will ask us how the patients died and put us in jail. It is better for us to speak up now.” The source said, before the 10 cylinders arrived, that since most relatives had not taken away their patients, “we have made some personal arrangements that will last a few hours”. Asha Verma, the relative of a patient who was crying inconsolably and trying to call someone for help, told reporters: “Where will I take my patient now? He cannot survive even for five minutes without oxygen. I beg the hospital to take whatever money is required from me and provide oxygen to my patient. I know the government is non-existent. But doctors are seen as gods.” The situation was dire at Balrampur Hospital and Civil Hospital in Lucknow, the two biggest government health facilities in the state capital. While the families of several relatives took their patients elsewhere, the hospital staff refused comment. Some relatives of Covid patients said they were having to pay between Rs 20,000 and Rs 40,000 for an oxygen cylinder, while the actual cost was about Rs 1,200. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a virtual meeting with officials in the evening and said: “There should be sufficient beds, oxygen, medicines, equipment and health workers in every district. Ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen in every hospital.” Himself in isolation after testing positive for Covid-19, Adityanath said: “Responsible officers should be deployed at the oxygen refilling centres. The oxygen tankers should be connected with GPS. Deploy police at the (oxygen) plants. There shouldn’t be black marketing of oxygen and those who are doing so should be booked under the Gangster Act and the National Security Act.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Odisha Class X board examinations cancelled||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced the cancellation of the Class X state board examination and postponement of the Class XII exam. The announcement came following a protest rally by Class X students near Naveen Niwas, the residence of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, on Tuesday demanding cancellation of their examination amid the surge in coronavirus cases. Minister for school and mass education Samir Ranjan Dash said: “In view of the rise in corona(virus) cases, the Class X examination to be conducted by the Board of Secondary Examination from May 3 stands cancelled. The results of the Class X board exam will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the BSE.” Dash, however, did not spell out the detailed mechanism for deciding the results of the Class X examination. He said students who are unhappy with the marks awarded to them could get an opportunity to sit for the examination once the conditions improve. The state government in a media release said the Class XII examination conducted by the Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE), scheduled to be held from May 18, has been postponed. The examination will be held once the situation improves. The state government will take a call on the examination in the first week of June. The students will be given 15 days time to prepare for the exam. All the students of Classes IX and XI will be promoted to the next class without appearing for any kind of examination, the notification said. Odisha on Wednesday reported 4,851 fresh Covid-19 cases, with Khurda district registering the highest 703 cases. The deaths due to Covid-19 touched 1,958 with another five fatalities reported in the last 24 hours. “The second wave is likely to reach its peak either in the last week of April or in the first week of May,” said C.B.K. Mohanty, chief of the Directorate of Medical Education and Training. The administration of Ganjam, the home district of Naveen, has launched a door-to-door health screening drive. The district administration also shut down religious places for devotees till May 15. It has prohibited the entry of visitors in parks, sea beaches and such other places of mass congregation. On the other hand, the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple administration has decided to vaccinate all the servitors aged above 18 years. The chief minister has directed the district administrations to prepare a mechanism for the return of migrant workers from other states and follow the protocols. “The quarantine norm and testing should be ensured for all the returnees from other states,” Naveen said. He added that the number of medical facilities, including the number of beds with oxygen facilities, should be increased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Maoist leader behind collector kidnap surrenders||Maoist leader G. Jalandhar Reddy, who was involved in the abduction of former Malkangiri collector R. Vineel Krishna in Odisha, surrendered before the police in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday. Jalandhar Reddy alias Krishna was one of the top leaders of Andhra-Odisha border special zonal committee of the banned CPI (Maoist). Reddy was mainly active in what is now known as the Swabhiman Anchal of Malkangiri district in Odisha. Vineel was kidnapped by Maoists from this area in 2011. He was released after spending nearly a week in their captivity. Source said Reddy decided to lay down arms after Malkangiri police assisted by the BSF and its Andhra counterpart stepped up its hunt for rebels. His decision to join the mainstream might prompt other Maoists to follow suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Covid-19 pandemic: Few infections after vaccines ||Only three to four persons per 10,000 vaccinated with either Covaxin or Covishield have developed Covid-19 infections after two doses, India’s health research agency said on Wednesday, releasing preliminary results of real-world efficacy. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMCR) said it had counted 695 (0.04 per cent) infections among 1,737,178 people who had received two Covaxin doses and 5,014 (0.03 per cent) infections among 15,732,754 people who had received two Covishield doses. “These are very small numbers and not at all worrisome,” said Balram Bhargava, the ICMR’s director-general. “We call infections after vaccinations breakthrough infections. The two vaccines we’re using are designed to reduce infections and prevent severe disease and deaths.” Multiple anecdotal accounts have emerged of Covid-19 infections among vaccine recipients, including some who had received two doses, since the start of the vaccination campaign on January 16. Among them is former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. But health officials and vaccine researchers have underlined that the Covid-19 vaccines currently in use are primarily intended to prevent severe disease and deaths and only lower the risk of infections — and that some breakthrough infections could occur. Bhargava said the preliminary results were based on early phases of the vaccination campaign that were open only to healthcare workers and frontline workers. “Healthcare workers and frontline workers are vulnerable to occupational exposure and therefore, these numbers,” he said. The epidemic’s current second wave — that has pushed the seven-day average of daily new infections to over 248,000 from a peak count of 93,000 during the first wave in September — may have also contributed to some extra infections, Bhargava said. Otherwise, the numbers could have been even lower. But some researchers said they were puzzled on Wednesday with the lack of significant differences in the proportion of the breakthrough infections after the first dose and the second dose of either vaccine, although full protection is expected to occur 14 days after the second dose. The ICMR data show breakthrough infection incidence rates of four per 10,000 after the first dose of Covaxin and after the second dose of Covaxin and incidence rates of three per 10,000 after the first dose of Covishield and four per 10,000 after the second dose of Covishield. “If all else was equal, we would expect to see lower incidence rates after the second dose,” said Rahul Siddharthan, a computational biologist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. “But the numbers probably reflect the timing over which the data was collected. If the infections were counted among second-dose recipients in April during the second wave, the incidence rates might be sharply higher than what they would be in the absence of the wave.” A senior Calcutta-based medical researcher said he would not use only a Covid-19 positive result to measure a vaccine’s efficacy. “I would have tried to follow these patients further to see how many of them develop serious disease requiring hospitalisation or have fatal outcomes,” said Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. “And this should be compared with similar data for unvaccinated people who also develop Covid-19 infections.” India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin has shown 100 per cent protective efficacy against severe disease and 78 per cent against symptomatic infections, the vaccine’s producer Bharat Biotech said on Wednesday, announcing fresh results from clinical trials. The trial recorded 127 cases of symptomatic Covid-19 infections among about 25,800 participants — half of whom received the vaccine and half of whom received placebo injections. But 100 per cent protection from severe disease implies that all severe cases among the 127 occurred among placebo recipients. The ICMR also announced on Wednesday that studies at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, have shown that Covaxin works well against several coronavirus variants, including a double mutant strain that currently accounts for about 50 per cent of new infections in some parts of Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Covid: Migrants heading back home to Bihar from Delhi, by auto||The green and yellow autorickshaws bearing Delhi number plates have suddenly become a common sight on the highways entering Bihar from Uttar Pradesh. Loaded with passengers, they zoom past, increasing their speed if you signal them to stop. The reason behind this is the lurking fear that the drivers would be stopped for Covid tests, or maybe quarantined. However, such restrictions are allegedly non-existent these days in Uttar Pradesh. A large number of auto drivers in Delhi hail from Bihar and Jharkhand. Impelled by the lessons learnt during the lockdown last year, the drivers are fleeing with their families back to their native places as a brutal second of the Covid-19 pandemic surges across the country. However, their journeys have been far from smooth, and after traversing around 1,000km, worries about the future are nagging them. Suresh Kumar Mahto, 36, a native of Barkagaon in Muzaffarpur district of Bihar, has been driving an autorickshaw in the national capital for over a decade. He also doubles as a tea seller when not driving. Suresh decided to return to his village in his auto the moment he came to know about the lockdown announced by the Delhi government from 10pm on April 19 (Monday) to 5am on April 26. “Last year the lockdown kept getting extended as the coronavirus spread. We decided to return to my village after sitting idle for several weeks in Delhi, but faced horrendous situations on the way. People are not the focus of the government. It never paid any attention to our plight or hunger. So this time I decided to return to my native place on the very day the lockdown started,” Suresh told The Telegraph on Wednesday, still on the way to his village. Suresh had left his auto in Delhi last year. The vehicle would not start when he returned after five months. He had to spend a small fortune to make it roadworthy again. So this time he decided to take his auto all the way to his village. His wife, three children, a brother-in-law and another auto driver are accompanying him on the homebound journey. “We started from Delhi at 10pm on Monday and have been travelling since then. We have to stop every 70-80km because the engine heats up. Moreover, to escape the scorching heat during the day, we prefer moving more at night. Our journey was okay till Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, but then the CNG (compressed natural gas) stations are rare to find after that. The petrol tank of my vehicle can hold just two litres, so we have to fill it often,” Suresh said. Another problem that he and his family faced on the way was getting food. The restaurants dotting the roads are allegedly fleecing hapless travellers, charging exorbitantly for simple items like rice, dal and vegetables. As if all these were not enough, Suresh’s auto developed some fault near Basti in Uttar Pradesh. It would not gain speed, sputter and finally stop. The family would push it again and again to start, jump in and travel a couple of kilometres, and then repeat the process. “We pushed and drove the vehicle like this for around 70km to Gorakhpur, where a mechanic charged Rs 1,500 to repair it,” Suresh said. The family entered Bihar around 6pm on Wednesday and they are expected to reach their native place late at night. “We will reach our village for sure and stay there till the lockdown and Covid remain. But I am now worried about what I will do there. Maybe I will drive my autorickshaw for hire and lend a hand for farming on the patch of our land,” Suresh added. A few hundred kilometres away another auto driver Tarkeshwar Yadav, 28, entered Bihar via National Highway 2, also known as the Grand Trunk Road, while travelling to his native Masmohna village in Domchanch in Koderma district of Jharkhand. “Corona(virus) is surging in Delhi and lockdown has also been imposed. So we set out for home on Monday night. Everybody there is afraid. My parents and elder brother are travelling with me,” Tarkeshwar told this correspondent when he stopped his auto near Dehri-on-Sone in Rohtas district on Wednesday. Narrating his woes, Tarkeshwar said he and his brother have “not slept for around two nights. We have been resting under the trees during the day to escape the heat. We haven’t bathed for two days. Finding a toilet is also a problem, especially for my mother. We don’t even get water for several hundred kilometres on the way”. The expressways and highways they took have very few shops or eateries on the way. Luckily the family was carrying a portable cooking gas cylinder fitted with a stove on which they cooked some rice and dal at regular intervals. Tarkeshwar had taken a train to his village just a few days before the lockdown was imposed in March last year. He chose not to stay back this time as well because he had heard and seen the plight of colleagues who stayed behind. “Covid test in Delhi is free. But beyond that the government there has not provided us any support that would have kept us back. We need to earn daily to keep our kitchen running,” he said. Tarkeshwar lamented that he would not be able to drive his auto in Jharkhand because it bears a Delhi registration number and the police would keep fining or fleecing him on the roads there if he gets caught. “But then, life is more important than work right now. We hope that things will improve in a few months. Till then we will manage somehow by doing odd jobs,” the auto driver added before starting his vehicle again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||PIL on Covid ‘double standards’||A PIL has urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre, the Election Commission of India and others to strictly implement the guidelines of the Disaster Management Act restricting people from congregating at the Kumbh Mela and election rallies in view of the massive surge in Covid cases. The PIL filed by advocate Sanjai Kumar Pathak has questioned the alleged double standards being adopted by the authorities while dealing with the common man for violating Covid protocols on the streets and those flouting the norms at the Kumbh and poll rallies. The petition said such discrimination by the State was a violation of citizens’ fundamental rights under Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life and personal liberty). Citing the over two lakh Covid-19 cases being reported across the country over the past one week, the petitioner has submitted that the “… health infrastructure is crumbling in many states. Hospitals and crematoriums are running out of space. Shortage of essential drugs is reported from many cities. “…Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Bengal Assembly elections are being held. The respondent no. 4 (ECI) has not been able to enforce the Covid-19 rules and regulations during the political rallies and campaigning. “The respondent no. 2, the home minister, the chief ministers of respective states and host of star campaigners can be seen flouting the Covid-19 norms.” The petition further said that as India witnesses its highest surge in Covid cases since the onset of the pandemic, visuals have surfaced of lakhs of people crowding in Haridwar for the Kumbh Mela and at election rallies in states, ignoring the most basic Covid protocols. “Even though the disease is currently spreading at breakneck speed across the country, the Indian Railways has organised 25 special trains to… link Haridwar Kumbh Mela to various locations for the pilgrims… Union health minister blamed the heightened spread of Covid-19 on ordinary citizens, saying that they ‘became very careless’ and were no longer following social distancing norms,” the PIL stated. “On the one hand, poor common man on the street is often punished and treated violently by the police and executive authorities for individual violations of Covid-19 rules and regulations in the name of strict enforcement, on the other hand, the authorities are not only permitting but facilitating and promoting congregation of people in the events like Kumbh-2021 and election rallies. It is visibly clear that two separate and mutually inconsistent standards are being adopted by the authorities in dealing with the citizens of India,” the petition added. Therefore, the PIL, among other things, urged the apex court to direct the government to immediately withdraw all advertisements inviting people to the Kumbh, to clear the mass gathering from Haridwar city and provide a safety protocol for people returning from the Kumbh. It wanted the authorities to identify the violators of Covid guidelines during the election and take action besides ensuring uninterrupted supply of crucial drugs to hospitals and provisions for free distribution of masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Son fails to find bed, 70-year-old dies in Lucknow||As Sushil Kumar Srivastava’s breathlessness worsened, his family bundled the 70-year-old into a car and drove him to a hospital in the capital of Uttar Pradesh, where he tested positive for the coronavirus. After the private hospital turned the retired government official away because it didn’t have any vacant beds, his son Ashish brought two oxygen cylinders and drove his father on a hunt for  a hospital that could admit him. “All the hospitals asked for a referral letter from the chief medical officer (CMO),” Ashish said. “I was shooed away by the police,” he said, when he tried to meet the CMO. Three days later, Ashish said someone from the government called him offering a bed  — a day after his father had passed away. The family’s ordeal reflects the worsening Covid-19 crisis in Uttar Pradesh. To get a Covid-19 bed in Lucknow, families say they need to first show the result of an RT-PCR test, which are in short supply, and then register with the CMO’s office. Ahmedabad: Two Covid-19 patients who were on life support died because of a shortage of oxygen at a private hospital in Deesa town of Gujarat’s Banaskantha district on Wednesday, PTI reported, quoting the district’s health officer Jignesh Hariyani. “As against the demand, we had oxygen stock till Tuesday and the new stock was ordered, which reached during the day. Two patients lost their lives in the intervening period due to shortage of oxygen,” he said. Bharat Patel, who said his father was one of the victims, claimed that three others had died at the hospital since Tuesday night because of oxygen shortage. The Telegraph||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Oxygen, bed crisis as Covid-19 cases surge ||India’s count of active Covid-19 patients surged overnight by over 125,000 to cross 2.15 million on Wednesday, double the peak during the first wave last September, portending additional strain on healthcare resources struggling with shortages of beds, oxygen and critical care staff. Health authorities on Wednesday detected 295,041 new Covid-19 cases and recorded 2,023 deaths, the highest so far, but experts predict the daily casualty count is likely to increase in the coming days, given the lag between new cases and deaths. Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of active cases with over 680,000 patients, followed by Uttar Pradesh (over 223,000), Karnataka (159,000) Chhattisgarth (125,000), and Kerala (118,000). In the hardest hit cities, doctors reported patients struggling for intensive care unit beds and some hospital administrators with only hours of medical oxygen left awaited fresh supplies, amid growing concerns about inter-state supply disruptions. At Delhi’s St Stephen’s Hospital, a senior hospital administrator reported on Wednesday afternoon that the hospital had only two hours of oxygen left and fresh supply ordered had been blocked at Faridabad near the Delhi-Haryana border by the authorities in the neighbouring state. “It is devastating to hear this — we have oxygen that we expect will last until 11am tomorrow (Thursday),” a medical administrator in another Delhi hospital told The Telegraph. Both hospitals on Wednesday evening had all their available ICU beds for Covid-19 patients occupied. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre was aware of these concerns and has directed Haryana and all states to allow unhindered passage of medical oxygen. The health ministry said it has also increased the oxygen quota to the hardest hit states such as Delhi, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Even healthcare workers are scrambling for hospital beds. “The biggest crisis is getting a bed,” said Raymond Savio, a critical care medicine specialist in Chennai. “There’s always someone in our own circle of friends and family for whom we find it difficult to accommodate in hospital.” In Tamil Nadu, the seven-day average of daily new cases has climbed to over 9,400, from the earlier highest count of about 6,400 last year. “The numbers of daily new cases have crossed earlier peaks in almost all states,” said a senior government epidemiologist. A doctor in Madhya Pradesh said Bhopal and Indore are both running short of ICU beds. “The number of isolation beds appear adequate for now — but people who need oxygen or critical care are unable to get ICU beds,” said Shankul Dwivedi. The health ministry has said the case fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among lab-confirmed patients has — fell from 1.4 per cent in January to 1.3 per cent in March to 1.2 per cent in mid-April. But doctors say the absolute numbers of deaths are expected to rise in the coming days and weeks, given the continued rise in cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||3,700 paramilitary jawans test Covid positive||Central paramilitary forces deployed across the country have recorded 3,700 Covid-19 cases amid the sharp surge in the second wave of the pandemic. Over 1 lakh paramilitary personnel are deployed in Bengal for the ongoing Assembly polls. The BSF (Border Security Force) has registered 1,864 cases, followed by 837 cases in the CISF (Central Industrial Security Force) and close to 650 cases have been reported in the CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force). Likewise, the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has recorded 186 cases followed by 125 cases in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), 28 cases in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and 14 in the National Security Guards (NSG). Since last year, the CRPF has reported 15,791 cases, the BSF has recorded 15,278 cases and the CISF has registered 11,682 cases till now. The SSB has reported a total of 5,758 cases and the ITBP has recorded 4,767 cases so far. The NDRF has recorded 664 cases and the NSG has registered 358 cases in its ranks. “Since last year the CRPF has reported 87 deaths due to Covid-19, including 10 casualties this year. The BSF has suffered 51 casualties due to the pandemic so far, including six this year. The CISF has suffered the loss of 49 personnel, including one in March and four in April this year,” said an official of the Union home ministry. So far the central paramilitary forces have lost 215 jawans in the past one year because of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Covid victim body mix-up in Uttar Pradesh||The body of Mohammad Nasir, a Covid victim in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad, reached a crematorium on Wednesday while that of another coronavirus patient, Ram Prasad, was carried to a graveyard, the PPE jackets in which they had been wrapped obscuring their identities and causing the mix-up. Farmers Nasir and Ram Prasad had been admitted to Cosmos Hospital. Nasir’s relatives received a body wrapped in a PPE jacket from the hospital and took it to Shah Bulaki Graveyard in the Civil Lines area of Moradabad city and buried it in the afternoon. The relatives of Ram Prasad took the body handed over to them to the Moksh Dham crematorium on Delhi Road and were waiting for their turn when a relative realised something was wrong. Pavitra Kumar, the relative, said: “Ram Prasad was a stocky and tall man. But the body that we were carrying was 40-45kg and the height was barely 5 feet. So we opened the PPE jacket and found that it was someone else. We tried to contact police but didn’t get a response. We called the hospital and they suggested that we cremate the body we had received. Then we informed the local administration.” Prashant Tiwari, the sub-divisional magistrate of Moradabad, said: “We exhumed the body of Ram Prasad from the grave and handed it over to his relatives. Now the relatives of Nasir are taking his body to the graveyard. We are probing the case and will fix responsibility. Those responsible for this blunder must not be spared.” Sources in the administration said officials, accompanied by policemen, found out during the probe that the bodies of Ram Prasad and Nasir had been released at the same time. Anurag Agarwal, the manager of Cosmos Hospital, said the bodies were wrapped in PPE suits and had been kept side by side when staff members put them in the wrong ambulances. The police said a probe was being conducted and “would give a report to the administration soon”. The relatives of Nasir, 45, said he hailed from adjoining Rampur and had developed some complications a few days ago. He had been admitted to the hospital three days ago after he tested positive for Covid-19. Ram Prasad, 61, who lives in the Civil Lines area of Moradabad, had suffered a heart attack on April 16 and was admitted to Cosmos Hospital, where he tested positive for the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Farmers at Delhi borders: We kept road open, government blocked it ||Farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders beat back the BJP’s attempts to blame them for the shortage of oxygen in the national capital, pointing out that while they had always kept open a lane for emergency vehicles to pass, it was the Narendra Modi government that cut off access by barricading the national highway. “Delhi is choking for oxygen because national highways leading to the city have been blocked by Andolan-jeevis, leading to suppliers losing precious time. (Arvind) Kejriwal has been feeding these protests with an eye on Punjab elections next year. Delhi can suffer. Kejriwal doesn’t care,’’ BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya tweeted. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner some 500 farmer organisations from across the country are protesting against the Modi government’s three laws, issued a firm rebuttal early on Wednesday. From the first day of the protests, which began on November 26 last year, the farmers had kept open a lane for emergency vehicles to pass, it said. “Not a single ambulance or essential goods service has been stopped. It is the government that has put multi-layered barricades, not the farmers,” the Morcha asserted. “Yes, we are protesting but not against the Covid patients, warriors or common citizens; we are against the government’s discriminatory policy on agriculture,’’ it added. The Morcha repeated its call to the government to remove the police barricades “which is the biggest obstacle to free vehicular movement’’. The multiple layers of barricades that the Modi government has installed at all three borders where the farmers had been protesting peacefully had earned criticism, with many pointing out that even the international borders are not as fortified. Not only had the government used concertina fencing, it had built concrete walls on the highways and fixed nails on the roads to cut off the farmer protest sites. Before Malviya tweeted, a message purported to have been written by a company supplying oxygen claimed that the delay in supplying oxygen to Sri Balaji Hospital in Paschim Vihar on Monday was because farmers had blocked NH 24 at the border in Ghazipur. Earlier this week, the Morcha had warned the government against trying to cite the Covid surge to evict them and pointed out that top BJP leaders, led by the Prime Minister himself, had been addressing large election rallies as the pandemic swept the country. Even as they battled the BJP’s renewed bid to use the pandemic to turn public sentiment against them, the Morcha on Wednesday began feeding migrant labourers fleeing Delhi during the lockdown. Farmer organisations and volunteers prepared food packets and distributed them at bus and railway stations, which saw a near repeat of the crowds in March last year when Modi had announced a countrywide lockdown at a four-hour notice. The only difference was that this time there were buses and trains to ferry the workers because inter-state travel has not been stopped. The Morcha also issued a detailed statement recalling what had brought the farmers to Delhi’s borders. “Farmers have never intended to sleep on the streets and stay away from their homes and land. The government has inhumanly imposed these laws on the farmers,” it said. “The farmers are not asking for anything new, they are only fighting to save what they have. In this battle of existence, they are fighting against both coronavirus and the government,” the Morcha added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Covid: Scramble to douse vaccine pricing fire||Vaccine maker Serum Institute of India on Wednesday ignited a political firestorm after announcing a differential pricing system for its Covid vaccine under which state governments will have to pay Rs 400 per dose while private hospitals will have to fork out Rs 600. The Pune-based entity currently supplies the vaccine to the Centre at Rs 150 per dose. The Congress seized on the announcement and slammed the Narendra Modi government for allowing vaccine makers to profiteer while shrugging off its responsibility for sourcing, financing and distributing the vaccine in stark contrast to the way other nations have tried to deal with the pandemic. Congress leader P. Chidambaram criticised the Modi government for fostering unhealthy market practices and encouraging profiteering by failing to fix a price for the states at the same level that the Centre had negotiated with the companies. Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of Serum Institute, scrambled to douse the controversy by clarifying that it would sell the vaccine to the Centre at Rs 400 per dose once it fulfils its obligations under an earlier contract. “Let me clarify: all government prices will be Rs 400 per dose under the new contracts. The Rs 150 price that is being bandied about (for central government purchases) relates to a prior contract. After that ceases to exist — that is, after we supply about 100 million doses to them under a bulk contract signed a long time ago — we will charge the same price of Rs 400 per dose from every government,” Poonawalla said in a television interview. Poonawalla said the company was losing money by selling the vaccine to the Centre at Rs 150 per dose because it had to pay royalty of up to 50 per cent of the price to AstraZeneca, which developed the vaccine. Industry observers said the royalty rate was way too high but said it could be justified as the Serum Institute had not been granted any pricing freedom until now. The Serum Institute CEO claimed that the earlier contracts with the government and the Covax facility — the global partnership that was created to equitably allocate 2 billion doses to WHO-defined priority populations by the end of 2021 — were struck in 2020. “We were sharing the risk because at that stage, we were not even sure that the vaccine would work,” Poonawalla said while explaining the low-ball pricing. At present, the Covid vaccines are being administered to people above 45 at Rs 250 per dose at private hospitals and free of cost at government-run health centres. From May 1, all adults in the country will be eligible for the vaccine. A serious vaccine shortage is feared early next month and hospitals and health centres may not be able to cope with the swarm of young people who are expected to line up for the vaccine. Under the new pricing policy that was announced on Monday, vaccine makers are permitted to divide their domestic supply of doses equally between the Centre, on the one hand, and the state governments and the private hospitals, on the other. “Going ahead, 50 per cent of our capacities will be served to the Government of India’s vaccination programme, and the remaining 50 per cent of the capacity will be for the state governments and private hospitals,” the Serum Institute said. The vaccine makers must declare their prices before May 1 when the new policy comes into force. The vaccine maker contended that its prices were lower than that charged by rivals in the global markets. It claimed that the American vaccines cost more than Rs 1,500 per dose in the private market while the Russian and Chinese versions were priced at more than Rs 750 per dose. Poonawalla said Serum Institute was planning to ramp up vaccine production by 15-20 per cent per month and it would be in a position to produce 100 million doses by July. Serum Institute expects that its vaccines will be available in the retail markets after four to five months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Bengal Polls 2021: Second Covid wave a Modi-made disaster, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday called the second wave of the pandemic a “Modi-made disaster” and drew attention to the “monumental failure” of the Centre. At a campaign rally in Balurghat in South Dinajpur, Mamata said: “During Left rule, here in Balurghat people had been plagued by the annual problem of floods. Those days, I would call it man-made. Now, I consider this recent spike in Covid-19 cases… it is not a man-made disaster, which he (Modi) is now trying to prove. It is a Modi-made disaster.” The chief minister called the Modi government “incompetent”. “Around five-six months ago, the (Union) health minister had said the pandemic had ended…. Now, it has returned. Why didn’t they do proper planning ahead, why didn’t they vaccinate people earlier?” Mamata asked. “It is a monumental failure on their part,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Delhi High Court questions the Covid fight leadership void ||Questions rarely heard before are ringing out in the courtrooms. “Why is the Centre not waking up to the gravity of the situation? We are shocked and dismayed hospitals are running out of oxygen but steel plants are running,” Delhi High Court said without mincing words on Wednesday. Declarations never seen before are sprouting on the gates of private hospitals, leaving little to the imagination who is responsible. “After repeated request to the UP CM/Central Govt, we are not able to get enough oxygen supply. Hence we are requesting the family members of those patients who are on oxygen support, please take their patients to higher centre for further management. We are extremely sorry for the inconvenience,” said a notice at Mayo Medical Centre in an affluent locality in Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh. At Delhi High Court, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli convened on a holiday to issue a reminder that the responsibility to ensure oxygen supply lies squarely on the central government’s shoulders. The court made it clear that it was not speaking for the capital but for the entire country. “Our concern is not just for Delhi, we want to know what the central government is doing with regard to oxygen supply across India,” the bench said. It pulled up the Centre for not diverting sufficient oxygen supply from industry to hospitals although people were dying. “You are not exploring all avenues to augment oxygen supply. Beg, borrow or steal,” the court said. “Do you want to see thousands of people dying in the country? …It seems human life is not important for the state.” The irony of patients gasping for breath in several parts of the country despite India producing surplus oxygen has come to represent the Centre’s perceived mismanagement of the Covid crisis. The following charges levelled by the Opposition suggest proactive leadership could have alleviated the depth of the Covid crisis although its enormity is something no government has had to contend with in recent memory: Figures cited by the Congress indicate there is a problem in supply chain management and logistics. “The government has said India’s oxygen production capacity is 7,127 tonnes per day. The maximum that Covid patients will need despite the enormity of the crisis is 5,500 tonnes per day. The problem clearly is not of availability but we are not able to transport oxygen to the hospitals. The problem is of planning and execution because the key functionaries of the government were so engrossed in elections,” Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said. Maken said cryogenic tankers, which can store materials at very low temperatures, were needed to ferry oxygen and that hospitals did not have adequate storage capacity. “It took 15 months for the government to change the rules and allow cryogenic tankers licensed to carry nitrogen to also carry oxygen, and a week later they issued guidelines for unrestricted movement of tankers. The railways have been roped in now for the transportation of oxygen,” the Congress leader said. Delhi High Court also focused on logistics. The bench said the Centre shall consider ways and means for transporting oxygen to hospitals, either by creating dedicated corridors or airlifting it from the place of production to the place of usage. The court was conducting an urgent hearing on a plea filed by Balaji Medical and Research Centre, which owns and runs various hospitals in the name of Max, stating that if supply of oxygen is not replenished on an immediate basis, the lives of the patients who are critical and on oxygen support will be endangered. Maken pointed to the increase in the quantity of oxygen exported amid the pandemic. “Instead of planning for logistics to provide oxygen to hospitals all over the country, we doubled the export in 2020-21 in comparison with 2019-20. This, despite the knowledge that oxygen is crucial in treating critical patients,” he said. “What is worse, the government took eight months to invite bids for onsite oxygen generation plants as taking oxygen to hospitals in remote corners of the country is difficult and takes time. “Despite realising that oxygen was going to be precious in the fight against the virus at the very start of last year, it was only on October 21, 2020, that the Central Medical Services Society, an autonomous institution under the Union health ministry, floated a tender online calling for bidders to establish pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants in 150 (12 plants were added later, taking the figure to 162) district hospitals across the country — the total outlay of which was just Rs 201.58 crore. So far, only 32 out of 162 plants are ready. Even the storage capacity of hospitals wasn’t enhanced. This is how we wasted 15 months,” Maken said. The Centre’s move to pass the buck to the states abruptly reeks of opportunism. The same Centre did not allow concessions to the chief minister’s funds while extending it to the opaque PM Cares Fund, which is meant to help fund the fight against Covid. Yet, the Centre is now asking the states to buy vaccines and inoculate the people. “Where will the cash-strapped states bring money from? Modi created this scary situation and now he wants to shift responsibility to the states,” Maken said. The Congress also took strong exception to the Serum Institute of India fixing the price of vaccines at Rs 400 per dose for states and Rs 600 for private hospitals. Serum’s price for the Centre has been Rs 150 per dose for the initial supplies. Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the Prime Minister, saying: “Aapda desh ki, awsar Modi mitron ka, anyay kendra sarkar ka (Calamity is nation’s; Opportunity is for friends of Modi; injustice is by the central government).” In another tweet, the Congress leader said: “The Centre’s vaccine strategy no different from demonetisation. Common people will stand in queue, will suffer loss of wealth and health and some crony capitalists will gain.” Maken asked: “Would the Prime Minister answer that India being the world’s biggest vaccine producer, why is it that only 1.3 per cent of Indians have so far been fully vaccinated? Why is it that despite being one of the largest medicine manufacturers, we are facing acute shortage of life-saving medicines? Why is it that at many places including Delhi, Covid tests are taking three to seven days? Why did we fail to anticipate the second wave despite it being a global phenomena?” Wondering why 6.5 crore doses and 11 lakh injections of the anti-viral drug remdesivir were allowed to be exported apart from two crore testing kits, Maken said: “Remdesivir export was stopped just 10 days back. Stockists and traders have been hoarding large quantities and selling them at exorbitant prices in the black market. Several BJP leaders have been caught with huge stocks of remdesivir. We demand the Centre use the CBI, NIA and the ED against those leaders and traders who are encouraging this black market,” Maken said. Iterating its demand for Rs 6,000 to be deposited every month in the bank accounts of the poor and daily-wage earners to check migration, Maken called for proper arrangements for food and reduction in the rates charged for Covid testing and CT scans.  “The Rajasthan government reduced the RT-PCR test rates to Rs 350 and also capped the CT scan rate at Rs 1,700. Why are other states charging so high?” the Congress leader asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
