23-04-2021||India||Covid surge in Delhi can be linked to prevalence of UK variant: NCDC||The current wave of the coronavirus pandemic in Delhi could have been fuelled by the UK variant as its prevalence in genomes sequenced nearly doubled from the second to the last week of March, Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, said on Friday. Speaking at a webinar, 'Genome Sequencing of SARS-CoV-19', Singh said the UK variant of coronavirus is also dominant in Punjab. In Delhi, there are primarily two types of variants -- B.1.617 and the UK strain -- found in the genome sequenced samples, the NCDC director said. The B.1.617 variant of coronavirus is also known as the double mutant strain. The UK variant was found in 28 per cent of samples in the second week of March. In the last week of the month, 50 per cent of samples had this variant, Singh said. "If we try to co-relate, the surge we are observing in Delhi, it directly co-relates to the type of variant which we are observing," he said. So far, Singh said, 15,133 samples have been sequenced by INSACOG, a consortium formed in December last year to increase viral genomic surveillance in order to understand the spread of the coronavirus in a rapid and robust manner. This was also after the UK, South African and Brazilian strains, which have a higher rate of transmission, emerged. Singh said in Maharashtra, the B.1.617 variant was found in proportions of over 50 per cent in many cities. The NCDC is one of the 10 laboratories involved in the genome sequencing of coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
23-04-2021||India||Bengal yearns for peace, Modi says at virtual rally as he winds up campaign||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday accused Bengal's TMC government of partonising illegal immigration from Bangladesh and extortion syndicates but uncharacteristically avoided personally targeting Chief Minister Mamata Banarjee. Addressing a virtual rally at Shaheed Minar ground from New Delhi, he said Bengal needed peace for development. "Illegal immigration, syndicates and extortion are big hurdles in the path of West Bengal's development," he said without naming Mamata, whom the BJP has often accused of patronising such activities. The prime minister's virtual meeting came a day after the Election Commission banned road shows, motorcycle rallies and padyatras for the remaining two phases of the state assembly election campaign and capped attendance at public rallies to just 500. Modi, who was to address four rallies on Friday, cancelled his visit to the state and chose to address just one public meeting online at the Shaheed Minar ground. Modi did not breathe fire against Mamata Banerjee during his speech where he underscored the importance of "dignity of labour, ease of living and ease of doing business", all of which, he claimed, were missing in Bengal. "Bengal yearns for peace, security and development," he said. Exuding confidence about the BJP coming to power in the state, the prime minister said the new government will use technology to transform Calcutta, the city of joy, to the city of future. Referring to alleged crimes against women, Modi said the BJP government will set up fast track courts across Bengal for providing speedy justice to women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
23-04-2021||India||Defence ministry to airlift 23 mobile oxygen generating plants from Germany||The defence ministry has decided to airlift 23 mobile oxygen generating plants from Germany as several states reeled under an acute shortage of medical oxygen due to a massive surge in coronavirus cases, officials said Friday. They said each plant will have a capacity to produce 40 litres of oxygen per minute and 2,400 litres every hour. Principal Spokesperson in the Defence Ministry A Bharat Bhushan Babu said the plants will be deployed in the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. The decision by the ministry came four days after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced granting emergency financial powers to the three services and other defence agencies to make necessary procurement to enhance medical infrastructure in view of the pandemic. "Twenty-three mobile oxygen generation plants are being airlifted from Germany. These will be deployed in AFMS hospitals catering to the Covid patients," Babu said. He said the oxygen generating plants are expected to be airlifted within a week. Another official said the Indian Air Force has been told to remain ready to keep its transport aircraft ready to bring the plants from Germany once required paper works are completed. The official said more oxygen generation plants may be procured from abroad. "The advantage of these plants is that they are easily portable," said Babu. India is struggling with a second wave of coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of rising Covid-19 cases. India recorded a one-day tally of 3.32 lakh new coronavirus cases and 2,263 new fatalities, according to official data released on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
23-04-2021||India||DCGI gives emergency approval to Zydus Cadila drug to treat Covid-19 ||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Friday said it has received restricted emergency use approval from the Indian drug regulator for the use of Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b (PegIFN) in treating moderate Covid-19 infection in adults. Earlier in the month, the company had sought approval from the DCGI for the additional indication of hepatitis drug Pegylated Interferon Alpha-2b for treating Covid-19. The company has received restricted emergency use approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for the use of 'Virafin', PegIFN in treating moderate Covid-19 infection in adults, Zydus Cadila said in a regulatory filing. “PegIFN has had very well-established safety with multiple doses in chronic Hepatitis B and C patients for many years. A single dose subcutaneous regimen of the antiviral Virafin will make the treatment more convenient for the patients,” the filing said. “When administered early on during Covid, Virafin will help patients recover faster and avoid much of the complications. It will be available on the prescription of a medical specialist for use in a hospital/institutional setup,” Zydus Cadila said. "The fact that we are able to offer a therapy which significantly reduces the viral load when given early on can help in better disease management. It comes at a much-needed time for patients and we will continue to provide them access to critical therapies in this battle against Covid-19," Cadila Healthcare MD Sharvil Patel said. Shares of Cadila Healthcare, the listed entity of the Zydus Group, closed at Rs 571.20 per scrip on BSE, up 3.43 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
23-04-2021||India||SC raps lawyers who criticised case related to Covid-19 after Harish Salve's pullout||The Supreme Court Friday expressed deep anguish over its criticism by some lawyers for something which was not part of its order in the suo motu case related to framing of national policy on the Covid-19 pandemic and said this is how the institution is being destroyed . A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, who is demitting office as the 47th CJI, lamented imputation of motive by some senior bar members while allowing senior advocate Harish Salve to withdraw as an amicus curiae from the case after he said that he did not want it to be decided under the shadow that he was friends with Justice Bobde from school and college days . The bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, took note on Thursday of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs. “You (SCBA President) have read the order. Is there any intention to transfer the case... Even before reading the order there was criticism about something which was not there in order. This is how institution is being destroyed,” the bench told senior advocate and SCBA President Vikas Singh. At the outset of the proceedings conducted via video conferencing, the bench observed it did not stop high courts from hearing cases related to Covid-19 management in the country. “We never said a word and did not stop the high courts. We asked the Centre to go to the high courts and report to them. What kind of perception are you talking about? Talk about these proceedings,” the bench told senior advocate Dushyant Dave. “You have imputed motives to us without reading the order,” a visibly irked bench told Dave. “Entire country thought that you would transfer,” Dave replied. Did the order say so, the bench asked and fixed the case for hearing on April 27 as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time for filing the Centre's response to the notice issued on Thursday. At the outset, Salve, appointed as the amicus to assist the bench in the case, urged the bench to allow him to withdraw from the case in view of unfair statements of some senior lawyers. We are also pained at reading what some senior lawyers have to say on Salve's appointment as amicus in the matter, the bench said, adding that it was a "collective decision" of all the judges at the bench. Terming the case to be very sensitive and important , Salve said, “I do not want that the case be decided in this shadow on the ground that I knew the CJI from school and college. These kinds of allegations have been made.” Salve referred to bitter language used by some lawyers on his appointment as the amicus and said, “I do not want any side show. The language of the narrative now is very different.” CJI Bobde, on his last day at the bench, said, “We will honour your sentiments. The only thing is that now, we will have to start looking for some amicus curiae who we do not know in future. Unfortunately, I do not have any future in the judiciary now.” "We were also pained at reading what some senior advocates have to say. But everyone is entitled to their own opinion.” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested Salve not to withdraw from the case as the amicus on the ground that no one should succumb to such pressure tactics. “We are not in a position to malign each other. I saw on digital media literally abusing...a counsel should not succumb to such tactics. Salve should reconsider,” the law officer said. “My lord (the CJI) is retiring today. He deserves a loving farewell,” Mehta said. Earlier on Thursday, the bench took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs. Observing that oxygen to patients infected with the virus is said to be an essential part of treatment, it had said it seemed that a certain amount of panic has been generated due to which people have approached several high courts seeking relief related to the prevailing situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
23-04-2021||India||State govts need to work together to meet Covid crisis, says Modi in review meeting||Amid several states flagging scarcity of medical oxygen in the Covid-19 fight, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Railways and Air Force are being deployed to reduce the transportation time for oxygen tankers and all state governments need to work together to meet requirements of life-saving gas and medicines. Chairing a high-level meeting on the Covid-19 situation with chief ministers of 11 states and Union Territories which have reported the maximum number of cases recently, Modi called for working together to fight the pandemic with collective power. He said the biggest basis of India's success during the first wave of the pandemic was the united efforts and united strategy and reiterated that we will have to address this challenge in the same way. He assured the Centre's full support to all the states and in this fight. On oxygen supply, PM Modi took note of the points raised by the states and said there is a continuous effort to increase oxygen supply, according to a statement issued by his office. He urged all states to work together and coordinate with one another to fulfil requirements relating to medicines and oxygen. He also asked the states to check hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and medicines. Modi said every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded. He urged the states to set up a high-level coordination committee to carry oxygen to different hospitals of the state. This Coordination Committee should ensure that as soon as there is an allotment of oxygen from the centre, it can deliver oxygen as per requirement in different hospitals of the state immediately, he added. Modi said the central government is working on all possible options to reduce the travel time and turnaround time of oxygen tankers. For this, Railways has started Oxygen Express. Empty Oxygen tankers are also being transported by the Air Force to reduce one way travel time. He said along with all measures for the treatment of the patients, hospital safety is also very important. Expressing grief on recent incidents of oxygen leakage and fire at hospitals, Modi said the administrative staff of the hospital needs to be made more aware of the safety protocols. He also urged the administration to continuously make people aware so that they do not indulge in panic buying. He said that with united efforts, we will be able to stop this second wave of pandemic across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
23-04-2021||India||Leaving with my head high, says outgoing CJI Bobde||Outgoing Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde Friday said he was leaving the Supreme Court with happiness, goodwill and very fond memories and the satisfaction of having done his best. Justice Bobde, who decided several key cases during his tenure including the historic Ayodhya verdict, was administered oath as the 47th CJI in November 2019 and is retiring today. He headed the Indian judiciary during the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic ensuring that the apex court kept functioning albeit via video conferencing. "I must say that last day has evoked mixed feelings which is difficult to describe. I have been a part of the ceremonial bench before but did not feel such mixed feelings which could enable me to say things clearly. "I leave this court with happiness, goodwill with very fond memories of wonderful arguments, excellent presentation, good behaviour, commitment to the cause of justice from not only Bar but all connected with it," Bobde, who was speaking on his last in the apex court, said. Bobde said he was demitting office after 21 years as judge and it has been his richest experience in the top court and the camaraderie with brother judges has been wonderful. Contending that transition to the virtual mode during coronavirus pandemic would not have been possible without the registry, Bobde said that there are many unsatisfactory things about virtual hearings which can be ironed out. "Advantage was that hearings were homely as I could see hills behind lawyers, sculptures and paintings behind lawyers including guns and pistols. The painting behind SG Mehta has been removed now," he said. "I leave with the satisfaction that I did my best. I hand over the baton to Justice N V Ramana (48th CJI) who will I am sure will very ably lead the court," Bobde said. Attorney General K K Venugopal said the tenure of a CJI must be a minimum of three years. In March 2020 the world was suffering from COVID-19. Supreme Court also had to take a call and bar thought court will close down. But then CJI Bobde rose to the occasion and started virtual hearing and almost 50,000 cases have been disposed of. It's a great achievement, Venugopal said, adding that bar should unanimously applaud the CJI for the work he has done. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said CJI Bobde will not only be known as a erudite and brilliant judge but also a loving and caring human being with amazing sense of humour. Supreme Court Bar Association president and senior advocate Vikas Singh said this is no age (65) to retire and a Constitutional amendment should be brought to increase the retirement age of judges. You had taken up such a contentious matter (pertaining to COVID-19) on the last day too. This shows the involvement of the judges and to ensure oxygen supply can be maintained. Till the last day you were concerned about what is happening," Singh said. Supreme Court Advocate on Record Association president Shivaji Jadhav said, We acknowledge the smoothness with which the CJI created a transmission from physical to virtual courts. CJI Bobde will be remembered for his handling of the criminal justice system. He also urged that after the summer vacation the apex court should consider opening the courts for physical hearing with due precautions. Born on April 24, 1956 in Nagpur, Maharashtra, Justice Bobde completed Bachelor of Arts and LLB degrees from Nagpur University. He was enrolled as an advocate of the Bar Council of Maharashtra in 1978. Justice Bobde practised law at the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court with appearances at Bombay before the Principal Seat and before the Supreme Court for over 21 years. He was designated as senior advocate in 1998. Justice Bobde was elevated to the Bombay High Court on March 29, 2000, as Additional Judge and sworn in as Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court on October 16, 2012. He was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on April 12, 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
23-04-2021||India||Kejriwal’s oxygen request to Modi ‘with folded hands’ sparks reaction from Centre||Raising alarm that a "big tragedy" may happen due to oxygen shortage in hospitals during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Centre should take over all oxygen plants through the Army. In a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 situation, Kejriwal requested him to direct chief ministers of all states to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to the national capital. "People in major pain due to oxygen shortage. We fear a big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves. I request you with folded hands to direct all CMs to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi," he said during the meeting. "We need a national plan to deal with the crisis. The Central government should take over all oxygen plants through the Army and every tanker coming out of the oxygen plant should be accompanied by an Army escort vehicle," he said. "The oxygen supply scheduled to come to Delhi from Odisha and West Bengal should either be airlifted or brought through the Oxygen express started by the Centre," he said. The chief minister also objected to different rates being charged from state governments and the Centre for the Covid-19 vaccine, and said "one nation, one rate" policy should be followed. Prime Minister Modi held a meeting on Friday with chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases. The meeting via video conferencing comes amid a huge surge in coronavirus cases, which have now clocked a daily total of over 3 lakh in the country. Chief ministers of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi are among those who attended the meeting. Modi will hold a meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers in the country via video conference amid concerns expressed by some states that their supply of the life-saving gas is running short with a number of hospitals sending out SOS. Meanwhile, sources in the Centre government alleged that "Kejriwal used the entire PM-CM meet platform for playing politics". "He raised the point of airlifting oxygen, but did not know that it was already being done. He spoke about Oxygen express by Railways but Railway sources say he has not communicated anything about it to Railways. He chose to spread lies on vaccine prices despite knowing that the Centre does not keep one vaccine dose with itself and shares with states only. All CMs spoke about what they are doing to improve the situation. However, Kejriwal had nothing to speak on what he is doing," a source said. Responding to the sharp reaction of the Union government officials, the chief minister's office (CMO) issued a brief statement, saying "Today, the CM address was shared live because there has never been any instruction, written or verbal, from central govt that the said interaction could not be shared live. "There have been multiple occasions of similar interactions where matters of public importance which had no confidential information were shared live. However, if any inconvenience was caused we highly regret that."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Harish Salve backs off as amicus curiae in SC suo motu case on Covid-19||The Supreme Court Friday allowed senior advocate Harish Salve to withdraw as amicus curiae for the suo motu case related to distribution of essential supplies and services, including oxygen and drugs, during the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, who is demitting office as the CJI Friday itself, rapped some senior advocates for making statements without reading its order passed on Thursday and observed that it did not stop high courts from hearing cases related to Covid-19 management in the country. The bench, also comprising Justices L N Rao and S R Bhat, granted time to the Centre to file response in the case and posted it for hearing on April 27. You have imputed motives to us without reading our order, the bench told senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who was appearing in the matter. We are also pained at reading what some senior lawyers have to say on Salve's appointment as amicus in the matter, the bench said, adding that it was a "collective decision" of all the judges at the bench. Salve said it is a very sensitive matter and he did not want the case to be decided under the shadow that he knew the CJI from school and college days. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested Salve not to withdraw from the case as the amicus on the ground that no one should succumb to such pressure tactics. Taking note of the grim situation created by the massive surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths, the Supreme Court had on Thursday said it expects the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with proper distribution of oxygen and essential drugs for the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Global press turns guns on India, blames Modi for failure to tackle second wave ||For image-conscious Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the foreign press’s reviews of his handling of the coronavirus pandemic must make devastating reading. Modi has gone from hero to minnow in fighting Covid-19 in the eyes of the world press as daily infections have soared to successive new records. After appearing to have skilfully ridden the first Covid wave with one of the world’s strictest national lockdowns, Modi has been engulfed by the second, according to the verdict of the foreign media. Headlines like: “Modi flounders in India’s gigantic second wave,” in The Times, London, have been typical of the coverage that the Prime Minister has been receiving as the daily count of new Covid cases has barrelled past 300,000. The Times has blasted the government’s response to the latest coronavirus wave, saying it has “underscored the air of complacency and denial that have dogged his government’s response to the crisis.” “The system has collapsed: India’s descent into Covid hell,” said an equally blistering headline in The Guardian, which led its main story with a photo of flames soaring high in a crematorium. The newspaper added: “Many falsely believed that the country had defeated Covid. Now, hospitals are running out of oxygen and bodies are stacking up in morgues.” The world’s gaze has turned on India because of the extraordinary surge in cases and because a huge chunk of the new cases reported globally in the last 24 hours have emerged here. India reported 314,644 of the new cases that were reported Thursday morning, nearly half of the total worldwide tally. International coverage which had focused on Brazil as the global Covid disaster zone has now zeroed in on India as the place where the pandemic is raging out of control. The global press has turned its guns especially on the Central government for having been complacent and not being prepared for the second wave. Also, the government has been castigated for holding mass election rallies in West Bengal that may have worsened the situation. The decision to allow the mega Kumbh Mela to go ahead has also been roundly denounced as reckless. International newspapers have splashed their front pages with pictures of huge crowds of mask-less devotees pressed against each other and accused the Indian government of lacking the courage to call the gathering off for fear of alienating their Hindu supporters. The Times which makes a ferocious attack on the Central government says: “The speed and ferocity of the second wave have exposed a string of missteps at the start of the year, repeating the mistakes of 2020 and making new ones, to leave Indians facing a tsunami of infection that has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.” It also talks about Modi, mask-less, at a West Bengal election rally attended by hundreds of thousands of voters, also not wearing masks, declaring that, “In all directions, I see huge crowds of people….I have never seen such crowds at a rally.” The Financial Times departed from its usual sober style to describe devastating sights of people dying while waiting for hospital beds, the disastrous oxygen shortage and apocalyptic scenes of funeral pyres on the banks of the Ganges. It said the latest wave was “sparking a health crisis and human tragedy in India that is far surpassing anything seen last year.” FT also carried detailed charts about the wave of infections, including ones from each state showing rising positivity rates, which indicate the infections are likely to get worse. FT, too, blamed the government for the devastating second wave, saying: “The devastation has sparked outrage at the lack of preparation among officials who believed the worst of the pandemic was over.” The Washington Post led one of its stories with an aerial shot of a Muslim graveyard in Uttar Pradesh showing a large number of freshly filled graves. It said: “In India, this surge is not a wave but a wall.” It added: “In some cities, crematoriums are running their furnaces round the clock.” The Washington Post divided the blame between, “more contagious variants of the virus, as well as an early relaxation of restrictions and a slow-moving vaccination campaign.” In another story, it also described damaging vaccine shortages in various states. The Wall Street Journal noted that, worryingly, Covid-19 has become trickier and tougher to handle because India is lagging behind on genome sequencing to identify different, fast-spreading mutations that have emerged in recent weeks. It describes India as “ground zero for the pandemic.” The Journal also quotes researchers who point out that India’s vast population numbers could give the pandemic new legs globally. “With its population of more than 1.3 billion people and skyrocketing infections, India has a higher chance of developing variants, which may take root and spread beyond its borders,” it quoted one researcher as saying. The WSJ said that India ranked 85 out of 134 countries for genome sequencing. By the WSJ’s calculations, India has a sequencing rate of 0.18 per cent at best. By contrast, the UK, which is far ahead on genome sequencing, is at 7.7 per cent. The US is at 0.75 per cent. Genome sequencing allows the rapid development of diagnostic tests and development of tools such as tweaks to vaccines to respond to Covid variants. The WSJ also blames the early hubris that the virus had been defeated for the rate of low genome sequencing, saying: “Many testing facilities, which would provide positive Covid-19 samples to the labs, were dismantled after Delhi prematurely declared victory over the pandemic.” In the last two days, the international press has turned special attention to the countrywide oxygen shortages and the Nashik hospital disaster where 24 patients died after an oxygen tank leak. The New York Times said: “As supplies of hospital beds, oxygen and vaccines run low, criticism of the government is building.” The media paints Modi as having been lulled into complacency over having apparently kept infections to a minimum in the first wave. It will take a giant PR operation to turn around the global perception that Modi has failed badly in failing to subdue the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||India logs over 3.32 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,263 casualties in a day||India added a record over 3.32 lakh new coronavirus cases in a single day taking the country's tally to 1,62,63,695, while active cases crossed the 24-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 1,86,920 with a record 2,263 new fatalities. The country recorded a single day rise of 3,32,730 new cases, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases increased to 24,28,616 comprising 14.93 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 83.92 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,36, 48,159, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.15 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,44,45,653 samples have been tested up to April 22 with 17,40,550 samples being tested on Thursday. The 2,263 new fatalities include 568 from Maharashtra, 306 from Delhi, 207 from Chhattisgarh, 195 from Uttar Pradesh, 137 from Gujarat, 123 from Karnataka and 106 from Jharkhand. A total of 1,86,920 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 62,479 from Maharashtra, 13,885 from Karnataka, 13,317 from Tamil Nadu, 13,193 from Delhi, 10,766 from West Bengal, 10,541 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,189 from Punjab and 7,541 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Thirteen Covid patients dead in Maharashtra hospital fire||Thirteen COVID-19 patients, including five women, died in a blaze at the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Palghar district of Maharashtra on Friday, police said.There were 90 patients in the hospital, 18 of them in the ICU, when the fire broke out after a blast in the AC unit, an official said. TV visuals showed the smoke-filled ICU in a disarray after the blaze, with the ceiling falling off in some places, beds and other furniture strewn around and kin of the deceased wailing outside the hospital. The fire broke out in the ICU on the second floor of the four-storeyed Vijay Vallabh Hospital at Virar shortly after 3 am, an official said. Firefighters extinguished the blaze at 5.20 am, he added. There were 18 patients in the ICU when the fire broke out, the official said. Five patients were rescued and shifted to other hospitals in the area, he added. The other patients in the hospital were not affected as the damage was confined to the ICU, he added. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe into the tragedy, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya said authorities should check if there was a fire safety audit of the hospital, which is over 50 km from Mumbai. The tragedy comes two days after 22 COVID-19 patients who were either on ventilator or oxygen support, suffocated to death when their oxygen supply stopped suddenly due to a malfunction in the main storage at a civic hospital in Nashik. District Disaster Control Cell chief Vivekanand Kadam told PTI that the Virar hospital fire was preceded by an explosion in the AC unit of the intensive care unit. Relatives of the deceased reached the hospital soon after hearing of the incident and demanded that stringent action be taken against those responsible for the tragedy. Earlier this year, ten infants were killed in a fire that broke out at a special newborn care unit of the Bhandara district hospital in Maharashtra on January 9. Seventeen infants, aged one to three months, were admitted to the ward at the time of the tragedy. A fire also broke out in Mumbai's Dreams Mall, which housed a Covid-designated hospital on its third floor, in the intervening night of March 25-26. The fire, which raged for over 40 hours, claimed nine lives, including those of patients on ventilator support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Sonia Gandhi requests PM to reverse new vaccination policy||Sonia Gandhi on Thursday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reverse the new vaccination policy under which the Centre has washed its hands of the inoculation of adults between the age of 18 and 45 years. Announcing that vaccination would be open to all adults from May 1, the Centre had said on Monday that those between 18 and 45 years could be immunised by the state governments or could pay and get themselves inoculated at private hospitals. The prices of the vaccines for the states and the private hospitals would be announced by the vaccine makers, it said. “The policy implies that the government of India has abdicated its responsibility to provide free vaccination for citizens between the age group of 18 to 45 years. This is complete abandonment of the government’s responsibility towards our youth,” the Congress president wrote in a letter to Modi. “As a consequence of this policy, the vaccine manufacturer, the Serum Institute of India, announced a differential pricing mechanism, Rs 150 per dose for the central government, Rs 400 per dose for state government and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals,” she added. “This means citizens will be compelled to pay these high rates to be vaccinated. This will also bleed the finances of state governments. This begs the question, how can the same vaccine manufactured by the same company have three different prices?” The goal of the nation should be to ensure vaccination for all Indians above the age of 18, irrespective of their economic condition, Sonia said. The price of vaccination should be uniform, she added. “How can the government of India permit such brazen profiteering from people’s misery?” she asked. Sonia said the arbitrary and discriminatory policy would exacerbate existing challenges.“At a time when medical resources are scarce, hospital beds are unavailable, oxygen supply and availability of essential medicine is dwindling rapidly, why is your government allowing a policy that reeks of such insensitivity?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Bar association to Supreme Court: Let high courts continue dealing with Covid crisis ||The Supreme Court’s hint on Thursday that it might transfer to itself the pandemic-related matters pending with six high courts has prompted the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to appeal to the apex court to let the high courts continue dealing with the crisis as they are better equipped to deal with local issues. Some of the high courts, including Delhi High Court, have been scathing about the state governments concerned and the Centre on the subject of Covid management. There is a feeling that the best way to ensure that the pressure on the governments is not diluted is to let the high courts keep a gimlet eye on the local situation. The top court has taken suo motu cognisance of the rapid rise in Covid cases, saying the crisis amounts almost to a “national emergency” and asking the Centre to formulate a “national plan”. The apex court also said it was not permissible for the high courts to declare lockdowns and that it was for the state governments to deal with such administrative issues. However, towards the evening, the SCBA, through its president Vikas Singh, sought to intervene in the matter when it comes up for hearing on Friday, pleading that the high courts concerned be allowed to take a call on the Covid crisis management. It was argued that the top court had itself earlier disposed of a batch of public interest litigation petitions on Covid management and the matters were subsequently being dealt with by the respective high courts. “…It is most humbly submitted that the present crisis is an unprecedented one and varying effects are being experienced in various parts of the country. That in view of the present emergent situation, Hon’ble high courts situated almost invariably in the state capitals are in a better position to seek immediate reports from the local administration and pass directions and orders for immediate removal of difficulties arising in treatment of the infected patients depending upon local emergent situation,” Singh said in his petition. “The state machineries are lacking on various aspects and Hon’ble high courts are suitably dealing with the issues prevailing at local level within their territorial jurisdictions.” The SCBA suggested that certain larger issues such as the free and fast inter-state movement of essential supplies related to the treatment of Covid patients and to the public’s basic needs and livelihood can be taken up by the Supreme Court at the national level. “However, since there is absence of preparedness in advance for the present situation by the central and state machinery, some difficulties are arising at the local level and (they) are being resolved by various Hon’ble high courts in view of the local situation,” it said. “…The Hon’ble high courts appear to be best suited to deal with the situation, hence it would be proper to allow the Hon’ble high courts to continue dealing with the present issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Centre failed to anticipate second Covid-19 wave despite warning signals: Researcher||The Centre failed to anticipate the second Covid-19 wave despite warning signals and omitted to take steps that could have mitigated the devastation, a top government researcher has said, agreeing with other experts that India is paying the price for complacency. The health researcher, a member of the Centre’s national task force on Covid-19, said the surge and the nationwide bed and oxygen shortages had resulted from a complacency that ignored data from India and elsewhere suggesting “a big wave” was possible. “It is frustrating and it is sad — what’s going on cannot be just abruptly stopped,” the researcher, who requested not to be named, told The Telegraph on Thursday. “There were indications a big wave could hit us, but that knowledge was not translated into more preparedness or strong public warnings.” The wave surged higher on Thursday as India’s health ministry added 314,835 new Covid-19 cases overnight. The number of active patients nationwide ballooned above 2.29 million, more than double the peak count during the first wave last September. “We can now ask among ourselves: who’s responsible? Is it the health ministry, is it the Indian Council of Medical Research, is it the government? All I’d say is: collectively we have failed,” said the researcher, accepting the blame that some health experts have hurled. In contrast, the health ministry has been reluctant to discuss the subject. “Today is not the time to go into why did we miss, or did we miss, did we prepare? Today is the time to jointly face the pandemic,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Wednesday, when asked at a media briefing whether India had missed anticipating the second wave. “Once we have faced it and emerged out of it successfully, then probably with the advantage of hindsight we would be able to deliberate on this. Today all the energies of the Union government and the state governments are focused in a collaborative manner to tackle this, to save precious lives, and to ensure that our health system is strengthened.” Several senior health officials have attributed the second wave to people’s laxity in wearing masks and maintaining physical distance, but the health researcher said it would be unfair to point fingers at the public. “You cannot blame people. People will do what they like to do and what they are encouraged to do. People need appropriate guidance, appropriate messaging,” the researcher said. “We were not able to translate the available data into strong enough cautionary messages for the public.” The researcher said an ICMR survey in January had found that only 25 per cent people had already been infected, implying that 75 per cent of the population was still susceptible to a future wave. “We also knew from Europe and the US that second waves could be bigger than the first.” The researcher, echoing concerns aired by other health experts, said that after the epidemic shrank between October and December and the daily counts of new cases fell steadily, the government did little to curb the crowding that occurred at election rallies and at the Kumbh Mela. As tens of thousands gathered at the Kumbh and at election rallies every day, health officials remained largely silent except for issuing cursory advisories about mask-wearing and maintaining physical distance. Amid the bed and oxygen shortages, at least two hospitals in Delhi on Thursday appeared so close to running out of oxygen that their administrators were considering asking critically ill patients to leave and look for beds in other hospitals. “What we’re seeing happen was not inevitable or unavoidable,” said Ramanan Laxminarayanan, an economist and epidemiologist and founder director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy, a research think tank in the US and India. “Organising more oxygen should have been part of the preparedness process, and preparing with thousands of beds in stadiums was also possible.” Some health experts say it makes little sense to split hairs over who deserves more blame, the political leaders or the experts tasked with guiding them. “This is not a government that tolerates dissent. If the experts don’t tolerate (the official) line, they’d be out. The buck stops with whoever is elected,” a health expert said, also requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Plea in Supreme Court to move Siddique Kappan to hospital in Delhi||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists on Thursday sought the Supreme Court’s intervention to shift journalist Siddique Kappan to a hospital in Delhi after he tested positive for Covid-19 in Mathura jail where he has been incarcerated since October. KUWJ has been providing legal support to Kappan, the secretary of the union’s Delhi unit, who was arrested on October 5 on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh to report the gang rape of a Dalit girl. His lawyer Wills Mathew told The Telegraph that the Supreme Court was informed of the latest development in a letter filed on Thursday. “We have requested an order for Kappan to be shifted to either All India Institute of Medical Sciences or Safdarjang Hospital in Delhi,” Mathew said. Jail authorities had on Wednesday informed Mathew about Kappan’s health condition and the fact that he was first taken to the prison hospital and then moved to KM Medical College Hospital. “I got a call from the prison yesterday (Wednesday) about Kappan collapsing the previous night and that he was hospitalised. But since then, I have had no updates on his health,” Mathew said. The petitioner informed the apex court that Kappan, who is a diabetic with hypertension and high cholesterol, used to vomit after consuming the prison food of lentils and chapatis because of the oil used in cooking. The court was also informed that about 50 inmates in Mathura jail had tested positive for Covid-19. Kappan was arrested along with three member of Popular Front of India, a Muslim rights organisation. While the UP police had accused Kappan and the others of travelling to Hathras to foment tension, the journalist had maintained that he was innocent. They were all named in a 5,000-page charge sheet filed in a Mathura court recently. Kappan’s wife Raihanath told this newspaper that he had fever when she last spoke to him. “When he called me on Tuesday, he had fever and sounded very exhausted. I have no idea about his current medical condition since we are not getting any information from there,” Raihanath told The Telegraph on Thursday. She said Kappan used to fast on account of Ramzan, but only had access to jail food comprising lentils and chapati. “He was already highly stressed out with the case. His sugar levels were quite high since he was jailed. I don’t have any other information,” said the mother of three children who lives in Vengara in Malappuram. Earlier in the day, Raihanath spoke to CPM politburo member M.A. Baby and sought his help to get proper medical help for Kappan. “He asked me to immediately contact the chief minister’s office, which I did. I expect the government to do something to save my husband who is innocent and yet in jail,” she said. She is scheduled to address a press conference in Kozhikode on Friday to present a set of demands to the state government to free Kappan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Delhi High Court directs Centre to ensure oxygen supply to national capital||Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Centre to ensure oxygen is supplied to the national capital as per the allocation order and is transported without any hindrance. The high court said there has to be strict compliance of oxygen allocation order issued by the Centre and non-compliance would attract criminal action. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the Centre’s allocation of oxygen for Delhi from plants in other states such as Haryana was not being respected by the local administration there and it needs to be resolved immediately. It directed the central government to provide adequate security to lorries transporting oxygen and to form dedicated corridors for the same. The directions came after the Delhi government told the court that oxygen that was to come from Panipat in Haryana was not being allowed to be picked up by the local police there. The Delhi government also told the court that oxygen, which was to be picked up from some units in Uttar Pradesh, could also be not lifted from there. With regard to Delhi government’s suggestion to transport oxygen by air, the bench said research by its legal researchers has shown that airlifting of oxygen was very dangerous and it has to be transported either by road or rail. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told the bench: “If there is any roadblock by any individuals or any officers, the officers have been instructed that if they are involved in any such activity they will be departmentally dealt with.” “We must respond with a sense of urgency and sense of responsibility which the situation demands,” the solicitor-general said. The high court on Wednesday issued strong strictures against the central government and private industries and had ordered the Centre to “forthwith” provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing shortage of the gas in treating serious Covid-19 patients, observing it “seems human life is not important for the state”. “You are not exploring all avenues to augment oxygen supply. Beg, borrow or steal,” the court had told the Centre, and asked why it was not waking up to the gravity of the emergency situation. It also warned that certainly all hell will break loose with the stoppage of medical oxygen to the hospitals. The observations and directions by the court came on Wednesday during hearing of a plea filed by Balaji Medical and Research Centre, which owns and runs various hospitals in the name of Max, contending that if supply of oxygen is not replenished on an immediate basis, the lives of the patients who are critical and on oxygen support will be endangered. Hospitals struggle Several small hospitals in the city struggled to replenish oxygen supply for coronavirus patients on Thursday morning, even as some big healthcare facilities received fresh stock overnight. The administration at Shanti Mukund Hospital, a 200-bed facility in East Delhi, put up a notice at the entry gate, reading: “We regret we are stopping admission in hospital because oxygen supply isn’t coming.” While the Centre represented by solicitor-general Mehta had assured the court that it would facilitate supply of the increased allocation of 480 metric tonnes of oxygen and the same will reach the national capital without any obstructions, several private hospitals complained their supplier has not been responding to calls. Officials at Saroj Hospital in Rohini said they have run out of oxygen supply. “The backup, too, won’t last long. Of the 120 patients in the hospital at present, 70 are in a critical condition,” an official said, adding that many lives will be lost if oxygen supply did not reach the hospital in time. An official from Shanti Mukund Hospital told PTI they have not been able to get in touch with their oxygen supplier. “There are 110 coronavirus patients in the hospital right now. We have no option but to send patients to other hospitals,” he said. Dr Sanjeev Sharma, chief operating officer at Delhi Heart and Lung Institute, said their oxygen stock will last till 4pm. “Supplier provided the last refill in the morning; we are on our own. A total of 71 patients are on oxygen support,” he said. Officials at the 210-bed Mata Chanan Devi Hospital sent an SOS to the Delhi government as their “oxygen supplier didn’t fulfil commitments”. “Around 40 patients are in ICU. We got 500kg oxygen last night. The supplier was supposed to give more at 4am, but they have not been picking up calls since then,” ICU head Dr A.C. Shukla said. “With the Delhi government’s intervention, we have got 21 D-type cylinders, but a continuous supply is needed. The situation is very serious,” he added. Dr Pankaj Solanki, who runs the 50-bed Dharamveer Solanki Hospital, said the hospital is using the “backup”, which will last till Thursday afternoon. Dr Solanki said he had informed officials concerned to transfer out 30 patients. “The oxygen crisis is at its worst. It is adding more pressure on the functioning. No one is able to help,” his tweet read. Meanwhile, some hospitals received fresh stock overnight and more is likely to come in soon. Dr Suresh Kumar, the medical director at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, said three tankers carrying oxygen reached the facility last night. “At 8.30am, we have around eight hours of oxygen left. More is coming,” he told PTI. An official at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said supply was replenished around 6am. “The stock will last till 10am on Friday. Supply from a private vendor is awaited,” he said. Officials at the Burari Hospital said they have “sufficient stock” till afternoon. A spokesperson for St Stephen’s Hospital said they received fresh supply on Wednesday evening and the stock can last till 4pm. “More to come around noon,” he added. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia alleged the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police were blocking oxygen transport to Delhi, and urged the Centre to ensure normal supply even if that meant taking the help of paramilitary forces. This “jungle raj” has been going on for three days, he said referring to the alleged blocking of oxygen supply. “Some hospitals in Delhi have run out of oxygen completely. They don’t have any option available. I have been receiving calls, messages, emails. We have been making internal, makeshift arrangements, but this cannot continue for long,” he said. Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 management in Delhi, said it will become tough to save lives of coronavirus patients after sometime if hospitals did not get the oxygen supply they need. “The Centre should take the help of paramilitary forces, if needed, and ensure supply of oxygen to Delhi,” he said, adding that else the situation may become “very dangerous” in days to come. Delhi logged 24,638 coronavirus cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday, as the positivity rate stood at 31.28 per cent — meaning almost every third sample turned out to be positive — amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city. Only 16 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were available in hospitals across Delhi at 3pm, according to government data. On Tuesday, the city had recorded 28,395 cases and 277 fatalities, both highest since the pandemic began ravaging countries. The positivity rate was 32.82 per cent, highest so far. The national capital has reported over 1,350 deaths due to the deadly virus in the last seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Five Covid patients die in Aligarh after private hospital runs out of oxygen||Five Covid patients died in Aligarh town on Wednesday night after the private hospital treating them ran out of oxygen and the Uttar Pradesh government failed to supply more in time, their families have alleged. Dr Sanjiv Sharma, medical superintendent of the SJD Hospital, and a government official denied that lack of oxygen had caused the deaths. “Hospital authorities told us in the evening they had no oxygen left and the patients had to be shifted,” Shyam Kumar, relative of Mukesh Kumar who died at the SJD Hospital, said. He said the families could not find beds in hospitals that had oxygen and requested SJD authorities “to make some arrangement”. “But the government hadn’t supplied oxygen by the time the fifth patient died at 2am,” he said. Earlier this week, Delhi High Court had rapped the Centre for failing to divert oxygen from industry to hospitals, and Allahabad High Court had observed that the Covid resurgence was about to overwhelm the health infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh. Dr Sharma said: “The deaths didn’t occur from an oxygen shortage. The patients were senior citizens and had severe chest infection from the coronavirus. We had suggested the families take them to higher referral centres but they didn’t listen.” Shyam, however, said: “The dead were young or middle-aged and not senior citizens. Sarita Rani was 54, Mukesh Kumar was 30, Anil Kashyap was 50, Jaiveer Singh was 50 and Lalit Prasad was 52 – you can cross-check with the hospital records.” Aligarh city magistrate Vinit Kumar Singh, a civil servant, said: “The SJD Hospital had demanded oxygen at 9.15pm and we supplied 40 cylinders within the hour. There was no oxygen shortage at the hospital.” Dr B.P. Kalyani, chief medical officer (CMO) for Aligarh district, said assistant CMO Anupam Bhaskar was probing the families’ allegation. Government sources said that work had stopped at three of Aligarh’s four oxygen-manufacturing plants because of a shortage of certain liquid chemicals. “About 10 tonnes of the liquid was sent from Roorkee to Aligarh on Thursday morning,” an official said, requesting he not be named. “The only operational plant in the district is producing 250 cylinders of oxygen a day whereas the demand is 400 cylinders, and is increasing every day with the rising number of patients.” Hospital crisis Hospital after hospital in Uttar Pradesh complained of an oxygen shortage on Thursday and accused the state government of letting them down. Some put up notices asking families to shift Covid patients. “We have been trying to get oxygen since 6am but there’s no response from those (government officials) supposed to ensure it,” Dr Ritu, director of Kailash Hospital in Noida, told reporters at 5pm. “We want the patients to shift elsewhere: we can’t see them dying here.” An aide said almost half the hospital’s 450 patients had Covid infections. Prakash Hospital in Noida was supposed to receive a consignment of oxygen cylinders on Thursday morning but it never came, nor was any reason cited. Frustration led one of its employees to allege favouritism. “Some hospitals are getting oxygen in time but many are being ignored,” the employee said on the condition of anonymity. “We had told the government right at the beginning to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply if it wanted us to function as a dedicated Covid hospital.” Sources said the oxygen crisis was resolved at some of Lucknow’s hospitals on Wednesday night after an outcry earlier in the day. But an executive at Chandan Hospital in Lucknow said: “We are unable to treat our Covid patients because the state government is sending only half the promised oxygen cylinders. Covid patients consume huge quantities of oxygen in a very short time. So we have stopped admissions and are requesting the families of the already admitted patients to shift them elsewhere.” At Charak Hospital, Lucknow, the management has put up a notice asking families to take their Covid patients elsewhere. “The state government is behaving like a criminal. The hospitals want to save the patients but the government wants them to die,” said Seema Singh, 50, wife of a Covid patient at Charak. “Why else should there be shortages of everything, from Covid beds and Covid hospitals to medicines and oxygen? My husband will soon die because the state government is not providing oxygen.” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was quoted as saying at a virtual meeting with officials that there was no shortage of oxygen in the state but some black marketeers were hoarding it. He ordered a crackdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: High courts rap state govts, Supreme Court steps in||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the Covid crisis amounted almost to a “national emergency” and asked the Centre to formulate a “national plan”, while indicating that high courts should leave the decision on announcing lockdowns to the state governments. “We are almost in a state of national emergency,” the special bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said, deciding to conduct a detailed hearing on Friday after the Centre submits its action plan. Several legal experts said on the condition of anonymity that they wished the apex court had intervened earlier, with six high courts having already pulled up state authorities for failing to check the pandemic’s resurgence. The apex court bench, which took suo motu cognisance of the rising Covid cases, said it might transfer to itself the pandemic-related matters pending with the six high courts. “We as a court wish to take suo motu cognisance of certain issues. We find that there are six high courts --- Delhi, Bombay, Sikkim, MP (Madhya Pradesh), Calcutta and Allahabad --- (that) are exercising jurisdiction in best interest, but it is creating confusion and diversion of resources,” Justice Bobde remarked. “One high court thinks there is a priority for one group and some for another. We have four issues in mind: supply of oxygen, supply of essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination and power to declare lockdown.” He added: “We want to keep the power to declare lockdown with states... (it) should not be a judicial decision. We issue notice on these issues. Senior adv(ocate) Harish Salve will act as the amicus curiae (friend of the court). We want to see a national plan on this issue….” On Tuesday, the Uttar Pradesh government had secured a stay from the apex court on the previous day’s Allahabad High Court order imposing lockdowns in the cities of Varanasi, Lucknow, Allahabad, Kanpur and Gorakhpur. Calcutta High Court has pulled up the Election Commission for failing to ensure the observance of pandemic protocols during the Bengal poll campaign, which has coincided with a Covid surge in the state. The high courts of Delhi, Allahabad and Bombay have lambasted the Centre and the state governments led by Arvind Kejriwal, Yogi Adityanath and Uddhav Thackeray for their poor handling of the Covid crisis. On Thursday, the apex court took cognisance of the matter after the Centre and Vedanta Limited jointly sought reopening of the company’s controversial Sterlite copper smelting plant in Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu, for the purpose of producing 1,000 tonnes of oxygen per day. The Tamil Nadu government had shut the Sterlite plant down in May 2018 after 14 people died in police firing while demonstrating in support of a demand to close the factory on environmental grounds. On Thursday, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, argued: “The country is in dire need of oxygen.... Vedanta wants to make its plant operational, but let Vedanta only make it operational to manufacture oxygen… for health purposes.” Salve, appearing for Vedanta, said: “We can start in five to six days if you Lordships give us the go-ahead today.” Senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, appearing for the Tamil Nadu government, opposed any immediate orders, saying: “There is a trust deficit in the state of Tamil Nadu. Please hear this case next week.” In December 2018, the apex court had refused to stay a Madras High Court order directing a CBI probe into the police firing. In February 2019, the top court dismissed Vedanta’s interim application for an inspection of the plant. Earlier in 2019, the apex court had set aside a National Green Tribunal order that had directed reopening of the plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Group of men hijack ambulance in Lucknow, two patients die ||A group of men in Lucknow allegedly hijacked a government ambulance for use by a Covid patient while it was on its way to pick up a non-Covid patient. Eventually, both patients died. The ambulance driver said he was travelling to Unique Hospital, which had no oxygen left, on Wednesday afternoon to shift Vinay Kumar, who had fever and breathing difficulties but had tested Covid-negative, to another hospital. “A group of men on two motorcycles stopped me on Campbell Road. They looked agitated and ready to beat me. They asked me to follow them,” the driver said, requesting not to be named. “They took me to a place where a woman, who looked in her mid-50s, lay on a roadside bench. They said she was a Covid patient. We carried her into the ambulance and started giving her oxygen. Two of the men sat inside the ambulance while the rest led the way on their motorcycles. “We first went to Era Hospital, where she didn’t get a bed. We then went to another hospital. By then there was no oxygen left in the cylinder and she had died. The men took the body home in another vehicle.” Santosh Kumar, a relative of Vinay, 50, said the patient had been admitted to Unique on Tuesday. “On Wednesday, the doctors said the hospital had just an hour’s oxygen left and suggested Vinay be shifted to another hospital,” he said. “It took 45 minutes to get in touch with 108 (the ambulance emergency number), but no ambulance arrived even after 90 minutes. Then the ambulance driver called to say the vehicle had been hijacked. We called another ambulance but Vinay had died by the time it arrived.” Rajendra Singh, chief medical officer for Lucknow district, said he had not heard of the incident and would look into it if a formal complaint was lodged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Delhi riots: JNU student leader Umar Khalid's handcuff call binned||A court here on Thursday dismissed applications seeking to produce former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and activist Khalid Saifi, arrested in connection with last year’s Delhi riots, before it in “handcuffs” and sought an explanation from the DCP concerned for moving such a plea. The court noted that the applications had been filed by the in-charge, lock-up, Karkardooma District Courts, reportedly after “a decision was taken in the matter by so-called senior police officers of Delhi police to move such applications before the court”. The pleas, which came up for hearing before judge Vinod Yadav, sought to produce both the accused in “handcuffs in both hands from back side”, contending that they were “high-risk prisoners”. During the hearing, special public prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary was asked about the meaning of “high-risk prisoner” and where such a classification had been defined —in the jail manual or the Punjab Police Rules or the circulars issued by Delhi police. Chaudhary submitted that he was not aware of the applications and could not take instructions in the matter. The court noted that both the accused have already been granted bail in the case pending before it. “It is presumed that the bail order(s) of applicants are in the knowledge of senior police officer(s) of Delhi police. The instant applications are completely bereft of the reason(s), prompting the senior police officer(s) to take a decision to move such application(s),” the judge said. He said that “for want of material/reason(s) in respect of the applications in question, this court is at a loss to consider the grant of prayer(s) in these applications”. “In this view of the matter, let report(s) be called from DCP (special cell)… to communicate the reasons for moving such application(s) before this court. “The report be also called from superintendent (of the) jail concerned on these applications. Now, renotify the matter for further consideration on May 6,” the judge said. While Saifi was granted bail in the case in November last year, Umar was given the relief earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||No bed in Delhi, brigadier dies of Covid-related complications||A retired brigadier of the Indian Army died of Covid-related complications while on his way to Chandigarh from Delhi on Wednesday night after being allegedly denied admission in the capital’s hospitals, including the army facility. Family members of Brigadier (retd) Rashpal Singh Parmar said they had arranged for an oxygen cylinder for him and were taking him to Chandigarh in an ambulance when he passed away. They said the veteran had been refused a bed in Delhi’s hospitals, including the army’s Base Hospital and the DRDO’s facility. “We have got reports that after being denied admission at Base Hospital, the family members had taken him to the DRDO hospital near Delhi airport. But he could not get a bed there too. The family later took him to several private hospitals in Delhi but to no avail. Finally, they decided to rush him to a private hospital in Chandigarh but he died on the way,” said an army officer. The army did not comment officially on the issue. Brig. Parmar had been commissioned on March 14, 1971, in the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Delhi is the worst affected city in the country, reporting 24,638 fresh Covid-19 cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday. Hospitals are overflowing and there has been an acute shortage of oxygen, prompting relatives to make desperate appeals for help on social media. The army’s facilities are also said to be full with Covid patients among serving officers and soldiers. The defence ministry had on Monday directed the cantonment general hospitals maintained by the cantonment boards across the country to extend all necessary medical assistance and services to all patients, even if they were not cantonment residents. A ministry official said medical services would be provided to all cantonment residents and non-residents in the 67 Cantonments Board hospitals across the country. “The ministry has directed that suitable liaison with district authorities and nodal officers (Covid) as required may be undertaken by the cantonment general hospitals to facilitate timely treatment to patients and immediate medical intervention,” the official said. The army has announced that the Base Hospital at the Delhi cantonment has been converted into an exclusive Covid facility for the armed forces and veterans with effect from Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Gujarat government has not built a hospital in 25 years, says Congress||The Gujarat government has not built a single hospital in the past 25 years that the BJP has been in power in the state, the Congress said on Thursday. Rajeev Satav, the Congress central leadership’s minder for Gujarat, lambasted the state government’s healthcare policy at a news conference. “In the last 25 years (during which) the BJP has been in power (in the state), not a single hospital has been made in Gujarat. Of these 25 years, Narendra Modi was chief minister for 13 years,” he said. “Modi said in 2014 that he would develop India on the ‘Gujarat Model’. He has actually done it. The ‘Gujarat Model’ is just PR and publicity.” Former Gujarat health minister and senior Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil echoed Satav’s allegation. “Yes, no new hospital has been built in the state. You can’t call primary health centres in the blocks and villages hospitals. All the big hospitals were built during Congress rule,” Gohil told The Telegraph. “During the last (Gujarat) Assembly elections, the BJP promised to build an AIIMS in Rajkot. (Prime Minister) Modi laid the foundation in December 2020 but it is still under construction.” Gohil claimed the situation was better under Congress rule. “Gujarat had a strong health infrastructure and the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital had the biggest medical facility in Asia. We used to give 149 life-saving drugs absolutely free to patients. But Modi as chief minister (2001-14) destroyed public health as a policy to encourage private hospitals,” he said. “Today the Covid situation in the state is unimaginably bad. Gujarat had the capacity to produce enough oxygen. We produce oxygen at the ship-breaking yard in our state. We called for production of medical oxygen there, a project which could have been readied in weeks. But people are now dying for want of oxygen. The death rate among the big cities is the highest in Gujarat.” In a recent reply in the Assembly, the Gujarat government admitted that only 16 district hospitals in the state had CT scan machines, an instrument critical to the fight against Covid and many other serious conditions. Only one district hospital — in a state with 33 districts —has an MRI machine, the state government added. Last week, the Gujarat government had admitted in an affidavit before the high court that there were no beds in hospitals in seven districts amid the surge in Covid cases. The high court questioned the state’s preparedness and handling of the crisis, as it had done last year after the initial outbreak. Paresh Dhanani, the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly who has petitioned the high court accusing state BJP leaders of illegally stocking and distributing the life-saving drug remdesivir, said Gujarat’s “healthcare system is in tatters”. “While the state government faced a shortage of remdesivir and oxygen, state BJP chief C.R. Patil and other leaders were selectively distributing these among the people,” he said. “I have filed a PIL, notices have been issued and the next hearing is on May 5. The state government used to invite people with the tagline “Kuchh din toh gujaro Gujarat mein (Do spend at least a few days in Gujarat)”. Now Modi and (Union home minister) Amit Shah have no time to visit Gujarat when people are dying.” State Congress chief Amit Chavda said Gujarat’s healthcare infrastructure had collapsed. “There’s a five to six hours’ wait before cremations; there are no beds for admission, no oxygen. The government is hiding the figures. Private hospitals are robbing patients,” he said. Satav wondered how any sensitive Prime Minister could spend thousands of crores on vanity projects like the Centra Vista (for the redevelopment of Lutyens Delhi) and bullet trains and demanded the resources be used to save lives. “When Modi became Prime Minister selling the Gujarat model, the people of Gujarat knew we were sending a prachar mantri (publicity minister) who will do nothing apart from false propaganda,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Naveen Patnaik promises oxygen supply||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and assured them that Odisha will supply medical oxygen to meet their needs. Both the Centre and Delhi government are finding it tough to arrange oxygen at a time when the number of corona patients dying owing to shortage of oxygen is rising. “It is a war like situation and Odisha will extend all co-operation in the fight against Covid at the national level including ramping up oxygen production to assist other states in this emergency situation,” Naveen told Modi. Naveen also spoke to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and assured him all support from him. “Received a call from Sh Naveen Patnaik Ji. He has assured complete support to Delhi in facilitating lifting of Delhi’s quota of oxygen from Odisha. He has put a special officer on the job. Thank u  sooo much sir. Delhi is indeed grateful,” Kejriwal tweeted. Minister, steel and mines, Prafulla Mallick told The Telegraph, “Odisha is in a position to meet the requirement of oxygen of many states. We will soon ask all the steel production houses to ramp up the facilities to increase the production of oxygen in their plants. We will put a priority on the development of its supply system.” Officials maintained that the Odisha government’s consistent effort to promote steel industries in the state has turned out to be a major boon and the state is now in a position to supply liquefied medical oxygen to the states which are grappling with its shortage at the time of corona pandemic. Oxygen is a must for the treatment of the corona positive patients. Liquefied medical oxygen can be produced in large quantities where there are steel plants. “The oxygen is needed to convert the iron into steel by segregating other ingredients from the hot iron ores like nitrogen, hydrogen and carbon. All the big steel industries set up the oxygen plants to produce oxygen for industrial use. At the time of producing oxygen for industrial use, they also produce liquefied oxygen to a certain amount which can be used for medical purposes” advisor to the steel department, Iswar Chandra Sahu told this newspaper. Officials in the steel and mines department said, “At present Rourkela Steel Plant, Tata’s KalingaNagar Steel Plant, Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL), Angul and some other steel industries are producing steel. The small steel industries are getting industrial oxygen from the big units for their purpose. Henceforth, we will ask them to set up their own oxygen units.” Principal secretary, health and family welfare, P.K. Mohapatra said, “We don’t have a shortage of oxygen. We have asked our steel plants to supply more oxygen. They have assured to do so.” “JSPL has more than 500 tons of liquid oxygen stock readily available at our Angul plant. We are waiting for the users to send their tankers. We can fill up on a first come first serve basis or as per the priority decided by the ministry of steel,” tweeted JSPL. One of the senior officials of the Odisha government said, “Odisha’s designed capacity to produce oxygen stands at 7500 tonnes per day. Out of this Odisha can produce 750 tonnes of medical liquefied oxygen per day. ” But if we produce as per the designed capacity, it needs to be evacuated immediately through tankers. Getting such a large number of tankers and the required man power is a major problem at this point.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Over 2,250 railway employees test positive||Operations at the East Central Railway (ECR) may suffer as over 2,250 of its 80,000 employees have tested positive to Covid-19. A majority of them are drivers, guards, stationmasters and other frontline staff directly connected with the running of trains. Parts of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand come under the railway zone. The infected persons are spread across all the five divisions that comprise the ECR headquartered at Hajipur in Bihar, and their numbers are increasing every passing day. The Deendayal Upadhyay division, mostly catering to eastern Uttar Pradesh, is the worst affected with 951 of its officers and employees turning positive, while the Dhanbad division is at the second place with around 450 staff catching the coronavirus. Sonepur, Samastipur and Hajipur divisions have lesser number of infected officials. Going by the break-up of the infected officials and their positions connected directly with the running of trains the situation is worrisome because around 300 loco-pilots or train drivers, 140 stationmasters and 75 train guards have fallen ill due to the coronavirus. “These loco-pilots, stationmasters and guards are necessary for our operations. Trains cannot run without them. Around 65 of our senior officials are admitted in the railway hospital at Danapur. Several are in other hospitals. Many of our people are in isolation at their residences or homes. “We are taking all precautions to ensure that more of our staff do not get infected,” ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told The Telegraph. Rajesh has also been infected by the coronavirus and is currently undergoing treatment under home isolation. “We are more exposed to the virus and our field staff are also in high numbers so it is natural that the cases of Covid infections will be more. We have been keeping low about this information so that people do not panic about the running of trains in future,” he added. However, the CPRO assured that the ECR was gearing up to ensure that train operations are not hampered. “We are not going to step back from running the trains and intend to meet the demand. We are suffering from a scarcity of railway guards so we are deploying assistant loco-pilots to take their place. Ours is an essential service and we cannot stop it. We are well prepared and taking all precautions to ensure that train operations do not get hampered,” Rajesh said. Senior ECR officials pointed out that this time the scenario is different in comparison to last year when the trains were at first stopped completely and then allowed to run in limited numbers. That saved many railway officials from falling prey to the pandemic. “It is one reason that isolation coaches are not prepared this time in large numbers because the majority of our trains are running,” an ECR official said. The ECR has installed steam inhalers for its staff at their working stations so that they could use them. They have been asked to maintain social distancing and instructed not to allow outside people in their offices, including the offices of the stationmasters. Meanwhile, the ECR has appealed to its employees to contribute Rs 100 to Rs 1500 from their April salary to help their colleagues who have contracted Covid, and also in taking preventive measures to tackle the raging second wave of the pandemic. The amount will depend on the seniority of the employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt makes 14-day quarantine mandatory for people entering from Bengal||The Odisha government on Thursday made 14-day quarantine mandatory for people entering the state from Bengal and asked district collector of Balasore, Mayurbhanj, to put up border checkposts on all inter-state roads  along the Bengal border with immediate effect. In a notification, the Odisha special relief commissioner asked district administrations to ensure border tracking for all entry points for people coming from Bengal. “...Police arrangements may be made for tracking. Anyone coming to Odisha from Bengal by personal or hired vehicles or entering the state in any other mode will have to undergo mandatory institutional or paid quarantine for 14 days,” it said. People travelling from Bengal to other States through Odisha will be allowed without disembarking from the vehicle en route inside Odisha. “Sarpanch(s)/ Ward Member (s) of Panchayat Raj Institution members and volunteers will be mobilised to create awareness in their areas and further report to BDO/Police Station/ Local Authorities about any person coming from West Bengal not quarantined in institutional facilities” the order said. “Any person who has been successfully vaccinated (two doses) and produces certificate to the effect or tested Negative (-ve) in RTPCR test (report to be produced) within 48 hours of entering Odisha, may be allowed home quarantine for 14 days. However, in case of non-compliance of the Covid protocols and home quarantine guidelines, such persons shall be quarantined in institutional facility for fourteen (14) days,” said the notification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
