24-04-2021||India||Oxygen crisis: Delhi High Court asks AAP and Centre to work in tandem||Delhi High Court asked the Centre and the Delhi government to coordinate efforts to ensure medical oxygen was made available to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients on Saturday, prompting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to seek the help of his counterparts in other states. The high court observed that citizens cannot be left to die, making it clear that efforts which the Delhi government has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised and they should not leave it entirely to the central government. "The Delhi government should, therefore, make all out efforts for procurement of cryogenic tankers from whatever source they can be made available, and look for all possible avenues. As aforesaid, the sub-Group in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) shall also help in this regard, and we expect the officers of both the governments to interact and coordinate in this regard," a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. The bench was conducting a special hearing, that lasted over three hours, on the escalating oxygen crisis. Chief Minister Kejriwal urged his counterparts in other states to provide oxygen to the national capital, saying all available resources are proving to be inadequate owing to the severity of COVID-19. "I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate," Kejriwal tweeted in the evening. Kejriwal's request for supply of oxygen came following the death of 20 patients in Jaipur Golden Hospital here as Delhi's desperate hunt for the life-saving gas continued amid rising Covid-19 cases. The deaths at Jaipur Golden took place when the hospital was waiting for oxygen to be replenished, officials said on Saturday morning. The high court also directed all suppliers and re-fillers of oxygen to give complete details to the AAP government about the oxygen supplied by them to various hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, observing that there has to be "transparency" on this aspect. It said the information to be furnished by the suppliers to the nodal officer of Delhi shall include how much oxygen was supplied to each of the hospitals and when. "We direct all suppliers, who supply oxygen to Delhi, to provide complete details to the nodal officer about the quantity of oxygen supplied to each hospital and the timing," the bench said. The high court also directed the Delhi government to communicate to all the hospitals and nursing homes here the details of its new team -- comprising 10 IAS and 28 DANIPS officers -- constituted for monitoring the oxygen distribution in the national capital. Delhi, one of the worst-hit cities in the country right now, has been reporting over 20,000 cases for the past four days. On Friday, the national capital touched a grim milestone of recording 348 deaths, while 24,331 new Covid-19 infections were registered. The Indian Air Force on Saturday picked up from Singapore four cryogenic containers for storage of liquid oxygen, officials said.

The containers were airlifted from Singapore by C17 heavy-lift aircraft of the IAF.

The aircraft with four cryogenic oxygen containers landed at Panagarh airbase in West Bengal at around 4:30 pm, the officials said.

India is struggling with the second wave of the coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of a rising number of COVID-19 cases.

Since Friday, the IAF has been airlifting empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating COVID-19 patients.

The IAF was also transporting essential medicines as well as equipment required by the designated COVID-19 hospitals in various parts of the country.

"The Indian Air Force is taking sorties to reduce the transportation time of Oxygen and other critical supplies. One C-17 has reached Changi airport in Singapore today. These containers of cryogenic oxygen tanks will help boosting the oxygen supply in the country," Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's office tweeted earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
24-04-2021||India||Set up more vaccination hubs before May 1, Centre tells states||Ahead of the roll-out of vaccination of people aged between 18 and 45 from May 1, the Centre on Saturday asked states to register additional private vaccination centres and ensure effective crowd management at sites and stressed on inoculation through "only online registration" for beneficiaries in the age bracket. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to Combat Covid-19 chairman R S Sharma held a high-level meeting on Saturday to guide states and union territories on effective implementation of the new vaccination strategy (Phase-3) and to review their augmentation plans so as to strengthen the existing hospital and clinical treatment infrastructure for Covid-19 patients. “With regards to the Phase-3 vaccination strategy from May 1, the states were advised to register additional private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) on mission mode by engaging with private hospitals, hospitals of industrial establishments, industry associations, etc.,” the health ministry said in a statement. “They have also been asked to monitor the number of hospitals that have procured vaccines and have declared stocks and prices on COWIN portal and schedule vaccination for eligible population for providing adequate visibility of vaccination slots on COWIN,” the ministry said. The states and UTs were asked to prioritise decision on direct procurement of vaccines by State/UT Government and publicising the facility of 'only online registration' for the 18-45 age group. They were also asked to train vaccination centre staff about vaccination, adverse events following immunisation reporting and management, use of COWIN and to coordinate with law-and-order authorities for effective crowd management at sites. On infrastructure augmentation for effective clinical treatment of the hospitalised Covid-19 patients, the states and UTs were advised to review their existing hospital and other treatment infrastructure in light of the daily new case, daily fatality and those that would require hospitalisation. "To prepare and implement a Comprehensive Plan for Augmentation, the States were advised to identify additional Dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and prepare field hospital facilities either through DRDO, CSIR or similar agencies in the public and private sector," it said. The Centre asked states to ensure adequacy in terms of oxygen-supported beds, ICU beds and oxygen supplies, set up centralized call centre-based services for allocation of beds, deploy of requisite human resources with proper training and mentoring of doctors and nurses for management of patients and to strengthen ambulance services. The states were also advised to maintain a real-time record for available beds and make it easily accessible to the general public and create guidelines and enable states to take over private health facilities to provide Covid-19 care. They were also asked to expand designated Covid-19 care facilities for isolation of asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients so that all those who either cannot isolate at home and/or are willing for institutional isolation, have access to the requisite space and care. The states were also asked to provide tele-medicine facilities for patients who are isolated at home and ensure adequate availability of oxygen, ventilators and intensive care under trained doctors, as well as access to steroids and other drugs as appropriate step up creation of in-hospital oxygen plants in large hospitals. "Pay fair and regular remuneration to ASHAs and other frontline workers who are being engaged for Covid-19," the health ministry said in the statement. The ministry cited various steps taken by the central government to augment hospital infrastructure in the states and UTs. "The plan to set up temporary Covid Care facilities and makeshift hospitals, including ICU beds, in coordination with the DRDO and CSIR-CBRI was re-iterated. The State/UTs were guided to coordinate with corporate entities/PSUs/ government departments for their CSR funds to facilitate setting up makeshift hospitals and temporary Covid care facilities," the ministry said. "Cooperation with National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) for repurposing healthcare facilities (spread across 18 regional offices) for creation of Covid facilities was also advised. They were also advised to use Railway Coaches for management of mild cases; details of availability of 3,816 such coaches, across 16 Zones of Railways have been shared with the States," the health ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
24-04-2021||India||Serum Institute defends Covid vaccine pricing||Serum Institute of India, which makes the most used Covid-19 vaccine in the country, on Saturday defended pricing Covishield vaccine at 1.5 times the initial rate, saying the earlier price was based on advance funding and now it has to invest in scaling up and expanding capacity to produce more shots. Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures AstraZeneca's vaccine Covishield at its Pune facility, earlier this week announced a price of Rs 600 per dose and at Rs 400 for state governments and any new contract by the central government. This compared to Rs 150 per dose it charges the central government for the existing supplies. "There was an inaccurate comparison done between the global prices of the vaccine with India," SII said. "Covisheld is the most affordable Covid-19 vaccine available in the market today." The initial price, it said, was "kept low globally as it was based on advance funding given by those countries for at risk vaccine manufacturing." "The initial supply price of Covishield for all government immunization programme, including India, has been the lowest," it said. "The current situation is extremely dire, the virus is constantly mutating while the public remains at risk. Identifying the uncertainty, we have to ensure sustainability as we must be able to invest in scaling up and expanding our capacity to fight the pandemic and save lives." SII went on to add that only a limited portion of SII's volume will be sold to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose. "The price of the vaccine is still lower than a lot of other medical treatment and essentials required to treat COVID-19 and other life threatening diseases," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
24-04-2021||India||Amid shortage, Centre waives customs duty on import of oxygen, related equipment||Taking a slew of measures to boost medical oxygen availability in the country amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the central government on Saturday decided to waive basic customs duty and health cess on the import of oxygen and connected equipment for a period of three months with immediate effect. It was also decided at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt basic customs duty on the import of Covid-19 vaccines with immediate effect for a period of three months, a government statement said. This will boost availability of these items as well as make them cheaper, it said, adding that Modi also directed the revenue department to ensure seamless and quick custom clearance of such equipment. Modi emphasized that there was an immediate need to augment the supply of medical grade oxygen as well as equipment required for patient care both at home and in hospitals and asked all ministries and departments to work in synergy to this effect. He was told that basic customs duty was exempted on Remdesivir and its API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) recently, and a suggestion was made that the import of equipment related to providing oxygen to patients needs to be expedited, the statement said, announcing the measures. The items to benefit from the decision include medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator along with flow meter, regulator, connectors and tubing vacuum pressure swing Alabsorption (VPSA) and pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, cryogenic oxygen air separation units (ASUs) producing liquid/ gaseous oxygen. Oxygen canister, oxygen filling systems, oxygen storage tanks, oxygen cylinders, including cryogenic cylinders and tanks besides any other device from which oxygen can be generated are among several other items under this category. The statement noted that the government has taken a lot of measures in the last few days to improve supply of oxygen and medical supplies. "IAF planes are bringing in cryogenic oxygen tanks from Singapore. IAF is also transporting oxygen tanks in the country to reduce travel times. Similarly, in a major decision yesterday, free food grains will be given 80 crore Indians for the month of May & June," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
24-04-2021||India||Eight Border Roads Organisation workers die in Uttarakhand avalanche||Eight Border Roads Organisation (BRO) workers were killed, seven injured and 31 went missing in an avalanche near the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, officials said on Saturday. A total of 430 BRO workers were at the road-construction site when the avalanche occurred on Friday, Uttarakhand Director General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said. Two bodies were recovered from the site in the Sumna area of Niti Valley on Friday night, while six more were recovered on Saturday, he added. Of the 430 workers, 384 have returned to the ITBP and Army camps in the area so far, eight are dead, seven injured have been rescued while 31 are missing, the DGP said, adding that a joint search-and-rescue operation by Army, ITBP, SDRF and NDRF personnel continues in the affected area. The injured were rescued in helicopters and flown to the Army hospital in Joshimath. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Indian Army posts at Sumna are safe, the DGP said. Sumna, where the avalanche occurred, is approximately 25 km from Malari village and located near the confluence of the Girthigad and the Kiogad, two streams that originate from the Dhauli Ganga river, which witnessed a calamitous avalanche in February, killing 80 people and leaving 126 missing. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat undertook an aerial survey of the area to take stock of the situation. The Army and the district administration have been constantly engaged in the search-and-rescue operation since Friday night and have also been joined now by ITBP, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, he said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has assured the state of all help in the rescue operation, Rawat said. A similar avalanche at Sumna had killed 11 ITBP personnel in 1991.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Amritsar hospital blames district authorities after 6 die due to oxygen shortage||Six patients died at a private hospital in Amritsar on Saturday due to the shortage of oxygen, hospital authorities said. Five of the six patients were infected with Covid-19, they said. "Despite the district administration being repeatedly asked to extend help, no one turned up to do the needful," Sunil Devgan, the chairman and managing director of Neelkant hospital, alleged. "Six patients, including two women, died due to the shortage of oxygen," he said. After the death of patients, merely five oxygen cylinders were supplied to the hospital, Devgan said. Despite repeated attempts, no district official could be reached for comment. The hospital chairman claimed that three main oxygen suppliers have said that government hospitals are being prioritised in terms of oxygen supply. Heavy police force has been deployed outside the oxygen units to prevent oxygen supply to private hospitals, Devgan alleged. Of the six patients who died at the hospital on Saturday, two were from Gurdaspur, one from Tarn Taran district and the remaining three were from Amritsar. On the day, 20 critically ill patients died overnight at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi amid a serious oxygen crisis, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Justice N V Ramana sworn in as 48th Chief Justice of India||Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana was sworn in as the 48th Chief Justice of India by President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday. He took the oath at a brief ceremony held at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad were among those present at the ceremony. Justice Ramana took the oath in English in the name of God. After the swearing in, President Kovind congratulated Justice Ramana and extended him best wishes for a successful tenure. Justice Ramana was appointed as the chief justice of India on April 6. Born on August 27, 1957, in Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, Justice Ramana was enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983. He was appointed as a permanent judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on June 27, 2000, and functioned as acting Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court from March 10, 2013 to May 20, 2013. Justice Ramana was elevated as the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court on September 2, 2013 and was appointed as a Judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014. He will demit office on August 26, 2022. Justice Ramana succeeds Justice S A Bobde who demitted office on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Will ‘hang’ anyone who hampers supply of oxygen, warns Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Saturday asked the Centre about the preparedness to deal with the expected COVID-19 second wave peak in mid-May, terming the mounting cases as a 'Tsunami', and also warned it will "hang" any person who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals here.

Talking tough, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said this during a special three-hour long hearing on a holiday on the issue of escalating oxygen crisis in various hospitals in Delhi.

The court said the viral disease has a low mortality and those who have a low immunity will eventually die but the problem comes when people who could be saved are also dying. "The mortality rate needs to be reduced."

Referring to a study by a team of scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, the court noted its assessment that the peak of this COVID wave will come in mid-May.

We are calling it a wave, it is actually a Tsunami, the court said, and asked the Centre about the preparedness in terms of infrastructure, hospitals, medical staff, medicines, vaccines and oxygen as on date for the peak.

It asked the Centre and the Delhi government to submit a report by April 26, the next date of hearing, with regard to the national capital on the augmentation of the medical infrastructure -- like beds, oxygen, ventilators, medical staff and medicines -- to deal with the expected peak of the COVID pandemic.

Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said there might be a rapid rise in the number of cases in May and June and the country needs to be ready for the worst.

He said the Prime Minister and others are working on it and have decided to import oxygen and are also exploring the remotest possibility of generating oxygen from wherever it is possible.

The court was hearing submissions by the counsel for Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, Jaipur Golden Hospital, Batra Hospital and Saroj Super Speciality Hospital here over shortage of oxygen for treating seriously-ill COVID patients.

"You rest assured that we will hang that man. We will not spare anyone," the court said while telling the Delhi government to give one instance of any official at the central, state or local administration obstructing the pickup of oxygen supplies.

The court told the Delhi government to inform the Centre also about such officials of the local administration so that it could take action against them.

It noted the problem that Delhi continues to face arises primarily on account of the fact that supply of oxygen even at the allocated rate is not taking place.

With regard to the "dire need" for oxygen by these hospitals, which claimed they will run out of the same in less than an hour, the court asked the Delhi government to take into account the petitioner hospitals requirements also while distributing the oxygen received by Delhi.

The court also directed the suppliers and re-fillers of oxygen to give to the Delhi government nodal officer the details of the oxygen supplied by them to the various hospitals in the national capital, saying "there has to be transparency" on this aspect.

It said the information shall include how much oxygen was supplied to each hospital and when.

A direction was also issued to the Delhi government to communicate to all the hospitals and nursing homes in the national capital the details of its new team -- comprising 10 IAS and 28 DANIPS officers -- constituted for monitoring the oxygen distribution in the national capital.

The court also asked the Centre when the 480 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day allocated for Delhi would see the light of the day.

"You (Centre) had assured us (on April 21) that 480 MT per day will reach Delhi. Tell us when will it come? We want a definitive date. The 480 MT per day is still to see the light of the day, the bench said, adding that citizens of Delhi cannot be left to die like this.

The query came after the Delhi government said it was getting only 380 MT oxygen per day over the past few days and it received only around 300 MT on Friday.

The central government said one of the reasons for the shortage in supply was due to the Delhi government not providing cryogenic tankers for picking up liquid oxygen.

Delhi government, represented by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, told the court that it was not an industrial state and therefore, did not have access to such tankers.

The SG said various states are making arrangements for converting existing tankers for storage of oxygen or are procuring the same from other sources and the Delhi government too should make endeavours in that direction.

The court questioned the Delhi government officers as to what endeavours they have made to secure tankers to get the supply of oxygen allocated to it by the Centre.

The court directed the Delhi government to take steps to procure the tankers, saying it should not leave it entirely on the central government. The Centre and Delhi government should work together on this issue, it said.

The court also asked the Delhi government to go over the national allocation plan for oxygen and give suggestions on re-working it, so that the national capital can get oxygen from nearby sources and the suppliers allocated to it can supply to other states.

The suggestion by the court came in view of the fact that three of the sources of oxygen supply for Delhi are located in Bengal and Odisha and transportation from there via Railways would take time.

The SG said the allocation plan was a "floating plan" and can be looked into again as "nothing is cast in stone". "Whatever permutation and combination is possible, is being done," he told the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Another Delhi hospital reports twenty deaths due to scarcity of oxygen ||Twenty critically ill patients died overnight at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi amid a serious oxygen crisis, officials said on Saturday. "The oxygen pressure has dipped as we are running out of stock," Dr D K Baluja, the medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital, told PTI. The incident comes after Friday's tragedy at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital where twenty-five Covid-19 patients died over 24 hours. Sources said “low pressure oxygen” was the likely cause of the deaths in Ganga Ram, one of the city’s biggest and most high-profile hospitals, where healthcare staff were reduced to manually ventilating patients in the intensive-care unit and emergency department. The deaths in two of the top most infirmiries of the city lays bare the crisis that is engulfing the national capital at the moment. Dr. DK Baluja, while talking to NDTV.com said, "We had been allotted 3.5 metric tons of oxygen from the government. The supply was to reach us by 5 in the evening, but it reached around midnight. By then, 20 patients had died." He said the hospital has over 200 patients and they had only half-an-hour of oxygen was left at 10:45 am. It received the last refill of oxygen around midnight, after hours of delay. At least 215 Covid patients admitted at the hospital are critical and in dire need of oxygen, including 35 who are in the ICU, he added. "Nobody has promised anything. Everybody is saying we will do our best," the medical director said when asked if the hospital received any help from the government. Jaipur Golden Hospital is the second hospital in the city to send an SOS over shortage of oxygen on Saturday morning. Earlier Moolchand hospital, in a tweet, appealed for urgent help from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lt Governor Anil Baijal. More than 130 Covid patients are on life support, it stressed. "Urgent sos help. We have less than 2 hours of oxygen supply @Moolchand_Hos. We are desperate have tried all the nodal officer numbers but unable to connect. Have over 135 COVID pts with many on life support #. @ArvindKejriwal @CMODelh i@LtGovDelhi @satinderjain26 @PMOIndia (sic)," read the tweet put out by Moolchand Healthcare Saturday morning. The hospital has stopped admitting new patients till it resolves the issue, sources told NDTV.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||India logs record 3.46 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,624 casualties in a day||A record single-day rise of 3,46,786 coronavirus cases pushed India's tally of infection to 1,66,10,481, while active cases crossed the 25-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll rose to 1,89,544 with a record 2,624 more fatalities in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. With a steady increase, active cases in the country reached 25,52,940 and comprise 15.37 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 83.49 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease rose to 1,38,67,997, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.14 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 last year, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of a total of 1.50 crore COVID-19 on April 19 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 27,61,99,222 samples have been tested for COVID-19 till April 23 with 17,53,569 of them being examined on Friday. The 2,624 new fatalities include 773 from Maharashtra, 348 from Delhi, 219 from Chhattisgarh, 196 from Uttar Pradesh, 142 from Gujarat, 190 from Karnataka, 78 from Tamil Nadu and 75 from Punjab. A total of 1,89,544 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 63,252 from Maharashtra, 14,075 from Karnataka, 13,395 from Tamil Nadu, 13,541 from Delhi, 10,825 from West Bengal, 10,737 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,264 from Punjab and 7,579 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Covid cases: Supreme Court’s intervention wrong, wrong, wrong, says Congress||The Congress on Friday said the Supreme Court’s intervention in Covid cases on Thursday was “wrong, wrong and wrong” and demoralising for the high courts, which were doing an excellent job of monitoring the authorities’ anti-pandemic actions and providing relief to aggrieved petitioners. “It is wrong because the Supreme Court should not at the 11th hour, with one day’s notice, and on the very last day of the incumbent Chief Justice of India’s term of office, have virtually paralysed ongoing action in the country giving a healing touch to local problems at the local level,” Congress spokesperson and senior lawyer Abhishek Singhvi said on Friday. “It is wrong because it may have the unintended effect of legit(imising) the utter failure of the central government on all fronts in its anti-Covid policies and actions.” Certain oral observations by the apex court on Thursday had been construed as reflecting an intention to transfer to itself all the Covid-related cases pending with the high courts, which have censured the central and state governments’ failures. On Friday, the bench — headed by outgoing Chief Justice S.A. Bobde — clarified it did not intend to restrain the high courts and chided senior lawyers heading associations that had moved intervention applications opposing any such move. Singhvi, however, suggested that even without an actual directive, the court’s observations of Thursday would be enough to send high court judges a strong signal and cause them to “hesitate in passing orders”. Singhvi said: “Amid this crisis, the Supreme Court’s intervention on April 22, 2021, is totally uncalled for. Unfortunately, it is wrong, wrong and wrong.” “It is wrong because such orders have a demoralising, chilling, paralysing and negative effect on the excellent work being done by other non-governmental institutions of governance, including high courts,” Singhvi said. “It is wrong because the Supreme Court, having been unable or unwilling to take hard, concrete steps for solution and significant mitigation of Covid-related hardships over the last 15 months, has in fact intervened at the peak of the crisis in a manner which may well retard and impede effective ongoing solution-oriented measures.” Singhvi continued: “It is wrong because decentralisation (and) not overcentralisation —judicial, administrative or societal — is the need of the hour.” Asked if the Congress was attacking Chief Justice Bobde, Singhvi said: “We are not criticising a person but an approach, an institutional fallacy. Can you find fault with even a single issue that I have raised? It is not about any individual, we are willing to point out any wrong intervention… on any issue in a constructive spirit.” Singhvi also appeared to allude to the appointment of senior advocate Harish Salve, who doesn’t live in India and is known for his intimacy with the Narendra Modi government, as amicus curiae (friend of the court) in the case. “It is wrong because it in fact enhances the closed and incestuous circle of the central government or connected/ affiliated persons and seeks to find a solution from among those responsible for the crisis in the first place,” he said. Salve recused himself from the case on Friday, taking umbrage at comments about his perceived closeness to Justice Bobde. Singhvi went on: “It is wrong because the order is narrow-based in terms of persons. It does not involve any other of the diverse stakeholders — NGOs, genuine bona fide public-spirited individuals, members of the Bar with a proven track record in such matters, experts, unbiased, objective and non-affiliated persons of eminence — and not even the attorney-general.” Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta has been representing the Centre in the case. The Congress has often in the recent past aired disappointment at the top court’s decisions. It had moved an impeachment motion against then Chief Justice Dipak Misra and criticised his successor Ranjan Gogoi, who later accepted the government’s offer of a Rajya Sabha seat shortly after retirement. When Rahul Gandhi talks about the Modi government capturing institutions, the ambit of his criticism is understood to include the Supreme Court as well. Told that the apex court had not stopped the high courts from taking up Covid-related matters, Singhvi said: “There is no formal ban but what is the messaging? They say, ‘We are worried’. They said the hearings in different high courts will be a hurdle in evolving uniformity of policy. Why did they issue notice? “The high court judges will now hesitate in passing orders. If lawyers and activists all around didn’t create a noise, they (the Supreme Court) would have passed an order. Why did they appoint a non-resident Indian as amicus curiae? He has recused now but why was he appointed in the first place?” Singhvi argued that the high courts, with their local focus, were better placed to deal with specific issues and provide relief to petitioners. “The high courts were efficiently upholding the citizens’ right to life and holding the government accountable in a more nuanced way — on a case-to-case basis. Then where is the need to prevent them from discharging their duties? Why was the office of the attorney-general undermined?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Oxygen runs low, 25 ‘sickest’ patients die at Ganga Ram  ||Twenty-five Covid-19 patients at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital died over 24 hours and the lives of 60 more hang in balance, officials said on Friday as the scramble for oxygen got more frantic in hospitals across Delhi. Sources said “low pressure oxygen” was the likely cause of the deaths in Ganga Ram, one of the city’s biggest and most high-profile hospitals, where healthcare staff were reduced to manually ventilating patients in the intensive-care unit and emergency department. The hospital announced the deaths shortly after 8am on Friday. An oxygen tanker reached Ganga Ram at 9.20am with supply enough to last about five hours depending on consumption, a hospital official said. “It is wrong to say the deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage. We provided oxygen to patients manually when the pressure dipped in the ICU,” Ganga Ram chairman Dr Devinder S. Rana said. “All we need is uninterrupted and timely supply of oxygen,” he said. (Rana told The Telegraph that the 25 patients who had died were all severely ill. “On the previous day, we lost 22 Covid-19 patients,” Rana said. “Many of the patients we receive are very, very ill. Some have died in the emergency department.”) More than 500 coronavirus patients, including around 150 on high-flow oxygen support, are admitted in the hospital. “Ventilators and BiPAP machines are not working effectively. Lives of another 60 ‘sickest’ patients at risk. Major crisis likely,” a senior hospital official said. (Two critical care specialists who do not work at Ganga Ram told this newspaper it was unclear why the hospital was using manual ventilation on Covid-19 patients in intensive care or the emergency department.) (“We use devices called ambubags for manual resuscitation for any emergency — it could be any respiratory emergency with or without low pressure oxygen lines,” one of the specialists told The Telegraph. (The other specialist in a leading government hospital said only the hospital could explain why they were using manual ventilation, or ambubags, on Covid-19 patients. “It appears to have been a desperate measure to save lives, but I’m speculating,” said Dhruv Chaudhry, senior professor of critical care medicine at the Institute of Postgraduate Medical Sciences, Rohtak Haryana. (Chaudhry and other doctors managing Covid-19 patients said unusually large proportions of deaths could be expected from hospitals that receive some of the sickest patients. “We lost 17 patients over the past one day,” said Chaudhry.) On Thursday night, Ganga Ram officials had sent an SOS to the government saying they had only five hours of oxygen left. “At 8pm, oxygen in store is for five hours for peripheral use till 1am and less for high-flow use. Need urgent oxygen supplies,” an official had said. The hospital had received some oxygen around 12.30am, but the stock had to be supplemented later, the sources said. Fresh supply On Friday night, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said it had managed to get an oxygen tanker in the nick of the time to save lives of a large number of patients admitted to its wards. Rana, the hospital chairman, told PTI that the hospital would make every possible effort to save every single patient who went to it and it was thankful for the efforts made by the central and the state governments for getting the much-required oxygen tanker to the hospital to meet the requirements needed to save the lives of patients admitted to its wards. “We have received a fresh supply of oxygen and that will help our patients in a big way,” Rana told PTI. “We had a severe scarcity of oxygen, but the state and central governments worked hard to ensure the supply and our patients are grateful to them,” he said. Max SOS The oxygen emergency was mirrored at the Max Hospitals. Max Healthcare sent out an SOS on Twitter at 7.43am to say that Max Smart and Max Hospital Saket had less than an hour of oxygen left for the about 700 patients admitted. “Awaiting promised fresh supplies from INOX since 1am… over 700 patients admitted, need immediate assistance,” it said, tagging the Prime Minister’s Office, the Union health minister and Delhi chief minister, among others. About two hours later, at 9.35am, it put out an update that it had received emergency supplies that would last two hours and was waiting for more. Outside the hospitals, too, despair escalated. Ambulances could be seen lined up, patients waited on stretchers, some visibly gasping for breath, and family members and friends desperately tried to get their loved ones a bed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Covid: AIIMS postpones entrance exam for admission to postgraduate courses ||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Friday postponed its entrance exam for admission to postgraduate courses in view of the pandemic’s debilitating second wave. In a notification, AIIMS stated that its Institutions of National Importance-Combined Entrance Test (INI-CET) scheduled to be held on May 8 had been pushed back and that the new exam date would be announced later. Students expressed relief. “It is a good decision to postpone the entrance test. It would have posed a great health risk considering the staggering rise in Covid infections,” a candidate said. Last Sunday, the National Testing Agency (NTA) had postponed the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main, held to select students for BTech courses in NITs and several other engineering colleges. The third round of the JEE Main was scheduled to be held on April 27, 28 and 30. The earlier two rounds had been held in February and March. The NTA has decided to conduct the exam in four rounds this year, once a month from February to May. Students have the option to appear in as many rounds as they want to improve their score. Those seeking admission into IITs will have to clear the JEE Main with a good rank to be able to appear in the JEE Advanced. The IITs have scheduled their JEE-Advanced exam on July 3. However, all the rounds of JEE Main would have to be held so that the top 2.5 lakh scorers can then proceed to the JEE Advanced. Last year, the JEE Main had been postponed twice and was held in September, after which the JEE Advanced was conducted. “Going by the ongoing trend of (Covid) cases, the JEE Advanced may not be held in July. This may push back the academic session by a few months,” said a senior faculty member of IIT Delhi. He said that last year, the first-year IIT students had been admitted in October and classes had started online in November. Usually, the admission is completed by July 15. “Even though the classes started late, the first semester courses could be covered by February. The next semester will be covered by May. The only difference is that the first-year students did not visit the institute (for in-person classes) this year,” he said. Except some school boards, all boards, including CBSE and CISCE, have postponed their Class XII exams. Universities admit students to undergraduate courses mainly on the basis of Class XII marks. The admission process will now be deferred. Rajesh Jha, former executive council member of Delhi University, said that most likely the online mode of education will continue in 2021-22 too. “The students will miss the campus environment, opportunities to clarify and take help of teachers directly and also peer group learning,” Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Chinese govt and Pakistan-based ambulance network offer to help India||The Chinese government and the Pakistan-based world’s largest ambulance network, the Edhi Foundation, have offered to help India in its efforts to battle the second wave of Covid-19 that has left the country gasping for oxygen. The external affairs ministry had not responded to either offer for hours after they were made early on Friday. The two proposals, strategic experts pointed out, are in stark contrast to the silence of the US to the crisis in India and also its refusal to ease restrictions on the export of raw materials needed for the production of vaccines. Asked if the Chinese government was in communication with India on providing help and the nature of assistance that Beijing could offer, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said: “The Chinese government and people firmly support the Indian government and people in fighting the coronavirus. China is ready to provide support and help according to India’s need, and is in communication with the Indian side on this. We believe that the Indian people will defeat the virus at an early date.” The chairman of the Edhi Foundation, Faisal Edhi, wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing concern about the “exceptionally heavy impact” that the pandemic has had on India and offering 50 staffed ambulances. He has personally offered to lead the humanitarian effort. “Our organisation understands the gravity of the situation, and we wish to lend you our full support, without any inconvenience to you, which is why we will arrange all the necessary supplies that our team needs to assist the people of India. Importantly, we are not requesting any other assistance from you, as we are providing the fuel, food and other necessary amenities that our team will require. Our team consists of emergency medical technicians, office staff, drivers, and supporting staff,” the letter said. All that the Foundation is asking from India is permission to enter the country, besides any necessary guidance from the local administration and police. “We are willing to deploy our team into any critical areas of concern at your direction without hesitation,” Edhi added. Twitterati was quick to point out how the Edhi Foundation’s offer, in particular, stood out in the face of US refusal to come to India’s help in vaccine manufacturing. “Pakistan’s Edhi Foundation, founded by the late great Abdul Sattar Edhi, has done what most of the world’s richest governments have declined to do: Extend an offer of assistance to an Indian nation deeply in need. This is the example that must be set, and that the world must see,” tweeted Michael Kugelman, South Asia senior associate at the Washington-based Wilson Centre. Happymon Jacob, a professor at JNU, tweeted: “The US refuses to help India with vaccine raw materials when the latter faces its worst humanitarian crisis! With friends like this, who needs enemies?!.” He did not refer to the Chinese or the Edhi offer but the swipe appeared to be at India’s foreign policy choice of sidling up to the US on various fronts. Responding to a question on when the Joe Biden administration will reply to Indian requests to ease the restrictions on the export of raw materials needed for making vaccines, a US state department spokesman said on Thursday: “The United States first and foremost is engaged in an ambitious... effort to vaccinate the American people. That campaign is well underway, and we’re doing that for a couple of reasons. “Number one, we have a special responsibility to the American people. Number two, the American people, this country has been hit harder than any other country around the world — more than 550,000 deaths, tens of millions of infections in this country alone.... It’s, of course, not only in our interest to see Americans vaccinated; it’s in the interests of the rest of the world to see Americans vaccinated. “The point the secretary has made repeatedly is that as long as the virus is spreading anywhere, it is a threat to people everywhere. So as long as the virus is spreading uncontrolled in this country, it can mutate and it can travel beyond our borders. That, in turn, poses a threat well beyond the United States.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Anti-Covid measures: Supreme Court clarifies after criticism from lawyers’ bodies ||The Supreme Court on Friday said it had neither restrained nor intended to restrain the high courts from monitoring governments’ anti-Covid measures, the clarification following criticism from lawyers’ bodies that said the apex court should not take over the mantle itself. The court asked the Centre to submit a “national plan” to combat the Covid resurgence by Tuesday, the next date of hearing. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court) in the matter, recused himself citing insinuations about his purported closeness to outgoing Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde. The bench of Justices Bobde, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat expressed displeasure at media reportage about the top court’s perceived intention of transferring to itself the Covid-related cases pending before the high courts. Certain oral observations by the apex court on Thursday had been construed as reflecting such an intention and invited opposition from the Supreme Court Bar Association, led by senior advocate Vikas Singh, and the Gujarat High Court Bar Association, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave. Both organisations had filed intervention applications opposing any such move, on the ground that the high courts were better equipped to deal with local issues. When the matter resumed on Friday, Justice Rao asked Singh: “You have read the order. Is there any intention to transfer the case? Mr Singh, listen to us, even before reading the order there was criticism about something which was not there in the order. This is how the institution is being destroyed by senior members of the bar.” Justice Rao told Dave: “Mr Dave, you have imputed motive to us without reading the order.” Dave responded: “It was not about imputing motives. It was a question of genuine perception. The whole country thought that this would happen. We love you, but we have every right to voice our concern as citizens of this country.” He then remarked that in the past too “certain orders” had been passed. Justice Bhat intervened to say: “We never said a word and did not stop the high court. We asked the Centre to go to high courts and report to them. What kind of perception are you talking about? Talk about these proceedings -- what past are you referring to?” Dave said: “Your Lordships always indicate in the order that the high courts are free to continue the proceedings. Your Lordships did not do it here (in Thursday’s order).” On Thursday, the bench was hearing a plea for reopening a controversial Sterlite plant in Tamil Nadu when it seemed to suggest it might take over the Covid cases from the high courts to avoid “confusion and diversion of resources”. It further indicated that only state governments, and not the high courts, had the power to declare lockdowns. Earlier, the high courts of Calcutta, Allahabad, Bombay and Delhi had rapped central and state authorities, including the Election Commission, for their failure to contain the Covid second wave. On Friday, when Justice Rao said senior lawyers like Dave were expected to protect the institution’s image, the senior counsel remarked: “We have always protected the institution.... An objective criticism only strengthens the institution rather than undermining it.” Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, intervened to say that senior advocates cannot go by perceptions but only by legal orders. Dave retorted: “You (Mehta) are the last person to be making this argument. You have been defending the government based on perception….” Singh and Mehta then argued over the solicitor-general’s statement in the court last year that there were no stranded migrants on the roads – a claim the court had straightaway accepted. Apparently exasperated at the argument between senior lawyers, Justice Bobde threatened to close the proceedings. “We may have to shut off the mikes and the screens if it continues like this. Don’t bring it to that,” the Chief Justice said while adjourning the matter till Tuesday. Salve recusal Earlier during the hearing, Salve had sought recusal as amicus curiae saying he didn’t want people to talk about how he had been friends with the Chief Justice “from my school-college days” or allege a conflict of interest. Justice Bobde tried to dissuade him, saying his appointment was a “collective decision of the bench” but Salve persisted with his plea. Justice Bobde said: “We will honour your sentiments. The only thing is that we’ll have to start looking for some amicus curiae who we don’t know in future.” He went on to say “Unfortunately, I don’t have any future in the judiciary now” – a reminder that Friday marked his last day in office before retirement. The court adjourned the matter till Tuesday to enable the Centre and the Tamil Nadu government to file their replies. The Centre and Vedanta Limited have jointly sought reopening of the company’s controversial copper smelting plant in Tuticorin so that it can manufacture 1,000 tonnes of oxygen a day to help meet a national shortage. The Tamil Nadu government had shut the factory down in May 2018 after police firing killed 14 protesters who were demanding its closure on environmental grounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Arvind Kejriwal goes live with oxygen request to Narendra Modi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday live-streamed on television images of him pleading before Prime Minister Narendra Modi with folded hands to ensure oxygen supply to hospitals in the capital and accusing neighbouring states of holding up oxygen trucks, leaving the Centre embarrassed and angry. With some television channels beaming live images of Kejriwal and Modi from the meeting of the Prime Minister with the chief ministers of the 11 worst affected states, the timing could not have been worse for the government that has appeared completely unprepared for the pandemic surge and faced unprecedented criticism for the shortage of life-saving oxygen that has worsened treatment outcomes. “Will the people of Delhi not get oxygen since there is no oxygen-producing plant here?” Kejriwal was seen telling Modi in the live telecast of the videoconference. “Please suggest whom should I speak to in the central government when an oxygen tanker meant for Delhi is stopped in another state,” the Delhi chief minister added. “We fear a big tragedy may take place in Delhi and then we will not be able to forgive ourselves. I appeal to you with folded hands to direct chief ministers to ensure unhindered movement of oxygen trucks meant for Delhi,” Kejriwal told Modi. When the government realised that a good part of Kejriwal’s intervention during the meeting had gone live on TV, they fumed and fretted and accused the Delhi chief minister of making what transpired at the meeting public. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra released a video showing Modi chiding Kejriwal for live-streaming an “in-house” meeting. “What is happening is strictly against our tradition and protocol that a chief minister is showing live telecast of an in-house meeting,” Modi tells Kejriwal. “This is not appropriate. We should maintain restraint.” Kejriwal replies: “Ok, Sir, we will be careful in future.” Patra tweeted along with the video: “If his politics was telecast live, his apology too should be for the public to see….” Kejriwal later expressed “regret” in a statement, saying that “there has never been any instruction, written or verbal, from the central government that the said interaction cannot be shared live”. “However, if any inconvenience was caused we highly regret that,” the statement from Kejriwal’s office added. Delhi’s hospitals, including the top ones, have been facing an acute shortage of oxygen. Hospitals and doctors have taken to social media to highlight depleting stocks and make desperate appeals for help. People have also used social media to arrange for hospital beds, oxygen and medicines for their Covid-afflicted relatives, strengthening the impression that the Centre has abdicated its responsibilities and left the citizens to fend for themselves in this hour of grave crisis. Twenty-five “sickest” Covid patients died at the prestigious Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi on Thursday due to oxygen shortage. The central government is solely responsible for the supply of oxygen. As people have been left grasping for breath, several states have complained about lack of oxygen. In the video that was streamed live, Kejriwal first thanked the Prime Minister for enhancing Delhi’s quota of oxygen and then went on to accuse neighbouring states of blocking supply, without naming any. There have been complaints that tankers ferrying oxygen have been blocked in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, both ruled by the BJP. The Delhi chief minister sought Modi’s intervention, saying if the Prime Minister made one call to the chief ministers of the neighbouring states, oxygen tankers would not be held up. Kejriwal also flagged the issue of dual vaccine pricing announced by the Serum Institute of India without naming the company. “One company has announced vaccine rates and has said that while it will give at the rate Rs 150 per dose to the Centre, it will be Rs 400 for states,” he said. “How can there be two rates for the same thing in one country?” Kejriwal asked. “It should be one nation, one rate,” he added. The chief ministers of Congress-ruled Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh later tweeted to say that they too flagged the dual pricing of vaccines and urged the Prime Minister to ensure that states get the shots at the same price as the Centre. Serum had earlier clarified that according to a previous deal, they are to supply the first 100 million doses of Covishield to the Centre at Rs 150 per dose, after which Rs 400 will be charged from the Union government as well. The chief ministers also asked for a “vaccination plan” to be made available to the states to implement the Centre’s decision of inoculating all adults. The oxygen crisis was also raised by several chief ministers. Ahead of the meeting with the chief ministers, Modi chaired a meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers to discuss ways to tide over the crisis. Modi told the chief ministers that “if we work as one nation, there will not be any scarcity of resources” and claimed that the railways and the air force have been deployed to reduce travel time of oxygen cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Why these shortages, asks Congress ||The Congress on Friday wondered why a credible national infrastructure to manage Covid wasn’t set up in the last 15 months and why India was grappling with shortages of everything — from oxygen to hospital beds and medicine. “This government is defined by shortages, shortcomings, and short-sightedness,” said Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi, lamenting that the lack of preparedness brought India to such a situation that the second wave is now being described as the “worst in the world”. Rahul Gandhi also blamed the Narendra Modi government for the crisis, arguing that deficient medical assistance, not Covid, was pushing the number of casualties. “Corona can cause fall in oxygen level. But it is oxygen shortage and lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths. The Government of India, this is on you,” he tweeted. Rahul also pointed at the government’s wrong priorities such as the Central Vista project at a time there were not even enough testing facilities, medicine and vaccines available to the people. Arguing that advance planning and foresight could have prevented this alarming situation, Singhvi said: “The priorities of the Prime Minister and the home minister reflect that they have entirely become inefficient, incompetent, and indifferent towards the Covid crisis. “Why did they relocate themselves to Bengal, despite the home ministry being the nodal agency for managing Covid? When a single person sitting inside the car is liable for punishment for not wearing mask, Shah was doing road shows in Bengal amid thousands of people without wearing a mask.” Singhvi added: “The devastation has sparked outrage at the lack of preparation among officials who believed that the worst of the pandemic was over. Only two months ago, India was revelling in its success of reining in the spread of the virus…. Now it is reporting almost 3.5 lakh infections and 2,500 deaths a day. India currently stands at the first position in the world and is taking nine days to double the cases.” Among the questions raised by Singhvi was the differential pricing of the vaccine. “A vaccine is certainly a public good at the time of such an emergency. Under a declared disaster of the pandemic, why has been a differential pricing brought in place?” He also asked: “Why is the government under reporting cases of infections and deaths? Why have the number of tests gone down in places like Delhi, which is hardly conducting 1 lakh tests per day? Why is it taking 3-5 days to get the report of a Covid test? Why is it taking as long as 6-8 hours for people to stand in the queue to get tested for Covid? Why has the Prime Minister not yet opened up on the PM CARES fund? When will he hold himself accountable for the money contributed by the citizens? When will he begin to really CARE?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Coronavirus: Five patients die in Madhya Pradesh, oxygen shortage blamed||Five coronavirus patients admitted to the ICU of a private hospital in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, died on Thursday night allegedly after its oxygen supply ran out. The incident at Galaxy Hospital came amid a grave medical oxygen shortage in many parts of the country. “According to the family members, the patients died after the stock of oxygen got over,” said city superintendent of police Dipak Mishra. The hospital management, however, was not available for comment despite several calls. A police team, which was on patrolling duty in the area, reached the spot after receiving information about commotion and loud protests by patients’ relatives outside the hospital. The relatives alleged that their loved ones died because of lack of oxygen as the stock got exhausted, Mishra said. “We have set up a four-member committee to probe the deaths,” said district collector Karamveer Sharma in a video message. The committee comprises a joint collector, a doctor, a senior police official and deputy collector (who has the responsibility of monitoring the medical oxygen supply in district). The panel will probe why despite regular supply of oxygen the incident took place, the collector said. Authorities are regularly monitoring the supply of oxygen to government and private hospitals, he added. According to Mishra, a vehicle which was ferrying 10 oxygen cylinders to the hospital broke down late at night. A police team was then rushed to the supplier to collect the cylinders. “Another vehicle was arranged and the cylinders were brought to the hospital,” he said. Family members of the deceased urged the police to conduct an inquiry. “We are waiting for a written complaint to start a probe,” the city SP said. BJP MLA and former health minister Ajay Vishnoi claimed there was no shortage of oxygen in Jabalpur and blamed the hospital for “poor management”. ”The hospital should have made arrangements for the supply of medical oxygen in advance considering the requirement. There is no shortage of medical oxygen in the district,” he said. Congress MLAs Tarun Bh­anot, Lakhan Ghanghoria, Vi­n­ay Saxena and district unit pr­esident Dinesh Yadav lod­g­ed a protest with the collector. Saxena, MLA from Jabalpur North, said they requested the collector to ensure a proper monitoring of the su­pply.  He said private hospitals should enable family me­mb­ers to watch, through live vi­deo, the treatment given to the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Over 1,700 doses stolen vaccines returned in Jind district||Over 1,700 doses of Covid-19 vaccine that were stolen from a government hospital in Haryana’s Jind district on Wednesday night were returned hours later by the unidentified thief who left a note saying he did not know these were coronavirus jabs. A total of 1,270 doses of Covishield and 440 doses of Covaxin were stolen from the hospital, the SHO of Civil Lines police station, Rajender Singh, said on Thursday. The matter came to light after a sanitation worker of the hospital found the locks of the store and deep freezer broken on Thursday morning. “The accused did not touch any other vaccine, medicine, cash in the store,” Singh said. Later, a man came on a motorcycle and left the vaccines at a tea stall outside the Civil Lines police station. He told people at the stall that the package contained food for a police official at the station, the officer said. The thief also left a note in which he expressed regret over stealing the vaccines. He said that he did not know that these were Covid-19 vaccines, he added. “It is possible that he wanted to steal some other vaccine or drug and returned what he had stolen after learning that it wasn’t that,” Singh said. A case has been registered in connection with the incident, he said. “We have got some clues and hope to make an arrest soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid: Logistics key to oxygen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has chaired two meetings on medical oxygen over the past two days amid SOS alarms from hospitals and concerns among experts that the key challenge is not production but transport logistics. Modi, in a video conference on Friday with domestic oxygen manufacturers, acknowledged the steps taken to increase oxygen production in recent days. But he underlined the need to increase the availability of oxygen cylinders and upgrade the facilities for oxygen transport. India’s medical oxygen production has increased by 3,300 tonnes per day over the past few days, with contributions from steel plants and oxygen producers and the diversion of industry oxygen, government officials had noted during another oxygen meeting chaired by Modi on Thursday. At a meeting on Friday with the chief ministers of the 11 states hit the hardest by the second wave of Covid-19, Modi said the country’s states should ensure that no oxygen tanker is stopped or stranded, no matter which state it is bound for. He asked the states to establish a “coordination committee” to ensure that as soon as the Centre allotted oxygen, it would be channelled to hospitals with the most immediate need. A public health specialist and health administrator who has worked with the Centre in the past said such meetings “are important” and serve “more than just optics as most people would take PM-chaired meetings very seriously”. “Particularly with Prime Minister Modi, when he says something should be done, everyone down the line is likely to implement it. To that extent, hopefully, we might see more of unhindered inter-state transport of oxygen,” the specialist said. Delhi had earlier this week reported difficulties in accessing oxygen from other states. Two Delhi hospitals said their oxygen tankers were stopped in Haryana. Another hospital in Delhi on Friday morning tweeted that it had “less than an hour’s oxygen supplies” and had been waiting for promised supplies since 1am. But other health experts have cautioned that merely enhancing oxygen production and ensuring seamless transport won’t immediately solve the crisis. “The critical bottleneck is transport logistics, distribution and storage, moving cylinders back and forth, ensuring that oxygen reaches in time those hospitals that need it the most,” said T. Sundararaman, a community medicine expert and coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a global network of health specialists. “Scaling up production is relatively easy; getting oxygen to exactly where it is needed is difficult. This is why on-site oxygen generation in hospitals is important.” The Centre had last October announced a plan and in January earmarked funds to install oxygen-generating plants in 162 government hospitals across India to support Covid-19 treatment. But only 33 plants had been installed until last week. The government has said the other plants will become operational by May this year. Doctors anticipate the crisis to persist and possibly worsen if the epidemic grows at its current pace. India on Friday recorded over 332,000 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of active patients to more than 2.4 million. “Our daily counts of new cases now exceed three times the peak counts during the previous wave. This has obviously put an intense strain on oxygen supply,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad. Oxygen industry executives say people have started buying oxygen concentrators – bed-side devices that can filter nitrogen and concentrate oxygen to medical grade to assist patients. “Stocks are being picked up every day by ordinary people, even those who won’t know how to use them,” said Indrajot Singh, a Bangalore-based executive with a private concentrator manufacturer. Doctors have cautioned that oxygen concentrators are supplemental devices that are ideally used in conjunction with alternative supplies of oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Supreme Court prods Tamil Nadu on Vedanta||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Tamil Nadu government to inform by Monday if it was willing to take over the oxygen plant of Vedanta Ltd’s closed Sterlite Industries copper factory in Tuticorin for producing 1,000 mega tonnes of oxygen to tackle the countrywide crisis. A three-judge bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bhat passed the directions after senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, appearing for the Tamil Nadu government, opposed the plea of both the Centre and Vedanta Industries to reopen the plant, citing the possibility of law-and-order problems. Fourteen persons had died in 2018 following police firing and clashes after activists had demanded the plant’s closure over environmental and health concerns. Since then the plant has been closed and subsequent attempts by Vedanta Industries to reopen it has been rejected by the apex court too. But on Thursday, Vedanta, represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, and the Centre, represented by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, sought temporary permission to reopen the plant to augment the country’s high demand of oxygen for Covid patients. Vaidyanathan said: “…There was a huge law-and-order problem. About 13 people had died…. They tried their best to persuade. Local media and a huge lot of people have been approached.” CJI Bobde countered, saying: “Yesterday you did not tell us about the law-and-order situation. People are dying due to lack of oxygen. Why can’t you take over the oxygen plant?” Senior advocate Colin Gonzalves, representing some of those opposed to the plant’s reopening, intervened to say that the state should be allowed to take over the plant for producing oxygen. “We have no problem that the state government takes over the plant,” CJI Bobde said. Mehta said the plant had the capacity of producing 1,000MT of oxygen. “The country is in need of oxygen,” he said, prompting the CJI to say: “You don’t have to labour on that point which we ourselves hold….” Tamil Nadu is aware about the same. Let the state produce it.” Vaidyanathan said he needed time to respond. He suggested that under the Disaster Management Act, the Centre had the power to take over the production at the plant. “We are not interested that Vedanata or A, B or C produce it. When people are dying, the state government says that we are not going to produce because of law-and-order problems. People are dying. It’s not a question of Vedanta,” CJI Bobde said. The bench directed the Tamil Nadu government to file its response by Monday through an affidavit and posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||15 Covid-19 patients die in Virar fire ||Fifteen Covid-19 patients died after a fire broke out at the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Palghar district of Maharashtra on Friday, police said. While 13 were charred to death in the ICU, one patient died while being taken to another hospital and another died during treatment, an official said. There were 83 patients in the hospital, 17 of them in the ICU when the fire broke out after a blast in the air-conditioning unit, the official said. TV visuals showed the smoke-filled ICU in disarray, with the ceiling falling off in places, beds and other furniture strewn around and kin of the deceased wailing outside the hospital. Five patients were rescued and shifted to other hospitals. The other patients in the hospital were not affected as the damage was confined to the ICU, the official added. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe, health minister Rajesh Tope said. Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya said authorities should check if there was a fire safety audit of the hospital, which is over 50km from Mumbai. District disaster control cell chief Vivekanand Kadam told PTI that an explosion in the AC unit of the intensive care unit preceded the Virar hospital fire. Relatives of the deceased have demanded that stringent action be taken against those responsible for the tragedy. The chief minister has announced a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of deceased. Those who suffered serious injuries would be given Rs 1 lakh compensation each. Maharashtra home minister Dilip  Walse Patil on Friday said he has asked the state DGP to conduct an in-depth probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Defence ministry to airlift 23 oxygen plants from Germany for use in military hospitals||The defence ministry on Friday decided to airlift 23 mobile oxygen-generating plants from Germany for use in military hospitals amid an acute shortage of the gas in several states grappling with a massive surge in Covid cases. The plants are expected to reach within a week. Several states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have sought immediate help from the Centre while some hospitals have moved the high courts to ensure oxygen supply for critical patients. An acute shortage of oxygen has caused several deaths in Delhi and other states. The Delhi government has also decided to airlift oxygen tanks from Odisha to ensure enough supply of the gas to hospitals in the capital. The decision to airlift 23 oxygen-generating plants came four days after defence minister Rajnath Singh announced the granting of emergency financial powers to the chiefs of the three services to make necessary procurement to enhance medical infrastructure in view of the pandemic. Defence ministry spokesperson A. Bharat Bhushan Babu said the imported plants would be deployed at the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) hospitals treating Covid patients. “Each plant has a capacity to produce 40 litres of oxygen per minute and 2,400 litres an hour. At this rate it can cater to 20-25 patients round the clock,” Babu said. The AFMS hospitals are straining under an increased load of serving personnel and retired veterans. A retired brigadier of the Indian Army died of Covid-related complications while on his way to Chandigarh from Delhi on Wednesday night after being allegedly denied admission in the capital’s hospitals, including the army facility. Sources in the defence ministry said no civilian was currently admitted in the army’s Base Hospital in Delhi as all the beds were occupied by serving personnel, veterans and their dependents. The defence ministry had on Monday directed the cantonment general hospitals maintained by the cantonment boards across the country to extend all necessary medical assistance and services to all patients even if they were not cantonment residents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Crowd-funding drive to help Kerala, shame Centre||Keralites have taken up a crowd-funding challenge to help the state government vaccinate people free of charge against Covid, and to register their protest against the Centre’s move not to fund the vaccination of those aged 18 to 45. In just 48 hours after #vaccinechallenge became visible on Twitter and other social media platforms, more than Rs 1.4 crore had been deposited into the chief minister’s disaster relief fund (CMDRF). Whether or not the initiative — in which the authorities have no role— raises the entire Rs 1,300 crore that the Kerala government believes it needs to vaccinate everyone above 18, chief minister Vijayan extolled is as typical of Keralites’ response to crises. “That’s the speciality of our state. We have already experienced Keralites’ power of unity,” Vijayan said at his media briefing on Wednesday. “This kind of popular intervention and support provides us with strength in all crises.” Some of the contributors suggested the initiative was a “slap” in the Centre’s face. Posts by many of the donors made it clear they had already received both vaccine doses and were chipping in only to help others. So far, the Centre has been giving vaccines free to the states so that those aged above 45 — currently the only eligible group — can be vaccinated free at government facilities and for Rs 250 at private ones. But from May 1, when those aged 18 to 45 too become eligible for the jab, it would be up to the states and the private healthcare sector to decide how and at what charges the new group would be vaccinated. Already, some of the vaccine makers have signalled increased prices. The money raised through the crowd-funding initiative is expected to help Vijayan keep his promise of vaccinating those aged 18 to 45, too, free of charge at government facilities. Kerala has 1.65 crore people in this age group, Vijayan said. “It’d be a slap on the Centre if it (total donation) reaches 1 Cr before CM’s press meet,” a man named Sreenath had tweeted on Friday. By 5pm, Friday’s donations alone had reached Rs 1.2 crore, deposited through 5,365 transactions — an average of Rs 2,236 per transaction — the CMDRF website showed. It’s unclear who started the initiative, which began on Wednesday afternoon. Many of the donors amplified the initiative’s message by sharing the QR Code of the payment gateways, making it easy for others to donate to the CMDRF. Several others shared their donation receipts to motivate people. Filmmaker Ashiq Abu and music composer Gopi Sunder were among the celebrity donors. “We’re in this and we’ll get through this — together. Together let’s help Kerala government to provide vaccines to every person in our state,” a Twitter user, Elina, wrote. Jithil Jishad tweeted: “This government stood with (the) people when they needed support badly. Now the people are standing with the government when it requires a hand.” A similar drive had been seen after the 2018 floods when the Centre refused to let the Kerala government accept donations from foreign countries and agencies for reconstruction. It led Keralites and others from across the world to send money to the CMDRF. A similar initiative was seen after the 2019 floods too. A total of Rs 4,912 crore was received during and after the two floods, according to the CMDRF website. Independently of the #vaccinechallenge initiative, more than Rs 524 crore has so far been deposited with the CMDRF since November 3 last year to help the state government fight Covid. These donations came in response to a state government appeal, though, and a lot of the money was contributed by corporate groups and rich NRIs. Kerala has so far vaccinated 67 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Assembly Polls 2021: How politicians are spending time after a gruelling schedule||Some are vacationing, some are tending to their fish and domestic animals while a few others have already begun ring-fencing their colleagues from possible poaching attempts. With electronic voting machines to be unlocked on May 2 to decide the fate of political parties in five states, the wait can be nerve-wracking for most politicians. While some have opted for a short break, others have begun preparing the ground. Leaders of Assam’s Congress-led 10-party Opposition alliance are having to contend with a perceived threat posed by the ruling BJP to poach their candidates or manipulate the results. So much so that the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) had flown their candidates to Jaipur and Raipur in Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh soon after the keenly contested three-phase polls ended on April 6. The two parties have not officially revealed the reasons for the outings but Congress insiders said they had been fearing horse-trading by the BJP. The ruling party has dubbed the trips “drama”, claiming it was sure to win the elections fair and square. “Usually, candidates and leaders take a break after the polls. They also need some time to unwind with families and friends, but this time everything has become so election-related, even our vacation. Our candidates visited Ajmer Sharif and other tourist destinations during the trip. Two Congress leaders were also with us,” an AIUDF insider said after their return on Friday. The source said the stay was cut short because of the surge in Covid cases. Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi undertook a short trip to Sohra (Cherrapunjee), a popular retreat and tourist destination in neighbouring Meghalaya. But that too turned out to be work-related. “My team accompanied me during my yatra criss-crossing the state from mid-February. (After the polls) we visited Cherrapunjee for two days. This was my way of expressing my gratitude for their support and cooperation. Now we are coordinating with all our candidates, doing the post-mortem, tying up loose ends for counting day — knowing fully well that the BJP can go to any extent. We are fortifying ourselves against any attempt they might make to hijack the democratic mandate..... We are trying to keep the morale high,” Bordoloi told The Telegraph. Some BJP leaders have undertaken trips to Puri, among other places, according to state unit core committee member Vijay Gupta. “Some of them have visited shrines, which is usually the case after every election. But by and large our people are in the state because of Covid-19 and Bihu,” he told this newspaper. Months of pre-poll preparations and a gruelling campaign later, DMK leader M.K. Stalin of Tamil Nadu left with his family for the hill-station of Kodaikanal near Madurai for a brief vacation on April 16. His first break in three months of hectic electioneering, Stalin is expected to return to Chennai on April 19. A day after the April 6 polls, Stalin had met political strategist Prashant Kishor of I-PAC. Kishor and his team briefed Stalin on how the polls were likely to go. The briefing cheered up Stalin, the younger son of DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi, sources close to him told this newspaper. Stalin, who recently got his second Covid-19 vaccine shot, doesn’t leave fitness to chance. He is back to his hour-long early morning yoga routine. Soon after the election, he revived his thrice-weekly cycling trips. According to a source close to him, Stalin cycles 25km every time he ventures out in Chennai. Film actor-turned-politician and founder of the Makkal Neethi Maiyam (MNM), Kamal Haasan, who took on the national president of the BJP’s Mahila Morcha, Vanathi Srinivasan, in Coimbatore South, is staying put in the city while his fans want him to shoot for his latest film Vikram. After his intensive campaign that took him to all 14 districts in as many days, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his predecessor Oommen Chandy of the Congress tested positive for Covid-19 the same day. While Vijayan has since recovered and moved to home quarantine, Chandy is still in hospital. A workaholic, Vijayan was forced to stay off work while at the hospital. “He has resumed his regular work to some extent after returning home,” an aide of the chief minister told this newspaper. The national general secretary of the Indian Union Muslim League, P.K. Kunhalikutty, 70, continues with his “regular routine” — prayers, exercise, light diet, meeting people and spending time in his garden. Having started fasting during Ramazan, Kunhalikutty who returned to state politics after resigning from the Lok Sabha to contest from Vengara in Malappuram, didn’t have to tweak his activities too much. “There is no major change in his post-poll daily schedule since he continues to wake up at 4.30am, do his namaz, walk in the courtyard, have black tea and read newspapers before breakfast,” said an aide. The time around sunset each day is reserved for tending to the fish in his pond, and his goats and chicken. “Like every Ramazan, he is readying 10,000 dry ration kits to be distributed among the poor,” the aide said. One of the most-discussed new arrivals in the BJP, “Metroman” E. Sreedharan, preferred to keep his post-poll activities private. “I am not interested in revealing these matters,” he told this newspaper. An aide said the technocrat was “not yet a politician” and hence “doesn’t talk like one”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Odisha police create separate corridor for oxygen tankers||Odisha police are creating a separate corridor for the movement of tankers carrying oxygen to ensure speedy delivery to states that are facing an acute shortage. “Two more tankers are on the way from Jajpur to Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. A dedicated corridor has been put in place. Odisha police escorting the same. We are committed to ensure prompt transportation for the service of thousands of needy patients,” Odisha police tweeted on Friday. It also released photos of cops escorting oxygen tankers to Indore and Mumbai. “Now two medical oxygen tankers. One for Indore, MP (21 ton) and second for Mumbai (25 ton) on way from Rourkela. Dedicated corridor established by Odisha Police for prompt and unhindered movement,” Odisha police tweeted. Odisha police have taken this initiative after different states urged Odisha to send liquefied oxygen on an SOS basis. On Thursday, Delhi and Maharashtra chief ministers — Arvind Kejriwal and Uddhav Thackeray — profusely thanked Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik for helping them when both the states grappled with oxygen shortage. “CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray spoke to CM@Naveen-Odishaji today to thank him for helping in procurement and transportation of oxygen from Odisha to Maharashtra and for standing by each other in these crucial times, as one nation truly!” tweeted the Maharashtra chief minister’s office. Telangana on Friday airlifted oxygen tankers from Odisha using defence aircraft. “As per the direction of CM Sri KCR, State government has airlifted oxygen tankers to the liquid oxygen plants in Odisha state in defence aircrafts. This is the first instance of using aircrafts for bringing oxygen and will reduce procurement time by three days,” tweeted  Telangana chief secretary office. The IAF has deployed two C-17 aircraft for the purpose. “Tata Steel’s Kalinga Nagar Steel Plant, Tata Steel BSL Limited, Dhenkanal, Jindal Stainless Limited Jajpur, Jindal Steel and Power Limited, Angul, Linda India Limited, Rourkela are providing the medical oxygen. The total capacity stands at 375 metric tonnes. We are in a position to dispatch more quantities of oxygen to different states,” said a senior official of the state health department. Odisha is in an advantageous position in oxygen production compared to other states as it has several steel plants. Oxygen is needed for making steel from hot iron ore. “We had never thought that steel industries will come as a big help in this way by sending oxygen and saving precious lives. We will ask all industries to set up oxygen plants in the coming days and become self-reliant,” said minister of steel and mines Prafulla Mallick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Car falls in Ganga near Patna, nine persons die||Nine persons of a family met a watery grave when a pick-up van fell off a dilapidated pontoon bridge across the Ganga near Danapur in Patna district on Friday. The deceased included four women and three children. Three persons, including the driver of the vehicle swam to safety. The incident occurred on Friday morning, but the bodies could be recovered only after several hours when deep divers started looking for them. A crane pulled the vehicle out of the river. The rescue operations are still going on as various accounts of the local people said that 18 to 25 people were travelling on the ill-fated pick-up van. One Sujit Kumar Singh, who was in the vehicle but survived, said that the deceased were the family members of one Madan Singh. They were returning after attending some marriage-related ceremony from their house in Nasriganj in Danapur sub-division to another house in Akilpur diara (riverine area) on the other side of the Ganga. The marriage was scheduled on April 26. “Our vehicle suddenly swerved, dashed against the railing of the pontoon bridge and fell into the river. I was sitting on top of the vehicle and managed to swim back to safety. The water was deep and the vehicle as well as most of the other passengers were not even visible,” Sujit said. Within no time thousands of locals rushed to the spot of the accident. They tried to launch a rescue operation, but water was quite deep. Finally, the district administration officials reached and did the needful. “The mishap happened due to the makeshift bridge caving in. We have taken out nine bodies and are looking for six others who could have been travelling in the vehicle,” Danapur station house officer (SHO) A.K. Sah told reporters. Meanwhile, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the deaths and directed his officials to provide Rs 4 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
