25-04-2021||India||Boris Johnson: Hundreds of vital medical equipments sent to India||As India battles a severe second wave of coronavirus pandemic, the UK on Sunday announced sending life-saving medical equipment including ventilators and oxygen concentrator devices to the country. The UK High Commission here said more than 600 pieces of vital medical equipment will be sent to India to support the country in its fight against COVID-19. It said ventilators and oxygen concentrator devices are due to leave the UK on Sunday and the first shipment is expected to arrive in Delhi early on Tuesday with further consignments reaching later this week. "We stand side by side with India as a friend and partner during what is a deeply concerning time in the fight against COVID-19," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said. “Vital medical equipment, including hundreds of oxygen concentrators and ventilators, is now on its way from the UK to India to support efforts to prevent the tragic loss of life from this terrible virus,” he is quoted as saying by the high commission. It said the assistance package, funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, includes ventilators and oxygen concentrators from surplus stocks. “It will be used by the government of India to provide vital medical treatment to those suffering from COVID-19 in India,” it said. The high commission said the support follows a request from India and Prime Minister Johnson's pledge for the UK to do all it can to help the country. “In total, nine airline container loads of supplies, including 495 oxygen concentrators, 120 non-invasive ventilators and 20 manual ventilators, will be sent to the country this week,” the high commission said. It said the equipment will be crucial in helping to save the lives of the most vulnerable in India. “The oxygen concentrators, for example, can extract oxygen from the air in the atmosphere so that it can be provided to patients, taking the strain off hospital oxygen systems and allowing oxygen to be provided in situations where hospital oxygen supplies have run out,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Kejriwal urges industrialists to provide oxygen, cryogenic tankers to Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to leading industrialists of the country to help provide oxygen and cryogenic tankers to Delhi amid an acute shortage of the life saving gas required to save serious Covid-19 patients.  In a letter to the industrialists, he said owing to an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid cases, the national capital was falling woefully short of required oxygen and asked them to treat his request as an SOS.  "Delhi does not produce any oxygen, and as you are aware, Delhi currently faces an acute shortage of oxygen. I would be grateful if you could provide Delhi government with oxygen along with cryogenic tankers," Kejriwal wrote in his letter.  The Railways is transporting four liquid oxygen tankers from Raigarh to the national capital and has asked Delhi government to arrange tankers for it.  "While we have received help from the central government in meeting our oxygen requirements, the ferocity of the second wave is rendering the supply inadequate," he stated.  The chief minister requested the industrialists to provide stocks of oxygen being used or manufactured by them and also sought their help in the import of cryogenic tankers.  In similar letters to chief ministers of other states, Kejriwal had on Saturday urged them to help Delhi with their spare oxygen and tankers.  On Sunday, Kejriwal had said that Centre and Delhi government teams were working in a coordinated manner to ensure steady supply of oxygen to hospitals in the city.  The Centre has increased Delhi's daily quota of oxygen from 480 MT to 490 MT, although the city is still receiving around 330-335 MT of it everyday, he had said.  The Delhi government has also set up a portal and directed the manufacturers, suppliers and hospitals to update figures of supply and consumption of oxygen on it every two hours.  This would help the government to find out shortage beforehand and ensure supply on time, Kejriwal had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Germany preparing a ‘mission of support’ for India: German Chancellor Merkel||German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday said her government is “urgently” preparing a “mission of support” for India as it battles a massive spike in coronavirus cases that has triggered a severe shortage of medical oxygen in several states. In a message, Merkel said Germany stands in solidarity with India in the “common fight” against the pandemic. “To the people of India I want to express my sympathy on the terrible suffering that Covid-19 has again brought over your communities,” Merkel said. “The fight against the pandemic is our common fight. Germany stands in solidarity with India and is urgently preparing a mission of support,” added. Her message was shared on Twitter by German Ambassador to India Walter J Lindner. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani too expressed solidarity with India as it reels under the second wave of the pandemic. “Our hearts go out to the Indian people & government as they fight the horrendous outbreak of Covid. On behalf of the Afghan people & government, we send our condolences to the families who lost their loved ones & wish a quick recovery to those who are suffering from the virus,” Ghani tweeted. Afghan foreign minister Mohammed Haneef Atmar said India has the prayers and support of all those nations that it has assisted generously with Covid-19 vaccines. “Our hearts & prayers go to all the great people of India at this time of national struggle against Covid-19. India has the prayers and support of all those nations that it has assisted generously with Covid vaccines. India will come out of it even stronger,” he said. On Friday, French President Emmanuel Macron expressed solidarity with India and offered his country’s support to it. “I want to send a message of solidarity to the Indian people, facing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. France is with you in this struggle, which spares no one. We stand ready to provide our support,” Macron said. India is struggling with the second wave of coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The country recorded over three lakh-plus coronavirus cases for the fourth straight day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Centre bans use of liquid oxygen for non-medical purposes||The Centre on Sunday barred the use of liquid oxygen for any non-medical purpose and asked manufacturing units to maximise its production and make it available to the government for medical use. The order by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla came amid a scarcity of medical oxygen in many parts of the country, particularly in Delhi, that have been hit by a fresh wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Exercising the powers conferred under the Disaster Management Act, the union home secretary directed the state and union territory governments to ensure that “use of liquid oxygen is not allowed for any non-medical purpose and all manufacturing units may maximise their production of liquid oxygen, and make it available to the government for use for medical purposes only, with immediate effect and until further orders.” Further, Bhalla directed that all stocks of liquid oxygen should also be made available to the government for use for medical purposes and no exception is allowed to any industry with regard to use of liquid oxygen. The home secretary referred to various measures taken so far to ensure uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country. He said it was considered necessary to restrict industrial usage of oxygen for ensuring availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country for management of COVID-19 patients and necessary order in this regard was issued on April 22 to restrict the use of industrial oxygen. The central government has reviewed the oxygen supply situation and has decided that with immediate effect, use of liquid oxygen, including the existing stock, will be allowed for medical purposes only, and that all manufacturing units may be allowed to maximise their production of liquid oxygen, and make it available to the government, for use for medical purposes only, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Air India to bring 600 oxygen concentrators from US for private entities||Air India will bring around 600 oxygen concentrators on its two US-India flights in the next two days, aviation industry sources said on Sunday. These oxygen concentrators have been ordered by private entities, the sources mentioned. Various hospitals across the country continue to grapple with a severe shortage of medical oxygen on Sunday even after receiving emergency supplies. Twenty people died at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital on Saturday amid a shortage of oxygen. Sources said Air India plans to bring around 10,000 oxygen concentrators for private entities in the coming weeks. When asked about this matter, Air India spokesperson said the airline is prepared to shoulder the responsibility of carrying oxygen concentrators or any consignment into India. “Obviously, Air India with its experience of international operations and wide-body fleet is fully capable of carrying a large volume of cargo consignments,” the spokesperson mentioned. “It goes without saying that we will continue to play a major role in transporting oxygen (equipment) and serve our nation in whatever role assigned to us,” the spokesperson said. A record single-day rise of 3,46,786 coronavirus cases pushed India's tally of infection to 1,66,10,481, while active cases crossed the 25-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll rose to 1,89,544 with a record 2,624 more fatalities in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||4 Covid patients die in Rewari hospital due to oxygen shortage||Four patients died in a private hospital here on Sunday allegedly due to a shortage of medical oxygen even as the district administration launched an investigation to find out the reason behind the deaths. After the incident, the relatives of some of the patients, who were admitted to the hospital functioning as a designated COVID facility, held a protest outside the building complex alleging there was a grave shortage of medical oxygen. Three patients died in ICU while one patient died in the ward. We have limited oxygen supplies. We are repeatedly telling administration about this and have been sending them reminders, a hospital official told reporters outside the building. We are sending empty oxygen cylinders to the vendors to load them again. Since 9 am, we are telling the authorities that we have limited stock, he said. He said the hospital has a per day consumption of 300 medical oxygen cylinders. There are 114 COVID patients admitted in the hospital, he said. Deputy Commissioner, Narnaul, Ajay Kumar, who is currently officiating as DC of Rewari district, said the allegations of oxygen shortage and four deaths were made by the hospital. Sub Divisional Magistrate, Rewari, Chief Medical Officer, Rewari and other officials are at the hospital to find out exact reasons that led to these deaths. They (hospital) are claiming that there was oxygen shortage. However, from the administration's end, regular supply has been given. So, we are finding out where the gap arose, all this is being investigated, Ajay Kumar told PTI over phone. Meanwhile, a relative whose aunt was admitted to the hospital could be seen pleading with some police officials outside the hospital telling them to do something immediately to ensure the facility gets adequate stock of medical oxygen. Notably, Haryana has seen a surge in coronavirus cases and fatalities during the current month. The demand for medical liquid oxygen has also increased in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||European Union promises aid to fight the second wave of Covid ravaging India||Hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of a rising number of coronavirus infection in the country The European Union on Sunday said it is pooling in resources to respond rapidly to help India's fight against the fast-spreading coronavirus pandemic. A senior official of the 27-nation powerful bloc said the European Union (EU) has already activated its Civil Protection Mechanism to mobilise support for India including supplying urgently needed oxygen and medicines. Under the mechanism, the EU plays a central role in coordinating its responses to emergencies in Europe and beyond. As India reels under a massive spike in coronavirus cases, President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said the EU stands in "full solidarity" with the people of India. “Alarmed by the epidemiological situation in India. We are ready to support. The EU is pooling resources to respond rapidly to India's request for assistance via the EU Civil Protection Mechanism,” der Leyen said in a tweet. EU Ambassador to India Ugo Astuto said the European Union, together with its member states, will do its utmost to support India in this difficult moment. Janez Lenarcic, European Commissioner for Crisis Management in charge of European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid, said the EU’s Emergency Response Coordination Centre (ERCC) is coordinating with member states to provide urgently needed oxygen and medicines to India. “Upon request for assistance by #India, we have activated the #EU Civil Protection Mechanism. The European Union will do its utmost to mobilise assistance to support people of India,” he tweeted. “Our #ERCC is already coordinating EU MS that are ready to provide urgently needed #oxygen & medicine rapidly,” he said. The overall objective of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism is to strengthen cooperation between the member states of the grouping in the field of civil protection. A joint approach helps to pool capacities and ensures that assistance meets the needs, said an EU official. In 2020, the mechanism was used more than 90 times, the official said. India is struggling with the second wave of coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of a rising number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra to vaccinate all adults for free||The Maharashtra government will float global tenders for providing affordable and quality anti-Covid 19 vaccines for free to adult citizens below 45 years, NCP leader and state Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday. Talking to reporters, Malik said the vaccination drive beginning May 1 will be taken up using the state's funds. "Global tenders will be floated to purchase affordable and quality vaccines," he said. Malik said the Centre had announced to launch a vaccination drive for the citizens above 18 years beginning May 1. "It is clear that the Centre will not provide vaccination for the people below the age of 45 years, which will be done by states," he said. Citing manufacturers of vaccines, the minister said Covishield vaccine will be available to the Centre at Rs 150 per injection, while the rate fixed for state government is Rs 400 per dose and for private hospitals Rs 600 per dose. The price of Covaxin is fixed at Rs 600 per dose for states and Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals, he said. "The issue was discussed in the last cabinet meeting and it was agreed to provide free vaccination for the people below 45 years. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has agreed for the same," Malik said. The NCP is a part of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by Uddhav Thackeray. On Saturday, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had said the Maharashtra government will float a global tender for Covid-19 vaccines and Remdesivir injections. Meanwhile, Malik thanked the Union government for increasing the supply of Remdesivir injections to Maharashtra, saying that raising the supply to 40,000 vials per day from 26,000 vials will ease the shortage of the key drug for a few days. "If the Centre accepts our demand for providing 50,000 vials per day,the Remdesivir shortage would end. CM Uddhav Thackeray is following up on getting the balance 10,000 vials stock," he said. Several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Sikkim etc, have reportedly announced free coronavirus vaccination for their adult population.  Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Sunday announced the state government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to people above the 18 years of age, who will be inoculated beginning May 1. He said the state government will spend about Rs 3,000 crore on the exercise. "The state government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to all people above the 18 years of age in the state at the cost of about Rs 3000 crore," Gehlot said in a tweet in Hindi. He also said it would have been better if the Centre had agreed to incur the cost of vaccination for the 18-45 age category, as demanded by state governments. For the past several days, Gehlot has been demanding the Centre bear the cost of vaccination of those above the 18 years of age. During a video conference with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently, Gehlot had raised this issue. In his tweet on Sunday too, he said, "It would have been better had the Centre, as demanded by state governments, met the cost of vaccinating the 18-45 age group, as it did in the case of those above 45 and 60. This would have saved states' budget from getting disturbed," he said. Meanwhile, Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma said that starting vaccination from May 1 for those above 18 will depend on the availability of shots. He said when state government officials spoke to the Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, they were told that vaccine is not available. The Centre had last week announced to vaccinate youths above 18 years of age starting May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Twitter, Facebook, others remove posts ‘critical’ of govt’s Covid-19 management||Twitter and other social media platforms have removed about 100 posts and URLs after the government asked them to remove content that was critical of the handling of the current medical crisis or spreading fake news around the pandemic. Twitter said it has notified the impacted account holders of its action taken in response to a legal request from the Indian government, while Facebook did not comment on the issue. Sources said the companies have complied with the order. However, it wasn't immediately known what the removed posts were. Meanwhile, government sources said the IT Ministry, on the recommendation of the Ministry of Home Affairs, asked the social media platforms to remove the posts and URLs (uniform resource locators) to "prevent obstructions in the fight against the pandemic and disruption of public order due to the said posts. They added that the order was issued in view of the misuse of social media platforms by certain users to spread fake or misleading information and create panic about the pandemic in the society by using unrelated, old and out of the context images or visuals, communally sensitive posts and misinformation about Covid-19 protocols . Although reports suggested that the posts critical of government handling of the medical crisis were asked to be removed, sources said the government is open to criticism and suggestions in the collective fight against Covid-19. However, they said it is necessary to take action against those users who are misusing social media during this grave humanitarian crisis for unethical purposes. Twitter removed or restricted access to more than 50 posts in the past one month at the behest of the government, including tweets that criticized its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Other posts removed showed pictures and videos of a recent Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh. Earlier this year, more than 500 accounts were suspended and access to hundreds of others in India blocked after the government ordered the microblogging platform to restrain the spread of misinformation and inflammatory content related to farmers' protests. India is registering a record number of Covid cases daily. The number of new Covid infections touched 3,49,691 cases and 2,767 fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday at 8 am. A Twitter spokesperson said when it receives a valid legal request, it reviews it under both Twitter Rules and local law. If the content violates Twitter's Rules, the content will be removed from the service. “If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter Rules, we may withhold access to the content in India only. The legal requests that we receive are detailed in the bianual Twitter Transparency Report, and requests to withhold content are published on Lumen,” the spokesperson said. Reports citing Lumen database (an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content) suggested that more than 50 posts - including those by a Member of Parliament, MLA and filmmakers - were removed by Twitter on government request. The microblogging platform emphasised that it is committed to the principles of openness and transparency, and that it tackles misinformation based on the highest potential for harm. It noted that it is tackling Covid-19 misinformation using a combination of product, technology, and human review.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Four Congress-ruled states accuse Centre of ‘hijacking’ Covid-19 vaccine stocks||Fours states ruled by the Congress and its allies Sunday accused the Centre of "hijacking" vaccine stocks from manufacturers, and expressed doubts they would be able to launch the inoculation drive to cover those between 18-45 years of age from May 1. They also accused the Centre of meting out "step-motherly" treatment to them, and urged the Union government to provide them free vaccine doses to vaccinate all adults. Addressing a virtual joint press conference, the health ministers of Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Jharkhand (ruled by Congress-JMM alliance) asked as to how they will vaccinate all adults when the Centre has already "taken away the stocks" and shots are not available to them. They said they are prepared for the next phase of vaccination drive from May 1, but the manufacturers have expressed inability to provide them vaccine shots. "How do we vaccinate adults of 18-45 years as Serum Institute has said they will not be able to provide vaccines till May 15," Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma said. "We have the capacity, but not the vaccine,"he said. "States should get the supplies. The Government of India should provide vaccines as per their requirements." The success of the drive depends on availability of shots, he said. Sharma said, "Our demand is that the Centre fully fund the vaccine. How can we fund it from our budget? No provision has been made by us in the budget." Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo said, "There is no way shots can be administered if the vaccine is not available. How will we provide vaccination? We are ready to vaccinate, provided we have the vaccines." He also alleged politics is being played on vaccination the way the prime minister's photo is put on the certificate of vaccination. "The country is being misguided. The Centre has made a joke of this," he said. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, "We are being meted out step-motherly treatment. The Centre should provide the vaccine and essential life-saving medicines." "If the Centre does not support us, how can we roll out the vaccination drive? We are only hand-to-mouth on vaccines. The Centre should allot the vaccine and provide it to us," Sidhu said. Jharkhand Health Minister Banna Gupta alleged the prime minister is trying to derive political advantage even during this raging pandemic. "Step-motherly treatment is being meted out to Congress-ruled states like us. The prime minister is politicising everything and we have to fight a dual battle of saving people from coronavirus and fighting politics," he said. "The Centre has hijacked their production capacity (manufacturers') and struck a deal for Rs 150 per dose. The government that talks of one constitution, one tax, is now trying to derive benefits out of pandemic by different pricing of vaccines," he said. "How will we launch (the next phase of vaccination drive), when vaccine makers do not have vaccines, (and) how will they provide us supplies. People will ask us to vaccinate, we have set up vaccination centres," he said, adding the Centre should allow them to purchase Remdesivir from Bangladesh, which is not being allowed. "On one side, we are being bound, on the other hand, an impression is being created that there is decentralisation of power to states," he alleged. The Centre last Monday announced its liberalised vaccination policy, making all adults eligible for Covid19 vaccine from May 1 and has asked states to procure vaccines from makers of their own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal extends lockdown in Delhi for another week||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi for another week, saying the severity of Covid-19 was unabated and the positivity rate has been as high as 36 percent in the last few days. The lockdown imposed on April 19 night will now continue till 5 AM on May 3, he said. It was scheduled to end at 5 AM on April 26 before extension. "We will have to watch the situation for a few more days whether the cases decrease or increase," he said. The chief minister said the onslaught of coronavirus has not subsided even as the government had imposed six days lockdown as a last weapon in its arsenal. "Everybody voted for the extension of lockdown. The positivity rate reached up to 36-37 percent in the past few days although it has slightly dipped now. It is around 29 percent today," he said. To keep watch on oxygen availability, the Delhi government has decided that the manufacturers, suppliers and hospitals will update supply and consumption data every two hours on a portal set up by it. He said the Centre has further increased Delhi's oxygen quota by 10 tonnes per day and hoped the chaotic situation due to the oxygen crisis in Delhi will end in a few days. "The Centre has increased Delhi's quota from 480 tonnes to 490 tonnes per day. But, we are yet to receive a full quota. Currently only 330-335 tonnes per day supply is being received by us," he said. The chief minister said his government is receiving much support from the Centre and both are properly coordinating to solve the oxygen supply problem. Delhi recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 deaths with 357 more people succumbing to the viral disease on Saturday as well as over 24,000 fresh cases. The city has reported nearly 2,500 deaths due to the deadly virus in a 12-day period Several hospitals in the national capital are grappling with severe shortage of medical oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Over 550 oxygen generating plants to be set up in public health facilities||As many as 551 dedicated pressure swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants will be set up in public health facilities across the country to boost availability of the life-saving gas amid reports of its shortage in several places battling the Covid-19 surge. The PMO said on Sunday that the PM Cares Fund has given in-principle approval for allocation of funds for their installation, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi directing these plants should be made functional as soon as possible. He said these plants will serve as a major boost to oxygen availability at the district level. Later, Modi tweeted, "Oxygen plants in every district to ensure adequate oxygen availability...An important decision that will boost oxygen availability to hospitals and help people across the nation." These dedicated plants will be established in identified government hospitals in district headquarters in various states and union territories, and their procurement will be done through the Health and Family Welfare ministry. The PM Cares Fund had earlier this year allocated Rs 201.58 crores for installation of additional 162 dedicated PSA medical oxygen generation plants inside public health facilities in the country, the PMO noted. It said the basic aim behind establishing PSA oxygen plants at government hospitals in the district headquarters is to further strengthen the public health system and ensure that each of these hospitals has a captive oxygen generation facility. Such an in-house captive oxygen generation facility would address the day-to-day medical oxygen needs of these hospitals and the district. In addition, the liquid medical oxygen (LMO) would serve as a top up to the captive oxygen generation, it said. Such a system will go a long way in ensuring that government hospitals in districts do not face sudden disruption of oxygen supplies and have uninterrupted access to it to manage Covid-19 patients and other sick persons needing such support. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Defeating Covid-19 our biggest priority, says Modi in Mann Ki Baat||Noting that the second wave of COVID-19 is testing people's patience and their capacity to endure pain, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that this "toofan" (storm) has shaken the country after it was full of enthusiasm and self-confidence after successfully tackling the first wave.  In his monthly Mann Ki Baat broadcast, Modi spoke to doctors, nurses and frontline workers, who shared their experience and views on the disease, and expressed confidence that people will soon come out of this crisis.  The over 30-minute broadcast was entirely focussed on the pandemic, which has been rampaging across the country for weeks, with Modi asserting that defeating the disease is the biggest priority.  Modi began the programme by taking note of people's sufferings.  "Many of our near and dear ones have left us untimely. After successfully confronting the first wave of Corona, the country was full of enthusiasm, full of self-confidence, but this storm has shaken the country," he said.  He urged people to go for vaccination against the disease and cautioned them against rumours about it.  The Centre, he said, will continue to provide jabs free of cost to the eligible people (those over 45 years of age).  "We have to accord priority to the expert and scientific advice at this time to win this battle," he said.  Modi also appealed to states to extend the benefit of the Centre's free vaccine campaign to the maximum number of people.  "The government of India is applying its entire might to give a fillip to endeavours of state governments. The state governments too are trying their best to fulfil their responsibilities," he said.  A doctor, whose conversation with the prime minister was played in the programme, noted that people are a bit scared about the pandemic situation, while saying that there is absolutely no need for it as 80 to 90 per cent of the infected people do not show any of these symptoms.  It is imperative that treatment protocol is as per the doctor's advice, he said.  Echoing his view, Dr Naveed Nazeer Shah from Srinagar urged people to follow COVID guidelines to avoid getting infected and to get inoculated.  The prime minister said while people are getting infected by the disease, they are also recovering from it in big numbers, and also spoke to one Preeti Chaturvedi of Gurugram, who shared her experience of dealing with the disease. She has now recovered.  Modi also lauded the help offered by citizens during the pandemic.  "I urge all of you to get vaccinated and we also have to take full care. 'Dawai bhi, kadai bhi', get vaccinated and maintain all precautions. Never forget this mantra. We will soon prevail together over this calamity," the prime minister said.  India logged a record 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections in a day taking it total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,69,60,172 while active cases crossed the 26-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll increased to 1,92,311 with a record 2,767 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||SC judge M.M. Shantanagoudar passes away in Gurgaon ||Supreme Court judge Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar died at a private hospital in Gurgaon, sources said on Sunday. He was 62. The mortal remains of the judge will be taken to his Rajaji Nagar residence in Bengaluru, where last rites will be conducted. Justice Shantanagoudar was admitted to the Medanta Hospital due to a lung infection and was in the ICU. His condition was stated to be stable till late Saturday evening, but deteriorated later, sources said. In a statement on Sunday, the apex court said: "It is, with profound grief, circulated for information that Hon'ble Mr. Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar, Judge, Supreme Court of India left for heavenly abode in the late evening of yesterday. The cremation will take place today i.e. 25th April, 2021 in Bengaluru, Karnataka." The statement, issued by Assistant Registrar Gagan Soni, has asked the secretaries to apprise about the demise and the last rites of Justice Shantanagoudar to all the apex court judges. Justice Shantanagoudar was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. He would have remained in office till May 5, 2023. He was born on May, 5, 1958, in Karnataka and got himself enrolled as an advocate on September 5, 1980. He was appointed as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court on May 12, 2003, and became a permanent judge in the court in September 2004. Later, Justice Shantanagoudar was transferred to the Kerala High Court, where he assumed charge as the acting chief justice on August 1, 2016. He became the chief justice of the Kerala High Court on September 22, 2016, before being elevated as an apex court judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||India logs nearly 3.5 lakh Covid-19 cases, 2,767 fatalities ||With a record single-day rise of 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 1,69,60,172, while active cases crossed the 26-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,92,311 with a record 2,767 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 26,82,751 comprising 15.82 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 83.05 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,40,85,110, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.13 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,79,18,810 samples have been tested up to April 25 with 17,19,588 samples being tested on Saturday. The 2,767 new fatalities include 676 from Maharashtra, 357 from Delhi, 222 from Uttar Pradesh, 218 from Chhattisgarh, 208 from Karnataka, 152 from Gujarat and 110 from Jharkhand and 104 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,92,311 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 63,928 from Maharashtra, 14,283 from Karnataka, 13,475 from Tamil Nadu, 13,898 from Delhi, 10,959 from Uttar Pradesh, 10,884 from West Bengal, 8,356 from Punjab and 7,616 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana sworn in as 48th Chief Justice of India||Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana, who had ruled against the Narendra Modi government over the Internet restrictions in Jammu and Kashmir and delivered several trend-setting judgments, was on Saturday elevated as the 48th Chief Justice of India. President Ram Nath Kovind formally administered the oath of office and secrecy to Ramana at a brief event held at the Rashtrapathi Bhavan where Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, outgoing CJI S.A. Bobde, judges of the Supreme Court and several other dignitaries were present. A former journalist with one of the leading Telugu dailies Eenadu, Justice Ramana will have a tenure of 16 months and will retire on August 26, 2022. In an interview to The Telegraph earlier this month, Justice Ramana had regretted that the nation, even after 74 years of Independence, continued to suffer from poverty and lack of access to justice for the downtrodden with a mind-boggling four crore cases pending across the courts in the country. “We can assert true accessibility (justice to all) when the person with the maximum disadvantage can still knock on the doors of the court of justice,” Justice Ramana had said while urging the Centre and states to coordinate to create a National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation to tackle the problem of massive pendency. Justice Ramana, known for his progressive views, is currently heading a bench monitoring the disposal of criminal cases against lawmakers within a year. He had passed a series of directives to the states to set up special courts to deal with the cases on a priority basis. Justice Ramana has been a part of a number of landmark judgments. Some of them are listed below: Freedom, democracy ⚫ In Anuradha Bhasin v Union of India (2020), the judgment ensured the eventual return of Internet connectivity in Jammu and Kashmir where it had been curbed since August 2019 — by linking it to the fundamental right of free speech. The bench also laid down certain parameters on curfews, holding that “Section 144 CrPC (which bans assemblies of more than five people) cannot be used to suppress legitimate expression of opinion or grievance or exercise of any democratic rights”. ⚫ In Foundation for Media Professionals v State (Union Territory of J&K), 2020, the judgment struck a balance between the fundamental rights and the concerns of State security and appointed a committee to ensure that any restrictions, if required, are narrowly tailored and not permanent in nature. ⚫ As part of a five-judge bench in Supreme Court of India v Subash Chandra Agarwal, Justice Ramana held: “The right to information and right to privacy are at an equal footing. There is no requirement to take an a priori view that one right trumps other.” The judgment boosted the case of RTI activists. Empowerment ⚫ In Kirti v Oriental Insurance this year, Justice Ramana’s opinion was key to recognising homemakers’ contribution to the family and giving them an equal status with the earning members. Women’s organisations hailed the judgment. ⚫ In M/s Fortune Infrastructure (now M/s Hicon Infrastructure) & Anr v Trevor D’Lima & Ors, Justice Ramana held that a consumer must be given delivery of their flat within a reasonable time even in the absence of a specified contractual clause. He held a consumer was entitled to a refund and compensation if the developer failed to deliver. ⚫ In Accused X v State of Maharashtra, Justice Ramana saved an accused with acute mental illness from the gallows by ruling that the courts must consider the mental condition of the accused after conviction. “The right to dignity of an accused does not dry out with the judges’ ink, rather, it subsists well beyond the prison gates and operates until his last breath,” he wrote. Politicians ⚫ In Shiv Sena v Union of India (2019), Justice Ramana highlighted the importance of the floor test to curtail the so-called practice of horse trading, and directed an immediate trust vote in Maharashtra. ⚫ In Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil v Karnataka Legislative Assembly  (2019), Justice Ramana observed that for political functionaries, “merely taking the oath to protect and uphold the Constitution may not be sufficient, rather imbibing the constitutional values in everyday functioning is required and expected by the glorious document that is our Constitution”. This was seen as a decisive statement on the Tenth Schedule, which was riddled with confusion and contradictory opinions. All business ⚫ In M/s Alcon Electronics v Celem SA, Justice Ramana paved the way for foreign decrees being executed in India. The business community hailed the judgment as crucial for international trade and commerce. ⚫ In Vidya Drolia v Durga Trading Corporation, his opinion has been cited as decreasing the burden on the courts by making arbitration more efficient in India. ⚫ In Sebi v Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel, relating to insider trading, Justice Ramana examined practices such as hedging to rule that stockbrokers’ use of price-sensitive confidential information to pre-emptively buy or sell shares was illegal. Sebi amended the law in line with his suggestions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Oxygen shortage is result of Modi govt’s failure, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday said the oxygen shortage that is killing Covid patients is the result of the Narendra Modi government’s failure to prepare despite early warnings. “India has 1.65 crore Covid cases and over 2,500 people are dying daily. Unfortunately, this is not only because of the pandemic; the government’s attitude, arrogance and failures are part of the causes for this tragedy,” he said. Maken pointed to the report of the parliamentary standing committee on health and family welfare, submitted on November 21 and tabled in the Rajya Sabha in February. “In the 190-page report, the word ‘oxygen’ appears 40 times. The report says on page 27: ‘The committee, therefore, strongly advocates national pharmaceutical pricing authority to take appropriate measures, for capping the price of oxygen cylinders so that availability, as well as, affordability of the oxygen cylinder is ensured in all the hospitals and for medical consumption. The committee also recommends the government for encouraging adequate production of oxygen for ensuring its supply as per demand in the hospitals’,” Maken said. He continued: “On page 35, the report said ‘The committee also recommends the (health) ministry to ensure the adequate supply of oxygen cylinder with appropriate price cap’. The empowered group set up by the government of India said on April 1, 2020, ‘In coming days, India could face the worst shortage of oxygen supply.’” “This was said when India had only 2,000 cases daily. We have storage capacity of 50,000 metric tonnes of oxygen. But no arrangements were made for supply of oxygen. Now Tatas are saying they will import cryogenic tankers.” The Congress had earlier pointed out that only 32 out of the 162 sanctioned oxygen plants are operational.Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Despite warnings in April 2020 (by the Empowered Group) and in Oct-Nov 2020 (by the Parliamentary Committee), why did the Government not take the steps it is taking since yesterday? Is this not gross and callous negligence? Will no one be held accountable? Should not the Health Minister and the Health Secretary be asked to resign? People crying for admission of patients in hospitals, people pleading with doctors to examine the patient, people carrying an oxygen cylinder on their back while bringing the patient, hospitals rushing to High Courts seeking oxygen supply.” Maken on Saturday said: “Of the eight sanctioned for Delhi by the Centre, only one is functioning.” He also hit out at the state government. “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spent Rs 355 crore on advertisements last year. This year’s budget for advertisement is Rs 467 crore. We are seeing his publicity every minute on TV channels. With Rs 882 crore (meant for advertisement), Delhi could have built 800 oxygen plants. They could have supplied not only to their hospitals but to the neighbouring states as well.” “In Congress-ruled Rajasthan, the state government sanctioned 37 plants and 24 have been made operational during the last few months. Thirteen are in advanced stage. Today, Delhi is facing such an acute crisis because the Centre and the state do nothing except sparring with each other.” The Congress also objected to the government’s lack of focus and wasteful expenditure with Rahul Gandhi tweeting: “Appeal politely to the Government to focus on vaccines, oxygen and other medical facilities instead of wasting money on PR and unnecessary projects. This crisis will deepen in the coming days. The nation must be prepared to face it. The current situation is unbearable.” In another tweet, Rahul wrote: “India needs vaccines, Mr Lying Machine.” He posted a chart that showed how India lagged behind in the vaccination drive with barely 1.4 per cent of the population getting two doses at a time the US had vaccinated 26.5 per cent, the UK 15.9 per cent, Italy 7.9 per cent, France 7.1 per cent, Germany 6.8 per cent, Brazil 4.3 per cent, Mexico 3.5 per cent and Indonensia 2.3 per cent. On vaccine pricing, Chidambaram said: “The Central Government’s decision to allow multiple prices for vaccines is discriminatory and regressive. States must unanimously reject the decision. The best way forward is for the state governments to jointly form a Price Negotiation Committee and offer to negotiate a uniform price with the two vaccine manufacturers. The joint purchasing power of the state governments will force the manufacturers to agree to a uniform price. States must take the initiative. The Central Government has abdicated its responsibility and surrendered to corporate profiteering.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Coronavirus: Defence facilities to provide health services to civilians||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said all health facilities of defence public sector undertakings and the Ordnance Factory Board have been allowed to provide health services to civilians infected with the coronavirus. Singh held a review meeting with the three services chiefs and took stock of the efforts of the defence ministry in contributing to the country’s fight against the second wave of Covid-19. “All health facilities of Defence PSUs & Ordnance Factory Board have been allowed to provide health services to local COVID-19 affected civilian population. The MoD officials and the three Services are closely monitoring the progress of various initiatives taken by the Ministry,” Singh said in a tweet after the meeting. India has recorded the highest one-day tally of new Covid-19 cases anywhere in the world. At least 45 Covid patients have died in New Delhi over the past two days after their hospitals fell short of medical oxygen. Singh said the Defence Research and Development Organisation was adding 250 beds by Saturday evening at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid hospital near Delhi airport, taking the total number of beds to 500. He said work was in full swing to establish a Covid facility in Lucknow that would become operational in the next 5-6 days. The defence minister said work was in full swing to establish a Covid facility in Lucknow that would become operational in the next 5-6 days. This hospital would be run by Armed Forces Medical Services in coordination with the Uttar Pradesh government. Since Friday, the Indian Air Force airlifted empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients. On Saturday, one C-17 transport aircraft of the IAF reached Changi airport in Singapore to bring high-capacity oxygen containers to boost the oxygen supply in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Shortage of oxygen kills 45 Covid-19 patients in Delhi ||At least 45 Covid-19 patients have died in Delhi over two days after their hospitals fell short of oxygen, doctors said on Saturday amid a crisis they say has been precipitated by the epidemic’s explosive growth and poor government planning and preparedness. Twenty patients with severe Covid-19 had died at the Jaipur Golden Hospital in northwest Delhi, hospital authorities said on Saturday, a day after the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in central Delhi reported 25 deaths following a fall in oxygen pressure in its critical care lines. On Saturday night, Ganga Ram was again in crisis mode, with an official saying: “The lives of more than 100 patients are at risk. We have oxygen that will last only 45 minutes to an hour.” Hospitals across Delhi are struggling with what one medical superintendent described as a “nightmarish scenario” in which their oxygen stocks get replenished only two or three hours before they are completely consumed. One south Delhi hospital received fresh supplies on Friday only 30 minutes before exhausting the existing stocks. “Patients are suffering; people have the right to oxygen. If the government cannot arrange for oxygen, it should admit this,” said Devinder Singh Rana, chairperson of Ganga Ram. The hospital on Saturday morning had 516 Covid-19 patients, including 128 on high-flow oxygen, but only 30 minutes of oxygen left. Max Healthcare, which runs a chain of hospitals, too issued an “SOS” on Saturday morning. “Less than 2 hours oxygen supplies at Max Hospital Gurugram and attached dedicated Covid centre…. Supplies expected at 10am diverted,” Max Healthcare tweeted, seeking “urgent help”. A senior official at Ganga Ram told The Telegraph that the hospital needed 3,000 cubic metres of oxygen to run its invasive ventilators but had been receiving only 500 to 1,500 cubic metres. The low supplies and high demand have led to a pressure drop in oxygen lines that feed the critical care facility and the ventilators. By 11pm on Saturday, Ganga Ram had issued its fourth SOS for oxygen to government authorities, hoping someone would help. “Alarms have begun to ring on ventilators and BiPap machines,” the official said. A BiPap is a ventilator-like machine that delivers oxygen. Given the low oxygen pressure, hospital staff — doctors, nurses and paramedics — at Ganga Ram have been using devices called ambubags, which have self-inflatable balloon-like structures, to manually ventilate critically ill Covid-19 patients, the administrator said. The 25 deaths on Friday had followed such manual ventilation. Twenty-nine patients who were on invasive ventilation were again receiving manual ventilation on Saturday, Rana said. “This is a grave situation. Ambubags are being used again; the doctors, nurses are exhausted. Our morale is low. This cannot go on for long.” Doctors attribute the oxygen crisis to both the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and what some public health experts see as the lack of preparedness and planning for transporting oxygen across the country in the event of a second wave of infections. The epidemic, measured by daily new cases, has grown five-fold nationwide over the past month – from around 62,000 new cases on March 26 to over 346,000 on April 23. In Delhi, however, the epidemic has grown 16-fold — from 1,500 new cases in late March to over 24,000 cases on April 23. “We’ve had a near 10-fold increase in our daily oxygen consumption,” said Sumit Ray, head of the critical care department at the Holy Family Hospital in south Delhi, where around 350 Covid-19 patients are on oxygen support or ventilators. “We also have many patients in the emergency department on oxygen.” Ray added: “We’re on the edge every day. Earlier, we used to get oxygen about once a week; now we need it every 20 to 24 hours.” The simultaneous demand from multiple hospitals has meant intense strain on the logistics of oxygen transport, which rely on a limited number of oxygen tankers. The Centre on Saturday tweeted a video of high-capacity oxygen tankers being loaded onto an Indian Air Force transport aircraft at Changi Airport in Singapore to be ferried to India. A public health expert said such actions should have been taken weeks if not months ago. The Union health ministry said the minister, Harsh Vardhan, on Saturday visited the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in Chhattarpur, Delhi, to oversee the “restarting” of the facility where 2,000 oxygen-supported beds are to be added in the coming days. But doctors say that’s no relief to critically ill patients currently struggling to survive. “Next impending oxygen crisis at Jaipur Golden Hospital. Over 200 lives at stake if liquid medical oxygen is not supplied by 9pm tonight,” Jaipur Golden’s administrators tweeted at 7.15pm on Saturday. Earlier in the day, its medical director D.K. Baluja had tweeted: “We are desperate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Actual death toll higher than officially reported||Evidence is mounting that the actual death toll from the second wave of the coronavirus in India is far higher than officially reported. Each day, the government reports more than 300,000 new infections, a world record, and India is now seeing more new infections than any other country by far, almost half of all new cases in a global surge. But experts say those numbers, however staggering, represent just a fraction of the real reach of the virus’s spread, which has thrown the country into emergency mode. The sudden surge in recent weeks, with an insidious newer variant possibly playing a role, is casting increasing doubt on India’s official Covid-19 death toll of nearly 200,000, with more than 2,000 people dying every day. Interviews from cremation grounds across the country, where the fires never stop, portray an extensive pattern of deaths far exceeding the official figures. Nervous politicians and hospital administrators may be undercounting or overlooking large numbers of dead, analysts say. And grieving families may be hiding Covid connections as well, adding to the confusion. “It’s a complete massacre of data,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, an epidemiologist at the University of Michigan who has been following India closely. “From all the modelling we’ve done, we believe the true number of deaths is two to five times what is being reported.” At one of the large cremation grounds in Ahmedabad, bright orange fires light up the night sky, burning 24 hours a day, like an industrial plant that never shuts down. Suresh Bhai, a worker there, said he had never seen such a never-ending assembly line of death. But he has not been writing down the cause of death as Covid-19 on the thin paper slips that he hands over to the mournful families, even though the number of dead is surging along with the virus. “Beemari, beemari, beemari,” Suresh said. “That’s what we write.” Asked why, he said it was what he had been instructed to do by his bosses, who did not respond to requests for comment. On Saturday, officials reported nearly 350,000 new infections, and the deaths continued to rise. In Bhopal, residents say the cremation grounds haven’t been as busy since the gas disaster in 1984. Over 13 days in mid-April, Bhopal officials reported 41 deaths related to Covid-19. But a survey by The New York Times of the city’s main Covid-19 cremation and burial grounds, where bodies were being handled under strict protocols, revealed a total of more than 1,000 deaths during the same period. “Many deaths are not getting recorded and they are increasing every day,” said G.C. Gautam, a cardiologist based in Bhopal. He said that officials were doing this because “they don’t want to create panic”. The same phenomenon appeared to be happening in Lucknow and Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh and across Gujarat where, during a similar period in mid-April, the authorities reported between 73 and 121 Covid-related deaths each day. But a detailed count compiled by one of Gujarat’s leading newspapers, Sandesh, which sent reporters to cremation and burial grounds across the state, indicated that the number was several times higher, around 610 each day. India’s population is, on average, much younger than in most western nations. Experts say that is the most likely reason that deaths per million in India had seemed relatively low. But the number is quickly climbing. According to excess mortality studies, Covid-19 deaths have been underestimated in many countries, including the US and Britain. But India is a much bigger and poorer country. And its people are spread across 29 states and several federal territories in a highly decentralised system of governance, with different states counting deaths in different ways. Even in a good year, experts say, only about one-fifth of deaths are medically investigated, meaning that the vast number of Indians die without a cause of death being certified. According to the World Health Organisation, a death should be recorded as Covid-related if the disease is assumed to have caused or contributed to it, even if the person had a pre-existing medical condition, such as cancer. In many places in India, that doesn’t seem to be happening. Rupal Thakkar tested positive for Covid-19 in mid-April. On April 16, she was admitted to Shalby Limited, a private hospital in her home city of Ahmedabad, but her oxygen levels suddenly dropped. The next day Thakkar, 48, died. The hospital listed her cause of death as “sudden cardiac death”, which left the Thakkar family outraged. “It was a lifetime shock,” said her younger brother, Dipan Thakkar. “Why would a private hospital connive with the government in hiding the real death numbers? It was an organised crime. It was an illegal act.” Officials at Shalby didn’t respond to requests for comment. After her situation was widely publicised in newspapers, the hospital issued a second death certificate, this time including Covid-19 as a contributing cause. Some families don’t want the truth to come out, said Mukherjee of the University of Michigan. Some want to cremate loved ones outside strict Covid-19 government protocols, and so they hide the fact that their family member died from the coronavirus. Others may feel ashamed about losing a loved one, as if it were their fault. A political agenda may also be at play, experts said. States controlled by the BJP may face pressure to underreport, according to some analysts. Mukherjee cited the very public scandal in 2019 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government tried to suppress data showing a rise in the unemployment rate. When it comes to Covid data, she said, “there is tremendous pressure from the central government on the state governments for projecting progress”. Several officials from the governing party failed to respond to messages seeking comment. But manipulating death numbers seems to be happening in other places, too. One example is the state of Chhattisgarh, in central India, which is run by the Congress. Officials in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district, home to a large steel plant, reported more than 150 Covid-19 deaths from April 15 to April 21, according to messages sent to local media that were seen by The Times. The state reported less than half that number for Durg. Chhattisgarh’s health minister, T.S. Singh Deo, denied any intentional underreporting. “We have tried to be as transparent as humanly possible,” he said. “We stand to be corrected at any point in time.” Those working at the burning grounds said they were utterly exhausted and could never remember so many people dying in such a short span of time. On April 14, Covid-19 crematories in Gujarat’s Surat and Gandhi Nagar told The Times that they had cremated 124 people, on a day when the authorities said 73 had died of Covid-19 in the entire state. In Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh, bodies are now being burned in some of the city’s parks, the crematories are that backed up. In Ahmedabad, at the Vadaj crematory, huge smokestacks pump out black smoke. Suresh, the clerk, sits in a tiny office, the door closed firmly shut. When reached by telephone, he said he put “beemari” on all the death certificates. He referred questions to a sanitation official who then referred questions to another official who declined to answer calls. Suresh said his crematory handled 15 to 20 bodies of Covid-19 patients every day. As he spoke on Friday, three bodies burned on separate pyres, next to a large and growing stack of freshly chopped wood. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Covaxin at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals, call for Centre funds||Covaxin, India’s home-grown Covid-19 vaccine from Bharat Biotech, will cost Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals, twice the corresponding price tag on Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in the country by the Serum Institute of India. The price has been announced in the middle of an uproar over the Centre’s hands-off policy that has passed the vaccine buck to the states and citizens. On Saturday, Arvind Subramanian, the chief economic adviser to the Union government during Narendra Modi’s first innings, made it clear that “the Centre, NOT the states, should bear full fiscal ‘costs’ of vaccines”. “Why? Virus does not respect state borders. Centre has better access to resources than states. Fiscal ‘costs’ are trivial compared to lives saved and economic activity preserved…,” Subramanian tweeted. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech announced on Saturday that Covaxin would cost Rs 600 per dose for state governments and Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals, but will continue to cost Rs 150 per dose for the central government. Two doses are required for protection. Bharat Biotech said the four-fold difference between the price tags for the Centre and the state governments owes to the Centre’s buying of large volumes and advance purchase orders, including a commitment to pay Rs 1,500 crore. The states are expected to procure smaller orders and are known to delay payments, a company representative said. The Pune-based Serum Institute had earlier this week announced that Covishield would cost Rs 150 per dose for the Centre, Rs 400 for the states and Rs 600 for private hospitals. These prices would apply under the Centre’s revised vaccination policy starting May 1 under which state governments and private hospitals may offer Covid-19 vaccines to people aged 18 or above while the Centre would continue to support vaccinations for all those above 45 years. Large differences between the costs per dose offered to governments and the price tags for private hospitals and the open market are common practice across the vaccine sector. Bharat Biotech said Covaxin is an inactivated (killed) virus that involves an expensive manufacturing process because of relatively low yields. “All costs towards product development, manufacturing facilities, and clinical trials were deployed primarily using internal funding and resources of Bharat Biotech,” Krishna Ella, the company’s chairman, said. The Serum Institute had used a mix of about $270 million of its internal resources, a grant of $300 million from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and advance at-risk production orders from some foreign governments to raise over $800 million for Covishield production facilities. Under the Centre’s new Covid-19 vaccination policy from May 1, the Centre will procure only 50 per cent of the doses. The manufacturers can sell the other half to either state governments or private hospitals. It is unclear how many doses of either vaccine would be available in private hospitals. Company representatives have said the Serum Institute has a current production capacity of 70 million Covishield doses a month while Bharat Biotech produces about 20 million doses a month. Both have announced plans to ramp up production in the coming months. India has invited foreign vaccine makers such as Pfizer and Moderna to introduce their Covid-19 vaccines into the country’s private market, but health experts tracking global vaccine orders say the companies’ existing orders make it unlikely that India would get those vaccines within the next few weeks. Under the Centre’s current vaccination campaign, nearly 22.5 million people have already received the two doses required to protect them from the infection. But this is a small fraction of the nearly 900 million people aged above 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Crowd-funding: Beedi worker donates Rs 2 lakh to help Kerala govt provide free vaccines||An elderly, physically challenged man in Kerala who rolls beedis for a living has donated his life’s savings so that others in his state can get vaccinated against Covid for free. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who referred to the extraordinary act of altruism on Saturday, said the man had donated Rs 2 lakh from his savings bank account that had Rs 200,850. He refrained from identifying the donor to honour the beedi worker’s wish to remain anonymous. A crowd-funding effort launched on Wednesday afternoon to help the state government provide free vaccines to under-45 adults has generated several moving stories of charity from people who themselves are in most need of help. Vijayan said: “The man goes to a bank with a request to transfer Rs 2 lakh to the chief minister’s disaster relief fund (CMDRF).... The bank officials naturally had some doubts since it amounted to almost all his savings.” “So the bank officials asked him what he would do if he needed money in future. He replied that he had the job of a beedi roller and received the state pension for the physically challenged. He told the bank officials his savings were not more important than the lives of his brethren.” By 10pm, the CMDRF had received Rs 1.77 crore on Saturday alone as part of the crowd-funding effort, #vaccinechallenge, taking the total collection in three days well above Rs 3 crore. Vijayan did not reveal the place from where the donor had sent the money, but a clue came from a Facebook post by a bank official who had interacted with the man. Soundar Raj CP, who works at a cooperative bank in Kannur district, said an aged man had walked into the bank on Friday, handed over his passbook to check the balance in his account, and then mentioned the sum he wanted to donate. “I realised the frail-looking man had no other resources. So I suggested he could send Rs 1 lakh and keep the remaining amount in the bank account,” Raj wrote in the post that has been widely circulated since Saturday afternoon. The unnamed donor then responded that he “had no problems now since he was receiving the pension for the physically challenged and earned Rs 1,000 each week by rolling beedis”. Raj quoted the man as saying: “I shall be able to sleep only after I send this money today. Please don’t reveal my name to anyone.” Vijayan had on Friday lauded a poor woman named Subaida who runs a tea shop in Kollam and donated to the CMDRF a sum of Rs 5,000 that she had earned by selling one of her goats. She had walked into the Kollam district collector’s office to hand over the money. In April last year, too, Subaida had donated Rs 5,510 to the CMDRF to help the state combat the first wave of the Covid outbreak. A group of unknown people had started the crowd-funding effort via Twitter in protest against the Centre’s policy of not funding vaccination for the 18-45 age group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka BJP yet to decide on bearing vaccination cost of people aged above 18 years||Karnataka’s BJP government has yet to decide whether to offer free vaccination to those aged 18 to 45 since the state is grappling with a fiscal stress caused by last year’s lockdown. The Centre has refused to fund the vaccination of the 18-45 group — which becomes eligible for the jab from May 1 — putting the ball in the states’ court. Several states including BJP-ruled Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have announced free vaccination at government facilities for the 18-45 group, but B.S. Yediyurappa’s administration is still calculating the costs. About 3.5 crore people in Karnataka are aged between 18 and 45 and will require 7 crore doses of the vaccine. While the state government has decided to buy 1 crore doses for now at an estimated Rs 400 crore, a cabinet meeting on Monday will decide whether this age group would be vaccinated free, state health minister K. Sudhakar said. While the Centre provided vaccines free to the states for inoculating healthcare and frontline workers and those aged over 45, the states will have to buy Covishield at Rs 400 per dose for the 18-45 group. Private facilities will be vaccinating a segment of the population that is willing to pay their charges. A health department source said that at Rs 400 a dose, the state will need to spend Rs 2,800 crore if it has to provide free vaccination to all its 6.5 crore adults. (The figure includes 3 crore healthcare and frontline workers and over-45s who were already eligible for free vaccination at government facilities.) Till now, 83.8 lakh people in Karnataka have received their first or second shots. Procuring sufficient doses of vaccines has become urgent amid a shortage of doses and a steep rise in infections. From below 1,000 fresh cases a day sometime ago, Karnataka’s single-day number jumped to 26,962 on Friday, its total active cases climbing to 214,311. While Karnataka borrowed Rs 70,671 crore in 2020-21, it is expected to borrow Rs 71,642 crore this financial year. “The figure could rise if the state borrows to fund free vaccination,” an official said. Former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy of the Janata Dal Secular on Saturday tweeted an “appeal (for) free vaccines for all the 6.5 crore people of Karnataka”, citing the examples of neighbouring Kerala and Goa. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah of the Congress slammed Yediyurappa and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Covid situation in the country and Karnataka that he said had “gone out of hand”. His advice for Modi: “Virus will not vanish if you repeatedly appear on television without any purpose. And also you are not a headmaster to teach lessons to CMs. First show your responsibility by fulfilling the requests placed by the state govts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Puri Shree Jagannath Temple to be closed for devotees till May 15||Puri Shree Jagannath Temple will remain closed for devotees till May 15 in the wake of surge of Covid-19 cases in Odisha as well as in Puri city. The decision was taken after a meeting of the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) with the servitors of the shrine on Saturday. Though devotees will not be allowed to enter, the age-old traditions of Niti-Kanti (rituals) of Shree Jagannath will continue with the help of servitors and temple officials. Sources said the decision to stop the entry of devotees was taken to keep the servitors free from corona infection so that they can complete all the rituals related to Rath Yatra beginning from Akshya Tritiya, on May 15. “There has been apprehension that the Rath Yatra will be held this year like the previous year sans devotees,” said an official of the temple management committee. Administrator (Rituals), SJTA, Jitenrdra Sahu told reporters, “Regular screening and testing for servitor families will be taken up to ensure that cases of Covid-19 cases amongst them are detected at an early date and they are provided effective treatment. We will focus on vaccination of those servitors who are involved in daily seva-puja of the Lord Jagannath and those involved in the construction of the chariots. All preparations for construction of the chariots will continue as per traditions.” In order to provide quick treatment to the servitors, the temple administration has decided to convert its lodge- Niladri Bhakta Nivas as Covid care centre. “In case a servitor’s condition worsens due to Covid-19 despite the treatment given at the Bhakta Nivas by doctors and nurses, the concerned servitors will be shifted to Bhubaneswar for treatment. The Administrator (Development) of SJTA will act as the nodal officer and ensure all help to the servitor’s family,” Sahu said. The SJTA will take a call on whether it would extend the lock down of the shrine for the devotees further at its next meeting on May 6 keeping in mind the condition of the corona pandemic at that time, officials maintained. Meanwhile, Puri police on Saturday raided different hotels and lodging houses in the city to ensure that people already staying in them have their RT-PCR tests done. The crackdown followed reports of triple mutant variant of Covid-19 virus being found among the people of Bengal who visit Puri in large numbers. The Odisha government had already announced that people coming from Bengal need to undergo mandatory 14-day quarantine. Meanwhile, the death toll in Odisha reached 1981 with reported death of another eight persons during last 24 hours. “Regret to inform the demise of eight number of Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals,” tweeted Odisha health and family welfare department. The number of corona cases in the state reached 4,01,341 with detection of new 6,647 cases. In order to break the chain, the weekend shut down began in all the urban areas of state, including Puri from Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
