26-04-2021||India||Modi and Biden discuss India's Covid situation over telephone||US President Joe Biden on Monday conveyed solidarity with India in its fight against Covid-19 and asserted that his country was determined to support its efforts by quickly deploying resources such as therapeutics, ventilators and identifying sources of raw materials to be made available for the manufacture of Covishield vaccine, according to a statement here. Biden expressed the support of the US to India in a telephonic conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during which the two leaders discussed the pandemic situation in their countries, including India's ongoing efforts to contain a second wave of Covid-19 through expedited vaccination efforts, and ensuring supply of critical medicines, therapeutics and medical equipment. Modi also informed Biden about India's initiative at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a relaxation in the norms of the Agreement on TRIPS to ensure quick and affordable access to vaccines and medicines for developing countries, the statement said. "Had a fruitful conversation with @POTUS @JoeBiden today. We discussed the evolving Covid situation in both countries in detail. I thanked President Biden for the support being provided by the United States to India. "My discussion with @POTUS @JoeBiden also underscored the importance of smooth and efficient supply chains of vaccine raw materials and medicines. India-US healthcare partnership can address the global challenge of COVID-19," Modi tweeted. According to the statement, Modi conveyed his heartfelt appreciation for the offer of assistance and support from the US. He mentioned India's commitment to contain the Covid-19 pandemic globally through 'Vaccine Maitri', and its participation in COVAX and the Quad Vaccine Initiatives. Modi underscored the need to ensure smooth and open supply chains of raw materials and inputs required for manufacture of vaccines, medicines, and therapeutics related to Covid-19. Both leaders underlined the potential of the India-US partnership in vaccine development and supply to address the Covid-19 pandemic, and directed their respective officials to maintain close coordination and cooperation in their efforts in this domain, the statement said. The two leaders agreed to remain in regular touch. The US president and his Vice President Kamala Harris had earlier assured India and its people of providing all assistance, including urgently sending necessary medical life-saving supplies and equipment, to help the country combat the deadly coronavirus crisis. "Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need," Biden had said in a tweet. The coronavirus situation remained grim in India with the daily Covid-19 infection tally and death toll touching new peaks in the past few days. India recorded 3,52,991 cases, the highest so far, taking the infection tally to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am on Monday showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
26-04-2021||India||Situation in India is ‘beyond heartbreaking’, says WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus||As India battles a catastrophic Coivd-19 second wave, the World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday the situation in the country is "beyond heartbreaking" and the organization is sending extra staff and supplies there to help fight the pandemic "The situation in India is beyond heartbreaking," Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters. "WHO is doing everything we can, providing critical equipment and supplies, including thousands of oxygen concentrators, prefabricated mobile field hospitals, and laboratory supplies," Tedros told a briefing. More than 2,600 of its experts from various programmes, including polio and tuberculosis, to work with Indian health authorities to help respond to the pandemic, informed WHO. A surge in recent days has seen patients' families taking to social media to beg for oxygen supplies and locations of available hospital beds, and has forced the capital New Delhi to extend a week-long lockdown. India with a population of 1.3 billion has become the latest hotspot of the pandemic that has killed more than three million people worldwide, even as richer countries take steps towards normality with quickening inoculation programmes. The US and Britain rushed ventilators and vaccine materials to help India weather the devastating crisis, while a range of other countries also pledged support. Tedros on Monday lamented that global new case numbers have been rising for the past nine weeks straight. "To put it in perspective," he said, "there were almost as many cases globally last week as in the first five months of the pandemic." The United States remains the worst-affected country, with some 572,200 deaths and over 32 million infections, followed by Brazil and Mexico. But India, in fourth place, has in recent days been driving the global case numbers. The country, which has recorded over 195,000 deaths, registered 2,812 new deaths and 352,991 new infections on Monday alone -- its highest tolls since the start of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
26-04-2021||India||Centre asks Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech to lower price of vaccines||The central government on Monday asked the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech to lower the price of their Covid-19 vaccines amid criticism from various states who accused the companies of profiteering during such a major crisis. The issue of vaccine pricing was discussed at a meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba. Now the two companies are expected to come up with revised pricing for their vaccines. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs 600 per dose for state governments and at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine maker in terms of volume, has announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine, 'Covishield', for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. Both vaccines are available to the central government at a rate of Rs 150 per dose. The Centre has relaxed its vaccination strategy in the third phase under which the country's large 18-plus population will get inoculated from May 1. Under the new strategy, the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the central government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market. The government had said the manufacturers would have to make an advance declaration of the price for the 50 per cent supply that would be available to the state governments and in the open market. Many states have objected to different prices for the vaccines, with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying this is not time for profiteering. Kerjiwal also appealed to the vaccine manufacturers to bring down the price to Rs 150 a dose, saying that they have an entire lifetime to earn profits but this is a time to show humanity. He said the central government should cap the price of vaccines, if needed. Terming the new anti-Covid vaccine policy "discriminatory and insensitive", the Congress on Sunday accused the government of allowing vaccine makers to profiteer to the tune of Rs 1.11 lakh crore. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "The population below 45 years of age is 101 crore. To vaccinate them, we need 202 crore doses and the cost of these will have to be borne by the states or the individuals themselves. Based on this and assuming that states will provide 50 per cent vaccination and individuals will bear 50 per cent of vaccination cost, the profit of the two vaccine manufacturers -- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech -- will be Rs 1,11,100 crore." "The Modi government is guilty of permitting brazen profiteering of vaccination. The Modi government is also guilty of abdicating its responsibility and abandoning the young of India between the age group of 18 and 45 years," he alleged and demanded free vaccination of all Indians. The Serum Institute of India (SII) has, however, defended pricing Covishield vaccine at 1.5 times the initial rate, saying the earlier price was based on advance funding and now it has to invest in scaling up and expanding capacity to produce more shots. In a statement on Saturday, the Serum Institute clarified that there was an "inaccurate comparison" done between the global prices of the vaccine with India. "Covishield is the most affordable COVID-19 vaccine available in the market today," SII said. Emphasising that the company has to ensure sustainability, SII said, "The current situation is extremely dire; the virus is constantly mutating while the public remains at risk. Identifying the uncertainty, we have to ensure sustainability as we must be able to invest in scaling up and expanding our capacity to fight the pandemic and save lives." "The price of the vaccine is still lower than a lot of other medical treatment and essentials required to treat COVID-19 and other life-threatening diseases," it added. Announcing the price of its coronavirus vaccine, Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna M Ella said that recovering cost is essential in the journey of innovation towards other vaccines such as intranasal Covid-19, Chikungunya, Zika, and Cholera. The government on Monday stressed on expediting the vaccination drive as a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic ripped through the country. India's daily Covid-19 infection tally and death toll have touched new peaks in the past few days. The country recorded 3,52,991 cases, the highest so far, taking the tally of cases to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
26-04-2021||India||Amid rising Covid cases, Karnataka govt announces 'close down' for 14 days||The Karnataka government on Monday announced what it termed as a 'close down' across the state for 14 days from Tuesday night in a bid to contol the huge spike in COVID-19 cases in the state. The state cabinet led by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also decided to provide COVID-19 vaccinations free of cost at government hospitals for those between 18-44 years of age. "Strict measures to control COVID will be taken. From tomorrow night till the next 14 days, there will be a close down for the whole state," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters after a three hour long cabinet meeting here, he said shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to remain open only from 6 am to 10 am. "The agriculture sector, manufacturing sector, construction sector and medical and essential sectors will continue to operate," he said. However, no permission has been granted to garments under the manufacturing sector, the intention being that there should not be any problem as about seven to eight lakh people in very close proximity to each other in the factories. Night curfew, which is in place now between 9 PM to 6 AM, would continue, the Chief Minister said. Transport services would not ply during the close down period, but there would be no restrictions on movement of goods and essential services. Deputy Commissioners of all districts and Tahsildars have been instructed to take strict measures, he said. "If things don't come under control in two weeks, continuing it (strict measures) may become inevitable. People will have to cooperate." Despite bringing into effect lockdown-like measures, the government stopped short of calling it as such and instead used the term "close down". To a question seeking clarification whether it is a lockdown or half lockdown, Yediyurappa said, "you can interpret it however you want. We have clearly stated what measures we want to bring into effect... we have given relaxation between 6 am to 10 am and to certain sectors. On why the government was not using the term lockdown, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said "what term is used is not important, the measures taken are important." Yediyurappa said the cabinet took the decisions on imposing strict restrictions after consulting the expert committee, as the covid case numbers in Bengaluru and surrounding areas have surpassed that of Maharashtra. The Chief Secretary would issue an order, dwelling on the guidelines, in a few hours, he said. The Chief Minister said essential services like banking among others would continue to operate, as also take-aways at hotels, restaurants and liquor shops. "It has been decided to postpone all elections for six months," he added. The state government had last week stopped short of announcing a full-fledged lockdown and had preferred night curfews and a weekend curfew till May 4, keeping in mind the need to keep economic activities going. However, with the state facing a huge spike in COVID-19 cases, the government on Monday announced new measures. Karnataka on Sunday had reported the biggest single day spike of 34,804 new COVID-19 cases and 143 related fatalities, taking the caseload to 13.39 lakh and the toll to 14,426. The total number of active cases stood at 2,62,162. On COVID vaccination, the Chief Minister said it would be given free of cost at government hospitals for those aged between 18 and 44 years. "The health department will draw up the guidelines required. For those above 45 years the Centre is giving vaccines free of cost," he said. The state government on Thursday had decided to purchase one crore doses of Covishield vaccine at a cost of Rs 400 crore, in the first phase. The Centre had recently announced that the vaccination for those above 18 years will begin across the country from May 1 as part of the third phase of the inoculation drive. The CM clarified that there is no shortage of oxygen and said the Centre has increased the daily quota to the state from 300 metric tonnes to 800 metric tonnes. He also said that the union government has increased Karnataka's allocation of Remdesivir from 50,000 to 1,22,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
26-04-2021||India||Madras HC slams EC, calls it the most irresponsible institution||The Madras High Court on Monday castigated the Election Commission over the COVID-19 second wave in the country, holding it 'singularly' responsible for the spread, called it the "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges. The EC allowing political parties to take out rallies and meetings had led to the spread of the pandemic,the court said. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the stinging observation on a public interest writ from Karur AIADMK candidate and Transport Minister M R Vijayabaskar for the April 6 Assembly polls, seeking a direction to authorities to ensure fair counting of votes on May 2 in Karur by taking effective steps and proper arrangements with COVID-19 protocols. Since as many as 77 candidates are contesting from Karur constituency, it would be very difficult to accommodate their agents in the counting hall. It may affect observance of the protocols, the petitioner alleged. When counsel for the EC told the judges that all necessary steps were underway, the bench shot back saying that by allowing the political parties to take out rallies and meetings, it (Commission) had paved the way for the resurgence of the second wave of the deadly virus. Irked over the submission of the EC counsel that all precautionary measures would be taken at the counting centres, the Chief Justice replied that the EC must be 'singularly' held responsible for the second wave of the pandemic spike in the country. The bench even said that EC officials may be booked under murder charges. The judges also orally warned that they would not hesitate to stop the counting of votes on May 2. On Sunday, Tamil Nadu reported 15,000 new covid cases, while its active cases are in excess of one lakh. Elections had been held in four states--Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and West Bengal and the union territory of Puducherry and the counting of polled votes will be taken up on May 2. While voting is over in all the other states, the seventh of the eight-phase polling in West Bengal is underway on Monday, with the last phase scheduled on April 29. Earlier, the Calcutta High Court had expressed dissatisfaction with the EC over the enforcement of COVID-19 health safety norms during the ongoing West Bengal assembly election process, including campaigning. On April 22, hearing three public interest litigations (PILs) seeking enforcement of Covid protocol during the polls, a division bench presided by Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan had said issuance of circulars and holding meetings on Covid safety were not enough. It later directed the competent authorities to make the people of West Bengal abide by the restrictions imposed by the Commission on public behaviour regarding protective protocol for Covid-19 in the state, which also has witnessed an alarming rise in infections. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday demanded withdrawal of central forces to contain covid spread in West Bengal in the next phase of polling, while welcoming the Madras High Courts observations that the Election Commission could not avoid blame for the spread of Covid. "I welcome the Madras High Court order, which clearly said the EC cannot escape its responsibility. Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and EC are responsible for the (current) situation (of Covid spreading in the state)," Banerjee alleged at a workers meeting in North Kolkata where party candidates and workers were present. "I am requesting please withdraw the around 2 lakh- strong central forces drawn from covid-hit states, who are camping in schools and colleges and safe homes hampering covid management operations 75 per cent of them may be infected by the virus. Please withdraw them in the last phase, " she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
26-04-2021||India||Thirteen Covid patients dead in Haryana due to lack of oxygen||Thirteen patients died in the private hospitals of Haryana on Sunday allegedly due to a shortage of medical oxygen. Protests broke out at a hospital in Haryana's Hisar district today after five coronavirus patients died this morning and their families alleged that a shortage of medical oxygen was the cause, reported NDTV.com Four patients died at a hospital Rewari, about 330 km from the state capital Chandigarh following which the district administration launched an investigation to ascertain the reason. Meanwhile, Gurgaon district administration ordered a probe into the death of four patients in a private hospital after reports that they died due to alleged oxygen shortage in the facility. The hospital authorities denied these reports and said those who expired were critically ill. After the deaths in Rewari, relatives of some of the patients, who were admitted to the designated COVID facility, held a protest outside the building complex alleging there was a grave shortage of medical oxygen. "Three patients died in the ICU,while one patient died in the ward. We have limited oxygen supplies. We are repeatedly telling the administration about this and have been sending them reminders," an official of the hospital in Rewari told reporters outside the building. "We have been sending empty oxygen cylinders to vendors to fill them again. Since 9 am, we have been telling the authorities that we have limited stock," he said. The hospital official said the hospital has a consumption of 300 medical oxygen cylinders per day. "There are 114 COVID patients admitted in the hospital," he said. Narnaul Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar, who is currently officiating as the DC of Rewari district, said the allegations of oxygen shortage and four deaths were made by the hospital. "The sub divisional magistrate, chief medical officer and other officials are at the hospital to find out what led to these deaths. They (the hospital) are claiming that there was an oxygen shortage. However, from the administration's end, regular supply has been given. So, we are finding out where the gap arose, all this is being investigated, Kumar had told PTI over phone earlier in the day. A person whose aunt was admitted to the hospital could be seen pleading with some police officials outside the facility, asking them to do something immediately to ensure that the hospital gets adequate stock of medical oxygen. Meanwhile, the Gurgaon hospital, where four patients died allegedly due to oxygen shortage, said, "These patients had severe COVID. Although, we are facing a crunch of oxygen supply, in the case of these patients, it was not that we ran out of oxygen. Being critically ill, their oxygen saturation levels dropped sharply. The doctors tried their best to revive them, but unfortunately they passed away." In the case of COVID patients who are critically ill, one cannot predict when the saturation levels will fall, one of the owners of the private hospital told PTI over phone. She said that given the present surge in demand of oxygen some of the patient's attendants have arranged some cylinders as a back up on their own. However, the Gurgaon district magistrate took cognisance of the incident and ordered a probe which would ascertain the circumstances leading to the deaths despite claims that oxygen was available. The probe will be conducted by Sub Divisional Magistrate Jitender Kumar, according to an official statement. Haryana has seen a rise in coronavirus cases and fatalities in the current month. The demand for medical liquid oxygen has also increased in hospitals. Due to the increased demand to cater to critical COVID patients, the Haryana government on Sunday prohibited all oxygen manufacturing units or suppliers of oxygen in the state from providing the gas to industries till further orders. "It is further directed that these units will provide their entire production of oxygen for medical purposes," a state government order said. These units are also directed to produce oxygen to their maximum capacity and maintain a record of the manufacturing and distribution on a daily basis," it further said. However, industries like pharmaceutical, petroleum refineries, steel plants, oxygen cylinder manufacturers, food and water purification etc have been exempted from the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
26-04-2021||India||India logs over 3.52 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,812 casualties in a day||With 3,52,991 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, the highest so far, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 28,13,658 comprising 16.25 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.62 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,43,04,382. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.13 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,93,21,177 samples have been tested up to April 25 with 14,02,367 samples being tested on Sunday. The 2,812 new fatalities include 832 from Maharashtra, 350 from Delhi, 206 from Uttar Pradesh, 199 from Chhattisgarh, 157 from Gujarat, 143 from Karnataka, and 103 from Jharkhand. A total of 1,95,123 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 64,760 from Maharashtra, 14,426 from Karnataka, 14,248 from Delhi, 13,557 from Tamil Nadu, 11,165 from Uttar Pradesh, 10,941 from West Bengal, 8,432 from Punjab and 7,685 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Covid: AIIMS doctor speaks of traumatic choices||Suvrankar Datta, a Covid-positive doctor isolated in his room in a Delhi apartment, hopes his infection remains mild as he is unsure he will get a bed easily even at the hospital where he works — the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. The institute, where Datta is pursuing postgraduate studies in radio-diagnosis, was on Sunday night bursting with patients, occupying almost all its beds and its emergency department where over 24 patients were on critical care support and more than 100 were on “oxygen points”. As India’s second Covid-19 wave continues to surge with more than 349,000 new patients recorded nationwide on Sunday morning, doctors say hospital beds, oxygen and even some medicines are in short supply in the hardest-hit locations. “Over a 24-hour period, we now get between 100 to 150 patients who require oxygen support. We hold them, providing all support we can, until a hospital bed becomes available,” said a senior resident in the emergency department. “We have some patients here three or four days, waiting for a bed. We’re helpless.” A patient can be moved only when a bed becomes available either at the AIIMS Trauma Centre or the AIIMS facility at Jhajjar (Haryana), both managing Covid-19 patients. A bed becomes available only after a patient is ready for discharge or dies. Under the limited resources, one resident said, emergency department doctors now often face difficult triage choices — deciding which patient the available resource should go to — 
almost every day. “We’re in a disaster-like situation. If we have a 28-year-old and an 80-year-old and both need critical life-saving intervention, we’d offer it to the 28-year old,” the resident said. “We’re helpless; we have to do this to save as many lives as we can.” Datta, who grew up in Calcutta and obtained his MBBS from the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, had been on emergency duty before he tested positive on Friday. He is now on a standard prescribed regimen of vitamin C, zinc, doxycycline, ivermectin, steam inhalation four times a day and gargles twice a day. “I’m hoping I won’t need a bed,” he said on Sunday. “We expect the demand for beds to go up in the coming days.” Doctors say about 90 per cent of Covid-19 patients develop mild illness, do not require hospital care and recover with supportive treatment at home. But the second wave has surged so fast in some places that the numbers of patients have far exceeded the available hospital beds. A Delhi government dashboard available via a mobile app that tracks bed availability across the national capital every few hours showed on Sunday night that 4,662 of the 4,675 available intensive care unit beds were occupied. Only 13 were available, 2 at the AIIMS Trauma Centre and 11 at the Madhukar Rainbow Children’s Hospital. “The app is misleading. We have over 100 patients in emergency waiting to be shifted,” said the senior resident in the emergency department. “Misleading information brings great inconvenience to people who see the status on the app and rush to AIIMS to get beds.” AIIMS director Randeep Guleria told The Telegraph that the institute had over 900 Covid-19 patients admitted along with trauma and cancer patients. “Our beds are not vacant; we’re trying our best,” Guleria said. Guleria and other doctors are worried that panic among sections of the public is exacerbating the strain on hospitals, staff and resources. “Eighty-five to 90 per cent of patients do not need any hospital care, neither oxygen support nor drugs like remdesivir,” he said. Clinical management guidelines updated by the AIIMS earlier this week iterate that patients whose oxygen levels are above 92 do not need hospital care. But doctors are concerned that some patients or their families have procured oxygen cylinders or the antiviral drug remdesivir. “A patient whose oxygen level changes from 97 to 96 or 95 shouldn’t assume that he or she is deteriorating,” said a senior pulmonary medicine specialist. “The guidelines are very clear: seek hospital care only below 92 or 90.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Covid: Where are the vaccines, ask states||Health ministers from Congress-ruled states on Sunday objected to the differential pricing of vaccines for the Centre and the states, but asked the Union government to ensure availability of doses to make the drive to inoculate those aged 18 to 45 successful. “We approached the (Covishield maker) Serum Institute of India to buy vaccines. They told us they were not in a position to supply to the states as the Centre’s orders would be completed (only) by May 15,” Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said. Currently, the Centre is supplying vaccines free to the states to vaccinate those aged 45 and above. From May 1, when all adults become eligible for the jab, the states will have to buy the vaccines from the manufacturers at prices far higher than that charged to the Centre. On Sunday, the health ministers of Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand -- ruled by the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance — said at a joint news conference they were ready to pay for the doses despite the irrationality of the differential pricing. However, they said, the manufacturers didn’t seem to be in a position to supply the required volume of vaccines. They argued that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had bungled in the quest to play politics and shift to the states the responsibility to vaccinate those aged 18 to 45. “We will pay but where is the vaccine?... The Centre hasn’t even given us enough remdesivir and oxygen,” Sharma said. Chhattisgarh health minister T.S. Singhdeo accused the Centre of playing politics with the vaccination drive. “The states will fund the drive to vaccinate those aged between 18 and 45 but the certificate will carry Modi’s photograph. Even that is fine but the Centre should have planned before the rollout of the new plan, making sure there was no vaccine shortage,” he said. The health ministers of Punjab and Jharkhand, Balbir Sidhu and Banna Gupta, made similar points. All the ministers expressed outrage at the Modi government’s decision to allow the vaccine manufacturers to fix prices for the states and private hospitals that are higher than the Rs 150 per dose the Centre had negotiated for itself. Covishield will cost the states Rs 400 a dose and private hospitals Rs 600; while the corresponding figures for Covaxin are Rs 600 and Rs 1,200. Sharma said: “The Centre should not only have fixed the price for the states but also finalised the quotas and delivery schedule.” Gupta said: “The people will say it’s now the states’ responsibility without realising that vaccines are not available. We can’t produce vaccines at our home.” The health ministers said the cash-strapped states had ramped up testing facilities and increased the number of hospital beds but the Centre had not worked out an effective plan to supply oxygen. “We have surplus oxygen and conveyed to the Centre that we can give to the other states if transport is arranged. No tanker has come,” Singhdeo said. The health ministers contested Modi’s claim that Covid hadn’t spread to rural areas. They accused the Centre of discriminatory allotment of remdesivir and oxygen, arguing the quotas hadn’t been fixed according to the states’ populations or volume of patients. “Rajasthan has 1.27 lakh (Covid) patients but got 140 tonnes of oxygen while Gujarat got 927 tonnes with 1 lakh infections,” Sharma said. “Rajasthan got 26,500 remdesivir (doses) and Gujarat 1.6 lakh.” Gupta said the Prime Minister had used the pandemic for partisan politics and political propaganda. “Modiji says mask zaroori, do gaj ki doori. He then holds election rallies where thousands jostle with one another. He imposed a total lockdown on four hours’ notice when the cases were few, and now argues against lockdowns when they (cases) have peaked,” Gupta said. The Congress central leadership too has taken up the issue of pricing. “The government’s ineptitude has been called out by the two vaccine manufacturers who have now put five prices on the table for similar vaccines and the government is silent,” former finance minister P. Chidambaram said. “It is time to call the bluff of the two manufacturers. The way to do it is to invoke compulsory licensing and invite price bids from other pharma manufacturers that will include royalty payable to SII (Serum Institute) and (Covaxin maker) Bharat Biotech. “L1, L2 (lowest and second-lowest bidder), etc, will reveal the true cost of manufacturing of the two vaccines, including a reasonable profit. There is a body of opinion that holds that even at Rs 150 per dose, the two current manufacturers will make a small profit. If true, at Rs 400-1,000, it will be profiteering. Perhaps that is what the government wants. Will the ministry of health please respond?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The Modi government has introduced the most discriminatory and insensitive vaccination policy in the entire world. The government’s vaccination policy has deregulated 50 per cent of the production of the two vaccine manufacturers as free from price regulations altogether.” Surjewala added: “A rough calculation suggests, assuming that states will provide 50 per cent of the vaccination and individuals will bear 50 per cent of the vaccination cost, that the profit of the two vaccine manufacturers will be Rs 111,100 crore. They will profiteer even from the 28 per cent population that lives below the poverty line.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Modi silent on oxygen crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Covid outbreak was “testing our patience” and ability to “endure misery” but spoke not a word on the oxygen crisis that has claimed dozens of lives in the country. Rather unusually, his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, devoted most of its time to carrying Modi’s conversations with healthcare workers who appeared to play down the outbreak’s severity and the shortage of key medicines like remdesivir, and painted a rosy picture of good treatment and high recoveries. Several high courts, including Delhi High Court, have over the past few days expressed concern at the poor Covid management by the central and state governments, and public health experts have blamed the crisis partly on the Centre’s lack of preparedness and planning. “My dear countrymen, namaskar. Today, I’m expressing my mann ki baat at a time when the corona(virus) is testing our patience; it is testing to the limit (people’s ability to) endure misery,” Modi said. He was silent on the cause of much of that misery: the Centre’s failure to provide enough oxygen to hospitals. At least 45 Covid patients died in Delhi on Friday and Saturday after their hospitals fell short of oxygen. After Modi made a cursory reference to how the second “toofan” (storm) of the pandemic had “shaken the country”, the broadcast shifted to airing optimistic comments by doctors, nurses and other frontline workers that seemed aimed at glossing over the government’s lapses. Apart from making the obvious point that people shouldn’t panic, these healthcare workers in their prerecorded conversations with Modi  largely portrayed the country’s health system as having risen to the challenge. “This time, for emerging victorious in this battle, we have to accord priority to expert and scientific advice,” Modi said. The programme then aired his conversation with a Mumbai doctor, Sashank Joshi, who said he was experienced in treating Covid patients. “Dr Sashank, I would like you to tell people about the second wave. How different is it medically, what precautions are necessary?” Modi asked. “Thank you, sir. This second deluge, which has come in rapidly, is fastermoving than the first wave,” the doctor replied. “But the good thing is that the recovery rate is higher and the mortality rate pretty low.” Modi made encouraging noises. “There is absolutely no need to be scared,” the doctor continued. “What they call ‘mutation’, there’s absolutely no need to be afraid of that. These mutations keep happening  the way we change clothes, the virus keeps changing its colours. There is nothing to fear and we shall overcome this wave too.” Dr Sashank spoke out against people running after “expensive treatments”, referring by name to remdesivir, a key anti-Covid drug that happens to be in short supply. He urged people to rely on cheap medicines. “Sir, I want to clarify that we have the world’s best treatment available. You will see that India has the best recovery rate. If you compare Europe, America, our patients are recovering through our treatment protocols,” the doctor said. India’s recovery rate happens to be among the world’s best but experts have suggested this owes mainly to the country having a younger population compared to Western nations. Besides, there have been allegations of gross and deliberate underreporting of Covid deaths, which if true would artificially inflate the apparent recovery rate. Modi also spoke to a Kashmiri doctor, Naveed Nazeer Shah, who too said the second wave was nothing to panic about and urged people to maintain Covid protocols and take the vaccine. Unlike last year when he had dictated measures like a nationwide lockdown, Modi on Sunday appeared to leave the Covid battle to the states, much as his government has done in the matter of the vaccination of those aged 18 to 45. “The Government of India is applying its entire might to give a fillip to the endeavours of the state governments,” Modi said. “The state governments too are trying their best to fulfil their responsibilities.” The Modi administration’s attempts to lob the ball in the states’ court is being widely seen as a way of ensuring that the state governments, and not the Centre, face the fire for the suffering caused by the second wave of the epidemic. BJP managers have been blaming the Opposition-ruled states even for the oxygen crisis at their hospitals, accusing them of mismanaging the distribution of the gas allotted by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Agra Covid patients denied oxygen, ambulances, pyres and dignity||Denied an incinerator or pyre for hours in Agra, a dead Covid patient’s relatives drove him 90km to Aligarh to cremate him on Saturday evening. Another Covid victim’s son tied him to the top of his car and drove to a crematorium in Agra after failing to find an ambulance on Saturday evening for the dead man’s last journey. In the city of the Taj Mahal that remains the face of India to many across the world, the Covid surge and a collapsing infrastructure is denying the dead not just oxygen, pyres and ambulances but also dignity. On Saturday, 10 hospitals in Agra were forced to discharge all their Covid patients — about 1,000 in all — because of the lack of oxygen, Dr O.P. Yadav, district president of the Indian Medical Association, said. It’s not clear yet how many of these patients were critical or may have died after discharge. Prempal Singh, a train driver who had tested positive on Thursday, died in an Agra hospital on Saturday. “We kept shuttling between the two crematories in Agra city but didn’t get any space,” his son Krishna Kumar Lodhi, a resident of Agra’s Awadhpuri Colony, said. “At 3pm, an employee at one of the crematories told us to leave the body, saying space would become available after nine hours. We contacted our relatives in Aligarh and they arranged a pyre at the Numaish Ground crematorium. We performed the last rites in Aligarh late in the night.” Mohit Kumar had secured a slot at Agra’s Tajganj crematorium for his father Awadhesh Kumar but could not find an ambulance. Eventually, he tied his father to the roof of his sedan. “Despite running four incinerators for 20 hours a day, we are unable to cremate all the bodies,” Sanjeev Kumar Gupta, the official in charge of the Tajganj crematorium, said. “We have stopped counting the bodies. Most of them are dead corona(virus) patients.” Jaswant Kumar, a worker at Agra’s second crematory — the traditional cremation ground of Kailash Mokshdham — said: “We used to cremate three or four bodies a day; now we burn two or three every hour. Arranging firewood is a challenge.” Dr Yadav, the IMA official, said: “The state government has earmarked 34 centres as Covid hospitals in Agra. There were 3,340 patients in these hospitals on Saturday when all of them ran out of oxygen.” He said most of the hospitals somehow managed to arrange a few cylinders through their own efforts, but 10 could not and had to discharge all their Covid patients. By and large, only those Covid patients who need oxygen support are now admitted to hospital. Dr Surendra Singh of Yashwant Hospital told reporters: “We were promised 50 oxygen cylinders a week but the government gave us only 5 cylinders over the last 10 days. We discharged our (Covid) patients when we had no option left.” A doctor in Agra said on the condition of anonymity: “The government’s focus is on Lucknow because of media pressure. We don’t think help will reach Agra all the way from the state capital, 333km away.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Covid: Volunteers in Ghaziabad do what government should||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Kappan chained like an animal at Mathura hospital, wife tells CJI||The wife of jailed journalist Siddique Kappan has written to the Chief Justice of India alleging that her husband had been chained to his bed “like an animal” at a Mathura hospital where he is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and denied permission to even use the toilet. The lawyer representing Kappan has written to Chief Justice N.V. Ramana on behalf of Raihanath seeking the immediate transfer of the journalist back to Mathura jail, citing inhuman conditions at the hospital where he has been under treatment since Wednesday. The letter filed by lawyer Wills Mathew stated that Kappan “is chained like an animal” to the bed at KM Medical College Hospital in Mathura and he could neither take food nor visit the toilet since being admitted. “If immediate corrective steps are not taken, it will result in his untimely death,” the letter stated. The Delhi-based stringer of a Malayalam news portal was arrested while en route to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh on October 5 last year to report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl. Three members of the Muslim Right-wing Popular Front of India were arrested along with him from the same car. While Uttar Pradesh police booked them under provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and other penal sections for allegedly trying to foment trouble in Mathura, Kappan has denied any links with the organisation and insisted he had been heading to Hathras only as a reporter. They have since been named in a 5,000-page chargesheet filed in a Mathura court. Raihanath said Kappan had made a desperate call to her around 4.30pm on Saturday from someone’s phone and narrated his predicament. “He told me how he was chained to the bed as soon as he was admitted to the hospital four days ago and never even once allowed to use the toilet. He was forced to urinate in a plastic bottle,” she told The Telegraph on Sunday. Kappan had tested positive for Covid-19  on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Cremations spiral in Kanpur||The number of cremations taking place at Kanpur’s crematoriums has increased several-fold — far more than the 66 deaths officially attributed to the coronavirus in the entire district over the past six days. Data from Bhairoghat and Bhagwatghat crematoriums shows 462 bodies were consigned to flames from April 19 to April 24. People have to wait with the bodies for the last rites and the situation is no different at burial grounds. In last six days, Kanpur Nagar district officially recorded 66 Covid-19 deaths, while 406 cremations took place at Bhairoghat and 56 in Bhagwatghat alone. “The number of cremations has risen several fold in the last week,” said Qamruddin, a Kanpur municipal corporation employee at the Bhairoghat electric crematorium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Covid-19: No shield for oxygen tanker drivers||Sohan Singh Aitiana on Sunday sent two trained drivers with empty oxygen tanker trucks from Calcutta to Reliance’s Jamnagar plant. It will take six to seven days for both the drivers to bring back the gas for supply to hospitals in Calcutta. Aitiana, president, Bulk LPG Transport Contractors Association, East India, said he usually deals with transport of LPG. However, the  Bengal government sought his help for deputing drivers for oxygen. The state government does not have adequate trained drivers to do this job. “The drivers of oxygen tanker trucks are highly trained drivers. They travel long distances. Since they have to deliver this life supporting gas at the earliest, they work tirelessly. Now their work pressure is much higher,” Aitiana said. Oxygen is transported in tankers mounted on trucks. Since the drivers enter hospital premises and also eat at roadside dhabas, they get exposed to Covid virus. However, these drivers are yet to be tagged as frontline workers in the fight against Covid. All India Motor Transport Congress (AITC), an apex organisation of transporters, last year demanded to the central government to consider the tanker drivers as frontline workers, cover them under insurance and prioritise their vaccination. “The government discussed the demand. The transport ministry was in favour of it. But somewhere it was rejected,” said Naveen Kumar Gupta, secretary general of AITC. Gupta said there are about 1,000 oxygen tankers available within the country. These are not enough to meet the current demand, he added. The leading manufacturers of oxygen gas as Reliance and Air Water India Private Ltd are supplying the gas. An official of Air Water India Private Ltd said that the drivers are sent by the transporters who provide the trucks. They do not drive during 12am to 5am. Each of them drives by turn every three hours. They also take rest in between. “The work of drivers has increased hugely in the last 15 days because of the increase in demand,” the official said. All India Road Transport Workers’ Federation general secretary K.K. Divakaran said the truck drivers, including those carrying tankers, work up to 15 hours a day. There should be rules to allow them to up to eight hours a day. According to the Factories Act, the normal working period is eight hours a day. Besides, they do not get work for 40 per cent of days. “The central government must come up with a policy to ensure compensation is paid to the drivers for the period they have no work. Besides, the government must ensure free treatment for their family members and social security. They are the lifeline of the nation,” Divakaran said. Only a few states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu provide food assistance to drivers’ families in the Covid period. Other states should follow it, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Centre lectures states on ways to tackle Covid surge||The Centre on Sunday asked states with large numbers of daily new Covid-19 cases and high hospital bed occupancy rates to introduce “intensive action and local containment measures” to restrict intermingling of people and break infection transmission chains. The Union health ministry said all districts where the test positivity — the proportion found Covid-19 positive among those tested — is 10 per cent or higher for a week or where oxygen support of intensive care unit bed occupancy is 60 per cent or higher should consider these measures. The focus would be on “containment” to flatten the epidemic curve through multiple measures, including night curfews and a ban on social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, or other similar gatherings and congregations. Essential services, including healthcare, police, fire, banks, electricity, water, and sanitation, and public transport needed for these services will continue, the government said in a statement released on Sunday night. Shopping malls, cinemas, restaurants, sports complexes, gyms, swimming pools and religious places should remain closed the earmarked districts, the government said. Public transport may operate at a maximum capacity of 50 per cent. Government and private offices would need to operate at a maximum staff strength of 50 per cent in these districts. All industrial and science establishments may continue to run but the workforce would be expected to maintain physical distancing. The Centre’s advisory comes at a time at least 12 states – Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Bihar and Bengal — are showing sharp increases in their daily new cases. The advisory is in line with recommendations from a panel of medical experts that had earlier this month said decisions on local lockdowns to be taken on the basis of trends in transmission, hospital occupancy, and mortality rates. The Lancet India Commission Covid-19 India Task Force panel had said that it does not recommend a national lockdown or even state lockdowns, but India should consider a “middle ground approach” focused on local actions to break infection transmission chains. Several states, including Delhi, Maharashtra, and Uttar Pradesh, have implemented some or all of these restrictions. An analysis by the health ministry a week ago had counted 146 districts across India where the test positivity was more than 15 per cent and would thus qualify for intensive actions. Public health experts have said strong and effective measures to break infection transmission chains would be required wherever the healthcare system is overwhelmed by patients and is facing shortages of hospital beds, oxygen or healthcare staff. “Some of our own doctors and nurses are positive and under isolation – we’re working with fewer staff but more patients,” said a senior doctor in a central government hospital in New Delhi. “Something has to be done as quickly as possible to curb the infection spread.” New Delhi: Hindustani classical vocalist Pandit Rajan Mishra, a Padma Bhushan awardee, died of Covid-19 at a hospital on Sunday after his family tried in vain to get him ventilator support. “We were trying for a ventilator but nobody supported us, nothing in any hospital. Later, the Prime Minister's Office reached out to help but he had left us by then,” his son Rajnish 
said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death but did not mention that Mishra had died waiting for ventilator support. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||US, Britain offer Covid support to India||The US has promised additional support to Covid-hit India, Britain is sending oxygen concentrators and ventilators, and the European Union has activated its Civil Protection Mechanism to help the Indian medical system fight the pandemic challenge that has overwhelmed it. The Narendra Modi government maintained a studied silence through the day to the US offer of support and did not comment on the subsequent assurances of support that came in later in the evening. The external affairs ministry did not confirm or deny that India had requested the EU to activate its Civil Protection Mechanism, as claimed by the European Commissioner for Crisis Management Janez Lenarcic. According to the website of the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations: “When the scale of an emergency overwhelms the response capabilities of a country, it can request assistance via the Mechanism.” Lenarcic tweeted: “Upon request for assistance by #India, we have activated the #EU Civil Protection Mechanism. The EU will do its utmost to mobilise assistance to support people of India. Our #ERCC is already coordinating EU MS that are ready to provide urgently needed #oxygen & medicine rapidly.” A request to the EU to activate its Civil Protection Mechanism would be an admission by the government that India is overwhelmed by the situation. Earlier, under attack at home and here for turning a blind eye to the pandemic situation in India, the senior leadership of the Biden administration for the first time during this wave of Covid in India publicly took note and assured rapid additional support. “Our hearts go out to the Indian people in the midst of the horrific Covid-19 outbreak. We are working closely with our partners in the Indian government, and we will rapidly deploy additional support to the people of India and India’s health care heroes,” US secretary of state Antony Blinken tweeted on Saturday. This was followed up by a separate tweet from US President Joe Biden’s national security adviser, Jake Sullivan. Sullivan wrote: “The US is deeply concerned by the severe Covid outbreak in India. We are working around the clock to deploy more supplies and support to our friends and partners in India as they bravely battle this pandemic. More very soon.” German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a statement: “The fight against the pandemic is our common fight. Germany stands in solidarity with India and is urgently preparing a mission of support.” British Prime Minister Boris Johnson too pledged support. A consignment of ventilators and oxygen concentrators is expected to reach India by Tuesday. “Vital medical equipment, including hundreds of oxygen concentrators and ventilators, is now on its way from the UK to India to support efforts to prevent the tragic loss of life from this terrible virus,” Johnson said. The offers of help come at a time more countries, including Bangladesh, have begun shuttering down on travel from India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||India||Covid: 12-hour wait for Odisha teacher cremation ||A Kumbh mela returnee, a school teacher, passed away in Boudh district on Saturday night but his body lay unattended in his house for nearly 12 hours with neither his neighbours nor relatives turned up for cremation. It was only after the local administration intervened that the body of Sunil Das, who originally hails from Ganjam, could be cremated around 2 pm on Sunday. This horrifying incident that took place at Dhalpur under Harbhanga police station of Boudh district, about 230km from here, illustrates the level of fear among people about coming in contact with Covid-19 positive people. The Block Development Officer (BDO) of Harbhanga, Nilakantha Behera told The Telegraph, “The teacher, Sunil Das (65) belonged to Ganjam district but used to stay here along with his wife after retirement. “A practising Brahmin and a highly religious person he had gone to the Kumbh mela leaving the wife at home. He had returned only four days ago. He was in home isolation.” Behera said: “After he returned, his swab test was done. On Saturday morning, he had high fever and later in the evening he even vomited several times. His condition deteriorated later and he passed away. 'Since he was infected with the coronavirus people were hesitant to act as his pall bearers.” Her wife tried her best to seek the help of neighbours but to no avail. “None of the neighbours and relatives turned up fearing infection. Later, we approached the local administration which came for our help. “The local BDO arranged the PPE Kits and an ambulance. After he convinced his relatives, the body was cremated in the afternoon,” said local journalist Siman Nayak. Nayak said: “Sunil Sir who used to teach Sanskrit, had been residing here along with his wife following his retirement. All his kids settled outside. “The wife had to remain a silent spectator and helplessly watch the body of Sunil Sir. None of us could dare to ask her any question as she was passing through a trauma. It’s shocking that his body remained unattended for nearly 12 hours.” Officials maintained that his swab test report, which came positive, reached his family only after he passed away. “We have now launched a tracing exercise to find out persons who had come in his contact. We will conduct swab tests of all these people,” local BDO Behera said. Noted social activist Sudarshan Dash said: “This is not the only instance where relatives have shown reluctance to take a body to the crematorium. Such incidents are a regular phenomenon. We need to create awareness on the issue.” In a related development, Puri district administration on Sunday announced that it would not allow cremation of any non-Puri resident at Swargadwara located on the Puri sea beach from 
Monday onwards in view of the rise in coronavirus cases. Swargadwara is considered as an auspicious place and there is a belief that if someone is cremated at Swargadwara he or she will go to heaven. Meanwhile, the number of deaths because of coronavirus in the state reached 1,988. Seven persons were reported dead in Odisha in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
