27-04-2021||India||PM Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah monitoring Oxygen supply, Govt tells Apex Court||The Centre while submitting an affidavit highlighting the Covid situation of the country mentioned that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah are directly monitoring oxygen supply across the country. “The Central Government, with active and constant supervision and direct involvement of the Hon'ble Prime Minister and the Hon'ble Home Minister, is augmenting the oxygen supply on a war footing evolving and implementing innovative measures,” read the government’s 201-page affidavit. It further stated, “Resultantly, more and more medical oxygen is generated and is being made available every day, keeping in mind not just existing requirements but potential future requirements. It is submitted that these efforts include augmenting oxygen supply from all available sources within India and also importing oxygen from other countries using not only the diplomatic channels but also personal intervention of the political executive.” The Supreme Court had earlier asked the government for a detailed response on various aspects of the Covid crisis engulfing the country such as the supply of oxygen, beds, essential drugs like Remdesivir and vaccines. Taking into account that many High Courts were hearing petitions related crunch in critical supplies across India, the Apex Court had last week taken up the case on its own. The centre’s affidavit filed in response, indicated that “robust interactive mechanism” was in place with senior official working on the supply of oxygen on real-time basis. It also mentioned about a series of high-level meetings being conducted by PM Modi to make the country respond to the second wave of the pandemic. The document also mentioned that on February 21, the Union Health Ministry had written to the states and Union Territories that has witnessed a spike in Covid cases to put “immediate requisite public health interventions”. The Union ministry for home affairs also in the affidavit mentioned that the unprecedented surge in the number of Covid-19 cases had created the crisis due to “limitation in resources” and that such resources need to be “professionally augmented and utilised.” Also while talking to PTI, the government said, “It is also pertinent to note that the medical oxygen in any country cannot be unlimited. While the government started all out efforts to augment oxygen resources and procure more and more oxygen from all available sources, these supplies available at any given time in the country are to be distributed to all the states, especially those which are critically burdened with high number of active COVID cases, in a balanced manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
27-04-2021||India||PM Modi chairs high-level meeting to review Covid situation ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was informed about the increasing production of oxygen, whose shortage has been reported in several places amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, at a high-level meeting on Tuesday during which he asked officials to work closely with state governments to start PSA Oxygen plants at the earliest. In the meeting on the prevailing Covid-19 situation, Modi reviewed the availability of medical infrastructure and directed officials to ensure rapid upgradation of health facilities, the PMO said in a statement. Three empowered groups also made a presentation to the prime minister, it added. Modi was briefed about the functioning of the Oxygen Express Railways service as well as the domestic and international sorties undertaken by the Air Force to transport oxygen tankers. Officials also noted that they are encouraging states to also set up PSA oxygen plants. The empowered group working on the medical infrastructure and Covid-19 management briefed him on efforts being undertaken to ramp up the availability of beds and ICUs. They informed him on efforts to break the chain of transmission with Modi stressing the need to ensure that specific guidelines and strategies evolved regarding the Covid management needs to be properly implemented by relevant agencies in the states. "It was discussed that the production of LMO in the country has increased from 5700 MT/day in August 2020 to the present 8922 MT (on 25th April 2021). The domestic production of LMO is expected to cross 9250 MT/day by the end of April 2021," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Never asked for 5-star rooms as Covid facilities, says Delhi HC after media report||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said it has not made any request for creating Covid-19 facilities for its judges, staff and their families in a five star hotel. Taking suo motu cognisance of the news reports which said that 100 rooms of Ashoka Hotel in national capital have been converted into a Covid health facility for judges of Delhi High Court on its request, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said,"No communication has been made to anyone in this regard". "We have not made any such request for taking over facilities of a five star hotel," the bench said and directed the Delhi government to "take corrective steps immediately". In an order issued by the sub-divisional magistrate of Chanakyapuri on April 25, it was stated that the Covid facility at Ashoka Hotel will be associated with Primus Hospital. The order also said that the facility was being set up on the request of the Delhi High Court. Terming the order as "wrong", the bench said the image being projected as a result of it was that the Delhi High Court judges have taken it for their benefit or that the Delhi government has done it to appease the court. The high court also did not agree with senior advocate Rahul Mehra's claim that the media played "mischief", saying "the media is not wrong". It said that the media only pointed out what was wrong in the order and it was the SDM's order which was wrong. The bench, in another hearing, also directed the AAP government to check black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines for Covid-19 patients and address the issue of oxygen distribution to hospitals as well as individuals. It directed the Delhi government to file a report on the number of deaths of Covid-19 patients in hospitals and nursing homes due to the shortage of oxygen. The high court also directed the government to take over the plant of an oxygen refiller for not supplying gas to hospitals and allegedly giving it in black market, and made it clear that the same action should be taken with regard to other suppliers who refuse to fall in line. Besides, it asked the Delhi government to take account of stock and sale of medicines such as Remdesivir, Fabiflu and Tocilizumab at hospitals' pharmacies, as people are unable to get these drugs which are being sold at much higher rates in black market. The bench, which was hearing the case relating to oxygen crisis and shortage of medicines to treat Covid-19 patients for over three hours, said non-accounting of oxygen cylinders supplies by Delhi government was leading to artificial shortage of gas and black marketing . The court observed it is not the time to become vultures. “Are you aware of black marketing? Is it a good human gesture,” the bench said to oxygen refillers. It also said the Delhi government's entire system has failed as black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines for treating Covid-19 patients is going on. The bench further said this is a mess that the state government has been unable to resolve. “You have the power, take action against those engaging in black marketing of oxygen cylinders and medicines,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||India now better prepared to combat Covid compared to 2020, says Harsh Vardhan||India is better prepared mentally and physically this year with more experience to beat the COVID-19 pandemic as compared to 2020, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday. He made the remark while inaugurating a series of blood donation camps at 13 locations in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh through a webinar in the presence of Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur, a health ministry statement said. The camps are being organised by the Competent Foundation with the help of various associations, NGOs and blood banks in wake of fulfilling the blood requisition due to COVID-19 pandemic, it said. Addressing the webinar, Vardhan appreciated the efforts of the foundation to organise blood donation camps with more strength and expansion for fulfilling the blood requirement due to the pandemic. He exhorted people to at least donate blood once a year on their birthdays as it is a big help for humanity. He said that in his opinion, donating blood is even more pious than visiting revered holy places, the statement said. Vardhan said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the largest vaccination drive in the world in January, which is now being accelerated further as the vaccination of young people is about to begin from May 1. He also said that in 2021, the country is better prepared mentally and physically with more experience to beat the pandemic as compared to last year, the statement stated. He appreciated the fact that this blood donation camp has been set up following all COVID protocols, guidelines and SOPs. He said that the blood donation drive is being done before vaccination of youth which is commendable as after being vaccinated it is advisable to not donate blood for 2 months. President of Competent Foundation Sanjay Tandon said this year the foundation decided to organise blood donation camps beyond Chandigarh tricity in 13 different locations across the region with more strength in the wake of fulfilling the blood requirement during the COVID pandemic, the statement stated. He appealed that in the middle of coronavirus epidemic, blood donation has become more important because supply of blood has become extremely difficult.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Future generations won't forgive you, Priyanka tells Yogi ||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Tuesday wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, alleging low testing for COVID-19, a shortage of oxygen beds and a sluggish vaccination drive in the state, which is battling a "terrible" second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. In her letter to Adityanath, the Congress general secretary also alleged coronavirus patients and their attendant were scrambling for beds, medicines and oxygen in the state to no avail. Uttar Pradesh Monday reported 249 coronavirus deaths, the highest single-day fatality count so far, and 33,574 fresh cases. The infection has killed 11,414 people in the state till Monday, "If you don't employ the entire resources of the government with determination in this hour of crisis, the future generations will never forgive you," she said in her letter, in which she has also made 10 suggestions on fighting the raging pandemic. She said the second wave of the pandemic is at its peak in many cities of Uttar Pradesh and "is now spreading to villages". "The biggest concern is that the rate of coronavirus cases is rising, while testing is very low. A large number of cases are not being reported," Gandhi alleged in her letter in Hindi. She said the war against COVID-19 rests on four pillars of testing, treatment, tracking and vaccination. "There is no testing in rural areas and people in the urban areas also area facing a lot of difficulties in getting their tests done. Test reports do not come for several days. In a state with a population of over 23 crore, there are only 126 government test centres and 115 private centres," she said. She said another big concern area was an alleged lack of hospital beds, medical oxygen, and an acute shortage of medicines and their massive black-marketing. "The Ayushman card scheme has failed, it is not being honoured by any hospital. People are being forced to pay three-four times more for oxygen, Remedesivir and other life-saving drugs," she said, adding it is difficult for the poor and middle class to get treatment in such a scenario. She also alleged people have to face a lot of difficulties at crematoriums and death figures are also being "underreported". "This game of underreporting deaths is being played every day in every district, in every town of UP," she said, asking, "It is being done on whose directions?" People are not getting wood for the cremation of bodies and families have to wait for 12 hours for an ambulance to take their deceased loved ones to cremation ground, she claimed. On vaccination, she said the pace of immunisation was "sluggish" in the state as it has inoculated "less than 1 crore people in five months". "Uttar Pradesh will need at least Rs 10,000 crore to vaccinate 60 per cent of the state's population, while it has allocated only Rs 40 crore. I urge you (CM) to explore the possibility of manufacturing vaccines in Bharat Immunological and Biological Corporation in Bulandshahr," she suggested. She added, "Whatever may be your motive behind the order to book people who are exposing the truth of this pandemic and confiscate their property, please first focus your attention on trying to control this deadly virus." She said the state government should announce an economic package for the welfare of all health workers and frontline workers, and also re-notify all the closed COVID-19 hospitals and care centres. It should immediately increase the availability of oxygen-beds, she said. All medical personnel and paramedical staff retired from territorial service should be recalled to work in hospitals near their homes, she said. "Increase the number of RT-PCR tests. It should be ensured that at least 80 per cent of the tests are through RTPCR. Open new testing centers in rural areas and purchase of adequate test kits and appointment of trained staff," she said. Covid kits should be distributed in villages with the help of Anganwadi and Asha workers, she added. She also suggested granting ambulance status' to oxygen tankers for faster transportation and demanded financial assistance for the poor, the laborers, street vendors and migrant workers. She demanded relief for shopkeepers, small businesses and said that government should encourage people, parties and institutions to come forward to help them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Centre raps Kejriwal government for failure to arrange tankers to transport oxygen||The Centre has rapped the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government for its alleged failure to arrange tankers for transportation of oxygen for the city's hospitals and said proactive actions by it could have "avoided tragic incidents". In a hard-hitting letter to Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also claimed that the Delhi government's efforts to resolve logistical issues for procuring oxygen have "not been up to the mark" at a time when other states and union territories have been making earnest and professional efforts on the matter. Bhalla wrote the letter on April 25. However, on Tuesday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government will import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France. Kejriwal said the scrambling for oxygen witnessed last week amid a surge in Covid-19 cases has been addressed and the situation has improved significantly in the past two days. In the next month, the Delhi government will set up 44 oxygen plants at various hospitals, including 21 that will be imported from France. The Centre will install eight oxygen plants by April 30, Kejriwal said during an online briefing. The chief minister said the Centre has provided five oxygen tankers to Delhi. Highlighting various steps taken by the central government like stopping oxygen supply to industries, uninterrupted movement of oxygen tankers, airlifting of tankers from abroad, the union home secretary said all state governments and UTs have been making diligent and continuous efforts at their level for the last few days to arrange tankers for the allocated quantity of medical oxygen and a specially designated virtual group was formed by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) for facilitation. "However, Delhi government has hardly been able to arrange any tankers so far though many crucial days have passed since the government of India made allotment of oxygen," Bhalla's letter said, urging the Delhi chief secretary to urgently take immediate action in this regard as is being done by chief secretaries and other officials of other states and UTs. The home secretary said presently, there is no shortage of medical oxygen supply and Delhi had been allocated 480 MT on April 21 after consultation with officers of the Delhi government. "However, it has been brought to my notice that Delhi has received less supply than its actual allocation made by the government of India largely due to logistical issues which are not at all addressed by the state government," he said. Bhalla said the Delhi government had directed INOX, one of the main suppliers of oxygen, to supply 98 MT to 17 hospitals situated within Delhi, while INOX was supplying 105 MT to 45 hospitals situated within Delhi for a long time. Furthermore, alternative arrangements for the remaining 28 hospitals were not properly tied up by the Delhi government, he claimed. "As a result, some of these hospitals have been complaining about severe shortage of medical oxygen and one hospital mentioned that some persons died because of it. "This could have been avoided had proper, effective, and meaningful consultations with various stakeholders, specially the suppliers and recipient hospitals, had been done well in time by Delhi government," Bhalla said. Highlighting that most of the hospitals in Delhi were converted into Covid-19 facilities in view of the sudden and alarming rise in cases, the home secretary said such hospitals by very nature of their earlier functioning, did not have adequate storing capacity to store the oxygen supplied as per their present requirements since in their earlier functioning most of them did not need more quantity of oxygen. For the same reasons, he said, their oxygen dispensing infrastructure also may not have been up to the requirement, especially for augmented oxygen supply required for Covid-19 patients. Bhalla said a virtual meeting with all hospitals in Delhi, taking stock of their respective capacities and infrastructure, guiding them to suitably augment their storage and pressure facilities to the required level with the help of experts of the field "would have avoided tragic incidents". "Such things are to be immediately taken up proactively and on a war footing with the state government taking the initiative. "In these difficult times, it is extremely important that the central government and the governments of various states and UTs work in tandem to tackle this Covid crisis and minimise human suffering. Therefore, I will request you to take urgent, effective, innovative and result-oriented measures like Chief Secretaries of other states and UTs have taken," the home secretary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||High courts can function but we can’t be mute spectators, says SC on Covid crisis||Terming the massive resurgence of Covid-19 cases a "national crisis", the Supreme Court Tuesday said it cannot remain a mute spectator and made clear that its suo motu proceeding on devising national policy for Covid-19 management is not meant to supplant high court hearings. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said the high courts are in a better position to monitor the pandemic situation within their territorial boundaries and the apex court was playing a complementary role and its intervention must be understood in the correct perspective as there are some matters which transcend the regional boundaries. There is a need for top court's intervention on certain national issues as there might be matters related to coordination between states, it said. "We are playing a complementary role. If High Courts have any difficulty in dealing with issues due to territorial limitations, we will help, said the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat. These observations assume significance as some lawyers had criticized the apex court last Thursday for taking suo motu cognizance of the pandemic's resurgence and issues by saying that high courts be allowed to continue with hearings. A day later on April 23, a bench headed by the then CJI S A Bobde, who has retired, took a very strong exception to unfair criticism by some lawyers for something which was not part of its order in the suo motu case related to framing of national policy on the Covid-19 pandemic and said this is how institution is being destroyed . The bench on Tuesday also took note of the submissions of lawyers including senior advocate Vikas Singh on differential pricing of Covid-19 vaccines and asked the Centre to apprise it of the rationale and basis behind such pricing. On the government's decision to vaccinate all citizens above 18 years, the court sought replies from states by Thursday as to how they intend to cope with the surge in vaccine demand and the infrastructure required for that. The bench also asked the Centre to apprise the top court of the modalities on distribution of oxygen as well as the vaccines to states and the monitoring mechanism. In the hearing, conducted via video conferencing, the top court also appointed senior counsel Jaideep Gupta and Meenakshi Arora as amicus curiae to assist it in the Covid-19 management case as Harish Salve had sought recusal following some controversial remarks by some lawyers. Last Thursday, the bench took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases as also in mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs. Observing that oxygen to patients infected with the virus is said to be an essential part of treatment, the top court had said it seemed that a certain amount of panic has been generated due to which people have approached several high courts seeking relief. Prior to this, the bench had rapped some lawyers for their unfair criticism that the apex court was intending to transfer to itself the cases from HCs saying that no such order was passed. It had also lamented imputation of motive by some senior bar members while allowing senior advocate Harish Salve to withdraw as an amicus curiae from the case after he had said that he did not want it to be decided under the shadow that he was friends with Justice Bobde from school and college days||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Vaccine talks: For Modi, Biden no cakewalk as with Trump   ||So what’s changed in India-US relations in the 100 days since Joe Biden took charge as president -- and not for the better? For starters, it seems that, like elephants, Biden doesn’t forget. That’s become evident in the initially tepid US response to India’s Covid-19 crisis. Prime Minister Narendra Modi now is learning the hard way that it might not have been the smartest move to have enlisted Donald Trump as the warm-up act at his Howdy Modi rally in Houston two years ago. And Modi pitching for “ab ki baar, Trump sarkar” at the rally -- well, that was bound to rankle with any Democratic president occupying the White House. It may come as no surprise then that there was conspicuous silence from both Biden and vice-president Kamala Harris (who bhakts continue to troll 24/7) immediately after India’s Covid cases exploded. In fact, the US at first declined to lift the embargo on the export of vital raw material needed to ramp up vaccine production in India. Over the last couple of days, the White House has changed its position and has been busy assuring India of “America’s full support to provide emergency assistance and resources” in tackling the surging Covid crisis. But that was only after France, Germany and even Pakistan and China were quick to offer aid packages as the second coronavirus wave mercilessly swept the country. Biden finally spoke to Modi on Monday after India’s new Covid infections hit record levels for the fifth straight day. “Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need,” Biden tweeted. But even that supportive statement was an uncomfortable reminder of India’s humiliatingly dizzy descent from being “the pharmacy to the world” benefactor to a supplicant. One moment, India was being hailed as the global vaccine powerhouse while the next it was scouring the globe for medical supplies. The US has said it will “immediately” supply raw materials urgently required for making vaccines, reversing its initial refusal. It’s also promised to supply badly needed oxygen generation equipment as well as diagnostic tests, treatments, ventilators and protective gear. What’s going on? Clearly, there’s a general lack of enthusiasm in the White House for Modi and Harris has been at pains to distance herself from the Hindutva brigade in the country where her mother was born. The White House only stepped up to the plate after a very noticeable interval and before it antagonised the Indian-American community. Another intriguing thing is who the White House communicated with when it decided to step up its response to India’s unprecedented health catastrophe. It was US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan who conveyed on Sunday the United States’ “solidarity with the people of India” to his Indian counterpart, Ajit Doval. This could signal a tilting of the diplomatic scales in Delhi toward the NSA and Doval at the expense of the ministry of external affairs (MEA) and its minister S. Jaishankar, observers say. “Power in the US has always been in the White House, except under Trump. But Jaishankar can only talk with the State Department. This effectively puts him on a lower grade,” said one senior diplomatic advisor. “Unless the NSA is brought under the MEA, as Kissinger was under Nixon, the foreign minister will be a superior clerk,” he added. In fact, Doval may be emerging now as “the go-to man in Indian diplomacy, a sort of Pranab Mukherjee in foreign affairs,” said the same observer. Both Jaishankar and Doval were working on their US counterparts to accede to India’s Covid assistance request, but it is noteworthy that the White House chose to respond to the NSA chief, following the same line of communication as under US presidencies prior to Trump’s, he said. Biden has made his displeasure clear, but the fact is that he is very mindful of the mutual interests Washington and New Dehli share in squaring up to Chinese aggression. There’s been an urgent move to strengthen the Quad, the alliance of India, the US, Japan and Australia, that aims to face down the Chinese and halt its efforts to dominate Asia and be a global superpower on par or stronger than the US. The new US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin underscored the depth of Washington’s concerns about China’s muscular assertiveness when he made his first international trip a swing through Japan, South Korea and then India. Here, significantly, he met Modi along with Doval. Austin’s visit came after a Quad summit between Modi, Biden, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister, Scott Morrison. The fact it took place during the pandemic, even though over videolink, showed the importance the Americans attach to the Quad. So it is clear that India and the US continue to need each other, and maybe more than ever. But Biden isn’t about to let Modi go scot-free without reminding him about his cardinal sin of backing the wrong horse. “Biden will give Modi what India needs, definitely, but he will make Modi stew in the juice of his indiscretions,” the observer said. Another element to note is that while Biden has made strong statements in favour of multilateralism, he has by no means abandoned Trump’s “America First” credo, said a senior White House watcher. “There’s a sense that the US will remain inwardly fixated” and keep marching to its own drummer, he said. That was underlined when the US destroyer the USS John Paul Jones sailed through what India calls its exclusive economic zone. The US then issued a statement which bluntly said America was asserting “navigational rights and freedoms,” and, adding insult to injury, emphasised that the voyage had been made “without requesting prior permission.” The changing of the guard in the White House has other implications too. Both Biden and Harris must ensure that the Democratic administration doesn’t alienate the party’s liberal base so Modi’s actions on human rights, press freedom and preserving democratic institutions will be under scrutiny absent during the Trump years. Modi is going to find it won’t be the same cakewalk with Biden after walking hand-in-hand with Trump at the Houston rally which was attended by tens of thousands of Indian-Americans who traditionally lean Democrat. Biden is showing Modi that “diplomacy is the art of the possible and not an election rally,” said the observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||SC allows Vedanta to operate oxygen plant at Tuticorin ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed Vedanta to operate its closed oxygen plant at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu, saying the order has been passed in view of "national need" for oxygen. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said Vedanta shall not be allowed to enter and operate its copper smelting plant under the garb of this order. The top court said there should be no political bickering over the generation of oxygen by Vedanta as the country is facing a national crisis. It said the order allowing Vedanta to operate its oxygen plant would not create any equity in its favour. The apex court asked Tamil Nadu to form a panel, including the district collector and th Tuticorin superintendent of police, to monitor activities at Vedanta's oxygen plant. On April 23, the top court had said people are dying due to lack of oxygen, and questioned the Tamil Nadu government on why it can't take over Vedanta's Sterlite copper unit at Tuticorin, closed since May 2018 over pollution concerns, for producing oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||EC bans victory processions on or after counting of votes amid Covid surge||The Election Commission on Tuesday banned all victory processions on or after counting of votes in states where assembly polls were held, sources said, adding that the decision has been taken to check the spread of the coronavirus. An Election Commission notification said, "Not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his/her authorised representative receive the certificate of election from the Returning Officer concerned,". The poll panel had previously laid down a set of protocols for politicians to follow to minimise the chance of transmission amid rising Covid cases. But these were largely ignored by parties who organised huge rallies and gatherings. The EC did little to crack down on violations other than issuing circulars reiterating its Covid protocols. The second wave has, meanwhile, intensified in its ferocity, making way for suggestions that the elections have turned into Covid catalysts. Yesterday, Madras High Court rebuked the Commission in harshest terms, holding it “singularly” responsible for India’s second Covid wave. The HC also called the body “the most irresponsible institution.” “Were you (living) on another planet?” the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy asked commission officials. When counsel for the poll panel said all the required steps were being taken, the bench retorted that by allowing political parties to organise rallies, the commission had paved the way for the Covid resurgence and that its officials might be booked for murder. The bench directed the Election Commission to file a detailed report by April 30 on the Covid-19 protocols to be followed on counting day. Observing that the situation now was one of survival, the judges warned orally that they would not hesitate to stop the counting of votes on May 2. Last week, Calcutta High Court had also censured the commission over the lax enforcement of Covid safety norms during the ongoing elections. Counting of votes is scheduled to be held in Assam, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry on May 2. BJP welcomes EC order BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday welcomed the Election Commission's order banning victory processions during and after counting of votes. "I welcome the decision of the ECI banning celebrations and processions of electoral victories. I have directed all state units of BJP to strictly adhere to this decision. All karykartas of BJP are using their energies to help the ones in need in this hour of crisis," Nadda said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||India logs over 3.23 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,771 casualties in a day||With 3,23,144 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 1,76,36,307, while the national recovery rate has further dropped to 82.54 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,97,894 with 2,771 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. There has been a slight dip in the daily cases as compared to the number of new infections reported in the past few days. The active cases have increased to 28,82,204 comprising 16.34 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.54 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,45,56,209 while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.12 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 28,09,79,877 samples have been tested up to April 26 with 16,58,700 samples being tested on Monday. The 2,771 new fatalities include 524 from Maharashtra, 380 from Delhi, 249 from Uttar Pradesh, 226 from Chhattisgarh, 201 from Karnataka, 158 from Gujarat and 124 from Jharkhand. A total of 1,97,894 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 65,284 from Maharashtra, 14,628 from Delhi, 14,627 from Karnataka, 13,651 from Tamil Nadu, 11,414 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,009 from West Bengal, 8,530 from Punjab, 7,736 from Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh 7,536. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Madras HC holds EC responsible for Covid resurgence||Madras High Court on Monday held the Election Commission “singularly” responsible for India’s second Covid wave, called it the “the most irresponsible institution” and said its officials might be booked for murder. It said the commission’s decision to let political parties organise rallies had led to the resurgence of the pandemic. “Were you (living) on another planet?” the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy asked commission officials. The Bengal BJP defended the  commission. Last week, Calcutta High Court had censured the commission over the lax enforcement of Covid safety norms during the ongoing elections. “Public health is of paramount importance. It is distressing that constitutional authorities have to be reminded in such regard,” the Madras bench said. “It is only when a citizen survives that he will be able to enjoy the rights that a democratic republic guarantees.” The bench was hearing a public interest petition moved by M.R. Vijayabaskar, Tamil Nadu transport minister and AIADMK candidate from Karur in the April 6 Assembly polls. With 77 candidates contesting from Karur constituency, it would be a challenge to accommodate all their agents in the counting hall while observing the pandemic protocols too, the petitioner has argued. He has, therefore, sought a directive to election authorities to take all the steps necessary to ensure Covid safety and fair counting on May 2. When counsel for the poll panel said all the required steps were being taken, the bench retorted that by allowing political parties to organise rallies, the commission had paved the way for the Covid resurgence and that its officials might be booked for murder. The bench directed the Election Commission to file a detailed report by April 30 on the Covid-19 protocols to be followed on counting day. Observing that the situation now was one of survival, the judges warned orally that they would not hesitate to stop the counting of votes on May 2. On Sunday, Tamil Nadu reported 15,000 new Covid cases. The state’s tally of active cases has crossed 1 lakh. On April 22, while hearing three petitions seeking the enforcement of pandemic protocols during the Bengal polls, a Calcutta High Court division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan had told the commission that issuing circulars and holding meetings on Covid safety were not enough. The bench later directed the authorities to ensure that people in Bengal followed the Covid restrictions imposed by the poll panel. Bengal has witnessed a sharp spike in Covid cases during the eight-phase polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Coronavirus outbreak: In UP, a wife’s desperate step in vain||In Yogi Adityanath’s realm that claims to never run out of oxygen cylinders, the only dispensers of the gas Renu Singhal could find for her critically ill Covid-positive husband on Saturday were her own lungs. The 45-year-old Agra resident tried to help husband Ravi, 47, with mouth-to-mouth breathing — not a recommended procedure for a highly infectious Covid patient. But after three hospitals had turned the couple away citing oxygen shortage, she was desperate. Ravi, though, died in her arms inside the auto-rickshaw where she was trying to resuscitate him, a few steps from the emergency ward of a fourth hospital that apparently had oxygen. Ravi was too weak to get off the auto and walk into the emergency room; and no stretcher, trolley or hospital employee was immediately available to carry him inside, Renu told reporters on Monday. “He was coronavirus-positive and had high fever. He was in home isolation,” she told the reporters, who had arrived at her Vikas Colony home after seeing pictures that onlookers had clicked of her trying rescue breathing on her dying husband. “On Saturday morning, he complained of breathing problems. I decided to take him to a hospital,” Renu said. When the government’s ambulance helpline (108) failed to respond and Ravi’s condition started worsening, she got him into an auto-rickshaw and began her futile tour of the city’s hospitals. “None of the three hospitals we visited had any oxygen left. They said they would admit my husband if we came back with an oxygen cylinder,” she said. By the time she reached the fourth, the S.N. Medical College Hospital, no employee was in sight to wheel Ravi in, she said. So she sat in the auto, parked on the hospital premises, trying mouth-to-mouth breathing to save her husband. Eventually, when some hospital staff arrived and took him inside, the doctors declared him dead on arrival, Renu said. Renu is staying in quarantine; it couldn’t be ascertained if she had taken a Covid test. The auto driver couldn’t be contacted and efforts to get in touch with the S.N. Hospital authorities were unsuccessful. Dr R.C. Pandey, chief medical officer for Agra district, said he had not heard about the incident. He said Agra city had 34 dedicated private Covid hospitals and the government was trying its best to provide everything they needed. On Saturday, 10 hospitals in Agra were forced to discharge all their Covid patients -- about 1,000 in all – because of the lack of oxygen, Dr O.P. Yadav, district president of the Indian Medical Association, has said. Dr Surendra Singh of Yashwant Hospital, Agra, had told reporters on Saturday: “We were promised 50 oxygen cylinders a week but the government gave us only 5 cylinders over the last 10 days. We discharged our (Covid) patients when we had no option left.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid: No need to stock up on oxygen at home, caution doctors||Senior doctors guiding India’s Covid-19 response on Monday cautioned against what they view as panic-driven actions by some people to seek hospital beds, procure oxygen cylinders or buy vials of the antiviral remdesivir for patients who do not need them. Two doctors, both members of the national Covid-19 task force, underlined that 85 to 90 per cent of Covid-19 patients do not need hospital care and that a scramble for either beds or oxygen cylinders could deny these resources to patients who genuinely need them. “Some people think that if they keep oxygen at home and take oxygen early in the infection, they won’t need oxygen later. This is a false notion,” said Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Oxygen has emerged as a key treatment for Covid-19 but its misuse is a concern, Guleria said. “If oxygen saturation is 94 or 95, there is no reason to raise it to 98 or 99. This would be a misuse of oxygen that could be used in patients whose levels are below 90.” The standard treatment protocols recommend that patients with oxygen levels between 93 and 90 and respiratory rates of 24 or more breaths per minute should be admitted to hospital and those with oxygen levels below 90 or respiratory rates of 30 or higher should be under critical care. “These protocols should be adopted by both — by doctors and by the public,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the task force and a member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. “Please don’t panic; this disease is serious in only a small proportion of individuals.” Critical care medicine experts have also warned that the small proportions of Covid-19 patients who develop moderate or severe disease and whose oxygen levels fall below 90 require other medical interventions, too, such as steroid therapy and blood tests for inflammatory markers. Patients whose oxygen levels have dropped below 90 should not rely only on home-procured oxygen cylinders but need to urgently go to a hospital, said Priyadarshi Kumar, a critical care and respiratory medicine specialist in Noida. “The amount of oxygen in a cylinder might get exhausted quickly. A 60-litre oxygen cylinder would last only about 20 minutes for a patient who requires 3 litres of oxygen a minute,” Kumar said. While some patients may benefit from mask-based oxygen, he said, others may require high-flow oxygen or non-invasive or invasive ventilation. The concerns about oxygen misuse come amid moves by individuals and housing societies in some hard-hit cities to procure and store oxygen cylinders or oxygen concentrators as standby devices. Guleria and Paul also cautioned against efforts to hoard or even consume the antiviral remdesivir which, ideally should be available only to hospitals but is believed to be circulating in the market. Guleria said early consumption of the medication would not prevent severe disease. “Remdesivir is not a magic bullet, its benefits have not been well-established,” he said. The standard protocols recommend remdesivir only in patients who are within 10 days of their onset of symptoms. Paul, underlining the need for personal precautions, said people should consider wearing masks even at home to reduce the risk of transmission. “Even within the family, please wear masks…. It appears this virus (variant) is more transmissible,” he said. Anecdotal accounts from doctors treating Covid-19 patients suggest that more members per households with positive cases are likely to become infected during the current wave than were during the first wave last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Indian High Commission in Australia slams 'The Australian'||The Indian High Commission in Australia has sent out a bristling rejoinder to The Australian newspaper for an article criticising the Indian leadership’s handling of the pandemic; clearly borrowing a leaf out of Indira Gandhi’s Emergency copybook when Indian missions would issue counters to negative news in foreign publications. On Monday, the Indian mission in Canberra wrote to The Australian — the country’s only national broadsheet — objecting to it carrying The Times article titled “Modi leads India out of lockdown and into a Covid apocalypse”. The mission has described the article as “baseless, malicious and slanderous” and said it seems to have been “written only with the sole objective of undermining the universally acclaimed approach taken by the Government of India to fight against the deadly global pandemic at this decisive moment’’. The letter then cites the steps the government has taken over the past year, and also subsequent to the surge, which has literally left the nation gasping for oxygen. “Coverage of such motivated and malicious reports in your publication only helps in spreading falsehoods and undermining humanity’s common fight against the pandemic,’’ India’s deputy high commissioner to Australia P.S. Karthigeyan wrote in the rejoinder which he wants published in the newspaper. Reacting to the rejoinder which was also posted by the Indian High Commission on its verified Twitter handle, columnist Vir Sanghvi said: “I do wish we didn’t put our professional diplomats into situations where they have to make excuses for our politicians. The last time this happened on a regular basis was during the Emergency.” Meanwhile, Australian cricketer Pat Cummins on Monday announced a donation of $50,000 to the PM CARES Fund to purchase oxygen supplies for Indian hospitals, making him the first person from the well paid game of cricket to publicly pledge money to help India battle the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses the govt of hiding the truth about Covid||Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the government was hiding the truth about Covid, amid widespread concern that the numbers of infections and deaths were far higher than projected. “Like jobs and economic growth, the central government is not allowing the real coronavirus data to come in the public domain. Not the pandemic, but the government has definitely controlled the truth about pandemic,” he wrote on Twitter. The Congress ran a social media campaign on Monday to highlight the mismatch between ground reality and official figures. It cited reports from different states to show the suppression of data. One post said: “In 13 days in April, official figure says 41 deaths while news reports suggest more than a thousand deaths.” Another said: “On April 14, Gujarat total death figure was 73 while crematorium reports suggested 124 deaths in Surat and Gandhinagar alone.” Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath said in an interview: “The whole attempt is to hide real data. While testing by private labs has been stopped to hide the number of infections, deaths are grossly underreported. In Bhopal one day, the official figure was four while reports put it at 112. Till a few days ago, there was an attempt to deny oxygen shortage. I challenge chief minister Shivraj Chouhan to tell me about one health facility in the entire state where everything is available — oxygen, medicine, injections, beds and doctors.” Reacting to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s claim of no oxygen shortage in his state, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday: “What should be the punishment for lying to the people in this hour of crisis? Put yourself in the position of that patient who is told the hospital can’t give admission because there is no oxygen. Patients are asked to leave because there is no oxygen.” She also confronted Adityanath for threatening to invoke the National Security Act and seize the properties of those spreading rumours about oxygen shortage. “There is an oxygen emergency in the entire state. Please file a case against me, seize my property. But please for God’s sake try to understand the gravity of the situation and start working towards saving lives,” she said. Rahul also commented on the raging discourse on vaccines, saying: “Enough of debate. Every citizen must get free vaccine — that’s all. Don’t make India a victim of the BJP system.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid : Ration cards  hurdle to grain for migrants||Thousands of migrant workers in cities such as Delhi and Calcutta are unable to access subsidised foodgrains either because they don’t have ration cards or because the cards they have are registered elsewhere. After sitting idle for over a week, migrant construction worker Guna Nayak was happy to get a day’s work to clean a showroom in South Extension in Delhi. The owner was “very kind hearted,” Guna said. The wage of Rs 500 was Rs 100 more than what he usually gets from construction work. More importantly, Guna got 3kg rice and 5kg wheat as a gesture of help. “We had finished the rations at home. Seth ji was a nice man. He realised the difficulties of the workers at present. He gave me ration and also assured more help in future. Now I can manage for a few more days,” Guna said. Guna, a permanent resident of Kendrapada in Odisha, lives with his wife and daughter in a one-room house in Kotla Mubarakpur here. His wife does embroidery work and earns around Rs 100 a day. Guna pays Rs 3,000 as monthly rent. “If we can get ration here, it will be of great help for us. I have enquired at the ration shop here. They asked me to get my ration from the shop in Odisha. Now I am neither getting ration in Odisha nor here,” Nayak said. He is not registered for subsidised food in Odisha either. Under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), eligible families get 5kg dry ration per person per month at Rs 3 per kg of rice and Rs 2 per kg of wheat. But for this, they need ration cards. Sushil Raut, another worker from Odisha, does have one but that is registered in his home state and he cannot get food in Delhi where he works. “We are managing with the ration we had. We will go back to our village next week,” Raut, a father of two, said. The Centre had launched the One Nation One Ration Card scheme to make subsidised foodgrain accessible to beneficiaries anywhere in India. Several states, including Delhi and Bengal, are yet to join the scheme. According to official data, 26 states have joined the scheme. Last week, the Centre decided to allocate free foodgrains of 5kg per person per month for May and June to nearly 80 crore beneficiaries under the food security act. Food rights activist Deepa Sinha appeared sceptical about all migrant workers getting the free grains. She said only 10,000 ration card holders had accessed the benefits under the one nation one ration card scheme in April. The government should provide ration even to workers who do not have cards, Sinha said. “The Centre’s announcement will benefit some migrants, not all,” she added. Economist Sunil Ray, former director of A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, sought social security protection for the workers, including access to food and shelter, medical coverage, education for children, pension and allowance for the period they remain unemployed. He said: “The migrant workers are levers of the economic growth but they are the most vulnerable section of the society. In case of any emergency, the State as an institution withdraws from extending any support to them. This is barbaric manifestation of the behaviour of the State.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Centre to leave import of vaccines to states||India’s government has decided to leave the import of Covid-19 vaccines to state authorities and companies, two government officials told Reuters, a decision that may slow acquisitions of shots as a second wave of the pandemic rips through the country. They said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government would instead aim to support domestic vaccine makers by guaranteeing purchases from them. The government this month paid Indian producers in advance, for the first time, for vaccine doses. After cases began soaring this month, Modi’s government urged Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson to seek permission to sell their shots in India, and he relaxed rules for them. But the sources said New Delhi was now leaving it to the states and firms to sign deals with foreign drugmakers. India’s new coronavirus caseload hit a record daily peak for a fifth day on Monday. “The situation is desperate,” one of the government officials told Reuters. He added that India would allow import of vaccines by local partners of drug companies but the federal government “won’t buy”. The second government official said: “I don’t think the government will be buying foreign vaccines.” Both officials have direct knowledge of the matter but declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue. The ministries of external affairs, health and commerce did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The worst-hit state, Maharashtra, has said it will float a global tender to import vaccines. But many poorer states may fall behind without financial support from the Centre. Health economist Rijo M. John, guest professor at the Indian Institute of Management in the city of Kozhikode, said: “Vaccines should be bought, imported by the Centre and given to the people for free.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Gowda call to Modi for unity in Covid fight||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda has urged Narendra Modi to rope in members of the Opposition in the fight against Covid-19 as one nation. “The virus does not understand political partisanship. This is a national crisis, and we should fight it as one nation,” Gowda said in a letter he released on Twitter on Monday. The former Prime Minister called for better coordination between state governments by deploying a minister each to communicate with each other to seek and offer help. “One minister in each state can be put in charge to both seek help from other states as well as offer help. This, too, is cooperative federalism,” Gowda said. He sought a ban on all large public gatherings for six months and curbs on election victory celebrations on May 2. Gowda sought the postponement of all bypolls by six months. “I learnt that dedicated Covid hospitals and health centres in both private and public sectors across the nation came down by six per cent between December 2020 and April 2021. In reality this should have increased in anticipation of the second wave. Going forward, such decisions to shut down should be taken only after due deliberation,” Gowda stated. The Janata Dal Secular leader called for immediate decentralisation of Covid management and opening war rooms in district headquarters and suggested they should not be disbanded as soon as the coronavirus curve begins to slide and maintain them until the pandemic abates around the world. “The focus currently has been on big cities. But there is a greater danger lurking in non-urban districts and taluk centres. Village clusters also need urgent attention,” he urged, adding the ministry of rural development and panchayati raj should coordinate such efforts. In highlighting the confusion on the vaccination front, Gowda urged Prime Minister Modi to ensure science gets the primordial place in pandemic management. “Science has to be placed above every belief we may have and faith we follow,” he said, apparently alluding to propaganda about unscientific solutions such as cow urine. “It has to be told that vaccines are the only best thing we have to protect not just our own lives but those of others too,” he said, citing the cynicism about vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid: Yogi orders crack down on hospitals flagging oxygen shortage||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has sent out a clear message to the state’s hospitals: keep your mouth shut about any oxygen crisis or face action. At an online meeting on Sunday evening, Adityanath asked senior administrative and police officers, including divisional commissioners and inspectors-general, to crack down on hospitals that discharge patients citing an oxygen shortage or complain to the media about the crisis, a senior health department official said. “The chief minister said that action must be initiated against hospitals that put up notices saying they had no oxygen and the patients should be shifted elsewhere. He said there should be a probe to establish whether they deliberately tried to create panic,” the official said. “He (Adityanath) said there is no scarcity of oxygen in Uttar Pradesh. He said the government was ensuring the availability of the gas at every public and private hospital, but its misuse has to be stopped.” According to the official, some of Adityanath’s subsequent directives, however, appeared an indirect acknowledgement of the problem. “He asked the officials to ensure that every government or private hospital with 100 or more beds had an oxygen plant. He told them to prepare proposals and send them to the chief secretary,” the official said. Many hospitals in Lucknow and other parts of the state had put up notices at their gates over the weekend declaring an oxygen shortage and advising families of Covid patients to shift them elsewhere. An executive of a private hospital in Lucknow, who asked not to be named, said: “I invite him (Adityanath) to visit every hospital and audit the oxygen supply. If he does so honestly, he would find himself guilty of having left the hospitals and the people in the lurch.” He added: “The chief minister has no problem that graveyards and cremation grounds are running out of space. All he wants is that the hospitals fulfil his agenda of hiding the truth.” Several doctors from the Lakhimpur Kheri, Firozabad, Bareilly and Meerut districts on Monday told local reporters they continued to face an oxygen crisis. Dr Sanjay Jain of Anand Hospital, Meerut, said: “We shifted 20 patients from our hospital to Aryavart Hospital because of the oxygen shortage. We need 300 to 400 cylinders a day but are getting only 150.” Dr Rohit Kamboj of Meerut’s Nutema Hospital said: “We have 80 (Covid) patients. The oxygen shortage is hampering their treatment.” A government doctor from the Firozabad district hospital, seeking anonymity, said: “We don’t have oxygen. When we demand 100 cylinders, officials give us 10. The patients’ relatives are restless and are taking them to other places.” On Saturday, 10 hospitals in Agra were forced to discharge all their Covid patients —about 1,000 in all — because of a lack of oxygen, Dr O.P. Yadav, district president of the Indian Medical Association, had said. Dr Surendra Singh of Yashwant Hospital, Agra, had told reporters on Saturday: “We were promised 50 oxygen cylinders a week but the government gave us only 5 cylinders over the last 10 days. We discharged our (Covid) patients when we had no option left.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Centre purging tweets puts people’s health at risk: Activists||The removal of dozens of tweets seen to be critical of the Indian government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic is putting people’s health at risk and quashing dissent, lawmakers and human rights activists said on Monday. Twitter withheld some tweets after a legal request by the Indian government, a company spokeswoman told Reuters on Saturday. These included tweets from a lawmaker, a minister in Bengal, and a filmmaker. “Suppression of information and criticism of government is not only dangerous for India but it is putting people around the world at risk,” said Mirza Saaib Beg, a lawyer whose tweets were among those withheld. “Freedom of inquiry is an intrinsic part of freedom of speech and expression. These restrictions are further reflective of the weakening of all institutional spaces in India,” said Beg, who is studying at the University of Oxford. The ministry for information technology did not respond to a request for comment. The country’s new coronavirus infections hit a record peak for a fifth day on Monday, rising to about 353,000 cases. There is mounting criticism that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and state authorities let their guard down earlier this year, allowing big religious and political gatherings to take place when cases fell to below 10,000 a day. “Questioning the government of India’s decision to allow mass gatherings... where people from all across the country gathered and violated Covid safety protocols... cannot be called to be violating any laws of the country,” said Pawan Khera, a spokesman for the Opposition Congress, whose tweets were also withheld. The law cited in the government’s Twitter request is the Information Technology Act, 2000, which allows authorities to order blocking of public access to information to protect “sovereignty and integrity of India” and maintain public order. Requests from the government are reviewed under Twitter’s rules and the local law, a spokeswoman for the micro-blogging site told Reuters. There is a “lack of transparency” in the government’s order, said the Internet Freedom Foundation, a digital rights group in Delhi. “What is clear is there are more directions being issued across social media platforms in India,” it said in a statement. Twitter has about 17.5 million users in India. In its most recent transparency report for the six months to June 30, 2020, Twitter said it had received 42,220 legal demands to remove content from 53 countries, with most of the requests coming from five countries including Russia, India and Turkey. Earlier this year, the social media giant withheld dozens of accounts on the request of the Indian government on grounds that users were posting misleading content related to farmers’ protests near Delhi, aiming to incite violence. But Twitter did not fully comply with the government order to take down more than 1,100 accounts and posts, saying it had not blocked all of the content because it believed the directives were not in line with Indian laws. Following the face-off with Twitter earlier this year, the Indian government unveiled tougher rules to regulate big social media firms that it said were needed to hold the companies accountable for any misuse or abuse. “We all would prefer free spaces to objectively critique power in the offline as well as online space. However, both spaces are increasingly shrinking,” Beg told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka imposes 14-day lockdown ||Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday announced a 14-day lockdown beginning Tuesday night amid surge in the Covid-19 cases in the state. The state government has taken the decision after consulting the Covid expert committee. “We came to this decision after taking expert advice on how to handle the situation,” Yediyurappa told a news conference after the cabinet meeting on Monday. The lockdown comes into force at 10pm on Tuesday with the only relaxation being a morning window to buy essentials. “Stores selling grocery and other essentials will be open from 6am to 10am during the lockdown. But that is going to be the only relaxation,” the chief minister said. Home delivery of food will be allowed throughout the lockdown period. Yediyurappa cautioned shopkeepers to shutter at 10am and avoid action by police patrols that would monitor the implementation of the restrictions. Ambulances and other vehicles belonging to hospitals, other emergency services and goods transport will be allowed while all public transport will stay off the roads during the lockdown. Private vehicles will be allowed only in case of emergency. The farm sector, construction activities and manufacturing units are allowed to run during the lockdown. Yediyurappa said there was no other way out other than a lockdown since Covid numbers in Bangalore have surpassed that of Mumbai. Bangalore had 1,80,542 active cases on Sunday as against 75,740 in Mumbai. The Karnataka capital accounted for 20,733 of the 34,804 cases reported on Sunday. State health minister K. Sudhakar said the maximum daily cases Bangalore recorded in the first wave was around 4,500. “This time it’s up by five times already. This has become a major problem for us,” he said, alluding to the decision to go for a lockdown. The cabinet has decided to provide free vaccines for 18-45 age group when the third phase of vaccination starts on May 1. Free vaccines will continue to be available for those above 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
