28-04-2021||India||Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla to get Y category security, says Centre||Serum Institute of India's CEO Adar Poonawalla has been accorded 'Y' category security across India by the CRPF in view of "potential threats" to the businessman, involved in the production of one of the Covid-19 vaccines in India, the Union government officials said on Wednesday. The Central government decision came after Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), Prakash Kumar Singh had written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on April 16 requesting security for Poonawalla. According to officials, the protection has been given in view of "potential threats" to Poonawalla. Armed commandos of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will be with him every time he travels to any part of the country, they said and added that the 'Y' security cover will entail a posse of about 4-5 armed commandos with him. Covishield, one of the two Covid-19 vaccines used in India's Covid-19 vaccination programme, is being manufactured by SII. The other vaccine being used in the country is Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech. In this letter, Singh had stated that Poonawalla has been getting threats from various groups regarding the Covid-19 vaccine supplies. In this letter, Singh also said, "we are working shoulder to shoulder to fight against Covid-19 pandemic with the Government of India under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji." Earlier in the day, Serum Institute announced a cut in price of the jab it plans to sell to states to Rs 300 per dose from the earlier Rs 400. This followed widespread criticism of its pricing policy as it had sold the initial doses of Covishield to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. "As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of @SerumInstIndia, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives," Poonawalla said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Karnataka minister draws flak after asking farmer to 'die' for asking for rice||Karnataka Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti on Wednesday drew flak from Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and opposition parties for reportedly asking a farmer to die when he requested enhanced supply of rice through the Public Distribution System. Katti later withdrew his statement, tendered an apology and said he never wanted anyone to die and that everyone should prosper. Ishwar, the farmer activist from Gadag in North Karnataka, rang up Katti on Wednesday and asked him how he expected people to survive on just two kg of rice a month when the lockdown has rendered thousands jobless. To Ishwar's query, the minister replied that the Centre would be giving five kg foodgrains in May and June in view of the lockdown. This did not satisfy the farmer, who then sought to know whether people should fast till that period or die. "It's better to die. It's better that you stop the business of selling rice. Don't ring me again," Katti said. The government had decided to give two kg of rice and three kg of ragi through PDS in South Karnataka,and two kg of rice and three kg of either maize or wheat in North Karnataka. The minister later clarified that he never meant anyone should die and that all 6.5 crore people in Karnataka should prosper and survive. He said the entire quota of food grains under the PDS for April, alloted by the Centre, had already been distributed. "What can I do if someone makes such a statement? We are giving the Central quota from May 1 to May 10. No one should die and no one should ask such questions." The Chief Minister's Office, in a statement, quoted Yediyurappa as saying that he disapproved of the remarks and that it does not behove a minister to tell a farmer to die when the latter demanded five kg of rice. "Arrangements are being made to give five kg of rice to the people in the area who do not need wheat," he said. Congress state chief D K Shivakumar slammed Katti's remarks and demanded that the government remove him from his post. "BJP Minister Umesh Katti has abused a citizen & asked him to 'go die' just because he asked him why Karnataka Govt has cut Rice under PDS to just 2 kgs! "CM @BSYBJP (Yediyurappa) must immediately throw him out of the cabinet for this most insensitive statement. Does this Govt have any shame?" Shivakumar tweeted. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy too lambasted Katti for his statement. "The Food and Civil Supplies Minister, who is supposed to come to the aid of the starving people in this COVID-19 pandemic, has displayed his mental distortion," he tweeted. He said it was 'inhumane' on the part of the Minister to make such a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Nearly 80 lakh register on CoWIN ahead of mass vaccination drive, says official||Nearly 80 lakh people registered for Covid-19 vaccination on the government's CoWIN portal on Wednesday, as the Centre opened up the process for the upcoming mass vaccination drive, where everyone above 18 years of age can get inoculated, a government official said. National Health Authority CEO RS Sharma in a tweet said there have been 79,65,720 registrations on Co-WIN on the day. “There have been 79,65,720 registrations on Co-WIN today, most of these in the last three hours (16:00-19:00) and mostly of 18-44 age group. We have seen a traffic of 55,000 hits per second. System functioning as expected,” he wrote. A tweet from the handle of the Aarogya Setu app said more than 35 lakh people had registered in the first hour. “More than 35 lakhs people registered in the first hour after launch of 18 plus registration on http://cowin.gov.in. Appointments for 18-44 will be available when State Govts and Private Vaccination Centers schedule sessions.” However, as  registration opened up, many people took to social media to complain about the technical problems they faced trying to register themselves for the third phase of the inoculation drive that is scheduled to begin from May 1. Some of them complained that the portal was not responding while others complained that it had crashed. At 4.35 pm, a tweet from Aarogya Setu said the CoWIN portal is working and that there was a minor glitch at 4 pm, which was fixed. "Cowin portal is working. There was a minor glitch at 4 pm that was fixed. 18 plus can register," it said. At 4.54 pm, a tweet from the same handle stated: "Vaccination appointments for 18 plus will be possible once the state governments and private vaccination centres schedule vaccination sessions. Registration is happening on cowin.gov.in." Registration for the newly-eligible category for Covid-19 vaccination is possible through the CoWIN platform and the Aarogya Setu app. After registration, taking an appointment to get a Covid-19 vaccine jab would be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 44 years as walk-ins will not be allowed initially, officials had said. Those above 45 years of age can still avail the facility of on-site registration to get vaccinated, they had said. As India witnesses a surge in coronavirus cases, it has decided to allow all citizens above 18 years of age to get vaccinated from May 1. "An increased demand is expected once the vaccination is opened for all. For the purpose of crowd control, registering on the CoWIN portal and making an appointment to get a vaccine will be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 45 years. Walks-in will not be allowed in the beginning so that there is no chaos," an official had said. The inoculation process and the documents to be provided to get the jab remain the same. "Registration of citizens in the 18-44 age group will start with only online registration on CoWIN from April 28 onwards," the health ministry had said. Also, from May 1, the types of anti-coronavirus vaccines and their prices will be displayed on the CoWIN portal for the citizens to make an informed choice at the time of booking an appointment at a private vaccination centre. While those aged 18 to 44 years will be eligible to receive vaccination on payment from any of the private Covid vaccination centres (CVCs), they shall also be eligible to receive a jab from a government CVC in a state or a Union Territory that decides to lower the minimum cut-off age for eligibility. As provided in the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy document, all priority groups such as healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens aged 45 years and above shall continue to be eligible for vaccination for free from government CVCs and on payment from private CVCS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||UP man tweets on oxygen SOS, booked under Epidemic Act||The Uttar Pradesh police have booked a man here under the Epidemic Act, accusing him of creating fear among the people after he went on Twitter asking for an oxygen cylinder for his 88-year-old relative. "Need oxygen cylinder, ASAP," Shashank Yadav had tweeted on Monday, and tagged Bollywood actor Sonu Sood. On Tuesday, Union minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani tweeted in response, "Called Shashank thrice...no response on the number shared by you in your tweet." She also said she had alerted the District Magistrate and Amethi Police to find the person and help him. When asked about the matter, Superintendent of Police Dinesh Singh said on Wednesday Yadav had tweeted for a distant relative. "When he was called, he did not pick up. We thought he might be in some problem and therefore he was not picking up the phone. So we used surveillance and tracked his location and reached his house, where he was found sleeping," Singh said. "Shashank's motive was to create sensation and fear," he added. The Amethi Police tweeted on Tuesday, "Neither the patient had Covid-19 infection nor did he require oxygen. He died due to cardiac arrest at 8 pm Monday. Making such tweets are not only condemnable but also an offence." In his tweet, Yadav also had not said that his relative was Covid-19 positive. An FIR was lodged against Yadav under relevant sections of the Epidemic Act, and he was served a notice under section 41 of the CrPC (requiring appearance before police to prevent the person from committing any further offence), the SP said. Yadav was taken to a police station for questioning, but was later let off, he said. Chief Medical Officer, Ashutosh Dubey said Yadav's relative was not Covid-19 positive and was receiving treatment under a private doctor. The patient was also not taken to the nearby community health centre and did not die due to lack of oxygen, he added. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had recently said that there is no shortage of oxygen and medicines for Covid-19 patients in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Serum Institute reduces Covishield price for states to Rs 300 per dose||Serum Institute of India (SII) -- the maker of the most used COVID-19 vaccine in the country -- on Wednesday announced a cut in price of the jab it plans to sell to states to Rs 300 per dose from the earlier Rs 400. This follows widespread criticism of its pricing policy as it had sold the initial doses of Covishield to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. SII's CEO Adar Poonawalla took to Twitter to announce the "philanthropic" gesture. "As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of @SerumInstIndia, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives," he said. On Monday, the Centre had asked the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech to lower the price of their Covid-19 vaccines amid criticism from various states who accused the companies of profiteering during such a major crisis. The Pune-based institute, the world's largest vaccine maker in terms of volume, had announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine, 'Covishield', for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs 600 per dose for state governments and at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Centre to procure 1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators with funds from PM CARES||The government will procure one lakh portable oxygen concentrators and install 500 more pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants from the PM Cares Fund, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, the decision coming at a time when the lack of medical oxygen is killing Covid patients in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and several other parts of the country. The new purchases, the PM said, would  help improve access to oxygen, especially in district headquarters and tier-2 cities. The PMO said in a statement that the oxygen concentrators and the new PSA plants will greatly augment the supply of oxygen near demand clusters. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Modi to discuss the measures needed to improve the supply of liquid medical oxygen for COVID-19 management. Modi has directed that these oxygen concentrators should be procured at the earliest and provided in states with high case burden, the statement said. The 500 new PSA oxygen plants sanctioned under PM Cares Fund are in addition to the earlier sanctioned 713 PSA plants under this fund, the statement added. Modi tweeted, "1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators will be procured, 500 more PSA oxygen plants sanctioned from PM-CARES. This will improve access to oxygen, especially in district HQs and Tier-2 cities." These 500 PSA plants will be established with the transfer of indigenous technology developed by DRDO and CSIR to the domestic manufacturers. Establishing PSA plants and procurement of portable oxygen concentrators will greatly augment the supply of oxygen near the demand clusters, thereby addressing the current logistical challenges in transporting oxygen from plants to hospitals, the statement said. The demand for the life-saving gas has increased with the surge in the COVID cases with several hospitals sending out SOS for its supply. Several deaths have also been reported due to lack of oxygen supply in hospitals. The DRDO will set up as many as 500 oxygen plants within the next three months from the allocation made by the PM Cares Fund, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday. The Indian Air Force has ordered round-the-clock readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleets to rapidly meet Covid-19 related tasks across the country and overseas, Air Chief Marshal R.K. S. Bhadauria told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday in a meeting. During the review meeting, Modi stressed the need to increase the speed, scale and safety of operations in transporting oxygen tankers and other essential material. Ally countries including Australia, Ireland, Singapore, China, Thailand and the UAE have also come forward to send in oxygen to the country in the time of need.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Covid curbs in Maharashtra extended by 15 days||The existing lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra, imposed to stem the COVID-19 spread, will be extended by 15 days beyond April 30, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. The strict curbs on movement of people and a host of other activities are in force in the state since April 14 and were to end on April 30. Essential services have been exempted from the curbs. Addressing media persons after a Cabinet meeting here, Tope said though the COVID-19 situation seems to have stabilised to some extent in the state, all the ministers pitched for extending the on-going curbs. "Today, the number (of daily cases) is 60,000-plus. "There definitely is some stability. We had earlier predicted that (daily) cases may go beyond 70,000. But that has not happened." he said. "Now I hope and pray to God that this may be the peak and there will be a decline in the graph daily hereon," he said. The minister said if people observe COVID-appropriate behaviour by wearing masks and adhering to social distancing norms, the present situation can be brought under control. "But one thing is sure, all the Cabinet members said in unison that the lockdown, which will be effective till April 30, be extended. Now, it definitely will be extended by 15 days," Tope said. Prohibitory orders, banning assembly of five or more people at once place, are in force, while non-essential activities are not being allowed. At present, vegetable shops, grocery stores and milk shops are allowed to remain open only between 7 am and 11 am, while home delivery of items is permitted till 8 pm. Last week, the state government further tightened the curbs by imposing restrictions on travel, attendance in offices and wedding functions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||SC directs UP govt to shift arrested scribe Kappan to Delhi hospital for better treatment||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to shift journalist Siddique Kappan, suffering from various ailments and arrested last year on way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after being gang raped, to a hospital in Delhi for better medical treatment. Keeping in mind the basic human rights of an accused, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana headed bench granted the relief and directed the state to provide medical treatment to the Kerala-based scribe. The bench also comprising Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna said that Kappan will be transferred back to Mathura jail after his recovery. The top court, however, granted him liberty to approach an appropriate forum challenging his arrest or for any other relief and disposed of the plea filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and his wife, seeking his release from alleged illegal detention. Taking into consideration facts of the case, we dispose of the writ petition. Even though Solicitor General Tushar Mehta very seriously opposed the contention, we are directing the state to shift the accused to RML or AIIMS hospital here or wherever treatment can be done, said the bench. Mehta, who strongly opposed the top court's suggestions, said that the bench may also pass direction to the hospital concerned to vacate one of the beds for 42-years-old Kappan, which are now fully occupied by COVID patients. The bench, however, refused to pass any such directions and told Mehta that the state government can arrange a bed for him and we leave it at that . Earlier in the day the bench asked Mehta to seek instructions from the UP government on whether Kappan can be shifted to a hospital outside the state for better treatment. Mehta, after taking instruction told the bench that it is dealing with a non-COVID patient, whose medical report is before the top court and there are 40-50 coronavirus patients with some or no co-morbidities in Mathura jail but they are not getting beds in hospitals. Since last year, I have been asking this man to approach a competent court for bail but he is adamant and not approaching it. In this petition before the court, there is not even prayer for bail or shifting for better treatment, Mehta said. Advocate Wills Mathews, appearing for KUWJ and Kappan's wife, said that he be granted interim bail in the case besides being provided with proper medicines and treatment. At the outset, the bench said it was confined to the limited issue of granting better health facilities to Kappan and asked whether he could be allowed medical treatment in Delhi. We are confined to health issues. He has health problems like BP, Diabetes and other ailments. He has precarious health conditions. You have to consider this. He is in custody of the state. You have to protect him. It is in the interest of the state also that the accused gets better treatment, the bench observed. Justice Bopanna said that notwithstanding the petition filed by the KUWJ, there is also a petition filed by Kappan's wife, which seeks his release. Can't this court direct for better treatment. You forget about the petitions. Life of a citizen is important. Tomorrow, no one should be able to blame us, that he was not given better treatment, the CJI said. Mehta said he had objections to the suggestion and was ready to constitute a medical board to ascertain his ailments and advice and only then the court should take a call on his shifting to the hospital in Delhi. The bench then told Mehta that whether there was any embargo on the court that while entertaining a habeas corpus petition, it cannot go for a lesser relief of bail. Mehta said that from Kappan's possession, police had recovered an Identity card of a newspaper, which was shut in 2018 and he has association with Popular Front of India (PFI), which in turn is associated with banned organization Students' Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). The bench asked Mehta whether PFI is a banned organization to which he replied that many states have done so and as per his information Centre is also in process to ban PFI . The bench said, So, as of now it is not banned . Mehta while reading from an affidavit filed in December last year said, No. Many officer bearers of PFI were found to be associated with SIMI . On Tuesday, the top court had asked the UP government to submit medical records of Kappan after KUWJ alleged that he had been chained to a cot in the hospital after he fell in the bathroom and later tested positive for COVID-19. The state has refuted the allegations that Kappan has been chained to a cot at the hospital and said it would file a short reply on his medical records by tomorrow. Kappan's wife Raihanth Kappan recently wrote to CJI Ramana seeking his immediate release from the hospital, alleging he is "chained like an animal in a cot" there. The FIR has been filed under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against four people having alleged links with the PFI. The police had said it arrested four people having links with the PFI in Mathura -- Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. Kappan was arrested on way to Hathras, which has been in the news following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14, 2020, in a village in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||No-Covid report or 2-dose vaccination mandatory for entering counting halls, rules EC||No candidates or their agents will be allowed inside counting halls without a negative coronavirus report, according to the latest result-day guidelines issued by the Election Commission. Candidates or their agents who have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine can also enter the counting hall on May 2 when votes for Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu will be counted, according to the guidelines issued on Wednesday. No public gathering outside the counting venue will be allowed during the process of counting, the guideline said. "No candidates or agents will be allowed inside the counting hall without undergoing RT-PCR/RAT test or without having two doses of vaccination against Covid-19 and will have to produce negative RT-PCR report or RAT report or vaccination reports within 48 hours of start of counting," the guideline read. The Election Commission yesterday banned all victory processions on May 2 when results would be announced in Bengal and other states where polls were held and restricted to two the number of people who could accompany the winner candidates to collect certificates. The twin decisions came a day after the poll panel had been held “singularly responsible” by Madras High Court for the novel coronavirus resurgence in India. “No victory procession after the counting on 2.5.2021 shall be permissible…Not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his/her authorised representative receive the certificate of election from the Returning Officer concerned,” a letter issued by the EC in favour of chief electoral officers of all states and Union territories read. The EC also decided to increase the number of counting centres to 705 from 385 in Bengal in the wake of the coronavirus upsurge. Sources said the number of counting venues were being doubled in order to ensure social distancing among the officials. Counting starts at 8 am on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Always ready to meet Covid-related tasks, IAF tells Modi||The Indian Air Force has ordered round-the-clock readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleets to rapidly meet Covid-19 related tasks across the country and overseas, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Bhadauria also told Modi that the Air Force is deploying big as well as medium-sized aircraft to cover all terrains, the PMO said in a statement. He briefed the prime minister about a dedicated 'Covid Air Support Cell' set up by the IAF to ensure faster coordination with different ministries and agencies on Covid-19 related operations. Aircrew for all fleets have been augmented to ensure round-the-clock operations, Bhadauria added. Hospitals under the IAF have increased Covid-19 facilities and are also allowing civilians wherever possible, the statement said, quoting the air chief. During the review meeting, Modi stressed the need to increase the speed, scale and safety of operations in transporting oxygen tankers and other essential material. He also spoke about the need to ensure that the IAF personnel engaged in Covid-19 related operations remain safe from infection and emphasised the need to ensure the safety of all Covid-19 related operations. Modi enquired about the health of IAF personnel and their families and was informed by Bhadauria that a near saturation vaccination coverage has been achieved in the IAF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||SC asks UP govt if arrested Kappan can be shifted for treatment outside state||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Uttar Pradesh government if Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested last year on way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after being gang raped, can be shifted for better medical attention outside the state. A bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to seek instructions from the state government on its suggestion and posted the plea of Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and Kappan's wife for further hearing at 1 pm. Mehta, appearing for the UP government, vehemently opposed the suggestion saying several similarly placed accused are getting treatment in hospitals in the state and Kappan should not be given special treatment just because a journalistic body is a petitioner here. People with multiple organ failure are also being looked at by jail hospital in Mathura, he said. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna, said that at this moment it was confined to the limited prayer of granting better health facilities to Kappan and asked whether he can be allowed medical treatment in Delhi. "We are confined to health issue. It is in the interest of the state also that the accused gets better treatment," the bench observed. On November 16 last year, the top court had sought a response from the Uttar Pradesh government on the plea challenging the arrest of the journalist. The FIR has been filed under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against four people having alleged links with the Popular Front of India, or PFI. Kappan was arrested on way to Hathras following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14, 2020 in a village in the district. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the parents' consent, had triggered widespread outrage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Delhi’s LG becomes effective in-charge of national capital||Delhi's lieutenant governor has become the effective in-charge of the national capital with the Centre notifying a new law making it clear the city's elected government will now have to seek the opinion of the L-G before any executive decision. The Union Home Ministry's notification giving effect to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 came on Tuesday night, as the city battles a ferocious Covid-19 wave and its healthcare system is stretched to breaking point. The provisions of the Act came into effect from April 27, according to the notification issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Three key subjects in Delhi -- public order, police and land - are already in the hands of the Central government while sectors such as health, education, agriculture, forest and transport are with the city government. The MHA notification seals the primacy given to the L-G, a nominee of the Central government, in the Act. The Delhi government will now have to take permission from the L-G before taking any action over subjects which were under its domain. According to the legislation, the "government" in Delhi now means the "Lieutenant Governor". "In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act 2021 (15 of 2021), the Central Government hereby appoints the 27th April 2021 as the date on which the provisions of the said Act shall come into force," stated the notification signed by additional secretary in the MHA, Govind Mohan. The act has been notified at a time the Centre and the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government are under the spotlight over the handling of the pandemic and the subsequent scarcity of oxygen, hospital beds and essential medicines. On Tuesday, the Delhi High Court came down heavily on the AAP government over its "failure" to check black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines needed by Covid-19 patients. If the state cannot handle the situation, it will ask the Central government to take over gas refiller units as it can't let people die, the court said. When the bill was passed by Parliament last month in the Lok Sabha on March 22 and in the Rajya Sabha on March 24 -- Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had termed it a "sad day for Indian democracy". "The said bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the L-G, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court," the statement of objects and reasons of the bill stated. "When a bill has been passed by the legislative assembly, it shall be presented to the lieutenant governor and the lieutenant governor shall declare either that he assents to the bill or that he withholds assent therefrom or that he reserves the bill for the consideration of the President...," the bill said. The Centre maintained it is in line with the Supreme Court's July 2018 ruling on the ambit of powers of the lieutenant governor and the Delhi government after a series of run-ins between the two. Union Minister G Kishan Reddy had said when the bill was introduced in parliament that the amendments would lead to transparency and clarity in governance in NCT of Delhi and enhance public accountability. The minister said Delhi is not a full-fledged state and does not have full power and the executive powers of the L-G of Delhi are different from the powers of governors of the state. Explaining the rationale behind the bill, he said the amendments have been brought to remove ambiguities in the existing Act and stressed that changes in the law have been sought in the spirit of what has been said in a Supreme Court judgment. The Aam Aadmi Party has said it plans to approach the Supreme Court against the legislation, describing it as an "unconstitutional" attempt to make the Delhi government "administratively impotent" by a political party made "electorally impotent" by the people of the national capital. The Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, DMK and other opposition parties also termed the bill "unconstitutional" and claimed it will fail judicial scrutiny. As the city of Delhi, the home of the Central government with inherent problems given the multiplicity of powers, opens a new chapter of governance, the number of Covid cases continues to spiral. On Tuesday, the city logged a record 381 Covid-19 deaths and 24,149 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 32.72 per cent, according to the city health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Covid vaccine: registration for those above 18 starts at 4 pm Wednesday||All those aged 18 and above can register themselves on the CoWIN portal or using the Aarogya Setu app to get vaccinated against COVID-19 starting 4 pm on Wednesday, the Union Health Ministry said as the government gears up to launch the third phase of vaccination drive from 1 May. "Registration for the newly eligible category for COVID-19 vaccination opens today at 4 pm on cowin.gov.in and Aarogya Setu app," the ministry tweeted. After registration, taking an appointment to get a COVID-19 vaccine jab would be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 44 years as walk-ins will not be allowed initially, officials had said. Those above 45 years can still avail the facility of on-site registration to get vaccinated, they said. As India witnesses a surge in coronavirus cases, it has decided to allow everyone above 18 years of age to get vaccinated from May 1. "An increased demand is expected once the vaccination is opened for all. For the purpose of crowd control, registering on CoWIN portal and making an appointment to get a vaccine will be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 45 years. Walks-in will not be allowed in the beginning so that there is no chaos," an official had said. The inoculation process and documents to be provided to get the jab remains the same. "Registration of citizens in 18-44 age group will start with only online registration on COWIN from April 28 onwards," the ministry had said. Also, from May 1, the types of anti-coronavirus vaccine and their prices will be displayed on the CoWIN portal for citizens to make an informed choice at the time of booking an appointment at a private vaccination centre. While those aged 18 to 44 years will be eligible to receive vaccination on payment from any of the private COVID vaccination centres (CVCs), citizens below 45 years shall also be eligible to receive a jab from a government CVC in a state or Union Territory which decides to lower the minimum cut off age for eligibility. As provided in the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy document, all priority groups, such as healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens above aged 45 years or more (as on 01.01.2022), shall continue to be eligible for vaccination free of cost from government CVCs, or on payment from private CVCS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||India records highest one-day surge with almost 3.61 lakh fresh Covid cases||India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 1,48,17,371, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.12 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have risen to 29,78,709, comprising 16.55 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.33 per cent, it said. The death toll stands at 2,01,187, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20, one-crore mark on December 19 and 1.5 crore on April 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 28,27,03,789 samples have been tested up to April 27 with 17,23,912 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 3,293 new fatalities include 895 from Maharashtra, 381 from Delhi, 264 from Uttar Pradesh, 246 from Chhattisgarh, 180 from Karnataka, 170 from Gujarat, 131 from Jharkhand, 121 from Rajasthan and 100 from Punjab. The total 2,01,187 deaths reported so far in the country include 66,179 from Maharashtra, 15,009 from Delhi, 14,807 from Karnataka, 13,728 from Tamil Nadu, 11,678 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,082 from West Bengal, 8,630 from Punjab, 7,800 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,782 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Early morning fire at private hospital in Thane claims 4 patients ||Four patients died after a fire broke out at a private hospital near Thane in Maharashtra in the wee hours of Wednesday, a civic official said. The patients died while being shifted to other hospitals after the blaze and not due to burns, the official said. They may have inhaled smoke after the fire, he added. The incident comes five days after 15 coronavirus patients died in a blaze in the intensive care unit of a private hospital at Virar in the adjoining Palghar district. "Wednesday's fire broke out at the Prime Criticare Hospital at Kausa-Mumbra locality at 3.40 am," the official said, adding that there were no coronavirus patients in the hospital. "Three fire engines and five ambulances were rushed to the spot. The blaze has been extinguished," the official said. "Twenty patients including six in the intensive care unit of the hospital were evacuated," he said. Maharashtra minister and local MLA Jitendra Awhad told reporters at the scene that the fire destroyed the first floor of the hospital. "Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been informed of the tragedy. The family of each deceased will be given a compensation of Rs. five lakh and those injured will get Rs one lakh each," he said. "A high-level enquiry committee has been constituted to look into the cause of the fire. It will comprise officials from the Thane Municipal Corporation and also police and medical personnel," he added. Twenty two COVID-19 patients on ventilator or oxygen support suffocated to death when their oxygen supply stopped suddenly due to a malfunction in the main storage at a civic hospital in Nashik last week. A fire broke out in Mumbai's Dreams Mall, which housed a Covid-designated hospital, in the intervening night of March 25-26. The fire, which raged for over 40 hours, claimed nine lives, including those of patients on ventilator support. Ten infants died in a fire at a special newborn care unit of the Bhandara district hospital in the state on January 9. Seventeen infants, aged one to three months, were in the ward at the time of the tragedy. In October last year, two patients died while being shifted after a fire broke out at a private hospital in Mumbai's Mulund suburb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Massive earthquake hits Assam, tremors felt in North Bengal   ||Seven back- to-back earthquakes jolted Assam and some other northeastern states on Wednesday morning, causing extensive damage to buildings and forcing people to scamper out of their homes. The first of the shocks of 6.4 magnitude with its epicentre at 43 km west of Tezpur, the district headquarters of Sonitpur district in Assam, was felt at 7.51 am, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) Deputy Director Sanjay O'neil Shaw said. The effect was felt in almost the entire Northeastern region and even parts of West Bengal. It was followed in quick succession by lesser intensity tremors of 4.7, 4, and two 3.6 magnitudes at 8.03 am, 8.13 am, 8.25 am and 8.44 am. Another earthquake of 3.2 magnitude hit the state's Nagaon district at 10.05 am. A while later, another jolt of 3.4 magnitude hit Tezpur at 10.39 am. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and enquired about the damage caused by the quakes. "Spoke to Assam CM Shri @sarbanandsonwal Ji regarding the earthquake in parts of the state. Assured all possible help from the Centre. I pray for the well-being of the people of Assam," he tweeted. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also spoke to Sonowal and assured him that the Centre stands firmly with the people of Assam. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "To my sisters and brothers in Assam who are now dealing with the double blow of an earthquake and the rampaging second wave of COVID, I send you my love and prayers." Sonowal urged everyone to stay alert and said that he is taking updates from all the districts. Tremors were felt in the entire region, including neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and northern parts of West Bengal.  People ran out of their homes and other places in panic, obliterating social distancing and other COVID guidelines amid a raging pandemic. No casualty was reported, but many people suffered minor injuries while running out in panic as the first quake struck. There were reports of widespread damage to buildings and other structures from across Assam, mostly in the central and western towns of Tezpur, Nagaon, Guwahati, Mangaldoi, Dhekiajuli and Morigaon. In Guwahati, the chief minister's block at the 'Janata Bhawan' complex, the state secretariat, witnessed some damages, sources said. The luxury Taj Vivanta in Guwahati also witnessed massive damages with several glass panes, ceilings and walls falling apart, but there was no injury to any employees or guests, hotel spokesperson Indranee Phukan told PTI. Healthcare facilities such as Dispur Hospital, Apollo Clinic, Down Town Hospital and Excelcare Hospital also saw damages, hampering services amid the surge in COVID-19 cases. A multi-storied building in Nagaon tilted on the adjacent structure, triggering panic. Dozens of homes, apartment buildings and shopping malls across the state also developed cracks. Many vehicles were damaged after concrete blocks fell on them due to the jolts. Dhekiajuli MLA Ashok Singhal tweeted pictures of land developing cracks and water seeping out of them, though these could not be immediately verified. In Shillong, the tremor woke up people and many ran outside their homes in panic. Although there was no immediate report of any damage caused in Meghalaya, the tremor was one of the strongest in the last few years, an official said. The last one of such intensity was in March-April 2016, he said. Strong tremors were also felt across Arunachal Pradesh. A few buildings developed cracks in state capital Itanagar, and the East Kemeng district, officials said. "An earthquake hit this morning in Assam & tremors felt in Arunachal & NE. My prayers for everyone's safety. May all uensure their safety and of their loved ones. Thanks to PM @narendramodi Ji, HM @AmitShah Ji and @DrJitendraSingh Ji for promptly responding to the situation," Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu tweeted. In West Bengal, strong tremors were felt in Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, Coochbehar and parts of Darjeeling district but no major damage was reported, local authorities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Teachers among rising Covid casualties in the country||Teachers compelled to discharge their responsibilities from schools and complete assignments not related to their work are among the rising Covid casualties in the country. Sachin Sharma, a contractual schoolteacher from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh, died of Covid-19 on Sunday, a week after he was discharged from election duty near Baraut for the ongoing panchayat polls. “He was confined to home except for election duty. Since he came back from election duty, he took ill,” said Sachin’s wife Nitu Sharma. Nitu and his parents are now Covid-positive and are confined to separate rooms. Sachin’s four school-going children are helping with the household chores. Like Sachin, 36 contractual teachers have died in the past 10 days after they completed the panchayat election duty in Uttar Pradesh, said Tribhuvan Singh, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh Siksha Mitra Sangha. Elections are being held for 58,176 panchayats in Uttar Pradesh in four phases and will end on Thursday. The tragedy is by no means limited to Uttar Pradesh or contractual teachers. Sarvesh Kumar Aman, a physical education teacher in the Kendriya Vidyalaya in Dehradun, breathed his last on April 16 after being infected by Covid. Aman had last gone to the school on April 12, the day he took ill, and could not recover. Aman is survived by his wife and two children. “He might have got the infection from the school. He did not go anywhere else,” a family member said. Several schoolteachers employed in the central government-run Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) and Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) schools have died in the past one month after getting infected by Covid. P.V. Chhikara, a teacher in KVS Bhatinda and general secretary of the KV Pragatisheel Shikshak Sangh, said he personally knew about the deaths of at least 14 Kendriya Vidyalaya teachers in three regions of Delhi, Varanasi and Dehradun. The KVS has 25 regions in the country. Other than the irreparable loss of lives, financial apathy also plagues the families. The monthly income of Sachin, the Uttar Pradesh contractual teacher who died, was Rs 10,000 for 11 months in a year. His earning as a Siksha Mitra (contractual teacher) was the sole source of income for the family. Nitu, Sachin’s wife, said: “My children are small. There is no other source of earning. The government should come forward to help us.” Tribhuvan, the Siksha Mitra association leader, said the contractual teachers were as such getting “too little” remuneration and were used for all kinds of government assignments linked to elections and the census apart from regular schoolwork. The Uttar Pradesh government has a policy of providing compensation of Rs 50 lakh to officials deputed on election duty who die in a terror attack, explosion, firing or violence during booth rigging. However, death due to Covid is not included in the list for providing this benefit. States like Rajasthan and Bihar have already included Covid deaths for payment of compensation of Rs 30 lakh. “For compensation, the Rajasthan and Bihar governments have included coronavirus as a cause of death of officials on election duty. We are demanding the policy here. Till the policy is changed, all the teachers who have died on election duty should be paid Rs 50 lakh each and a member of their family should get a job,” Tribhuvan said. An email sent to state election commissioner Manoj Kumar seeking the reasons for scheduling the panchayat elections when the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is surging across the country and whether any compensation would be given to the teachers failed to elicit any comment. Nearly 40,000 teachers of the KVS were coming to schools to take online classes from the school premises till last week. The teachers are also given admission duty and other official responsibilities. The physical visit to schools exposed the teachers to infections and death, said P.V. Chhikara, the KV Pragatisheel Shikshak Sangh leader. On April 23, the KVS authorities allowed the teachers to take online classes from home without leaving the station. But the teachers given admission duty will have to go to the schools. A majority of the schools do not have staff quarters. The teachers stay outside and those on admission duty have to travel to the campus. “We have urged the KVS authorities to postpone the ongoing admission process. There have been deaths of several teachers due to Covid. The admission can be started in June after the vacation,” Chhikara said. He demanded that the teachers should be allowed to work from home at their native places. The situation in the NVS schools is worse, according to the teachers. As many as 650 NVS schools provide residential schooling to poor and talented students. The summer vacation officially started last week. Till then, the teachers were going to school from their staff quarters to take online classes. Even though vacation has started, the teachers have to stay on campus at almost half of the NVS schools where students of Class XII are still staying in hostels. “Several hundred students have been infected by Covid. Many teachers have died in the last one month due to Covid. The teachers and staff have written to the NVS authorities to close schools and allow online classes from home. But there is no decision. We are staying on campus risking our health,” said a teacher. Another NVS teacher said they do not get pension, unlike the KVS and state government school teachers. Separate emails sent to KVS commissioner Nidhi Pandey and NVS commissioner Vinayak Garg last week to understand their perspective on the difficulties faced by teachers did not elicit a response till Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||India likely to face extreme Covid vaccine shortage from May 1, warn experts ||India is likely to face extreme shortages of Covid-19 vaccines if all adults eligible for vaccination begin queuing up for the jabs from May 1, health and industry experts have said. The Centre’s revised vaccination policy has more than doubled the population of potential vaccine beneficiaries without immediate provisions for the extra doses needed, the experts said. “It is scary… where are the doses India would require at this scale?” asked a top vaccine industry executive. “There’ll be a bit of madness for some time, then things will settle down,” added the industry executive who requested anonymity. The April 19 decision to widen the vaccination net  from the current 45 years or older to all adults has, experts said, increased the number of the eligible beneficiaries from around 350 million to 900 million. India currently has access to about 70 million doses per month of the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and about 20 million doses per month of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, according to health officials and industry analysts. “The phase of vaccinations starting May 1 will increase demand significantly without a clear pathway to increasing the supply,” Krishna Udayakumar, associate professor and founding director of the Duke Global Health Institute in the US, told The Telegraph. India has invited vaccine makers such as Pfizer and Moderna to introduce their vaccines in India and said private hospitals are free to procure such vaccines. “This has raised hope that such international manufacturers would speed up delivery to India, though we don’t see this yet,” Udayakumar said. The entry of Russia’s Sputnik V — a third vaccine India has approved — and the anticipated release of AstraZeneca’s vaccine stocks by the US for use in other countries could ease the shortage, but experts are unclear of the timelines and doses available to India. What the Centre has described as a “liberalised and flexible” vaccination policy is a reversal of a stand asserted by health officials and the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan earlier this month. “So long as supply of vaccines is limited, there is no option but to prioritise,” Vardhan had said on April 7 in a statement that had described as “deplorable” demands by some states to offer vaccines to people 18 years or older. Health policy experts view the Centre’s reversal of stand as a move to shift the responsibility of vaccinating all adults from the Centre to the states — without the doses required to facilitate the process. “This appears to have been a political move,” in response to the demand from some states and health experts to open up vaccination to all adults, one industry executive said. “The demands likely came from a poor understanding of reality.” The Union health ministry on Tuesday said the Centre had provided over 156 million vaccine doses to states, releasing a table showing every state with some unused doses. An additional eight million doses would reach the states within three days. But in several states — including Maharashtra and Bengal — aspiring vaccine recipients, some seeking the their first doses, and some seeking second doses, have been turned away by vaccination centres because of shortages. The health ministry said Maharashtra had over 923,000 doses unused on Tuesday, while Bengal had over 397,000 unused doses. But a health expert in Delhi said a stock of unused vaccines in a state need not mean every vaccination centre has enough to vaccinate everyone who turns up. Experts predict the shortages will intensify in the coming weeks. Under the new policy, the Centre would procure 50 per cent of the doses and distribute them to states, while states and private hospitals would be free to procure the balance 50 per cent doses on their own from manufacturers. Both the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have indicated that in the early weeks they would have only limited stocks to distribute to private hospitals where Covishield would be priced at Rs 600 and Covaxin at Rs 1,200. The Centre earlier this month announced financial support to the vaccine makers to help them ramp up their production capacity. “We cannot increase supply immediately,” an executive representing one of the two companies said. “This will take time, some weeks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Covid: India's diplomatic outreach bares its unpreparedness to deal with surge||The diplomatic outreach by India over the past week to get countries to help shore up the overwhelmed Indian medical infrastructure has revealed how ill-prepared the country was to deal with the Covid surge. As countries are lining up assistance by way of oxygen, oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, personal protective equipment and testing kits, what they are essentially doing is dipping into the stockpiles they have created over the past year to deal with a surge. Australia is one such country which is planning to use its stockpile to rush ventilators to India. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has announced that his government would send 500 non-invasive ventilators to India. A day ahead of the Australian cabinet meeting on Tuesday to discuss assistance to India, federal health minister Greg Hunt was quoted by ABC as stating that New Delhi has requested physical supply of oxygen. The Australian government will reach out to the states to see if any of the oxygen supplies can be donated, he said, adding that the federal government can give non-invasive ventilators in the national stockpile after keeping a reserve. According to the news report, “the Commonwealth (had) ramped up purchases of ventilators in preparation for a worst-case Covid-19 scenario last year”. Likewise, Ireland is sending 700 oxygen concentrators to India from the stocks it had purchased last year for use in a field hospital atmosphere as part of the efforts to deal with the pandemic in the country. Other smaller countries chipping in include: ⚫Singapore: 500 BiPAPs (non-invasive ventilators), 250 oxygen concentrators, four cryogenic oxygen containers and other medical supplies. ⚫Saudi Arabia: 80MT of liquid oxygen. ⚫Hong Kong: 800 oxygen concentrators. ⚫Thailand: Four cryogenic oxygen tanks. ⚫UAE: Six cryogenic oxygen containers. It has also emerged that India, which is facing a vaccine shortage in the midst of the deadly second wave of the Covid-19, has not asked Washington  for some of the ready-to-use vaccines that the US has in its stockpile. This was disclosed on Monday by senior officials of the Biden administration in a background briefing in Washington on the pandemic situation in India. The briefing followed a flurry of contacts between the two countries, including a telephone conversation between President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier on Monday. According to officials, what India has requested is raw materials for the production of AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine at the Serum Institute of India. In view of the situation in India, the US has decided to divert its own order of supplies to the Serum Institute for manufacturing the vaccine. Although it was not specified as such, India could get some of the 60 million doses of AstraZeneca that is under production in the US but not authorised for use in the country. The US plans to share these with other countries over the next two months as they become available. Biden told a media conference on Tuesday that he intended to send vaccines to India and had discussed this with Modi.  But the President did not provide a timeline. Under attack for what is widely perceived as a belated response to the situation in India, particularly the refusal to ease restrictions on the export of raw materials needed for the manufacture of vaccines, Biden administration officials maintained that the Defence Production Act (DPA) is not the cause for the vaccine shortages as is being made out by some quarters in India. “There’s just more global manufacturing happening everywhere in the world than suppliers can currently support,” an official said. The DPA’s priority ratings requires American companies to prioritise US government contracts ahead of other contracts that they have in place for US manufacturing. “But what it does not mean is an export ban or a de facto ban or an embargo or any restrictions on sales to any other outside clients or customers anywhere.  Companies are able to export however they need,” an official said. Through the briefing, it was clear that the US was extending support to India on the vaccine front essentially because it finds itself in a comfortable position at home on this count. This is in sharp contrast to the way in which the Modi government sought brownie points with its Vaccine Maitri initiative — donating vaccines to nearly 50 countries — when it had stocks to cover only about 10 per cent of the population at home after declaring in January-end that it had defeated the coronavirus even though thousands of new cases were being reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Priyanka asks Yogi to curb the spread of coronavirus ||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday asked Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to concentrate on curbing the spread of coronavirus and providing relief to the patients instead of threatening to arrest people and seize their properties. In a letter to the chief minister, Priyanka pointed to the spread of virus in the villages which could trigger a far greater tragedy as even the urban health infrastructure had failed to cope. She contested the chief minister’s claim that there was no shortage of oxygen and hospital beds, asserting that there were tell-tale signs of crisis in the entire state. She also expressed concern at the unavailability of ambulances, slow vaccination drive and loot at the crematoriums. In her letter, she demanded: “Announcement of financial package for welfare of frontline health workers, reopening of dismantled Covid centres, supply of oxygen on war-footing, re-engagement of retired medical professionals, transparent data on deaths and availability of resources, enhancement of testing facilities, use of anganwadi and Asha workers for distribution of medicine and corona(virus) kit in villages, oxygen storage in every district, financial assistance to poor and intense vaccination drive.” Priyanka also posted an emotional message for the citizens on Facebook, expressing solidarity with those who lost their relatives and friends or those who were struggling to get treatment. She said: “The government has failed us all. Even those of us who oppose and fight them could not have foreseen a complete abdication of leadership and governance at a time as devastating as this. “In our hearts, we too are still hoping that they will rise up and take steps that are imperative to save lives. But even though those given the sacred task of governing this nation have let our country down at this time of great crisis, we must not lose hope.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Centre went into celebration mode instead of preparing for second wave: Sachin Pilot||The Congress believes the Narendra Modi government completely failed in understanding the nature of the pandemic, planning for the future and, worse, in providing a leadership role when the crisis spun out of control, leaving millions to fend for themselves. In an interview with The Telegraph, Congress leader Sachin Pilot said: “It is obvious there was no planning, no road map for future. The central government went into celebration mode instead of preparing for the second wave that experts had predicted. Three-four months were wasted before the second wave hit hard in March-April, the critical time that the government should have used in planning and preparedness and logistics. Nothing manifests that failure more than the oxygen crisis.” Pilot said: “We see panic everywhere; tragic scenes of people crying for oxygen, patients dying outside hospitals, are seen in so many states. We cannot allow India to become a battlefield for oxygen and remdesivir. That is unfortunately happening, we are seeing black marketing, profiteering, peddling of fake medicines, hoarding. And now the Centre says health is a state subject. Instead of taking everybody along, in reassuring the nation showing sincerity of purpose, the Prime Minister is running away from leadership role.” He pointed out how the Centre took charge under the Disaster Management Act, deciding every minute detail — from imposing lockdown to vaccination scheduling — and is now blaming the states. “Was there any consultation with the states, discussing ways to counter the second wave? When the crisis acquired dreadful dimensions and a full-blown national emergency hit us, what is the purpose of saying health is a state subject? Why is the Prime Minister not leading from the front? Why has the army not been drafted into crisis management? Why has there been no clear-cut action plan for vaccination, distribution of resources and logistics of oxygen supply?” he asked. Suggesting a well-defined formula for allocation of oxygen, medicine and vaccines, Pilot said: “The government should have nationwide data in hand and the parameters for distribution of resources should be defined. There are allegations of discrimination by states because there is no transparent formula for allocations. A clear framework with three-four parameters like number of active cases, positivity rate, mortality rate, number of beds required, need for ventilators and oxygen. There should be a basis for distribution. At present, there is no transparency; states which face greater emergency are not getting priority.” The former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan added: “States which manufacture oxygen may not need it as much as those that don’t. What is happening now is that states are inclined to fortify borders as opposed to facilitate passage of oxygen containers. This is not how things should work in a federal structure.” He said even on the vaccine pricing front, the Centre abdicated its responsibility. “We cannot leave it to companies to decide on the pricing of life-saving vaccines, keeping margins and profits as criteria. How can the Centre negotiate a price for itself and let the company deal with states differently? What was the motive? As a country, we are in desperate need of vaccination…. Unless two-thirds of our country is vaccinated in the next few weeks and months, we will not be able to break the chain of the virus. It was the Centre’s responsibility to lay out the road map and make arrangements for vaccines.” He added: “Everyone is of the opinion that there should be uniform pricing but I wish to go a step further — the pricing itself cannot be left just to the manufacturing companies. If the government can put price caps on things like airfare between two cities, have MRP on so many products, then why can’t it decide on life-saving vaccines? There is definitely a failure of a clear road map and in terms of adequate forward planning, logistical arrangements and not prioritising health and safety before religious and political congregations. In hindsight, allowing the export of oxygen and vaccines has proven costly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Covid: Don’t make noise over dead, says Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Tuesday there was no point in counting the number of people who had died of Covid-19 because that would not bring the dead back, amid concern that several states were under reporting the number of infections and deaths from the virus. “Those who have died will not come back by creating a furore over it,” Khattar said, arguing that there was no point in getting into a debate on whether the official number of deaths was correct. While crematoriums and burial grounds are overflowing in many states, the official death count does not reflect that. The Opposition Congress hit out at Khattar, with party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala saying: “These can only be the words of a merciless ruler.” He continued: “There is a need to make a noise over every death which is the result of the government’s inefficiency.” Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi condemned the chief minister’s statement as “shameful”. Khattar said: “We will do everything possible so that lives are saved. Whether the deaths are less or more, there is no point getting into this debate… We are setting the systems in place.” The BJP leader admitted that the government had not prepared for the surge in which countless lives have been lost for the lack of something as basic as oxygen. “Who knew this pandemic will come, neither you knew nor we,” Khattar said. But the second surge should have been no surprise, given that other countries in the world had already gone through it. India had a year to prepare for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Sobs rise over the roar of  mass pyres||Under the high tin roof, 50 funeral pyres burned fiercely on Tuesday and the hot air filled with smoke, fine ash and muted sobs. On the floor nearby and in scores of parked vehicles lay more bodies, awaiting their turn, which family members were told would come 16 to 20 hours later. The crematoriums in Delhi, struggling to cope with the deluge of the dead, are witness to an unimaginable tragedy. “I have not seen such a bad situation ever before in my life. People are going with the bodies of their loved ones from pillar to post,” Vineeta Massey, the owner of Massey Funerals, said. According to the official count, 3,601 people have died this month, 2,267 of them in the last seven days alone. In February, the death toll was 57, and in March 117. As if the trauma of losing a loved one suddenly was not enough, families are not even able to give them a proper send-off. They are driving from crematorium to crematorium with the bodies — in hearses or personal cars — desperately seeking space to bid a final goodbye to a beloved parent, child, sibling or grandparent. Among the dead are also people who died of reasons other than Covid but have been swept up in the collective national tragedy. Aman Arora, a young entrepreneur from Ashok Nagar in west Delhi, said his father M.L. Arora suffered a heart attack and died on Monday afternoon. “We rushed him to many private hospitals when he started feeling discomfort in his chest but he was not even checked by the medical staff there. They demanded that we produce a Covid-negative report. He eventually passed away,” Aman said. On Monday afternoon, Aman was told by the staff at the Subhash Nagar crematorium to wait till Tuesday morning to perform the last rites. When Aman realised there was no point in pleading, he arranged for a refrigerator to prevent his father’s body from decaying. “What could I have done when there was no space? We kept the body in a rented fridge and have come early today (Tuesday),” said Aman, waiting for his turn as many other people milled around silently as bodies lay on the floor. Outside, ambulances and cars honked and competed for parking space, but inside all one could hear was the crackling of dry wood from the burning pyres — all 50 of them roaring simultaneously. A few sobs rose over the sound of the fires. The unemotional intonations of instructions by crematorium staff could also be heard, such as this one: “Apna dead body uthao aur udhar line mein ja ke khade ho jao (Pick up your dead body and go stand in line).” A woman in her 40s was so stunned she could not make out what was “nabhi” (navel) or “chhati” (chest) when a staff member asked her to place sandalwood sticks on the body of her father who had died of Covid. The body was still packed in a white sack, which had been placed on the pyre without opening. Holding the sandalwood sticks in trembling hands, she circled the body before being helped by someone. “I didn’t even see the face of my father,” wailed the woman, who was alone. Manmeet Singh, a 40-year-old assistant professor, had also brought his father Gurpal Singh’s body in his car to the Subhash Nagar crematorium on Monday afternoon. The staff politely told him his father could not be cremated because the pyre chambers were full and the CNG crematorium could only accommodate two bodies at one time. It takes about 90 minutes to dispose of one body in a CNG chamber and there were 24 bodies waiting in a queue for a slot. Manmeet left for the MCD crematorium in Pashchim Vihar about 6km away and found space with the help of an MCD inspector. “If you can’t provide oxygen to the patients in hospitals, then at least provide some space in the cremation ground so that people leave the world comfortably,” Manmeet said. The ground at the crematorium was full of filth and covered with leftovers of the previous cremation. It was muddy, rotten fruits, plastic bags, sacks, buckets and mugs littered the ground. But none of that mattered to the relatives. What mattered was getting enough space to light a pyre. According to rules, a senior official at the Delhi health department said, if someone dies of Covid-19 in hospital, the district administration has to arrange a hearse van and the hospital is supposed to deploy staff for the cremation or burial. But the crush of dead has made this impossible. So relatives are simply taking their loved ones in their personal vehicles. “If family members have to move with the bodies, there are chances of them getting infected,” another government official said. Ajeet, a staff member at the MCD crematorium, said they have created more than 100 extra makeshift chambers in an adjacent space. “I can’t move my arms, I am dead tired. The whole day we arrange for cremation and then in the night we have to take care of the pyres, so that the fire consumes the bodies properly,” Ajeet said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Centre to explain differential pricing of vaccines||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to explain by Thursday the reason for the differential pricing of vaccines in the country. “Different manufacturers are coming out with different prices. What is the central government doing about it? ....There are powers under …of Patents Act. This is a pandemic and national crisis. If this is not the time to issue such powers, what is the time?” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat asked the Centre. Under Section 47 and 66 of The Patent Act, 1970, the Union government has the power to assume the patent rights for any product/equipment besides revoking in public interest the patent rights of the actual holders if they are found indulging in “mischievous” or acts “prejudicial” to the public. The bench while directing the Centre to explain its position on the vaccine pricing policy also asked the Union government and States to file their respective affidavits by Thursday on the steps taken to boost the infrastructural facilities to provide vaccines, oxygen, antivirals and all Covid related steps to mitigate the hardships of people. It posted the matter for further hearing to Friday. Serum Institute of India is offering to sell its vaccine Covishield at Rs 400 per dose to state governments and Rs 600 to private hospitals. Its price for the Centre is Rs 150 per dose. Bharat Biotech has offered to sell Covaxin at Rs 600 per dose to state governments and Rs 1,200 to private hospitals. Its price for the Centre is Rs 150. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing the Bengal government, told the court that for the past 73 years there has been a uniform vaccine price for the Centre and States but this time there is different pricing for the Centre, states and private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Veterans for army help in vaccination||Military veterans have suggested that the Narendra Modi government should rope in the armed forces to assist with the massive vaccination drive starting from May 1 amid a huge surge in coronavirus infections that are overwhelming hospitals across the country. Vaccinations will be opened to all above 18 years from May 1. Lieutenant General (retired) H.S. Panag said in a tweet on Tuesday: “The way forward is mass vaccination. Govt should arrange the vaccine and task the Armed Forces to coordinate and execute it.” Echoing him, a retired colonel said the Centre needed to take the help of armed forces in the planning of the vaccination programme. “In the wake of the massive corona(virus) outbreak leading to deaths across the country, the vaccines represent the light at the end of the tunnel and their rapid roll out will help regain normality. The armed forces should be roped in to aid vaccine jab rollout,” he said. He said the government should utilise the armed forces’ deep resources, medical facilities and manpower. Colonel Ashok Singh pointed out that India was currently facing a shortage of vaccines. “The armed forces are in a better position to carry out the vaccine jab rollout. But where are the vaccines?” he asked. “People are dying for want of bed in hospitals. There is no vaccine and no oxygen.” The Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing Covishield, has priced the vaccine at Rs 400 per dose for states and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. “No vaccine, no oxygen, no ventilator and no hospital bed. You are only confirming the obvious. ...The point I have made is that even if the vaccine is available, our inefficient system will take a very long time. The Armed Forces can speed it up,” said Panag in response to a tweet by Mohan Peshin, a surgeon, who highlighted the scarcity of vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Opposition Congress appeals to defer Pipili bypoll||Opposition Congress on Tuesday demanded postponement of the May 16 bypoll in Pipili Assembly seat in Odisha in the wake of the resurgence of Covid-19 pandemic across the country. A delegation of the Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee led by its working vice-president Pradeep Majhi submitted a memorandum at the office of the state chief electoral officer addressed to the Election Commission. “We are optimistic that our appeal will be heard and the polling to be postponed," Majhi told reporters. The Congress leader said that allowing polling on May 16 is as good as putting the lives of the people in danger as health experts have warned that the Covid-19 infection will reach its peak in the second week of May. The leaders are becoming super spreaders (of coronavirus) as they reach out to the masses. Therefore, the campaign is now restricted. What is wrong if we put polling on hold till the situation becomes normal? Majhi said. The Congress has already lost one of its candidates — Ajit Mangaraj to Covid-19 on April 14 leading to the deferment of the polling date to May 16. When the Covid-19 situation in Odisha has assumed alarming proportions, why is the Election Commission determined to conduct the by-poll? Are the votes so important for the Election Commission? We demand that the by-poll be postponed till the pandemic is brought under control, Majhi said at a press conference here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Covid: Vaccine to be free for all adults in Odisha ||The Odisha government has announced that Covid-19 vaccination would be free of cost in the state. All residents above 18 can get the vaccine free of cost. Making this announcement on Sunday, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said: “Around 2 crore people of Odisha will be benefitted. The state will spend nearly Rs 2,000 crore on account of the vaccination programme. The people don’t have to spend a single penny towards vaccination. I request all people to abide by the Covid guidelines.” People between the age group of 18 and 45 will be administered Covid vaccines from May 1. “The 4.5 crore people of the state are my family members. I want my people to stay safe and my Odisha to remain safe. The life of each member of the family is precious for me,” Naveen said, adding that if people abide by Covid guidelines like social distancing and use of masks the state will not need to resort to measures like shutdowns and lockdowns. On Monday, the Odisha government said the people who had received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at private hospitals can take the second jab at government hospitals free of cost. The registration for the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination will commence from April 28. “People need to register their names. Those who have registered will get the message about the time and the session sites on their mobile,” said director, health and family welfare, Bijay Panigrahi. Meanwhile, the number of deaths continues to increase and inched closer to 2,000 mark with reported death of nine more persons in the last 24 hours. The death toll stands at 1,997. The tally of infected persons also continues to rise with the state on Monday reporting 6,599 cases. Even the district collector of Dhenkhanal, Bhumesh Chandra Behera, has tested positive and has been admitted to the ICU. Former Kandhamal MP Sugrib Singh (58) passed away on Monday at a private hospital after undergoing treatment for Covid-19. He was elected to Lok Sabha on a BJD ticket in 2004.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
