29-04-2021||India||Exit polls: Bengal on knife-edge, landslide win for Stalin in Tamil Nadu, Pinarayi will hold fort in Kerala ||West Bengal, the biggest and most politically crucial state going to the poll, will be a thrilling cliffhanger but the opinion polls differ on who will seize the crown. The India Today-Axis My India poll forecasts that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee might fall short on the numbers to form a government, but the ABP-C Voter poll gives her a clear win. Republic TV-CNX reckons the BJP will squeak past the winning post. In Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu the poll predictions are more along expected lines with the polls handing Assam to the BJP and the LDF winning over the UDF in Kerala. In Tamil Nadu, the DMK is expected to take power after decimating the ruling AIADMK, the polls say. The ABP-C Voter poll predicts the Congress will make big gains in Assam even though it is likely to fall short of the numbers. In Bengal, to form a government the TMC needs 148 seats and the India Today-Axis My India poll reckons the BJP will be ahead by a short lead with 134-160 seats compared to the TMC's 130-156. Predicting that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee would come out ahead, the ABP News-C Voter gave the TMC and allies 152 to164 seats, the Left 14 to 25 and the BJP 109 to 121 seats. The Republic TV-CNX poll gave the TMC and allies 128 to 138, the Left 11 to 21 and the BJP 138 to 148. However, India Today calculated that around 64 seats in Bengal would be too close to call, so the race remains wide open. In Assam, the polls concur that the BJP will seize the crown but differ strongly on the numbers. The India Today-Axis My India poll predicts that the BJP would pull in 75-85 seats which would be close to its performance in the 2016 legislative assembly elections. By contrast, ABP-C Voter believes the NDA will pick up 58-71 seats. Making impressive inroads, the poll projects the Congress-led UPA will bag in the range of 53 to 66 seats. Other parties and independent candidates are expected to win somewhere around 0 to 5 seats in the upcoming polls. The magic figure in the battle for Assam is 64. In Kerala, the India Today-Axis poll showed a huge sweep with the LDF winning 104-120 of the 140 legislative seats. The Republic TV-CNX Kerala exit poll pointed to a similar outcome with 72 to 80 seats for the LDF and 58 to 64 seats for Congress. The poll projected 1-to-5 seats for the BJP. The Malayala Manorama-VNX poll, however, predicts a much closer fight. Personal triumph for Pinarayi No party or alliance has won two terms in a row in Kerala and if the LDF wins, as predicted, it will be seen as a huge personal triumph for Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his handling of the pandemic and also of the Kerala floods in 2018. The BJP is expected to win between 0-3 seats according to most polls but could hold on to the 12 per cent vote share which it had got in the last state elections. 46% root for Stalin as CM In Tamil Nadu, the exit polls point to a landslide victory for the DMK and allies, much as had been expected. The India Today-Axis My India gives the DMK a huge victory with between 175-185 votes out of 234 assembly seats. Similarly, Republic TV- CNX gave the DMK a top of 168 seats and said there had been a massive 9 per cent swing towards it. Such a victory would be a personal triumph for DMK leader M. K. Stalin. This is the first Tamil Nadu election without the two state giants M. Karunanidhi, who died in 2018, and J. Jayalalithaa, who lost her life in 2016. This time, 46 per cent of the people polled said they wanted Stalin as the next chief minister. Commentators offered the explanation that the AIADMK had no giant leader unlike in the past. BJP upper hand in Assam In Assam the polls show that the BJP will win big in Upper, Central and North Assam. The Congress, by contrast, has done well in the Barak Valley and Lower Assam. The India Today-Axis My India poll also showed that most voters were happy with the Chief Minister Sarbhanda Sonowal. That could present a dilemma for the BJP because the Deputy Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has indicated that he wants to be the next chief minister and will not take any other role. He has also signalled that he doesn’t want to shift to the Centre. The huge surprise of the evening came from the India Today-Axis My India poll which showed a big win in Puducherry for former chief minister N. Rangaswamy, leader of the NR Congress and the BJP with which it is allied. India Today-Axis predicted the NR Congress-BJP would win between 20-24 seats out of 30. For the Congress, the exit polls offer a bleak picture because it is expected to perform poorly in Kerala and it doesn’t appear to be near winning Assam. It looks likely to be defeated badly in Puducherry. The fact that Rahul Gandhi is an MP from Kerala’s Wayanad district doesn’t appear to have helped it in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
29-04-2021||India||Bharat biotech cuts Covaxin price to Rs 400 per dose for states||Bharat Biotech on Thursday announced a cut in price of its COVID-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' it plans to sell to the states to Rs 400 per dose from the earlier Rs 600. This follows a widespread criticism of its pricing policy as it sold Covaxin to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. "Recognising the enormous challenges in the public healthcare system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of 400/ dose", Bharat Biotech said in its announcement. The company is deeply concerned with the critical pandemic circumstances that India is facing at this time, it added. "We wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing which was determined by internally funded project development... and clinical trials," Bharat Biotech said. Serum Institute of India (SII) had on Wednesday slashed the price of its COVID-19 vaccine 'Covishield' to Rs 300 per dose from the earlier Rs 400 for state governments, which was described as a “philanthropic gesture” by its CEO Adar Poonawalla. “As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of Serum Institute India, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives,” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive of Pune-based Serum Institute, had said in a tweet on Wednesday. The Narendra Modi government had this month said that starting May 1, states could inoculate adults aged between 18 and 45 or people in this age group could pay and get vaccinated at private hospitals, abandoning its own responsibility to immunise all Indians. States and private hospitals would have to procure their own vaccines at prices that would be fixed by the vaccine makers, it said. While the vaccination of those over 45 for which the Centre is buying the doses would continue at government outlets, it would cease at private hospitals from May 1. The announcement has already caused chaos, with people whose second dose was scheduled at private clinics in May rushing to get it early for fear that they might not get it at all. The result has been long queues at overcrowded vaccination centres, raising the risk of catching the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
29-04-2021||India||Manmohan Singh discharged from AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh was on Thursday discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here. He was admitted to the facility after testing positive for COVID-19. Sources close to the Congress leader said he was doing fine. Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on April 19 after he had fever and tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. Singh has received his two vaccine doses of Covaxin - the first on March 4 and the second on April 3. He was moved to the hospital as "a matter of precaution". Before his hospitalisation, Dr Singh wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to offer some advice on handling a pandemic that has gained in intensity and scope. The number of dead has crossed the two-lakh mark. Leaders cutting across party lines had wished the former Prime Minister a speedy recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
29-04-2021||India||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tests positive for coronavirus||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. The 69-year-old Congress leader had isolated himself on Wednesday after his wife Sunita had tested positive. "My Covid-19 test report too came positive today. I have no symptoms, and I am feeling fine. I will continue working while in isolation, following Covid-19 protocols," the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished good health and speedy recovery to the chief minister and his wife. "Praying for the good health and fast recovery of Rajasthan CM Shri @ashokgehlot51 Ji and his wife, Smt. Sunita Ji," Modi tweeted. Governor Kalraj Mishra, AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken, PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, state Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia, Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria and others also wished for Gehlot's speedy recovery. Meanwhile, former Barmer MP Manvendra Singh, his wife and daughter also tested positive for coronavirus. Manvendra Singh is the son of former Union minister Jaswant Singh, who passed away last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Delhi HC questions Centre about unequal distribution of oxygen||Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Centre why various states, including Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, were being allocated more oxygen than they demanded while the national capital was not getting even the quantity necessary for treating Covid-19 patients. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli made it clear that it was by no means interested in securing more oxygen for Delhi than required and that too at the cost of any state or Union Territory. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said while the national capital’s requirement was 700 metric tonnes per day, it was allocated 480mt and 490mt and the Centre had not increased the quantity. Mehra and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao, who is amicus curiae in the case, informed the court that according to the national allocation plan, Maharashtra demanded 1,500mt oxygen per day and was allocated 1,661mt. Madhya Pradesh demanded 445mt and it was allocated 543mt and that the situation was similar for several other states. The court said if the information provided was to be accepted, it would appear that the central government needed to explain this aspect and granted it a day to respond. The Centre has to either show some justification for this or “make amends” now that the situation has been brought to its attention, the high court said. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said the government will file an affidavit on the court’s query and will give the reasons for giving more oxygen to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, if that is the case. “There are states which received less than what they had asked for. We have been rationalising,” he said. During the hearing, when the court asked a senior central government officer as to why Delhi’s supply was out of line while Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were given more oxygen, Mehta said the population of Madhya Pradesh was more than the national capital. Mehta then told the officer: “You cut from MP and give it to Delhi. It would be at the cost of some lives in MP but let us do it for Delhi.” This was objected to by the judges who said: “Don’t give it an impression as if we are asking something extra for Delhi. Don’t project like this. We don’t appreciate this. We are asking this on the basis of facts and figures. You can’t be emotional about it. You have to take this head on, you can’t duck it.” The Delhi government counsel also said there are currently 16,272 non-ICU beds and 4,866 ICU beds and they are in the process of adding more beds. The existing oxygen demand in hospitals is 704mt per day and after further augmentation, the daily oxygen demand will be around 1,000mt, he said, adding that his grievance was the allocation of 480-490mt oxygen was far less than Delhi’s requirement. The solicitor-general said more tankers are being imported to transport oxygen and it was a matter of few days and once the logistical issues get settled, the Centre will ensure whatever maximum supply is possible will be given. He further said: “We should not panic. The situation is dynamic and everything keeps on changing.” To this, the bench said panic is because of lack of resources. “It’s not because of what judges or lawyers say, panic is on ground. People are suffering but hospitals are not taking patients. We already had loss of lives in Delhi due to shortage of oxygen. It has fallen on you to resolve this. How you resolve is your problem.” When the bench pointed out that 25 per cent more oxygen was supplied to Madhya Pradesh than its demand, Mehta said there must be some reason why it was given more oxygen and urged the court not to go into pan-India allocation. The court is hearing the matter on the oxygen crisis and other issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic which the national capital is currently grappling with. The hearing started at 11.30am and is continuing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Blocked hashtag calling for Modi's resignation by mistake, says Facebook||Social media giant Facebook on Thursday said it had temporarily blocked a hashtag calling for the Prime Minister's resignation "by mistake" and that it wasn't done on government orders. The development comes amid reports that social media companies are being asked to remove posts that are critical of the government's handling of the coronavirus pandemic. "We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it," a Facebook spokesperson said in a statement. According to reports, a hashtag calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was briefly blocked on Facebook on Wednesday. Users searching the hashtag were given a message that said such posts were "temporarily hidden here" because "some content in those posts goes against our Community Standards". India is registering a record number of COVID-19 cases daily that has put extreme pressure on the healthcare infrastructure of the country. The massive rise in infections in the second wave of the pandemic has led to hospitals in several states reeling under a severe shortage of medical oxygen and beds. Social media timelines are filled with SOS calls with people looking for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors and ventilators. Organisations across the spectrum have come forward to support the fight against the COVID pandemic. Recently, Twitter and other social media platforms removed about 100 posts and URLs after the government asked them to remove content that was critical of the handling of the current medical crisis or spreading fake news around the pandemic. Reports citing Lumen database, an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content, suggested that more than 50 posts - including those by a Member of Parliament, MLA and filmmakers - were removed by Twitter on government request. Government sources had said the social media platforms were asked to remove the posts and URLs (uniform resource locators) to "prevent obstructions in the fight against the pandemic" and disruption of public order due to the said posts. They had added that the order was issued in view of the misuse of social media platforms by certain users to spread fake or misleading information and create panic about the pandemic in the society "by using unrelated, old and out of the context images or visuals, communally sensitive posts and misinformation about COVID-19 protocols".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||India records highest one-day surge with over 3.79 lakh fresh Covid cases||India saw a record single day rise of 3,79,257 new coronavirus infections pushing the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,83,76,524, while active cases crossed the 30-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 2,04,832 with a record 3,645 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 30,84,814 comprising 16.79 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.10 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,50, 86,878. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 28,44,71,979 samples have been tested up to April 28 with 17,68,190 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 3,645 new fatalities include 1,035 from Maharashtra, 368 from Delhi, 279 from Chhattisgarh, 265 from Uttar Pradesh, 229 from Karnataka, 174 from Gujarat, 149 from Jharkhand, 142 from Punjab, 120 from Rajasthan, 108 from Uttarakhand and 105 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 2,04,832 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 67,214 from Maharashtra, 15,377 from Delhi, 15,036 from Karnataka, 13,826 from Tamil Nadu, 11,943 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,159 from West Bengal, 8,772 from Punjab and 8,061 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Genome sequencing: Govt deviates from target set by national research consortium||The Union health ministry has asked each state to send 150 Covid-positive samples fortnightly for genome sequencing, deviating from the original target set by a national research consortium to genome-sequence 5 per cent of positive cases from all states. The move has baffled many health researchers who say the new guidelines have lowered the genome-sequencing target at a time the emerging coronavirus variants need intense scrutiny. The health ministry’s guidelines seek 15 samples each from five labs and five hospitals in every state every two weeks. Some health and medical researchers are concerned that a uniform flow of 300 sequences a month from each state would not provide sufficient data to determine how the “variants of interest” might be affecting the patterns of infections or the epidemic there. “The fewer samples we sequence, the less we know what the variants are exactly doing in India,” said a senior researcher in one of the 10 labs that make up the Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog), established by the Centre in January this year. The 10 central government labs that make up the consortium have sequenced over 20,000 samples from across India and found that some variants are dominating certain geographic regions — one named B.1.617 in Maharashtra, for instance, and another called B.1.618 in Bengal. The fast-spreading UK variant, B.1.117, appears to be dominating samples sequenced from Punjab, Delhi and Haryana; B.1.617 accounts for 35 to 40 per cent of the samples from Maharashtra; while B.1.618 makes up roughly 20 per cent of the samples in Bengal. But efforts to draw inferences whether and how this growth in variants might be impacting infections or the disease itself require large-scale sequencing along with critical information about the patients from whom the samples were taken. The original target of sequencing 5 per cent of positive samples would have required over 20,000 samples from Maharashtra and over 7,000 samples from Delhi sequenced over the past week. “The new guidelines asking for 150 samples every fortnight from each state go against Insacog’s vision,” a senior scientist involved with the consortium told The Telegraph. Health researchers are also worried about what one of them described as “either inadequate or invisible efforts” to connect the variants with the patterns of the epidemic in different states — primarily by correlating genome sequence data with patients’ data. The health ministry’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, the nodal lab for Insacog, also operates a nationwide disease surveillance network and is expected to maintain information about Covid-positive patients acquired from its state units. But senior Insacog researchers say they have no information whether the NCDC has analysed the sequencing data in conjunction with the details of patients from whom the samples were taken to determine the possible impacts of the variants on the epidemic. “What’s the purpose of even limited sequencing (if there is) little effort to correlate the variants with the patients’ data?” said an Insacog researcher. “We should be periodically informing local governments about circulating variants and their implications, if any.” Efforts to correlate the variants with patients’ data, scientists say, are intended to find out whether the variants are influencing transmission patterns or disease severity, whether they are causing re-infection, if any, and whether they’re causing infections in vaccinated people. Queries sent by this newspaper to the health ministry and the NCDC seeking responses to the concerns among Insacog researchers have not elicited any response. Health authorities in the UK had between October and December last year correlated variants with infection patterns in Britain to calculate the B.1.117’s increased transmissibility. In India, the epidemic — measured by a seven-day average of daily new cases — has grown 20-fold in Maharashtra, 77-fold in Bengal and 174-fold in Delhi since mid-February. “What role have the variants played? Shouldn’t the policy makers know this?” asked another researcher. Two senior government health researchers who requested not to be named told this newspaper that whatever variants might be at play, the actions for the public remain the same — physical distancing, masking, avoiding crowds, and getting vaccinated. One of the researchers said that such Covid-appropriate behaviour needed to be reinforced “rather than spreading an air of fear or panic”. “Panic does not prevent infection, protective measures against SARS-CoV-2 do,” the researcher said, adding that panic “closes our mind to synthesising information”. A senior Insacog researcher, however, said the states and the public could use variant-related information to protect themselves. The states may use data on variants to bolster preparedness, the researcher said. After sequencing efforts revealed that the fast-spreading UK variant made up nearly 30 per cent of the samples in Kerala last week, the state government had initiated fresh action to add beds, procure oxygen and get people to use double masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Cong slams move to bring Central Vista under essential services||The Congress on Wednesday questioned the morality of the Narendra Modi government obsessing with its pet project, Central Vista, when the Centre cannot provide oxygen and hospital beds to countless citizens. Rahul Gandhi led the attack with a tweet in response to a decision to bring the ongoing construction under essential services: “Central Vista — not essential. Central Government with a vision — essential.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul have objected to the project under which a new Parliament building, offices for ministries and a residence for the Prime Minister will be built. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told a media conference on Wednesday: “Is this project essential? When we are going to seek aid from the world in this distress caused by Covid-19, shouldn’t we cut down expenditure on our own vanity projects?” Shrinate contrasted the government’s interest in the project with the state of medical infrastructure in the country. “How come the Central Vista becomes essential in this time of distress when patients are dying for want of oxygen, not getting admission in hospitals? This government could not build the sanctioned 162 oxygen plants for Rs 200 crore in one year and Rs 20,000 crore is being spent on this,” she said. Shrinate added: “Rulers are remembered for their work, not for the buildings they made. The Prime Minister failed in corona management but his priority to have a new Parliament building remains unchanged. This is not only a question of sensitivity; even morally it cannot be justified.” The lockdown in Delhi allows only construction projects that keep workers on the site itself. But an exception has been made for Central Vista and passes have been issued for 180 vehicles to be used in the project, including those ferrying workers from their homes, under the essential services category. The government had requested this favour from Delhi police because the work has to be completed by November this year. Work is underway in three shifts. The Congress iterated that the Covid situation had turned grim because of the government’s failures. Shrinate recalled how the Centre ignored repeated warnings on the second wave and referred to insensitive and crass statements by BJP chief ministers, including threats issued by Yogi Adityanath. She pointed out that even BJP workers had begun to publicly express their frustration. Shrinate alleged that the Prime Minister was addressing election rallies when lakhs of new cases were being reported every day. She said there was no way that health minister Harsh Vardhan could continue in office and insisted that the Prime Minister, too, had lost the moral right to remain in office. Delhi state is reporting one death from Covid-19 every four minutes, according to Reuters. The last 24 hours brought 360,960 new cases for the world’s largest single-day total, taking India’s tally of infections to nearly 18 million. It was also the deadliest day so far, with 3,293 fatalities carrying the toll to 201,187.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||French newspaper blames Modi’s arrogance for Covid resurgence||Foreign newspapers are not exactly quaking in their boots after the Indian foreign policy establishment sought to lecture an Australian newspaper that had said “Modi leads India into a viral apocalypse”. Le Monde, the French newspaper, on Wednesday chipped away at the hitherto Teflon-coated image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The French newspaper blamed his “arrogance and demagogy” as much as the “unpredictability of the virus” for the second deadly wave of the pandemic in India. “The spectacle of lines of ambulances at the gates of overwhelmed hospitals, of sick people’s relatives begging in vain to obtain oxygen and of mass cremations does not lie. From cities to rural areas, from the rich to the poor, the carnage does not spare anyone. Declining until February, the curve of new infection is nearly vertical,” Le Monde said in its editorial. “Such a backfiring cannot be explained solely by the unpredictability of a virus and its variants. Narendra Modi’s lack of prediction, arrogance and demagogy are clearly among the causes of a situation that now seems out of control and requires international mobilisation. The Prime Minister, after paralysing and traumatising his country in 2020 by decreeing a brutal confinement, abandoning millions of migrant workers, completely lowered his guard at the beginning of 2021,” the editorial added. “Preferring nationalist harangues to the advice of health experts, more inclined to self-celebration than to protect populations, Mr Modi only aggravated the situation,” the newspaper said, referring to the election campaign and also the Kumbh Mela which turned the Ganga’s waters into a “giant hotbed of contagion”. The editorial tore apart Modi’s much publicised vaccine strategy, contending that the vaccine diplomacy was subservient to his ambitions, ignoring the reality of the country’s production capacities. On Monday, the Indian high commission in Australia had sent a rejoinder to The Australian newspaper for an article criticising the Indian leadership’s handling of the pandemic. During Indira Gandhi’s Emergency, Indian missions used to issue counters to negative news in foreign publications. The mission had described article in The Australian as “baseless, malicious and slanderous”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||In a Delhi apartment, waiting to catch Covid ||Crematoriums are so full of bodies, it’s as if a war just happened. Fires burn around the clock. Many places are holding mass cremations, dozens at a time, and at night, in certain areas of New Delhi, the sky glows. Sickness and death are everywhere. Dozens of houses in my neighbourhood have sick people. One of my colleagues is sick. One of my son’s teachers is sick. The neighbour two doors down, to the right of us: sick. Two doors to the left: sick. “I have no idea how I got it,” said a good friend who is now in hospital. “You catch just a whiff of this…” and then his voice trailed off, too sick to finish. He barely got a bed. And the medicine his doctors say he needs is nowhere to be found in India. I’m sitting in my apartment waiting to catch the disease. That’s what it feels like right now in New Delhi with the world’s worst coronavirus crisis advancing around us. It is out there, I am in here, and I feel like it’s only a matter of time before I, too, get sick. New Delhi is suffering a calamitous surge. The infections have spread so fast that hospitals have been completely swamped. People are turned away by the thousands. Medicine is running out. So is lifesaving oxygen. The sick have been left stranded in interminable lines at hospital gates or at home, literally gasping for air. Although New Delhi is locked down, the disease is still rampaging. Doctors across this city and some of Delhi’s top politicians are issuing desperate SOS calls to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on social media and on TV, begging for oxygen, medicine, help. Experts had always warned that Covid-19 could wreak real havoc in India. What we’re witnessing is so different from last year, during India’s first wave. Then, it was the fear of the unknown. Now we know. We know the totality of the disease, the scale, the speed. We know the terrifying force of this second wave, hitting everyone at the same time. What we had been fearing during last year’s first wave, and which never really materialised, is now happening in front of our eyes: a breakdown, a collapse, a realisation that so many people will die. As a foreign correspondent for nearly 20 years, I’ve covered combat zones, been kidnapped in Iraq and been thrown in jail in more than a few places. This is unsettling in a different way. There’s no way of knowing if my two kids, wife or I will be among those who get a mild case and then bounce back to good health, or if we will get really sick. And if we do get really sick, where will we go? ICUs are full. Gates to many hospitals have been closed. A new variant known here as “the double mutant” may be doing a lot of the damage. The science is still early but from what we know, this variant contains one mutation that may make the virus more contagious and another that may make it partially resistant to vaccines. Doctors are pretty scared. Some we have spoken to said they had been vaccinated twice and still got seriously ill, a very bad sign. So what can you do? I try to stay positive, believing that is one of the best immunity boosters, but I find myself drifting in a daze through the rooms of our apartment, listlessly opening cans of food and making meals for my kids, feeling like my mind and body are turning to mush. I’m afraid to check my phone and get another message about a friend who has deteriorated. Or worse. I’m sure millions of people have felt this way, but I’ve started imagining symptoms: Is my throat sore? What about that background headache? Is it worse today? My part of town, South Delhi, is now hushed. Like many other places, we had a strict lockdown last year. But now doctors here are warning us that the virus is more contagious, and the chances of getting help are so much worse than they were during the first wave. So many of us are scared to step outside, like there’s some toxic gas we’re all afraid to breathe. I almost teared up the other night when the news showed an Indian Air Force jet load up with oxygen tanks from Singapore to bring to needy parts of the country. The government was essentially airlifting air. However difficult and dangerous it feels in Delhi for all of us, it’s probably going to get worse. Epidemiologists say the numbers will keep climbing, to 500,000 reported cases a day nationwide and as many as one million Indians dead from Covid-19 by August. It didn’t have to be like this. India was doing well up until a few weeks ago, at least on the surface. It locked down, absorbed the first wave, then opened up. It maintained a low death rate (at least by official statistics). By winter, life in many respects had returned to something near normal. I was out reporting in January and February, driving through towns in central India. No one — and I mean no one, including police officers — was wearing a mask. It was like the country had said to itself, while the second wave was looming: Don’t worry, we got this. Few people feel that way now. Modi remains popular among his base but more people are blaming him for failing to prepare India for this surge and for holding packed political rallies in recent weeks where few precautions were enforced — possible super-spreader events. “Social distancing norms have gone for a complete toss,” said one Delhi newscaster the other day, during a broadcast of one of Modi’s rallies. Indians are also upset with the sluggish pace of the vaccination campaign. In India, as elsewhere, the wealthy can pad the blow of many crises. But this time it’s different. A well-connected friend activated his entire network to help someone close to him, a young man with a bad case of Covid. My friend’s friend died. No amount of pull could get him into a hospital. There were just too many other sick people. “I tried everything in my power to get this guy a bed, and we couldn’t,” my friend said. “It’s chaos.” His feelings were raw. “This is a catastrophe. This is murder.” I take few risks except to get food for my family that can’t be delivered. I wear two masks and cut wide berths around as many people as I can. But most days pass with the four of us marooned inside. We try to play games, we try not to talk about who just got sick or who’s racing around this besieged city looking for help they probably won’t find. Sometimes we just sit quietly in the living room, looking out at the ficus and palm trees. Through the open window, on long, still, hot afternoons, we can hear two things: Ambulances. And birdsong. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Covid: Kerala to buy 1 crore vaccine doses||The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to purchase one crore doses of Covid vaccines following the Centre’s decision not to supply free vaccines to states. The state cabinet’s decision would help ease the severe shortage of vaccines that the state has been experiencing owing to the inadequate supply by the Centre. The state cabinet decided to purchase 70 lakh doses of Covishield, the Oxford-AztraZeneca vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and 30 lakh doses of Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine made by Bharat Biotech. The state with a population of 3.5 crore has already vaccinated over 71 lakh people of whom close to 60 lakh have received both doses. Efforts are on to procure 10 lakh doses in the beginning of May considering the spike in demand as the 18-44 age group would become eligible for jabs. While private hospitals are allowed to charge for the doses they administer, the state government had announced it would continue to provide free vaccines at all state-run hospitals and vaccination centres. This followed a controversial vaccine regime announced by the Union government under which vaccine makers would have to provide 50 per cent of their supplies to the Central Drugs Laboratory, leaving the remaining to be sold to state governments and private hospitals. State government sources said negotiations were on to get a steady supply of vaccines from both companies to ensure the inoculation programme doesn’t suffer due to shortage. An estimated Rs 1,300 crore would be required to provide free vaccination at government facilities. In a controversial pricing strategy, Serum Institute of India had announced that Covishield would be sold for Rs 150 per dose to the Centre, Rs 400 to state governments and Rs 600 to private hospitals. While Bharat Biotech has made available its Covaxin at Rs 150 per dose to the central government, state governments would have to pay Rs 600 for the same dose while it would cost Rs 1,200 for private hospitals. Amid widespread accusations of profiteering, the Centre had on Monday urged the two companies to cut their costs. The Kerala government had faced criticism for allowing people to crowd at vaccination centres. Unruly scenes of even senior citizens being made to stand in long queues for hours, only to be told to come another day, have put the government under pressure. But the state government had squarely blamed the Union government for the vaccine shortage. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Tuesday confirmed that people were not getting slots on CoWin application due to the vaccine shortage. As of Tuesday evening, the state had only 3,68,840 doses of vaccine left with it. Vijayan had clarified that vaccine slots can be opened only based on the stock available in the state. “That is why we had asked for 50 lakh doses,” he had said. A large number of senior citizens are waiting for their second dose in the state that had initially received free vaccines from the Centre. Vijayan had recently written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking free vaccines after the Centre announced that states must buy their stocks by directly negotiating with vaccine makers. All the state ministers decided to contribute their one month’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund for purchasing vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Covid: Serum Institute cuts vaccine price for states by Rs 100 per dose||The Serum Institute of India has cut its offer price for states from Rs 400 per dose of vaccine to Rs 300, projecting it as a “philanthropic gesture” amid outrage at what is being seen as profiteering from a pandemic that is devastating the country. “As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of Serum Institute India, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives,” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive of Pune-based Serum Institute, said in a tweet on Wednesday. Different prices for the same vaccine — Rs 150 per dose for the Centre, Rs 400 for the states and Rs 600 for private hospitals — had earned the world’s largest vaccine maker bad publicity. Bharat Biotech, the other vaccine maker, has announced far higher prices for the states and private hospitals — Rs 600 and Rs 1,200, respectively — than the Rs 150 per dose for the Centre. The Congress has alleged that the vaccine makers are profiteering and will make Rs 1.11 lakh crore. A PIL in Bombay High Court has sought a directive to the vaccine makers to sell at a uniform rate of Rs 150 per dose. Filed by advocate Fayzan Khan and three law students, it argues the vaccine is an essential commodity and its management and distribution cannot be left to private companies. The Narendra Modi government had this month said that starting May 1, states could inoculate adults aged between 18 and 45 or people in this age group could pay and get vaccinated at private hospitals, abandoning its own responsibility to immunise all Indians. States and private hospitals would have to procure their own vaccines at prices that would be fixed by the vaccine makers, it said. While the vaccination of those over 45 for which the Centre is buying the doses would continue at government outlets, it would cease at private hospitals from May 1. The announcement has already caused chaos, with people whose second dose was scheduled at private clinics in May rushing to get it early for fear that they might not get it at all. The result has been long queues at overcrowded vaccination centres, raising the risk of catching the virus. Experts foresee more trouble from May 1 when the 18-45 age group becomes eligible to seek the vaccine because supply will fall far short of demand. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday cited the vaccine shortage to say the state would not open vaccination for the 18-45 age group on May 1. The state said it needed 12 crore vials to inoculate around 5.7 crore people in this bracket. Serum has told the state government it will be able to supply the vaccines only after May 20, sources said. More than 19 states are reported to have started negotiations with Serum for supplies. Analysts at Jefferies, a brokerage firm, have said in a report that vaccine supply bottlenecks are expected to continue till the end of June and that India would have quantities to vaccinate only 56 per cent of its population by the end of this year. Universal vaccination is seen as the only measure that can halt the pandemic rampaging through India. Less than 2 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated so far. The Centre has been criticised for failing to place advance orders that would have ensured a steady supply, shifting the responsibility of immunisation to the states and then allowing vaccine makers to charge a higher price from the states. Even after Wednesday’s price cut, Serum’s price for the states remains double of what it is offering the Centre. Poonawalla had justified the different prices claiming that the price for the Centre had been set under a contract signed last year when the efficacy of the vaccine had not been clearly established. The Centre too will be charged the same rate as the states after Serum completes supplies of about 100 million doses under the bulk contract, he had added. Serum has not spelt out when that will happen. The vaccine maker has not reduced the price of Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||JNU vice-chancellor rejects plea to set up Covid care unit on campus||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) vice-chancellor has not agreed to a request from teachers to set up a Covid care centre and an isolation facility on the campus, sparking allegations of insensitivity. Around 600 faculty members live on the campus with their families. Besides, there are students in hostels and non-faculty members. More than 100 campus residents have contracted the virus during the second wave so far, according to sources. New Delhi is by far the worst affected city in the country and is reeling from an acute hospital bed and oxygen crisis. The JNU Teachers Association had proposed that the guest houses and parts of hostel buildings on the campus be converted into Covid care and isolation centres. However, vice-chancellor Prof. M. Jagadesh Kumar did not agree to the suggestion and accused the teachers’ organisation of spreading panic, according to JNUTA members. The Telegraph sent an email to VC Kumar asking about his alleged refusal to set up a Covid care centre, but received no response. JNUTA secretary Prof. Moushumi Basu said a senior professor on Tuesday needed oxygen support but the small health centre on the campus only had about 10 minutes of oxygen reserve. The professor had to be shifted to a hospital outside. “Our proposal is that once a Covid care centre is set up, several hospitals will come forward to help. Covid patients on the campus can be provided treatment here only. Now we are dependent on outside hospitals. Getting a bed is so difficult,” Basu said. The Delhi government has asked residents’ welfare associations to set up Covid care centres in apartments. The JNUTA, as a representative body of residents of the university, had proposed to the Delhi government the possibility of setting up Covid care facilities on the campus. However, the approval of the VC is required and he has not agreed, the JNUTA said. “It is insensitive on the part of the VC to sit silently while people are suffering. IIT Delhi has created its own Covid care centre already. Delhi University has announced that it will start a facility with help from an outside agency. But here, the health centre has no infrastructure to treat Covid cases,” Basu said. IIT Delhi last week appointed a Covid care team comprising doctors who are family members of faculty and non-faculty employees. The team of 30 doctors provides telephone consultation to campus residents. The IIT has also converted a guest house into an isolation centre. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College under Delhi University on Tuesday started an isolation centre. A senior official said the DU was willing to hand over its sports stadium and a guest house to any government agency to set up a Covid care centre for its staff. Rajesh Jha, former Executive Council member of the DU, said teachers had last year written to the authorities to start a Covid care facility with beds and oxygen support, but nothing was done. He said 17 faculty members had died of Covid in the last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||Supreme Court directs UP govt to shift Kappan to a hospital in Delhi||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to shift jailed journalist Siddique Kappan to any government hospital in Delhi from Mathura for better treatment, days after his wife had written to the Chief Justice of India alleging that her husband had been chained to his bed “like an animal”. Wednesday’s hearing witnessed sharp exchanges between a bench headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government. While the lawyer cited the hospital bed crisis in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, the court said it would intervene as it had been informed Kappan was unwell. Justice Ramana said it was a humanitarian issue and the court had a bounden duty to protect the life of even those jailed for alleged offences. Kappan’s wife Raihanath’s letter filed by lawyer Wills Mathew had stated that the journalist “is chained like an animal” to the bed at KM Medical College Hospital in Mathura and he could neither take food nor visit the toilet. “If immediate corrective steps are not taken, it will result in his untimely death,” the letter had stated. The Delhi-based journalist who contributed to a Malayalam news portal was arrested on the way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh on October 5 last year to report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl. The Supreme Court said that once Kappan is treated and certified to be fine, he would be taken back to the Mathura jail and would be free to apply for bail before the local court. Mehta told the bench, also including Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna, that it should pass an order telling “…any Delhi hospital where all beds are full with Covid patients to vacate a bed by asking any Covid-affected patient to go out so as to admit a non-Covid patient like Kappan for treatment”. Kappan, admitted to the Mathura hospital after he fell unconscious in jail and tested positive for the coronavirus last Tuesday had now tested negative, the court was told. Mehta said that as solicitor-general he could not request a hospital to vacate a Covid bed to accommodate a 42-year-old non-Covid patient. Justice Ramana cut him short, saying: “Mr Mehta, you sort it out with the government. Leave it here. Let him be transferred back to jail after the doctor certifies him to have recovered.” The court was dealing with a habeas corpus petition filed by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, of which Kappan is the Delhi unit general secretary, on October 6 last year seeking the release of the journalist. Mehta told the court the journalist was Covid-negative although he had diabetes and blood pressure problems. CJI Ramana said: “Why should we not intervene now when it is submitted that his health is not proper? He wants better treatment and we are on that. Let him be treated in a hospital in Delhi and then let him go to Mathura jail.” “In Mathura there are Covid-positive people who are not getting beds. Same situation here in Delhi,” Mehta said.  The Uttar Pradesh government denies any hospital crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||SC indefinitely extends the period of limitation for filing petitions||The Supreme Court on Wednesday extended indefinitely “until further orders” the period of limitation for filing petitions, applications, suits, appeals and all other proceedings before judicial and quasi-judicial forums, citing the Covid resurgence. Under the limitation law, petitions, suits and the like have to be filed within a prescribed period, failing which a litigant loses the right to air his or her grievance before the court or tribunal concerned. “The extraordinary situation caused by the sudden and second outburst of Covid-19... requires extraordinary measures to minimise the hardship of litigant-public in all the states,” Wednesday’s order said. The bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna passed the order while dealing with an application moved by the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association. The apex court had passed a similar order on March 23 last year but ended the extension of limitation on March 8 this year on the ground that the country was returning to normalcy, with all the courts and tribunals having resumed functioning, physically or in virtual mode. “We, therefore, restore the order dated 23rd March, 2020, and... direct that the period(s) of limitation, as prescribed under any general or special laws in respect of all judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings, whether condonable or not, shall stand extended till further orders,” Wednesday’s order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||Covid: WHO asks India to address 'critical gaps' in medical supplies and hospital capacities ||The World Health Organisation on Wednesday asked India to address “critical gaps” in medical supplies and hospital capacities amid the country’s still rising second Covid-19 wave and what some health experts say is evidence of poor preparedness. The WHO also said it is important to assign levels of urgency to patients to optimise the available resources such as intensive care unit beds. “We need to act with speed, expand hospital capacities and equip them with medical supplies, most needed to save lives,” Poonam Khetrapal Singh, the regional director of WHO South-East Asia, said. India on Wednesday recorded over 360,000 new Covid cases and 3,293 deaths. The fresh cases have raised the count of active patients to more than 2.97 million, nearly three times larger than the peak counts during mid-September last year. Public health experts view the current shortages of hospital beds, oxygen and even medicines reported from across the country as an abundance of evidence that the country neither anticipated nor prepared itself for a second wave. The WHO said it is procuring mobile field hospitals with capacities of 20 to 30 beds that could be set up in the most affected areas and is chartering flights to bring in 4,000 oxygen concentrators — bedside oxygen generating machines. India’s defence research agency on Wednesday said it would set up 500 oxygen plants in hospitals across the country in three months while the Prime Minister’s Office said PM Narendra Modi had sanctioned the procurement of 100,000 portable oxygen concentrators. Health experts say the steps, while much-needed, only underline the poor preparedness. “One lakh oxygen concentrators is a good number — but this is a belated step,” said T. Sundararaman, a community medicine expert and coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a global network of doctors and health specialists. “What good are the oxygen beds without oxygen?” Another senior physician and public health expert who requested anonymity said it had become clear during the early months of the pandemic from evidence worldwide that oxygen would be critical in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. A critical care medicine expert told The Telegraph that oxygen “is used like a drug” in varying levels of doses, or litres per minute, depending on the severity of the disease in a patient. The oxygen shortages suggest that there was “no planning at all” for the current size of the epidemic. “Shortages of essential medicines such as steroids could be a big challenge in the coming weeks,” said Oommen John, a doctor and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||Odisha aspirant keeps up CA exam study despite being Covid-positive||Several netizens have praised the dedication and hard work of a Covid patient studying for his Chartered Accountant (CA) examination from the hospital bed in Berhampur, Odisha, after the Ganjam district collector shared a photograph of the student on his Twitter handle. “Success is not coincidence. You need dedication. I visited Covid hospital and found this guy doing study of CA exam. Your dedication makes you forget your pain. After that Success is only formality,” tweeted Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. The collector told The Telegraph: “After I posted the photos, I also faced some criticism on why beds have not been allotted to other patients. He was admitted when his condition was not well. He has shown signs of improvement and would be discharged from the hospital on Thursday. But all should appreciate the determination of the guy. It also proves that we have been able to provide a good ambience to the people.” Kulange said he had spent some time with the student and inquired about his health and studies. The collector was on a visit to the Maharaja Krushna Chandra Gajapati (MKCG) Medical College and Hospital following complaints about shortage of oxygen and medicines in the medical centre. Wearing PPE kits, Kulange along with other officials inspected the medical college on Wednesday. The CA student, 27-year-old Abhijit Barik, told this newspaper: “This is my final-year CA exam. I was in Guntur in Andhra Pradesh and preparing for the examination. After I fell sick, I came to my brother’s house in Berhampur on April 20. Later I tested positive for Covid and was admitted to the hospital on April 22. As I was feeling better, I started reading. There are only 10 patients in the ward. My exam was scheduled to begin on May 21 but it was postponed at the last moment.” Barik added: “The collector asked me about the medical facilities available at the MKCG. He asked me if I had any specific complaints. But here I found the doctors are very cooperative and the medical staff provides treatment.” A Twitter user replied to Kulange’s post: “It really shows how a CA student believes in hardwork and never ever gives up attitude.. salute you bro. All the best for your exam.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
