30-04-2021||India||Govt must think of free Covid vaccination for all, says SC||The Supreme Court Friday said the Centre should adopt a national immunisation model for vaccination of all and not leave it to private vaccine manufacturers to decide on its allocation to states. A bench headed by Justices D Y Chandrachud said, "What happens to the marginalised people and SC/ST population living in far flung areas? Should they be left to the mercy of private vaccine manufacturers and hospitals? They will not be able to pay for the vaccines,” it said. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Rabindra Bhat, said that the government must think of providing free of cost vaccination to all citizens. You should adopt a national immunization model to vaccinate people of all classes. Poor or marginalised sections will not go to the hospital and pay Rs 600 for vaccines. You should consider all these aspects, the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. It said that it cannot be left to the private manufacturers to decide how much quantity be given to which state and instead Centre should procure all the vaccines and give it to the states like done in national immunization programmes. The top court asked the Centre to respond to at least 10 questions, for instance, how it will  ensure registration of persons for vaccination, who are illiterate or don't have access to the internet, considering that registration on CoWIN app is mandatory for vaccination for persons aged 18-45 years. It asked Mehta whether the Centre or states had attempted to undertake targeted vaccination drives for crematorium workers and other coordinate groups who are providing on-ground assistance during the pandemic and weren't considered as frontline workers. The bench asked Mehta to respond to the question whether the central government had considered exercising its power under section 92 of Patents Act, 1970, which enables compulsory licensing of patents in a public health emergency? Has the Finance Ministry made any previous grants/ sanctions to Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India (SII) in the past, like the current infusion of Rs 1,500 crore and Rs 3,000 crore respectively? If yes, what is the exact breakup, as against the total cost of development and production of the two vaccines, the bench said. It also sought to know the direct and indirect grant/aid that was provided for the research, development and manufacture of vaccines. The top court posted the matter for further hearing on May 10 and asked the Solicitor General to reply to the questions it has posed. The 10 questions Hospital admisions The Supreme Court also  asked the Centre to frame a national policy on admission of patients in hospitals after it was apprised that some of them in the NCR are seeking local address proof for admitting Covid-19 infected people, while it was hearing the suo motu case on Covid management. The Centre will have to make a uniform policy for admission of patients, the bench observed. The court said the central government should ensure that no local address proof of patients are sought by hospitals for admission, after a lawyer said that a patient was denied admission at a hospital in Noida as his Aadhaar Card had a residential address of Mumbai. The top court warned authorities, from the Centre down to police chiefs, against silencing people and their pleas for help on the presumption that they are raising false grievances on the internet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Modi chairs meeting of council of ministers on Covid crisis||Amid the COVID-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of the Union Council of Ministers on Friday, where they were briefed about the management of the pandemic and availability of oxygen and medicines, sources said. This was the first meeting of the council of ministers in the aftermath of the second wave of COVID-19 in the country. At the meeting that was held virtually, NITI Aayog member VK Paul gave a presentation on COVID-19 management. After him, Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Mansukh Mandaviya briefed their cabinet colleagues on the availability of oxygen and medicines respectively. The prime minister has held several rounds of meetings with chief ministers and top government officials to deliberate on the COVID-19 situation. He has also been holding meetings with pharmaceutical industry leaders, oxygen suppliers, the heads of the three armed forces and other dignitaries to discuss how to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||TV journalist Rohit Sardana passes away following cardiac arrest||Television journalist Rohit Sardana died in Noida of cardiac arrest on Friday, days after he tested positive for Covid-19, according to his channel Aaj Tak. He was 41. Sardana, who was an executive editor and TV news anchor with Aaj Tak of the India Today Group, is survived by his wife, two daughters and parents. He was admitted to a private hospital here after he tested positive for coronavirus. His last rites will take place in his hometown of Kurukshetra in Haryana, according to his colleagues. "We are all shocked by the death of our colleague and friend, Rohit Sardana. This incomparable loss cannot be expressed in words. We express our condolences to his family in this hour of grief," Aaj Tak tweeted in Hindi. A similar message was posted by India Today channel in English. "The untimely loss of our dear colleague and friend Rohit Sardana has left us in shock. No words can explain the irreparable loss and void that he leaves behind. Let us join in silence to give strength to the family," India Today said in a tweet. Condoling his death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "Rohit Sardana left us too soon. Full of energy, passionate about India's progress and a kind hearted soul, Rohit will be missed by many people. His untimely demise has left a huge void in the media world. Condolences to his family, friends and admirers. Om Shanti." Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia also condoled the death of Sardana. News director of Aaj Tak and India Today Rahul Kanwal said his newsroom was in "deep shock" and remembered Sardana as a "sharp young anchor" who never "flinched from asking questions". "Rohit Sardana was the sharpest young anchor I have met. Superb command over Hindi, brilliant with his turn of the phrase, precise questions, clear in his thinking, loved by the masses, warm and humble off the screen, he was destined for great things. Our newsroom is in deep shock," Kanwal tweeted. "Rohit had greater conviction than most. For many, a right leaning worldview is an acquired fad, a means of cultivating popularity. Rohit's views were deeply held & strongly articulated. But he wasn't an andh bhakt & never flinched from asking questions. That's why he was special," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Facebook to roll out vaccine finder tool on mobile app in India||Facebook on Friday said it is partnering with the Indian government to roll out a vaccine finder tool on its mobile app in India, which will help people identify places nearby to get inoculated. The social media giant had, earlier this week, announced a USD 10 million grant for emergency response efforts for COVID-19 situation in the country. "Partnering with the Government of India, Facebook will begin rolling out its Vaccine Finder tool on the Facebook mobile app in India available in 17 languages to help people identify places nearby to get the vaccine," Facebook said in a post on the platform. In this tool, vaccine centre locations and their hours of operation have been provided by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 15.22 crore. Also, more than 2.45 crore people have registered themselves on the Co-WIN digital platform ahead of the Phase-3 of the COVID-19 vaccination for those above 18 years that is set to start from May 1. Facebook said its tool will also show walk-in options (for 46 years and above) and a link to register on the Co-Win website and schedule vaccination appointment. The massive rise in infections in the second wave of the pandemic has led to hospitals in several states reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. Social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter have emerged as a lifeline, connecting those looking for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors, and ventilators with possible donors. Facebook said it is partnering with organisations such as United Way, Swasth, Hemkunt Foundation, I Am Gurgaon, Project Mumbai and US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) to deploy the funds announced to help augment critical medical supplies with over 5,000 oxygen concentrators and other life-saving equipment like ventilators, BiPAP machines and to increase hospital bed capacity. The company is also supporting NGOs and UN agencies in the country with ad credits and insights to reach the majority of people on Facebook with COVID-19 vaccine and preventive health information. The platform is also providing health resources to people from UNICEF India about when to seek emergency care and how to manage mild COVID-19 symptoms at home. "The information is accessible and prominent on Facebook's COVID-19 Information Center and in Feed. On Instagram, we are promoting this information via Guides in Explore," it noted. Twitter too has set up a COVID-19 SOS page that helps surface information from those offering or seeking immediate help during this crisis. "We have also built a series of Twitter Moments to help you get the facts from the most reliable sources, because we know not all the information you see on the service is credible. These dedicated Moments about vaccine safety, how to stay safe and more, include detailed and accredited information from organisations like the MoHFW and World Health Organization, among others," it added. Twitter is also expanding its efforts to surface credible COVID-19 information with home Timeline prompts featuring the latest information about COVID-19 vaccines in English and Hindi. This, it said, will help those looking for up-to-date, localised information about vaccine safety, vaccine eligibility and other details. Twitter said it is currently matching 'Tweep' donations at 300 per cent organisations including Oxfam India, Akshay Patra Foundation, Child Rights and You and Rise Against Hunger India. It has made a separate USD 100,000 donation to Hemkunt Foundation to support their work in donating oxygen cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||EC asks Madras HC to restrain media from reporting court observations||Days after a stinging rap from the judiciary, the Election Commission on Friday moved the Madras High Court, seeking to restrain the media from reporting oral observations of judges made on its role in conducting elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic,a plea the court refused. Comments of murder charges against ECI officials and the institution being solely responsible for the surge in Covid-19 cases had caused great damage and it had tarnished the EC's image, its counsel contended. The first bench refused to restrain the media, both electronic and print, from publishing the oral observations of the judges relating the role of EC in holding elections to four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry in the country during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Let us leave that (matter) at it," was the reply of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy when the matter with regard to lapses in procuring Covid-19 vaccines, providing beds and ventilators and the alleged diversion of oxygen cylinders to other states came up again on Friday. The court had taken up the matter on its own. "The post-mortem on either count may have to wait, particularly in the light of immediate measures that may be put in place," the CJ quipped when the EC senior counsel moved the court with the prayer to restrain the media from sensationalising the issue. It was a very difficult job to hold the elections during these difficult times.Based on the observations of the courts, certain people have approached the police with complaints and the latter had filed FIRs too, the EC counsel said and prayed for some sort of protection. "The courts concerned would take care of such frivolous complaints being filed against the ECI... let's not play a blame game," the CJ said. The court had taken up the matter not to issue directions by presuming itself as an expert on the subject of handling Covid-19, but the focus was to make the governments act on the basis of experts' advice. "We are the first to accept that we may not be qualified to take a call," the CJ added. Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan told the bench that till December last year, the Covid-19 curve was flattening and in January it was fine. Only thereafter, the surge was noticed in Maharashtra and Kerala. A high-level team was dispatched to Kerala to aid public health interventions for Covid management. The Centre has done whatever was needed, the ASG said. The ECI sought a direction to the press and visual media, which had reported the oral comments,to issue a clarification. It also wanted a direction to the police to not register any case on the basis of criminal complaints being filed against EC officials pursuant to the oral observations. The Madras High Court had on Monday castigated the Election Commission over the Covid-19 second wave in the country, holding it 'singularly' responsible for the spread, called it "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges. The EC allowing political parties to take out rallies and meetings had led to the spread of the pandemic, the court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Voices of citizens seeking help should not be silenced, warns SC||There should be no clampdown on citizens seeking help on the presumption that they are raising false grievances on the internet, the Supreme Court said on Friday, terming the second wave of Covid-19 cases as a national crisis. "There should be free flow of information, we should hear voices of citizens," said a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, and asked the Centre, states and all DGPs not to take any action against anyone posting a shortage of oxygen, beds or doctors as spreading rumour. We are in a human crisis, the bench said. “If any action is taken against such posts by citizens in distress, we will treat it as contempt of the court,” the bench also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said. There should not be any presumption that (the) grievances raised on the internet by citizens are false, the court reiterated. The observations assume significance in view the recent decision of the Uttar Pradesh administration to prosecute people under the National Security Act for allegedly raising false alarms on social media. The hearing before the top court on the suo motu case for devising national policy for Covid-19 management is underway. The bench is taking up issues such as projected demand of oxygen in the country at present and near future and as to how the government intended to allocate it to critically-affected states and about the monitoring mechanism to ensure supply. Observing that even frontline doctors and healthcare workers were not getting beds for treatment, the bench said the healthcare infrastructure inherited over the past 70 years was not sufficient and the situation was grim. The apex court said hostels, temples, churches and other places be opened for converting them as Covid-19 care centres. It said the Centre should adopt a national immunisation model as poor people will not be able to pay for vaccines. "What happens to the marginalised and SC/ST population? Should they be left to the mercy of private hospitals, it asked. The court also said the government must consider a National Immunisation Programme for various vaccines and must think of providing free of cost vaccination to all citizens. "Fifty-nine crore Indians in the 18-45 age group constitute a large segment. How will the poor and marginalised people find money to get vaccinated? We cannot have this private sector model. We must follow national immunisation model which we had followed since independence,” NDTV quoted the bench as saying. It said the healthcare sector has come to a breakpoint and retired doctors or officials could be re-employed in this crisis. The top court also said that private vaccine manufacturers cannot be allowed to decide which state should get how much. "Why is the government not buying 100 per cent of doses produced at this time? Why should there be two prices for the centre and the states... what is the rationale," NDTV quoted the top court as saying. "The centre has said that they are leaving 50 per cent procurement to be done by states. Will this promote equity,” Justice Chandrachud asked. While a mass vaccination drive is set to start on Saturday to inoculate everyone above 18 years, many states have red-flagged inadequate supply of the jabs and said they won’t be able to start the process on the day. "Pricing issues are extraordinarily serious. 50 per cent of doses, which will be available free of charge, will be used for vaccinating frontline workers and those who are above 45 years of age. Remaining doses will be used for adults who are 18 and above," the Supreme Court said. It allowed the Centre to give a powerpoint presentation on Covid-19 preparation.  The bench on April 22 took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in COVID-19 cases as also in mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Suspension of international passenger flights extended till May 31||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till May 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 27 countries including Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||First consignment of Covid-19 supplies arrive in India from US||The United States on Friday delivered to India its first consignment of emergency medical supplies including hundreds of much-needed oxygen cylinders and regulators to help the country fight the coronavirus pandemic. The medical equipment and other supplies were brought to Delhi in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft of the US Air Force. "The first of several emergency Covid-19 relief shipments from the United States has arrived in India! Building on over 70 years of cooperation, the United States stands with India as we fight the Covid-19 pandemic together," the US embassy tweeted. Another military aircraft carrying a large number of medical equipment and other materials from the US is expected to land in the national capital later in the day. In a tweet, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said healthcare partnership between India and the US can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. "A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate the gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the USA," he said. As India battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, countries around the world have announced sending medical supplies to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries which are sending assistance to India include Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius. On Thursday, Russia delivered to India 20 tonnes of medical supplies mainly comprising oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines.Romania also provided India medical supplies on Friday. "Taking forward our warm & friendly relations. Thank our EU partner Romania for their support with consignment containing 80 oxygen concentrators and 75 oxygen cylinders," Bagchi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Kejriwal requests people to not queue up outside inoculation centres||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday appealed to people in the 18-44 age group not to queue up outside COVID vaccination centres from May 1, saying Delhi hasn't yet received vaccine doses. In the next one-two days, around 3 lakh Covishield vaccines will be received and the drive for vaccinating people above 18 years will commence, he said during an online briefing. The third phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people in the 18-44 age group will roll out across the country on May 1. However, Delhi and some other states have said that they would be unable to do so due to the shortage of vaccine doses. Kejriwal said his government has placed orders for 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin in three months. "We aim to vaccinate everyone in the next three months if a sufficient quantity of vaccines is supplied by the companies," he said. He assured Delhi residents that everyone will be vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||ED takes possession of assets worth Rs 304 crore in Rose Valley case||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday said it has taken "possession" of assets worth Rs 304 crore in connection with its money laundering case in the alleged Rose Valley ponzi scam that took place in West Bengal and Odisha. "Possession has been taken of properties of the Rose Valley group of companies throughout West Bengal, Tripura and Odisha under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA)," the central probe agency said in a statement. "This includes 412 movable properties amounting to Rs 47 crore and 426 immovable properties worth Rs 257 crore," it said. The Rose Valley group of companies "had collected huge amount of money from gullible public by floating various fake and fictitious schemes and defaulted the re-payments." Probe found, it said, that several properties in West Bengal, Odisha, Tripura, Assam, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and others states were "acquired in the name of various companies of group, by illegally diverting the funds collected from the common public." These assets were earlier provisionally attached by the ED under the anti-money laundering law and after getting approval from the Adjudicating Authority (under the PMLA), the agency is empowered to take possession of such properties. The ED had filed a criminal case of money laundering against the firm, its Chairman Gautam Kundu and others in 2014 and later arrested him in Calcutta. Multiple charge sheets have been filed by it in this case till now even as the probe continues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||India logs record 3.86 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,498 casualties in a day||India saw 3,86,452 new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far, pushing the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,87,62,976, while active cases crossed the 31-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 2,08,330 with 3,498 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 31,70,228 comprising 16.90 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 81.99 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 53,84,418. The case fatality rate stands at 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 28,63,92,086 samples have been tested up to April 29 with 19,20,107 samples being tested on Thursday. The 3,498 new fatalities include 771 from Maharashtra, 395 from Delhi, 295 from Uttar Pradesh, 270 from Karnataka, 251 from Chhattisgarh, 180 from Gujarat, 158 from Rajasthan, 145 from Jharkhand, 137 from Punjab and 107 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 2,08,330 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 67,985 from Maharashtra, 15,772 from Delhi, 15,306 from Karnataka, 13,933 from Tamil Nadu, 12,238 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,248 from West Bengal, 8,909 from Punjab and 8,312 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Former Attorney General Soli Sorabjee succumbs to Covid||Distinguished jurist and former Attorney General Soli Sorabjee, who appeared in several historic cases like Kesavananda Bharti and S R Bommai, passed away due to COVID-19 at a hospital here on Friday. The 91-year-old is survived by wife, a daughter and two sons. A recipient of the Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award of the country, the renowned human rights lawyer served as the Attorney General for India from 1989-90 and then from 1998-2004 during the tenure of V P Singh and Atal Bihari Vajpayee respectively. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among a host of leaders who condoled the passing away of the eminent jurist. The prime minister described him as an outstanding lawyer who was at the forefront of helping the poor and downtrodden through law. Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana also condoled the demise of Sorabjee. "I am deeply saddened to learn about the passing of Shri Soli Jehangir Sorabjee, former Attorney General of India. In his nearly 68 year long association with the judicial world, he made immeasurable contribution in enriching the global jurisprudence of Human Rights and Fundamental Right," he said. Considered one of the best Constitutional law experts, Sorabjee wrote several books on laws and justice, press censorship and the Emergency, and vehemently fought against human and fundamental rights violations. One of his recent court battles pertaining to fundamental right violations was the Shreya Singhal case in which the Supreme Court in 2015 agreed to his submissions and struck down a provision in the Information Technology Act relating to restrictions on online freedom of speech and expression. The top court held that section 66A was unconstitutional as being violative of freedom of speech guaranteed under the Constitution, the point put forth by Sorabjee, Considered close to Vajpayee, Sorabjee had led India's fight in the International Court of Justice (ICJ) when Pakistan sought compensation from India for downing of their naval patrol aircraft Atlantic in 1999 just after the Kargil war. The ICJ at the Hague ruled in India's favour after taking note of submissions of Sorabjee and dismissed Pakistan's claim for compensation, saying it had no jurisdiction over the matter. He also appeared and worked for the Citizen's Justice Committee which represented anti-Sikh riots victims. Born in a Parsi family in 1930, Sorabjee enrolled at the bar in 1953 and was designated senior advocate by the Bombay High Court in 1971. Sorabjee appeared in many important cases including the Kesavananda Bharati matter on basic structure doctrine and the S R Bommai matter relating to invocation of President's rule in states among others. He was appointed by the United Nation as a Special Rapporteur for Nigeria in 1997 to report on the human rights situation in that country and later became a member and the Chairman of the UN-Sub Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, from 1998 to 2004. Sorabjee was also a member of the United Nations Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities since 1998. He has also served as member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague from 2000 to 2006. Sorabjee, who hardly filed any PIL on his own, was so overwhelmed by the terror strike in Mumbai in 2008 that he himself filed a public interest litigation in the top court seeking direction for training and equipping police force to tackle terrorists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: Shunned by UP village, 70-year-old ferries wife's body on bicycle||A 70-year-old man was compelled to carry the body of his wife, who died of Covid-19, for cremation on his bicycle as nobody in his village offered any help fearing they might contract the deadly virus, police said on Thursday. The heart-wrenching ordeal of the frail-looking, bearded man from Ambarpur village in the district, over 200km from state capital Lucknow, has been captured in two photographs circulating on social media. While in one photo, Tilakdhari could be seen carrying the body on his bicycle, the other one shows him sitting helplessly by the roadside with the body sprawling across his fallen bicycle. Police said Tilakdhari’s wife died of Covid at the district hospital on April 26, and her body was sent to his village in an ambulance. “But the villagers, including the elders, refused to help him perform the last rites fearing they might also contract the virus,” station house officer Madiahun Munna Lal Dhusia told PTI. “After no one came to help, the old man decided keep his wife’s body on his cycle and go for her cremation. However, it was not possible for him to carry the body on a cycle and he kept losing his balance,” the SHO said. He said the police helped him after coming to know about the incident. Police personnel reached there with an ambulance and material required for conducting the last rites and took the body to Ramghat where the cremation was performed, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: UP hospitals defy Yogi gag bid by flagging oxygen shortage ||Some hospital authorities are continuing to speak out about the oxygen shortage in Uttar Pradesh despite chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s attempt to gag them with a crackdown, which has led to a notice to a Meerut hospital threatening to cancel its licence. Vinay Sharma, superintendent of Tender Palm Hospital in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar neighbourhood, told reporters he was queuing at the gate of an oxygen refilling centre because his patients urgently needed supplies. Adityanath, who denies any oxygen shortage in the state, has been steadfastly claiming that his government supplies enough oxygen to every hospital, and has ordered a crackdown on those “spreading panic”. Subhas Yadav, superintendent of Anand Hospital in Meerut, on Thursday blamed the oxygen crisis for the death of three Covid patients at the facility in the past 24 hours. “We need 400 cylinders every 24 hours but are getting only 90. The patients died because of an oxygen shortage,” Yadav told reporters. Sharma had told reporters on Wednesday night: “I’m standing at the gate of an oxygen refilling centre. Our hospital has about 100 patients who need oxygen immediately.” A source at Tender Palm Hospital said its staff were still in the queue early on Thursday morning, and that eight patients had died between Tuesday evening and Wednesday night because of a lack of oxygen. “We got about 30 cylinders against the immediate need for 200 on Thursday morning. These will run out in 10 hours,” the hospital employee, who didn’t want to be named, told reporters at 1pm on Thursday. Four people died in the past 24 hours at Meerut’s KMC Hospital, which had on Wednesday received a notice from the district administration accusing it of falsely claiming an oxygen shortage and threatening to cancel its licence. Meerut chief medical officer Akhilesh Mohan said the hospital was “getting everything” and “action would be initiated after receiving the reply in three days”. Dr Sunil Gupta, who runs the hospital, denied the allegation. “I have not slept for the last three days as I have to arrange oxygen. I need 300 cylinders every day,” he told reporters on Wednesday. A hospital official said the facility received less than 100 cylinders a day and procured the rest from other sources. An official quoted Adityanath as saying at a meeting on Thursday that the government had supplied 600 tonnes of oxygen to hospitals and refillers on Wednesday, and reaffirming there was “no shortage of oxygen”. But hundreds were seen queuing since early Thursday morning at the gates of oxygen refilling centres in Lucknow. “We are waiting for the oxygen tanker to arrive. Only then will they start giving us oxygen cylinders,” said a middle-aged Radha Singh, whose husband is Covid-positive, at the gates of Oudh Oxygen Private Limited in the Talkatora area. A public interest plea was moved in Allahabad High Court on Wednesday seeking protection for relatives of Covid patients who appeal for oxygen or medicines on social media, and for volunteers who help them, amid reports of people being arrested for “spreading rumours about scarcities”. Saket Gokhale, a social activist, filed the letter petition following the arrest of about a dozen people on the charge of carrying oxygen cylinders or life-saving medicines without genuine reason. At least some of the accused are, however, said to be members of citizens’ volunteer groups that are responding to appeals from Covid-hit families to arrange beds, ambulances, medicines and oxygen, often by using their contacts in the administration. Gokhale’s petition says some of the relatives appealing on social media too have been arrested recently. “Filing criminal cases against families of critical patients issuing SOS calls for oxygen on social media is a gross misuse of the powers of the State and is illegal coercive action that is being taken to maintain the image of the government and to clamp down on any criticism of their handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and to present a fake picture that everything is hunky dory in the state,” the petition says. Gokhale has said that family members of Covid patients are now afraid to seek help. Sources said several of the voluntary groups had wound up their services for fear of being harassed by government agencies. “Police and even some journalists are bullying us and asking us to stop working, saying we are sending out the message that the government is ineffective,” a social worker told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: India’s research community asks Modi for data on patterns and severity of infections||India’s research community on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release data on the patterns and severity of the Covid-19 infections amid concerns that the Centre had withheld information that could guide effective responses to the epidemic. A group of over 200 scientists and medical researchers, in an online appeal to Modi, cautioned that India’s inability to adequately manage the spread of the infection had resulted largely from its epidemiological data being either not systematically collected or denied to the scientific community. The researchers have also said the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) policy had made the import of scientific equipment and reagents “extremely tedious and time-consuming” and reduced their ability to sequence coronavirus genomes for surveillance. “Adequate encouragement and support by the government are required for our country to become Atmanirbhar in the future. Such restrictions at this time only serve to impede our ability to deal with Covid-19,” they said, seeking the withdrawal of restrictions. They have asked for “systematic collection and timely release” of data on testing for better predictions of the spread of the infection, data on clinical outcomes of hospitalised patients to improve treatment strategies, and data on the immune responses to the inoculation campaign in India to validate the vaccines’ efficacy. “The current situation demands rapid and systematic data collection and release so that data-driven mitigation measures can be implemented,” the researchers said, underlining that India is now one of the “worst-affected countries” by the Covid-19 pandemic. India on Thursday recorded more than 379,000 new Covid-19 infections and 3,645 deaths, raising the total of active patients to more than 3 million and the total dead to over 200,000. The researchers have underlined that a patchwork of small epidemics in each state gives rise to those numbers and that the high-granularity testing data available with the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency, remains inaccessible. The ICMR database, established at the start of the epidemic last year, has testing data on all 18.3 million people who’ve tested positive so far but, the researchers said, it remains inaccessible to anyone outside the government and even to researchers in other government agencies. “We can’t do public health without data, we need multiple pairs of eyes looking at data, we need experts from academic institutions to be looking at data,” said Gagandeep Kang, a senior clinical microbiologist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, who’s among the signatories to the appeal. “The trend observed worldwide is for experts from academic institutions to be involved in data analysis,” said Kang, who’s also a fellow of the Royal Society. The other researchers who have signed the appeal include biologist L.S. Shashidhara from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune; the biostatistician and current president of the Indian Academy of Sciences, Partha Majumder; infectious disease modeller Gautam Menon from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai; and Satyajit Mayor, director of the National Centre for Biological Sciences. They have sought access to clinical data and said that many scientists have been trying unsuccessfully to get information on the prevalence of underlying chronic health disorders among Covid-19 patients and blood analysis reports of hospitalised patients. A query sent by The Telegraph to the ICMR seeking a response to the concerns about the lack of access to data has remained unanswered. “The ICMR is sitting on a mountain of data that it either isn’t analysing itself or allowing others to analyse,” Menon told this newspaper. The data could help address many questions — for instance, how many people have tested positive twice over the past year, whether spikes in test positivity in a locality correlate with the start of an outbreak, and whether someone had tested positive after two vaccine doses. “We certainly know that data is being collected; we don’t know what happens with it,” said a senior medical researcher who’s among the signatories. When the Union science ministry started a forecasting exercise last year, even its researchers were unable to access data from the ICMR, the researcher said. The signatories have urged Modi to help researchers access — with appropriate safeguards to maintain patients’ confidentiality — epidemiological and clinical data to help them forecast the requirements for oxygen, medical supplies, ventilators and intensive care beds. “A network of academic researchers analysing data in parallel with the government’s own exercises would have bolstered public confidence in management and decision-making,” said Santanu Tripathi, another signatory and former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. Tripathi is among researchers who have been arguing for real-world efficacy data on the Covid-19 vaccines that India is currently using in its nationwide vaccination campaign. More than 27 million people across the country have so far received the two doses of vaccines required for protection. Tripathi said it was not difficult to design a study to determine what proportion of people who’ve already received two doses were developing infections or severe disease compared with the general population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Gave aid, so taking aid: Centre’s logic for accepting foreign Covid help||Foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla on Thursday said India’s acceptance of oxygen and medicines from overseas reflected a nod to reciprocity and should not be seen in terms of its foreign aid policy. “We have given assistance, we are getting assistance,” he said. Given India’s policy decision since the tsunami of 2004 not to take foreign aid except from development partners, this has been a question the government has been facing at various forums. “This is an unprecedented situation. We are dealing with a situation that is quite exceptional. We have prioritised items that we need and are sourcing them but many countries have come forward to offer what we need,” Shringla told a news conference. “The fact is that we had been responsive to their needs when they had the requirement. Keep in mind that the US and much of Europe have had a second and even third wave. “When we supplied essential pharmaceutical products... hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol or even remdesivir at that time or vaccines under the Vaccine Maitri programme, there was appreciation that we had come to the assistance of other countries in pursuit of what our Prime Minister calls working for the common good — our concept of vasudhaivakutumbakam (the whole world is kin).” US President Joe Biden had earlier this week spoken about the help India had provided when the pandemic ravaged his country last year. Shringla said the pandemic had shown the world that countries cannot survive by looking out for themselves alone. He said India was not viewing the foreign assistance in the context of policy but was doing whatever was needed to look after its people. Shringla said the second wave of Covid had put considerable pressure on the country’s healthcare system and its capacities and resources. He added that India was mainly trying to get oxygen and critical medicines from overseas. He said India had licensed manufacturers of remdesivir but their present production capacity cannot meet the increased demand. Foreign sources for the drug had therefore been identified, not just in the US but also in Egypt and Bangladesh. Shringla said the foreign help was coming through four routes: government-to-government sourcing, offers from 40 countries to donate what India requires, procurement by Indian and international corporate groups already plugged into global supply chains, and contributions from the Indian diaspora. To facilitate easy movement, all such consignments — routed through the Indian Red Cross Society — have been exempt from customs duties and taxes. Shringla sidestepped questions on assistance offers from China and Pakistan but stressed that materials were being procured in bulk from China. “We know that a number of companies have been sourcing products from China.... Our missions and posts have been asked to facilitate (this) wherever required.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covaxin price for states reduced to Rs 400 per dose||Bharat Biotech on Thursday reduced by Rs 200 the price at which it will sell each dose of Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine, to the states. The new price for each Covaxin dose will be Rs 400 instead of the Rs 600 announced earlier. The price for private hospitals will be Rs 1,200 a dose. The price cut followed widespread criticism as Bharat Biotech had sold Covaxin to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. The announcement came a day after the Serum Institute of India reduced the price of its Covid vaccine, Covishield, to Rs 300 per dose from the earlier Rs 400 for state governments. “Recognising the enormous challenges in the public healthcare system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of 400/ dose,” Bharat Biotech said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday insisted on free vaccines. The Congress is pressing the central government to ensure it funds the drive instead of burdening the cash-strapped states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Odisha plea to waive central force deployment charges||Odisha on Thursday urged the Centre to waive the charges towards deployment of Central Armed Police Forces in the Maoist-hit areas of the state. Maintaining that “left wing extremism” is a national issue and both the state and the Centre should fight it together, Odisha asked the central government to consider its demand to waive an amount of Rs 4,561.24 crore. The ministry of home affairs had asked the Odisha government to pay the amount for the deployment of central forces in the state. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said: “Around 15 battalions of state police have been raised, specifically to combat left wing extremism, 30,000 posts in police cadres have also been created including armed formations along with specialised training centres and other logistic facilities for their deployment. Thus, considering the face that left wing extremism is an issue of joint responsibility and the state government is doing its lots to combat the menace, Government of India may appreciate the difficulties of states like Odisha while charging for such deployment of central forces for dealing with left wing extremism.” Naveen also reminded the Prime Minister that “left wing extremism” is a national issue and a grave threat to the integrity of the nation. This challenge, he said, had to be addressed both by the state and the Centre. Besides, the government of Odisha has been proactive in spending from its scanty resources and deploying security forces despite its tight fiscal situation, the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress doubtful of vaccine drive success for 18-44 age group||The Congress has expressed serious reservations about the success of the vaccination drive being rolled out for the citizens in the age group of 18 to 44 years from May 1, arguing that the shortage of vaccines will take a long time to cover a substantial section of the population and hence defeat the purpose of the exercise. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the protracted schedule of the vaccination drive. In his letter, Baghel informed Modi that the Chhattisgarh government had placed orders for 25 lakh vaccine doses each from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to cover the 1.30 crore people between the age of 18 and 44 years. “Bharat Biotech has replied that they will try to deliver the stocks by July end. This means we will get the full requirement of 2.60 crore doses only in a year. This will defeat the purpose of vaccination,” he said. Medical professionals aren’t sure about the duration of efficacy of the vaccines and the dominant view is that both Covishield and Covaxin might be effective for around a year. Most states are not in a position to roll out the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years from May 1 as they don’t have enough stock to meet the massive demand. Baghel requested the Prime Minister to share with the states the full action plan that the Centre might have drawn for vaccinating the 18-44 age group. He also recommended an intense vaccination drive across the country, which can only be achieved if other manufacturers are allowed to step in. The Congress has been wondering why the Centre did not invoke the compulsory licensing provision to expand manufacturing as suggested by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The Maharashtra government has already indicated that the 18-plus vaccination drive will not start on May 1 while states such as Rajasthan and Punjab have said they don’t have the stock to execute the plan. These states said the vaccine manufacturers have expressed their inability to supply to the states till May 15 as they will be occupied with central orders. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram on Thursday tweeted: “Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will be put to test on May 1. His claim and his government’s claim that there are sufficient stocks of vaccines with the States will be blown away. No State seems to be ready to open vaccination to the 18-44 years population. Even the CoWin app is not co-operating! If people are turned away from the vaccination centres after May 1 on the ground of ‘No vaccine’, will the Health Minister resign?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: Silent on lockdown, Centre sets norms for curbs||The Centre on Thursday directed the states and Union Territories to go for intensive and local containment measures in districts with a high number of Covid-19 cases to check the spread of the viral disease. The ministry of home affairs, however, did not mention anything about the imposition of a lockdown anywhere in the country in the fresh guidelines issued for May in view of the pandemic. It told the states to take necessary action to ensure sufficient oxygen-supported beds, ICU beds, ventilators, ambulances, including creation of makeshift hospitals. The ministry asked the states to identify the districts where either the Covid positivity rate was more than 10 per cent or the bed occupancy was over 60 per cent in the last one week. The districts fulfilling any of the above two criteria should be considered for intensive and local containment measures, the ministry said in a statement. The implementation framework for community containment and large containment areas, as advised by the health ministry, has been enclosed with the order. The home ministry asked the states to consider the containment measures, as conveyed in an advisory issued by the health ministry on April 25 for immediate implementation based on an assessment of the situation. The national directives for Covid-19 management shall continue to be strictly followed throughout the country, the statement said. The home ministry order shall be effective till May 31. The home ministry said the focus will be on containment to flatten the current curve of the pandemic.  Movement of individuals shall be strictly prohibited during the night hours, except for essential activities, in areas where the number of cases is high. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, festival related and other gatherings and congregations have been prohibited. Marriages will be attended by up to 50 people and funerals by up to 20. Shopping complexes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, sports complexes, gymnasiums, spas, swimming pools and religious places will remain closed. Essential services and activities such as healthcare services, police, fire, banks, electricity, water and sanitation, regulated movement of public transport, including all incidental services and activities needed for a smooth functioning of these activities, shall continue. Such services shall continue in both the public and the private sector. Public transport facilities such as trains, metro, buses and taxis will operate at a maximum capacity of 50 per cent. There shall be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement, including transportation of essential goods. All offices, both government and private, will function with a maximum of 50 per cent staff strength. All industrial and scientific establishments may be allowed to operate, subject to the workforce following the physical distancing norms. Referring to testing and surveillance, the guidelines said the districts will continue with the “test-track-treat-vaccinate” strategy and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: Plea in Supreme Court for food and livelihood for migrants||Three social activists on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre and the states to ensure that the country’s estimated eight crore migrant labourers get adequate source of food and livelihood as they have been most vulnerable to the second wave of the pandemic and the resultant restrictive measures. In an application seeking urgent hearing, Harsh Mander, Anjali Bharadwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar submitted that the migrant labourers currently have no source of livelihood or food as they are not covered either under the National Food Security Act or the public distribution system. “…The problems and miseries faced by migrant workers during the lockdown in 2020 have persisted over the past year due to the continued economic distress and now have got aggravated on account of fresh restrictions, curfews and lockdowns being imposed in many states to control the spread of Covid,” the application filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan said. They sought the court’s intervention to address the following issues: ⚫ Loss of livelihood and means of income on account of the restrictions and lockdowns resulting in people being unable to pay for basic needs like food and rent. ⚫ Lack of proper arrangement for safe and free travel back to hometowns and villages when lockdowns are announced. ⚫ The restrictions and curfews/lockdowns imposed by governments have caused immense distress to the economically vulnerable sections of society, especially migrant workers. Across several states, migrant workers, having lost their livelihood on account of the Covid-induced restrictions, are unable to sustain themselves and there is large-scale distress migration back to their hometowns, the social activists informed the court. No proper relief measures to mitigate the economic hardships were announced when the lockdowns were put in place by various states. It was submitted that migrant workers are mostly excluded from the public distribution system and the National Food Security Act or similar state-run programmes due to the lack of appropriate documents to prove domicile status, address and other mandatory requirements. Last year during the national lockdown, the central government had implemented some schemes to provide relief to migrant workers and other distressed persons such as the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package. However, the scheme for providing ration to migrant workers was later discontinued and thereafter no specific plans for food security and social security for migrants had been announced, the petitioners pointed out. Under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package, announced in May 2020, the Centre had said that migrant workers left out of the purview of the public distribution system or the National Food Security Act would be provided for free 5kg of food grains per person and 1kg of pulses per family. However, the scheme was discontinued after two months. At that time the scheme, though inadequate to address the level of distress suffered by the migrant workers, had at least provided a minimal floor to prevent starvation, the activists said. “However, this time around, no scheme for food security of migrant workers has been announced despite the various lockdowns and curfews in several states disrupting the lives and livelihoods of migrant workers resulting in food insecurity and despite the economic condition being much worse than before as economically vulnerable people, especially migrant workers, exhausted their meagre savings to cope with the crisis in 2020,” the applicants said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
30-04-2021||India||Migrant disinterest builds case for broader NREGA: Study||The rural job guarantee scheme and the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana provided work to less than eight per cent of the migrant workers who had returned home after last year’s lockdown, a study has found. It has argued that the highly skilled returned migrants may have been uninterested in the unskilled work provided under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), and has suggested a broadening of the scope of projects under the scheme. Published by the University of Bonn in Germany, the findings are significant at a time migrant workers have again begun returning home amid a Covid resurgence in India. The findings are part of a working paper titled “Covid 19: Emergence Spread and its Impact on the Indian Economy and Migrant Workers”, authored by Ashok Gulati and Shyama Jose from the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, Delhi, and B.B. Singh from the Inferential Survey Statistics and Research Foundation, Delhi. The MGNREGA is the government’s main job scheme in the rural areas and provides up to 100 days’ work per household per year. Last June, the Centre had launched in six states the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana, a 125-day programme to generate work for the returned migrants and speed up activities under government schemes such as housing, sanitation, water supply and renewable energy. The study was based on phone interviews with returned migrants in Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal. The first phase of the survey, conducted between June and August last year, found 38.6 per cent of the returned migrants were not engaged in any economic activity at their native places. A total of 34.1 per cent were self-employed in farming and 1.3 per cent were self-employed in non-agricultural work. Some 11.2 per cent were engaged in casual labour, 8.8 per cent in agricultural labour, and 4.9 per cent in public works like the rural job scheme and the Garib Kalyan. By phase two, conducted between November and December, the percentage of migrants not engaged in any economic activity had fallen to 14. The proportion of the self-employed had risen to 43.3 per cent; 7.7 per cent said they were engaged in the rural job scheme or the Garib Kalyan; while 17.2 per cent were engaged in farm labour. According to the paper, “public works such as MGNREGA and GKRY (Garib Kalyan) were limited (in) absorb(ing) the influx of reverse migrants”. In general, however, the last financial year witnessed a spurt in jobs demanded and allotted under the MGNREGA, which was hailed by some activists as a saviour in the villages amid the employment crisis generated by the pandemic-induced lockdown. Over 200 kinds of projects that do not require a great deal of skill are allowed under the rural job guarantee scheme. “There is a scope to broaden the permissible work by allowing more (kinds of) work aimed at individual asset creation such as house and tank construction, or sheds in the backyard,” said N.K. Sahu, a researcher associated with the Inferential Survey Statistics and Research Foundation. He cited how South Korea had conducted the Saemaul Undong programme in the 1960s for community development in rural areas, involving home modernisations and the establishment of cooperative ventures and cultural facilities. “The time has come for the government to plan a village revamp programme by undertaking massive local infrastructure projects. That will help create employment and development,” Sahu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
30-04-2021||India||Chardham Yatra suspended because of Covid surge||The Chardham Yatra to the four Himalayan shrines in Uttarakhand, which was scheduled to begin next month, has been postponed because of the Covid-19 surge. Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Thursday said conducting the yatra amid the raging pandemic was not possible. “Considering the rising cases of corona, it has been decided to suspend the Chardham Yatra,” Rawat told reporters. However, the portals of the four Himalayan temples known as Chardham will open as scheduled, he said. Only priests will be allowed to perform daily prayers at the shrines and not devotees, the chief minister said. “Though opening on schedule, no pilgrim, neither from inside the state nor from outside, will be allowed to visit the temples,” he said. Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri are the four shrines. Kedarnath is slated to open at 5am on May 17, Badrinath at 4.15am on May 18, Yamunotri at 12.15 pm on May 14 and Gangotri on 7.30am on May 15. Covid-19 cases have been rising drastically in Uttarakhand as in various other states. They hit a new high in the state on Wednesday with 6,054 people testing positive and 108 succumbing to the virus. This is the highest single-day spike in Covid cases and fatalities recorded by the state so far. The state government had drawn much flak for organising the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar that according to many contributed to the second wave of the coronavirus. Even Uttarakhand High Court in an oral observation recently had asked the state government to publish the standard operating procedure for Chardham Yatra saying it cannot be allowed to become another Kumbh. It has also asked the state government to control the raging virus and save lives putting aside everything else. Covid had cast its shadow on the Chardham Yatra, which is considered the backbone of the hill economy, last year too, delaying opening of the temples for pilgrims by several months. The delayed opening of the temples for pilgrims coupled with restrictions such as mandatory negative RT-PCR test report, a daily cap on the number of devotees visiting shrines besides compliance with mask wearing and social distancing norms had severely affected the inflow of pilgrims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
30-04-2021||India||IISc student found hanging in campus room||An undergraduate student at the Indian Institute of Science took his life by hanging on the IISc campus, police said on Thursday. According to police, Rohan M, 21, was found hanging in his room on Thursday morning.  He was a third year BSc student. “Rohan was a native of Bangalore. He wanted to study abroad, which did not materialise,” a police officer told PTI. Condoling the demise, the IISc said in a statement: “It is with deep sorrow that we announce the death of an undergraduate student by suicide on April 28 at IISc.” The institute said the mental health and well-being of its students and community members are of critical importance, especially given the prevailing Covid situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
