03-09-2020||News||To take on China, boost local defence capabilities||India and China are currently engaged in a low-intensity opaque war (LIOW), and renewed tension has been reported in recent days along the already troubled Line of Actual Control (LAC). These developments have taken place at the southern bank of the Pangong Tso and New Delhi has charged Beijing with attempting a second “provocative action” on August 31, even as talks were being held at the local military commanders’ level. Pre-emptive action by Indian troops has evidently foiled any further Chinese intrusions. China has displayed lack of sincerity and engaged in deception. The steady build-up of troops and related inventory by both sides is indicative of heightened military tension, with a probability of skirmishes leading to unintended escalation, and a long winter vigil. For India, the monitoring and safeguarding of the claim line along LAC with China will demand a higher level of sustained military presence.Against this backdrop, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s address, at the end of August, on defence manufacturing acquires critical salience, particularly for the candid manner in which the inadequacies and structural flaws of equipping India’s military machine were highlighted. He noted, “It is not hidden from anybody that India has been one of the main defence importers in the world for the last several years. When India became Independent, it had huge capabilities in defence production. There was a well-established 100-year-old ecosystem in defence production in India. Not many countries had the resources and potential of India. But it is unfortunate that not much attention was paid on this issue for several decades. No serious attempts were made. But, the situation is changing now”.The PM’s statement merits scrutiny in relation to how India will manage the China factor in the long-term from a military perspective. He was right when he referred to a 100-year-old ecosystem since India’s first gunpowder factor was set up in Ishapur (Bengal) in 1787 and a modern rifle factory was established by the British in 1904. Slowly, a defence production base was created in India, but only to serve the imperial interest. During World War II, the Indian contribution was considerable by way of war goods — but they were at the lower end of the spectrum and included ammunition, clothing, footwear, animals, among other items.When the British left India in 1947, this production infrastructure was denuded of its critical human resource and funding; further, it was irrevocably fragmented due to Partition. Lethal stores were destroyed and platforms such as bomber aircraft damaged and rendered non-operational. So the PM’s suggestion that India inherited “huge capabilities” apropos defence production at the time of Independence is not accurate. But the PM was spot on that while India had the potential to build a defence industrial base, it was “unfortunate” that no serious attention was paid to this strand of national capability for decades. The onus for this omission lies with those entrusted with the higher defence management. There has been no dearth of reports and recommendations about how to fix the problem but the under performance of the Indian defence manufacturing ecosystem has been overwhelming. That India is among the world’s largest importers of arms is a shameful reality, and it is to the PM’s credit that he had acknowledged this fact in his first term (2014) and had sought to enhance the indigenous production of military inventory. However, the empirical truth is that, six years later, the 100-year-old “ecosystem” that the PM referred to has not enabled or nurtured any significant progress in the indigenous design and manufacture of military inventory. The most stark indicator is that India is still floundering with the basic personal weapon for the soldier — the Kalashnikov equivalent — and is dependent on Russia for this item.Modi 2.0 has another four years to pick up the military equipment gauntlet, and having a full-time defence minister in the seasoned Rajnath Singh is positive. India has to invest in design and research and development in a far more sustained and effective manner, and not succumb to short-term measures such as urgent imports when there is a crisis. This happened in Kargil 1999, and most recently, post-Galwan. The PM has outlined India’s indigenous defence manufacturing challenge with commendable candour. The challenge is to irrigate the ecosystem in a manner that will enable India to acquire the appropriate level of military capability and confidence (atma nirbharata) to deal with the China challenge along the LAC and beyond. To start with, how about focusing on producing an Indian-designed and manufactured personal weapon that will compare with the best in the world by August 2023? That will be the best symbolic gift for India’s national security, as the nation completes its 75th independence celebrations. C Uday Bhaskar is director, Society for Policy Studies The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-take-on-china-boost-local-defence-capabilities/story-KZbRL4vNkusO3TTaq11e6H.html
03-09-2020||News||Old boys, Cobra Kai and the viral comfort of nostalgia||The second season of Cobra Kai opens with an epic fight between Johnny Lawrence and John Kreese. The two men, one middle-aged and the other certifiably old, go at each other in an empty dojo whose emblem is an upright snake, to establish who is the alpha — if there is an afterlife, Dr Freud must have had goosebumps when this scene was being filmed. It’s hard to take the Lawrence and Kreese fight seriously even though both give it their all. At one point, Lawrence (perhaps inspired by the bottle cap challenge from last year?) unleashes an almighty kick just so he can dislodge a fat cigar from Kreese’s mouth. You’d think there would be easier ways to stop a guy smoking, but no. That cigar lands neatly in a wastepaper basket and starts a small fire. At the end of the fight, when both men are flat on their backs and gasping for breath, a sprinkler bursts forth to extinguish whatever little ego the victor may have wanted to pat. Cobra Kai is all about the hangover of the past reaching into the present. The original rivalry between the teenaged Lawrence and Daniel LaRusso from iconic The Karate Kid is rinsed and repeated in different settings for Cobra Kai. Much of the show’s appeal lies in seeing how Lawrence, the old bully, evolves into a grouchy, but soft-hearted sensei. The roles of LaRusso and Lawrence being reprised by the same actors (Ralph Macchio and William Zabka), who played these parts in the 1984 film is a masterstroke. With a soundtrack full of ’80s tracks and visual tropes from that period’s cinema — Los Angeles somehow looks as sunny and pristine as it did back then — Cobra Kai simultaneously pokes fun of the past while milking it for nostalgic appeal.The show also adds details that help Cobra Kai take a bat to toxic masculinity. The dojos are mixed-gender now, and the show repeatedly underscores just how little there is to be gained from violence. The last fight of the season begins with comic undertones, as two girls circle each other, fighting over a boy. It seems to be a reversal of The Karate Kid’s love triangle, but in no time, Cobra Kai taps into 21st-century bloodlust. Soon, violence has spread like wildfire through the high school, and everyone, down to the cutest nerd, is kicking their way down hallways. In Cobra Kai’s second season, we’ve seen Lawrence emerge out of the cave of the 1980s, and change the way he thinks. The scene has now been set for Season 3, in which we’ll presumably see Lawrence and LaRusso assemble (a la Avengers) against Kreese’s machismo (and hairdo). For streaming platforms such as Netflix, the age of Covid-19 has delivered a flurry of surprise hits. From the kidnap erotica 365 Days to the contemporary ode to arranged marriages that was Indian Matchmaking, and now the second season of Cobra Kai, there seems to be no telling what we’ll turn to for comfort. Yet there is a connection. Despite belonging to starkly different genres, there’s been a strong element of nostalgia to many audience favourites during the lockdown. Frequently, the old ideas and formulae are packaged in modern storytelling. While Indian Matchmaking suggests arranged marriages can adapt to the present, 365 Days has stereotypes (like the bad-boy hero) from the pulpiest paperback romances of the ’80s and ’90s. Cobra Kai doesn’t just reference the past; it revives the ’80s by showing scenes from The Karate Kid films. Contrasting with the contemporary Cobra Kai, the films seem to hark back to a mellower, easier time than the one that Lawrence and LaRusso have to negotiate. When the future is uncertain, it’s not surprising that we’re looking to the past for comfort. So here’s the wisdom distilled from Lawrence’s experiences in Cobra Kai — to move forward, you’ve got to learn from the past, change with the times, and chuck your smartphone into the sea.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/old-boys-cobra-kai-and-the-viral-comfort-of-nostalgia/story-46wT8GGMDsfTFPE7gPfzjL.html
03-09-2020||News||The Congress has four choices now||How the Congress party deals with the current crisis will prove who was right: Those who argued that the Congress must perish or those who believe that the party still remains the best available option to challenge the hegemony of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)?It must first ask itself whether the demands made by the signatories of the letter to Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, are legitimate. The letter from 23 senior leaders of the Congress seemed a genuine attempt to draw attention to the fast-eroding support base of the party, especially among younger voters. It highlighted the leadership challenge, and made recommendations for organisational rejuvenation. And given that several of these signatories come from diverse social segments, with considerable political experience, it wouldn’t be an exaggeration to suggest that many within the party (even those who rallied behind the Gandhi family) share the sentiments in the letter. No one, either during the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting or in television debates, has criticised the content of the letter. The criticisms were limited to the timing and the motives of the signatories.After the showdown at the CWC meeting on August 24, there are four possible scenarios. And it seems the Congress party has opted for the least preferred outcome. First, Rahul Gandhi takes over as the president in the next All India Congress Committee (AICC) meeting and promises to take up the demands made by the signatories. This would be the most optimal outcome. However, the optimal outcome is rarely the eventual outcome in politics as the game not only involves strategic decisions, but a range of other variables. In such a situation, shallow loyalties may be rewarded and even mild criticism would be unacceptable. Second, there is a split in the party. With most formal positions held by pro-Gandhi family camp, it is almost impossible for dissenters to force the Gandhis to step aside. But the pro-Gandhi camp cannot also go for indiscriminate purging, as some signatories are heavyweights and may well walk out of the party. However, it is unlikely that there will be any major vertical split in the Congress in the near future. There is little possibility of a 1969 or a 1977 sort of national split as a large section of the Congress base still associates the party with the Gandhi family. Furthermore, during the two national splits earlier, it was a Gandhi leading the rebellion against the party. Today, there is not a single leader within the party who can mobilise voters across states or has the resources to sustain such a formation in a lean period. There are a few who can do so in their respective states though. Why does India’s grand old party no longer have enough leaders with a substantial mass base and how did the Gandhi family become synonymous with the party? Though this history is well known, it is worth reiterating. The increasing interference of the Congress high command in state politics during the Indira Gandhi (and Rajiv Gandhi) years neutralised the emergence of independent centres of power within the party. State leaders were appointed (or dismissed) by the high command in a whimsical manner. The unwillingness to nurture strong state leaders allowed the Gandhi family to stay pre-eminent in the party.Third, the Gandhis decide that no one from the family will be party president, and ask for a non-Gandhi to lead the party. This is not an easy option. Will the new president be given the space to act as an independent centre of authority? Will the new leader be free from pulls and pressures if the Gandhis continue to play favourites? Will the new leadership have the full support of the party cadres across the country? And, what about the fear among many that the Congress will fragment if a non-Gandhi leads the party?And fourth, a policy of active marginalisation of dissenters is pursued. The composition of new party committees for the two Houses last week, in particular the selection of Gaurav Gogoi of the Gandhi camp as the deputy leader in the Lok Sabha over other senior figures who dissented, suggests this is the most likely course of action. This is not a fruitful option as all sides are likely to lose, but this appears to be the direction the party is taking. The Congress has opted to drift along without tackling the crisis head-on. Perhaps we may witness more examples of people expressing dissatisfaction with the state of affairs in the party with greater frequency. But it is unlikely that there will be a coup d’etat or ruthless purging. As serious restructuring and re-imagination of the political agenda seem unlikely, political attrition will become a norm. Some leaders may join the BJP, others may go to regional outfits as in the case of Tripura.What does the Congress need to do to overcome this state of inertia? The party leadership must realise that whatever the party’s projections of its electoral strength, in reality, the party is getting marginalised. It can no longer continue in the belief that it is an umbrella party with a national presence. The party needs to make a realistic assessment of what revival means for it. In any state, where the party has slid to the third or fourth position, be it Uttar Pradesh or Bihar, West Bengal or Tamil Nadu, it has never recovered. With depleting resources to contest against the BJP machine nationally, the absence of a popular acceptable face to take on Narendra Modi, organisational atrophy, ideological confusion, and formidable challengers in many states, it must act wisely and urgently. Rahul Verma is a fellow at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-congress-has-four-choices-now/story-lRf4jYMtOlLsoalwdQ9dgP.html
03-09-2020||News||China is investing in emerging tech. India needs to catch up, soon||In the backdrop of China’s trade and technology rivalry with the United States (US), its president Xi Jinping summoned leaders of China’s artificial intelligence (AI) and strategic industries to a meeting on July 21, and asked them to align their business strategies with China’s needs in the greater interest of the country. After Xi unveiled his grand ambition of making China a world leader in emerging technologies in 2013, the Chinese government has poured billions of dollars to develop commercial and military applications of AI, 5G, new materials, energy platforms, quantum computing and financial technologies. Its progress has been aided by its civil-military fusion policy, under which ministries and armed forces work together with State-owned and private companies, with the State directing resources in priority areas, without any competition from foreign companies. Several experts say that China has made considerable progress in domains such as smart cities, smart manufacturing, surveillance, semi-autonomous vehicles and hypersonic weapons. In e-commerce, financial technologies, new energy platforms, China is viewed as a world leader. In June 2020, China launched its final satellite to complete its Baidou navigation system, thus becoming a true space power. According to a study by the International Institute for Strategic Studies (2018), China is trying to integrate AI and big data into unmanned aerial vehicles, drone swarms and cyber systems in order to achieve “brain supremacy” (ability to damage cognition of the enemy).Huawei’s emergence as the largest maker of telecom equipment and second largest vendor of smartphones in the world is well known. China has also emerged as the largest manufacturer and exporter of electric vehicles, batteries and solar panels. It accounts for 70% of commercial drone-manufacturing exporting to more than 70 countries and has developed variants of the US’s MQ-1 Predator drones with reconnaissance, command, control, communications and integrated precision-strike capabilities.Though China has excelled in many areas, it is still dependent on foreign companies for cutting-edge technologies. Huawei’s reigning supremacy may well end as the US sanctions on the supply of microchip Kirin (system on chip) start kicking in. Despite huge investments over the last 30 years, China remains dependent on American, South Korean and Taiwanese companies for the supply of microchips and semiconductors which are a prerequisite in the AI industry. Similarly, China’s record in making its own engine for long-range aircraft is disappointing. Its homemade WS-15 engine for J-20 stealth fighter aircraft exploded in a ground running test in 2015, and it has started manufacturing the J-20 using the old Russian AL-31 engine which lacks the thrust vector control necessary for a 5th generation aircraft. Ditto, its inability to make high-grade carbon for its stealth aircraft or miniaturise the nuclear reactor for its aircraft carriers.In many instances, China has acquired advanced technologies from the West by forcing its companies to part with them in exchange for market access or by stealing and copying foreign designs. A basic lacuna in China’s approach is low expenditure in basic sciences and fundamental research, which has remained 5% of its overall research and development expenditure (as against 25-30% in developed countries) and shortage of skilled personnel. Also, the environment for innovation has deteriorated with authoritarian and expansionist policies being pursued by the Xi regime, which is damaging global chains, essential for research and collaboration. India has taken some incipient steps to induct AI into civilian and military domains by establishing the required policy framework and promoting research and applications with collaboration among our defence establishments and industry. In some cases, drones, smart weaponry and other hi-tech military equipment have been imported from the US, Russia, France and Israel. There is urgent need to prioritise the resources in development of AI platforms, necessary for civilian and military applications, to ensure that India does not fall behind more in relative power matrix with China.Yogesh Gupta is a former ambassador who writes on China-related issuesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-is-investing-in-emerging-tech-india-needs-to-catch-up-soon/story-b2cY9gq1drYPJx7R7ilMrN.html
