04-09-2020||News||A blueprint for teacher recruitment and training||On Teacher’s Day, I would like to share a short excerpt from India’s second president, Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan’s speech at a reception at the Royal Commonwealth Society, London, in June 1963. The words still resonate with me and motivate me to work for India’s progress.He said, “I, an ordinary commoner, started as a teacher and worked almost the whole of my life as a teacher. That I should have been elected Vice-President and President of my country shows how democratic our Constitution is and how it has given opportunities to all the people, not merely to political workers, to rise into some prominence and serve the country to the best of their ability.” I find a strong commonality with the path taken by Radhakrishnan and my own life. I started my career as a teacher. It is because of democracy that I am a Union minister today. There can be nothing as rewarding as empowering teachers to transform India. They, in turn, are then able to empower their students. Apart from being role models for students, teachers are the force which can change the future course of a country and its people. Teachers have a unique role in shaping the three Hs — the head, the source of knowledge; the hand, to earn a livelihood; and the heart, learning to live as enunciated by Mahatma Gandhi. The value of teachers has been emphasised over the millennia and they have played a crucial role in shaping the intellect of students and making them productive members of society. But along the way, the real worth of teachers seems to have got somewhat diluted. Therefore, it is absolutely vital for us to understand the role that teachers play in upholding and sustaining the socio-cultural ethos of the New India. This cannot be achieved by mere preaching; it requires structural reform. This need for reform becomes all the more imperative given that we are facing the Covid-19 pandemic which has brought about serious challenge to the teaching-learning process. I am happy to note that these trying times have made teachers emerge as iconic leaders who have taken upon themselves the task of driving remote learning in the era of social distancing. The creativity and innovation they have demonstrated across schools and higher education institutes are incredible. The real impact on teacher training through the National Initiative for School Heads and Teachers Holistic Advancement/Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission on Teachers and Teaching could be carried on in these tough times as teachers were able to modify their lesson plans to conduct classes through digital means — such as Google Meet, Zoom, mobile phone, television, or radio broadcast. To help them in this task, they used several learning apps — Digital Infrastructure for Knowledge Sharing (DIKSHA), e – PG Pathshala, Free /Libre and Open Source Software for Education (FOSSEE) and National Repository of Open Educational Resources (NROER), among several others. I commend the spirit they have shown while drawing attention to the power behind Acharya Devo Bhava which equates the teacher with god. The pandemic has led to a re-evaluation of the role of teachers and their stewardship of the teaching-learning process. Under the leadership of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 recommends rigorous training of teachers within a learner-centric pedagogy. Along with the development of quality lesson plans, teachers will be empowered to create high-quality online content and also use online teaching platforms and tools. The ministry of education recognises the importance of teachers and clearly envisions a role for them in building on the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). The respect for teachers and teaching must be restored to inspire the best to enter the profession. This is how we can ensure the best possible future for our children and our nation. Henceforth, teacher recruitment will be carried out through a more robust and transparent process. A common National Professional Standards for Teachers (NPST) will be developed by 2022, by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), in consultation with National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and State Councils of Educational Research and Training (SCERTs), teachers from across levels and regions, expert organisations in vocational education and higher education institutions. The standards will cover the expected roles of the teacher at different levels of expertise and the competencies required for each stage. Professional standards will be reviewed and revised in 2030, and thereafter every ten years.The education policy is in part a realisation of Radhakrishnan’s vision. I am sure that 21st-century teachers will not be just conduits but co-constructors of knowledge and nation development. We have set the foundation to realise the goals of the curriculum while building an equitable, inclusive, and plural society. Our aim must be to transform the very dynamics for enriching the value of teachers. Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank is Union minister for education. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-blueprint-for-teacher-recruitment-and-training/story-mvVOOzuRpj2bqNg0WIJNbP.html
04-09-2020||News||The new avatar of India’s civil services||At the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Indian Civil and Administrative Services (Central) Association, scheduled for September 5, on the agenda is a proposal to change the association’s name to the Central (Indian Administrative Services (IAS) Association. Dropping the Indian Civil Services (ICS) from the nomenclature was long overdue. This would set aside some of the anomalies of the colonial-era ICS and IAS forever. First, contrary to what many commentators still believe, the IAS was not instituted by the colonial rulers. Rather, the then secretary of state wanted to end the covenant of the civilians well before the transfer of power. It was Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who, as the interim home minister of the transition government, decided to create the IAS. This had the endorsement of eight of the 11 provinces in British India. Punjab, Bengal and Sindh were the three states that opposed his proposal as their political leaderships did not see their future with India. Patel launched IAS with the stirring words: “You will not have a united India, unless you have a good All India service, which has the Independence to speak out its mind.” Induction into the IAS started in 1948, and it had a different mandate from its earlier avatar. The two guiding leitmotifs were: Unity of India and independence of mind. While the former is clearly understood, the latter did not mean that service members were completely free to do anything of their choice. What it implies is that members of the service must put across their points of views without fear or favour, and must be non-partisan in their approach. In fact, Article 311, which gives security to the civil service members, has hardly any parallel in the world. It means that the service members are free to give their viewpoints, but they must also accept the mandate of the political executive as envisaged by the Constitution. All new entrants to the civil services take an oath, or make a solemn affirmation to this treatise framed under the chairmanship of BR Ambedkar. It’s also the time to break the myth that the ICS was the epitome of good governance. This is clear from the representations ICS members made to the secretary of state regarding supersession, adverse entries and unfair comparisons. In 1947, there was considerable resentment among the Punjabis against Lt Governor Evan Meredith Jenkins, who was junior to the financial commissioner. Many field officers felt that Jenkins conveyed to the Viceroys (Wavell and Mountbatten) only what they wanted to hear. Again, the unfair treatment meted out to Surendra Nath Banerjee and the first set of Indian officers has been well-documented. I would go as far as to say that the IAS is a cut above the ICS. It attracts the best and the brightest women and men. The ICS was a misogynist organisation, which refused to allow women into its fold. In fact, when the first woman IAS officer Anna Rajam Malhotra (nee George) cleared the exam in 1951, the four-member board of the Union Public Service Commission (all ex-ICS officers, led by Chairman RN Banerjee) tried their best to dissuade her from joining the service. But having won her spurs – in horse-riding as well as pistol-shooting, which were mandatory in those days – she got her first posting. Now, on average, women constitute over one-third of the strength of an IAS batch. It must be said that because the brightest and the best minds join the civil services, one can, and should, expect them to improve systems, deliver better results on the ground and strive for excellence as well as transparency. But it should also be kept in mind that they are not magicians. The context and vision are the driving force. Fortunately for us, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his address to the officer trainees at the Statue of Unity last year, gave the civil services a clear mandate. This, he said, was “to fulfil the dream of a New India with the 21st-century thinking … dreams are indispensable in our bureaucracy – a bureaucracy that is constructive, imaginative, innovative, proactive and polite, professional and progressive, energetic and enabling, efficient and effective, transparent and tech enabled the civil services can, and will deliver in a time frame.” In delinking our name from the ICS, the IAS has announced, once and for all, that we cannot be treated in the framework of the Raj. Like the Ship of Theseus, we have been completely transformed--our mandate, outreach, commitment, professionalism as well as the values inculcated in the academy--named after Lal Bahadur Shastri--are quite different from the ICS’s syllabus or the first decade when training took place in Delhi’s Metcalfe House. We have moved ahead a long way and we have moved away. We are now proud to say that we don’t any longer need to be tied to the apron strings of the colonial service. Sanjeev Chopra is director, Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-new-avatar-of-india-s-civil-services/story-ULS5rYWQo2xIXdT3ERzcPN.html
