07-09-2020||News||Reversing the economic reversal||News of a contraction of almost 24% of the gross domestic product (GDP) in the first quarter of this year would have come as a shock to every responsible citizen. The degree of contraction exceeds that in any major world economy. This is not surprising as India combined the world’s most stringent lockdown with the weakest economic stimulus.For perspective, the actual fiscal impulse has amounted to less than 2% of (2019) GDP while it has been close to 10% in the United States (US). The difference finds its reflection in the relative rates of contraction, with GDP in the US contracting by 9% in the April-June quarter compared to two-and-a-half times that in India. There is no doubt that we are observing something that will have a deep and lasting impact on the economy unless the government responds to this news with decisive and quick action. Above all, a functional economic policy is what is needed now, rather than one that is attractive to the government for reasons either ideological or aesthetic.That the future of the economy can no longer be ignored is obvious. The lockdown was justified on the grounds that lives are more important than livelihoods. But, life having to be lived without a livelihood is not acceptable five months after the lockdown was first imposed.Every effort needs to be made to restore economic activity while requiring adherence to wearing masks, social distancing and hand-sanitising. With the magnitude of the contraction now known, the daunting scale of the challenge is evident. The response of policy has to be different from what the government has so far pursued in the name of addressing it.The nature of the government’s response until now may be seen in the two rounds of announcements made, the first soon after the lockdown was announced in late March, and the other in mid-May. The first was mainly in the form of enhanced rations and the front-loading of payments already announced to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman scheme, which, as an income-support scheme, would be deemed selective. The second round of announcements by finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman had two components: A set of guarantees for loans to be made by banks to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and the agricultural sector, and a host of structural reforms. The latter includes private sector entry into defence production and changes to existing laws related to the marketing of agricultural produce. Totalling the additional public expenditure, the loan amount guaranteed by the Government of India, and liquidity provision announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the government asserted that it had provided a “stimulus” amounting to 10% of GDP. This was immediately called out as a tall claim, for additional spending announced by the government was estimated at less than 2% of GDP. It is not surprising that the contraction in India has been as severe.We will have to await the GDP data for the second quarter of the financial year to know whether a recovery has taken place after June. Despite the Centre having lifted the nationwide lockdown, either statewide closures or lockdown in the containment zones, has continued in some parts of the country. However, it would be unwise to expect a V-shaped recovery. Production is undertaken with an eye to demand, and consumption would have fallen with the income loss, as production had been shut down due to the lockdown for most of the first quarter. Firms are likely to wait for inventories to come down to normal levels before restoring production to past peaks.But the most important reason for believing that a rapid return to normalcy may not be taking place right now is on grounds of the reduction by up to a third in investment as share of GDP, reported by the government along with the most recent GDP figures. Most of this reduction is likely to be of private investment. Private investment will not revive in a hurry given the magnitude of the contraction in output. The present state of the economy is not conducive to investment, nor is the cost of credit down despite RBI’s efforts. The real bank lending rate for fresh loans is higher than it was in March when evaluated in terms of the Wholesale Price Index, which presumably is what matters to investors.The only lever left is the one the government has revealed itself to be most reluctant to use thus far, and that is public spending tilted towards investment. The pandemic has exposed the parlous state of public health infrastructure in the country. Expansion in public spending could start right there. And, not only because health is constitutionally a state subject but also because state governments are closer to the ground, the Centre could transfer funds to the states for deployment. For this, the Government of India would have to borrow, either from the public or RBI. At the best of times, economic policy should be functional and not tied down by a dogma that excludes certain options. We are now living in extraordinary times and only extraordinary measures will do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/reversing-the-economic-reversal/story-QkFtUhttB9pVWUzprycfiN.html
07-09-2020||News||Xi’s new approach to Tibet will affect India||Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent remarks at the seventh Central Symposium on Tibet Work indicate that the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is doubling down on its hardline approach in the region, which evolved gradually after the 2008 protests. The strategy for the next few years that Xi outlined entails a mix of persuasion, development, connectivity, indoctrination and coercion. This will not only have serious implications for ordinary Tibetans but will also impinge on the Sino-Indian boundary question, particularly in the context of China’s claims on Arunachal Pradesh.Before discussing Xi’s plan, it is worth mentioning that the seventh symposium was held following back-to-back visits by three high-level Chinese officials to Tibet. In July, Politburo Standing Committee member Wang Yang travelled to the region, focusing on ethnic solidarity, separatism, and management of religious affairs. A few weeks later, Vice Premier Hu Chunhua discussed poverty alleviation during a visit. It is important to note that as per local party officials, poverty alleviation work in Tibet has achieved “a decisive victory” with no counties or districts falling in the category of being poverty-stricken. Finally, foreign minister and state councillor Wang Yi made a rare visit to Tibet in mid-August, focusing on security and border infrastructure. These visits would have undoubtedly provided feedback for the central leadership, and speak of the multifaceted approach that’s being adopted.In his speech on the subject, Xi spoke about the need to “forge the consciousness” of the Chinese nation as a community and “enhance the quality of development” and “national security and long-term stability” in order to “build a new socialist modern Tibet.” More importantly, he suggested that the CCP must adhere to strategic thinking to govern the borders and stabilise Tibet before governing. This indicates enduring concern about local pushback against the party. Beijing still has serious concerns about stability in Tibet. These are likely to be heightened given the contestation that one can expect over the appointment of the next Dalai Lama.Consequently, the strategy that Xi outlined comprises the following elements. First, he highlighted the need to adhere to the direction of Sinicisation of religion. This implies a continuation of existing policy. For instance, starting from 2011, CCP cadres have been stationed in monasteries around the region. The objective is to ensure that religion does not challenge the bottom line of the legitimacy of party rule. Second, Xi demanded that ideological education be stepped up, with the aim being to “plant the seeds of loving China in the depths of the hearts of every youth”. Third, he stressed that the party must dig out, sort out and publicise “historical facts” that link Tibet to PRC. Fourth, he spoke about border defence and the need to create an “impregnable fortress”. One should think of this not just from a physical border defence perspective, but also a broader sense of surveillance and information security. Fifth, the party leadership in Sichuan, Yunnan, Gansu, and Qinghai has been ordered to build physical and developmental linkages with Tibet. And finally, Xi talked about economic development, ecological protection and addressing livelihood issues. In this, Xi appears to be invoking Hu Jintao’s argument that “functioning markets, water, electricity, heat: These are as much part of counter-insurgency as police work and brute force.”Based on these, one can expect a continued and potentially intensified crackdown on communications and freedom of expression, speech and movement in Tibet. Starting from 2012, the CCP has developed, strengthened and securitised its grid policing and surveillance systems in Tibet. The region already accounts for a large chunk of China’s domestic security expenditure. If threats escalate, it isnot inconceivable that Beijing could seek to replicate its model in Xinjiang, which CCP sees as a success, in Tibet to pre-empt instability. From an Indian perspective, Xi’s comments on border security along with those about digging up historical factswill impact the boundary dispute. The former will have an impact at a tactical level the latter implies that Beijing will engage in greater public opinion and legal warfare, leveraging selective history to strengthen its claims on Arunachal Pradesh. In the long-term, this will likely undermine the possibility of arriving at any resolution to the boundary dispute based on the current status quo on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/xi-s-new-approach-to-tibet-will-affect-india/story-CjOIGguEGKOIlRCzTbFqyI.html
07-09-2020||News||Clean air could be a strong economic boost for India||Clean air should be a basic human right and yet air pollution is the single greatest environmental risk to human health. In 2017, 3.4 million people died prematurely as a result of outdoor air pollution which makes 6% of global deaths. The share for India was 8.26%. The World Health Organization (WHO) ranked New Delhi as the world’s most polluted city in 2014. The Covid-19 pandemic made urban air pollution a highly visible problem. As cities declared lockdowns, people in many highly-polluted cities saw the blue skies and many of them realised for the first time what the world might look like if the air was clean. Public perception surveys since the pandemic reveal that fresh air has caused many to reconsider a return to “normal”. There’s a clear demand for greener spaces in cities, increased public transportation, work from home and penalising the polluters. The sharp drop in air pollution during the pandemic has also created a greater awareness of the health impacts and vulnerability to threats like Covid-19 due to airborne pollutants. While India develops its economic recovery plans, it is essential to include measures to reduce air pollution. The lockdown has shown us how quickly the air could be cleaned up if major pollution sources are properly controlled. However, to make such positive change permanent we need to start addressing the sources of air pollution at a systemic level. An area of obvious concern is automotive emissions. The drastic drop in transport emissions during the lockdown was evident when cities across India recorded a 65-70% reduction in nitrogen dioxide (NOx) concentrations—a pollutant directly attributable to internal combustion engines. At the same time, India has the world’s second-largest road network, and with the current rate of growth, the total number of vehicles is projected to double by 2030. A chronic point of contention has been the expansion of roads to accommodate more cars. Cars are an inefficient mode of transport and use of public space as they waste over 50% of their carrying capacity and are parked for almost 90% of the time. Doubling car numbers could bring even more unbearable traffic, air pollution and expensive additional road infrastructure. One obvious solution is the two- and three-wheelers which now account for nearly 84% of the county’s annual auto sales and road transport volume. They fare much better on carrying capacity as well—especially three-wheelers used in public transport. Their counterparts, the electric rickshaws, have emerged as a clear winner for the last-mile connectivity across much of urban India since their fares are also 30% cheaper. They are not only cleaner but also quieter. Electric public transport also ties in with what should be India’s long-term focus: Developing affordable and comfortable solutions for longer distances. Taking inspiration from Delhi’s excellent metro rail, Pune, Navi Mumbai and Nagpur are now also developing their own metro lines. Commuter convenience can be further enhanced by state governments expanding their fleets of electric buses and introducing regulations and incentives for electric rickshaws, taxis and city delivery vehicles. They all have zero on-road emissions, are cheaper to access, and significantly more efficient in moving people around than private cars. In terms of micro-mobility, studies suggest that 71% of all trips in India happen within a radius of 5 km. These can be easily serviced by electric two- and three-wheelers, which can do several runs per charge at a low cost, even with standard battery packs of 70-80 km capacity. They can operate in addition to a focus on urban redesign that includes more bicycle lanes. It is important to hold extended public discussions between residents of areas with heavy traffic and city planners, so that redevelopment takes into account what non-car owners want. The programmes such as CyclesforChange, launched jointly in Chennai by the Institute for Transportation Development and Policy (ITDP) and the Centre’s ministry of housing and urban affairs to encourage more intra-city bicycle trips, are essential steps in the right direction. The experience of many European cities shows that moving from heavy car traffic to predominantly pedestrian, bicycling and public transport mobility is often met initially by the hostility of residents, shop owners and drivers but once the changes are in place people appreciate the new arrangements. Shops benefit from pedestrians that can stop and enter easily, the air is cleaner, life is healthier. However, it is also important that reducing transport emissions is coupled with clean sources of energy. As more renewable energy enters the market, the pollution load of charging EVs will decline nationally, not just locally. As part of state EV policies, state governments should incentivise that charging stations and battery swapping points are powered by renewable energy. The United Kingdom and other countries are introducing the practice of charging stations declaring what the energy source is. In India, some states like Telangana and Tamil Nadu, are already setting an example with reduced power tariffs for the EV charging infrastructure. Policies for ambitious electrification of city transport could also have a strong economic benefit by boosting battery and electric vehicle production. It can create demand that would catalyse the National Mission on Transformative Mobility and Battery Storage and move India forward in the fierce global competition in the field of energy storage and new mobility. This could be an area of particular interest for international cooperation with the European Union (EU) and some of the most ambitious EU countries in these sectors such as Germany and France. Overall, the response to recovering after the pandemic has shown that local, collective action has the power to enforce change. A truly green recovery should allow people to avail the cleanest, most affordable modes of travel, which is where e-mobility and public transit solutions are important. With on-road economics starting to tilt irreversibly in their favour, governments would thus do well to prioritise demand-side funding of new mobility over business-as-usual. Julian Popov is a former minister of environment of Bulgaria, a fellow of the European Climate Foundation and chairman of the Building Performance Institute Europe The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/clean-air-could-be-a-strong-economic-boost-for-india/story-RixYiFEwA8ulRzJAma6fQP.html
07-09-2020||News||TV news is in crisis. Regulate, reform it||The time for news channels to introspect is long overdue. News channels have a legal and moral responsibility to provide factual and informative inputs to society. Sane voices such as former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s appeal “for self-restraint” or Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu’s condemnation of “Sensationalism, yellow journalism and TRP-generating news...” have had little impact. The Delhi High Court’s humorous comment in Tharoor vs Goswami that “TV viewers who want to watch action films should (instead) watch TV debates on current affairs...” is more a cry of anguish. The nation wants to know when we will have news without the noise and content sans fiction.The toxic triangle of viewership, ratings and revenue is the catalyst driving most debates and that paradigm must be continuously stigmatised along with use of a relentless societal scissor to cut this Gordian knot. The clear line between editorial and commercial decisions, and between news and entertainment, must be restored. Uneven debates, deliberate interruptions, verbal blood sport, conscious invitation of biased and malicious participants, strategic muting of mikes, the formulation of one-sided themes and unevenly numbered viewpoints are standard tactics for driving TRP ratings and advertisement revenue. Serious news items are presented as popular crime thrillers and extremist anchors pose a potent threat to democracy. A set of reforms are now essential. One, the corruption of and connivance between TV channels and rating agencies is an open secret. For sanity in studios and on screens, an ecosystem that goes beyond this ratings-driven practice and which is citizen-centric and democratic is vital. Only the legislature can do this by inaugurating a credible, independent rating regulator.The second minimalist reform is the accountability of the media or, more importantly, the awareness and acceptance of such accountability. No freedom is absolute: Reasonable restrictions are inevitable. If progress without freedom is impossible, democracy without discipline is chaos. The courts must be quick and decisive whenever the media transgresses the Laxman rekha. In the Sahib Singh case (1965), the apex court said that journalists “have no greater freedom than others to make any imputations or allegations sufficient to ruin the reputation of a citizen…..Reckless comments are to be avoided”. The problem lies in these principles not being enforced. The third reform, industry self-regulation, was meant to be the key to maintaining standards. The News Broadcasters Association (NBA), the watchdog for visual media, has enough power to stop unethical practices. From prohibiting an anchor/presenter from making derogatory, derisive or judgmental statements to ensuring that programmes do not become a platform for spreading acrimony to controlling egregious behaviour, the regime is comprehensive and unequivocal. The problem is that these powers have not been used effectively because of a conspiracy of silence, the incestuous nature of an exclusive peer club, the chalta hai attitude and an old boys’ cartel, which seem too powerful for NBA to bust.Enforcing the ethics code and ensuring compliance is anathema to the fourth estate, at least voluntarily. But democratic spirit itself demands that media not take undue advantage of its powers. Have we seen anything like what we see in India on any British, Australian or Canadian channel or even the more aggressive American channels? The BBC and its guidelines not only mandate appropriate respect and dignity during programmes but also hold themselves accountable by law for any defamatory comments during shows. The Swiss Federal Act has similar provisions for visual programmes as does Hong Kong which ensures great accuracy and impartiality in news programmes. If the diagnosis of the disease is obvious, disciplined self-medication is the prescription. Sermons have not worked. Reliance on voluntariness has been construed as weakness and trespasses have not been visited with harsh consequences. For example, NBA has a range of powers — warn, admonish, censure, express disapproval, impose a fine upon the broadcaster and /or recommend to the concerned authority for suspension/revocation of its licence. But it has never imposed the last, and very occasionally, the penultimate penalty. As the industry’s conscience-keeper, NBA must get its teeth into the issue. Its advisories must increase and their slightest violation should evoke harsh warnings and penalties. Make an example of a few egregious violators. NBA has nothing to lose except its passivity and much to gain. A clear message sent to a few, consistently and even-handedly, will lead to a tangible and decisive change in temperature, content and direction and invite huge appreciation from the public.Abhishek Singhvi is a senior, third-term sitting MP; former chairman, Parliamentary Standing Committee; former additional solicitor general, senior national spokesperson, Congress and eminent jurist. Jaiveer Shergill is a Supreme Court lawyer and national spokesperson, Congress. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/tv-news-is-in-crisis-regulate-reform-it/story-mOrqP3AsKRssB3EenUWePJ.html
07-09-2020||News||In India, nurturing the growth of local economic ecosystems||Scientists speculate that nature sends viruses to stop other things growing too fast that threaten the health of the whole system while caring only for their own health. Unbridled globalisation was threatening the well-being of societies and of the natural environment. Covid-19 has stopped this from spreading any further. Physical lockdowns to contain the spread of the virus have broken up global supply chains. Businesses, as well as humans, are being compelled to find resources locally. A “vocal for local” movement, which was growing even before Covid-19, was described as retrograde by the “vocal for global” lobby. Local has now become a necessity for business and human survival. But even though there is clearer evidence now that the model of globalisation which was founded on more trade across borders is not sustainable, eminent economists continue to defend it. Economic history has disproved a foundational premise of the free trade theory. Nations have grown, through history, by learning to do what they could not do before, and doing it better than others — Japan after the war; China in the 21st century; and the United States (US) in the 19th and 20th centuries. Industrial nations, unlike natural resource-rich nations, are not born with competitive advantages; they develop them.The simplistic free-trade theory must be supplemented with theories of how humans, businesses, and nations, learn new capabilities. And, since humans, businesses, and nations will compete, the only sustainable competitive advantage of businesses and nations is their ability to learn faster than any potential competition. Therefore, an industrial policy focused on increasing the capabilities of people and businesses within the nation is imperative for the survival of the nation and the well-being of its citizens. This is real atmanirbharta. There is continuing conceptual confusion among some of India’s policymakers. While they are beginning to recognise the need to be atmanirbhar (self-reliant; which is more urgent because of the China threat), they continue to propound the necessity for Indian businesses to be connected with global supply chains. There is nothing wrong with taking advantage of global supply chains. However, they will hardly provide India and its businesses large channels for growth in the next two decades. India must grow local supply webs, radiating outwards as far as geopolitical boundaries and trade barriers will allow them to spread. As a recent UNIDO paper says, a shift in business and national economic strategies is required away from cost-efficiency, which global sourcing enabled, to increases in market focus. “Europe for Europe, Asia for Asia”, they say. India for India, we may add. India has the potential to be a large market. It will be a large market when more Indians earn higher incomes. For more people to earn higher incomes, they must produce something that someone else will buy. Markets will be more local, and production will also be more local. India needed an employment policy with an industrial policy ever since it embarked on its trade liberalisation path in the 1990s. For nations to become competitive, it is not enough to develop a few, large, world-class companies. Industrial ecosystems within countries, comprising webs of small and large, and formal and informal enterprises, must compete with ecosystems in other countries. Indeed, large companies from a country cannot become competitive unless they are sustained by a competitive ecosystem. Therefore, large companies must nurture small domestic companies, and all of them must nurture the people who work in them. Human beings are the only “appreciating assets” any enterprise can have. Because they have the ability to learn new capabilities if they are given opportunities to do so. Fortunately, India is abundantly endowed with people. They will be India’s source of sustainable competitive advantage when India reorients its policies to nurture the growth of local economic ecosystems. Arun Maira is former member of the Planning Commission and former chairman of BCG India The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-india-nurturing-the-growth-of-local-economic-ecosystems/story-A92pQx5V4SpfYGP38upfKK.html
