09-09-2020||News||Don’t curtail free speech in Parliament||The issue of parliamentary committees considering matters which are sub-judice has assumed importance in the context of the Lok Sabha speaker and the Rajya Sabha chairman issuing directions to the chairpersons of the parliamentary committees, asking them not to take up such matters. The rule of sub-judice as a legal term can be found in section 10 of the Civil Procedure Code, the gist of which is that if a suit is pending in a court, another suit which is directly and substantially the same cannot be tried by the same court or another court.This principle has been adopted by Parliament and the rules relating to motions, resolutions, petitions, questions contain the same. Under this, a matter which is under the consideration of a court of law should not be taken up as a subject matter of a motion, resolution, petition or questions. Thus, it can be seen that the rule of sub-judice imposes restrictions on the right of Members of Parliament to raise matters in the House.Legislatures in our country have the absolute privilege to discuss any matter of public importance. The Constitution provides for freedom of speech in the legislature. But legislatures have imposed on themselves the sub-judice restriction in consideration of the fact that deliberations in a House on a matter which is before the court might influence the latter. However, this restriction has stirred a debate because it has the effect of preventing the Houses from discussing important public issues merely because the matter is before a court of law. GV Mavalankar, the first speaker of the Lok Sabha, laid down the right approach to be adopted on this issue, “The chair has to ensure that no discussion in the House should prejudice the courts of justice, the chair has also to see that the House is not debarred from discussing an urgent matter of public importance”.A committee of presiding officers under the chairmanship of VS Page, the then chairman of the Maharashtra Legislative Council, had suggested in 1968 that freedom of speech is a primary right, whereas the rule of sub-judice is a self-imposed restriction. So, where need be, the latter must give way to the former.This approach was followed by the presiding officers of Parliament. Parliament, for example, discussed many scams in the past although those issues were before the court. Committees were appointed to investigate those scams. In this context, it is noteworthy that rule 388 of the House rules provides for the suspension of any rule to enable the House to discuss a matter. Thus, the rule of sub-judice can also be suspended in an appropriate context; it is neither absolute nor immutable.In the context of the direction issued by the presiding officers of Parliament, it must be said that no rule relating to committees mentions sub-judice or imposes restrictions on this ground on the subjects selected by the committees. In fact, the rule of sub-judice in the House has lost much of its relevance over a period of time. Initially, the Houses of Parliament might have thought that a discussion on the floor of the House might influence the courts, and thus it might interfere with the dispensation of justice. But there is no empirical evidence that the courts were influenced by a debate in the House or by an investigation by a committee of the House. Further, the courts examine strictly the legal aspects of a matter brought before them and determine the culpability of a person on the basis of clear evidence. They do not examine the political, economic and other dimensions of the issue. A committee of Parliament, on the other hand, looks at all other dimensions comprehensively and submits a report to the House. The committees are recommendatory bodies which make recommendations and not issue decrees.Therefore, the sub-judice rule cannot be interpreted to imply that the Houses of Parliament or their committees cannot debate or investigate any matter which is before the court. The scope of examination, the conclusions arrived at by the committees, the status of recommendations all clearly indicate that the committees operate in a different field. The courts decide legal issues. The committees do not deal with legal matters alone. The courts do not decide issues on the basis of debates in Parliament or investigation by a committee. In fact, even in the case of courts, one Bench is often not influenced by another Bench of the same court. The recent judgment of a five-judge Bench of the Supreme Court on the subclassification within the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is a case in point. A five-judge Bench held earlier that subclassification is against the Constitution. The new five-judge Bench held that it is constitutionally valid. The fear that a debate in Parliament or an investigation by a committee will influence the judges is imaginary.The Speaker’s direction is binding on the chairmen. Therefore, they can’t take up a matter which is sub-judice. Nevertheless, it must be noted that no rule in the rules of procedure of the House prohibits a committee from examining a matter on the ground that it is before the court. The rule of sub-judice is a needless restriction on the freedom of speech in the House. The restrictions on the committees are not sanctioned either by the Constitution or by the rules of the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/don-t-curtail-free-speech-in-parliament/story-422zH8HtFFvf6h2ZQzcA5J.html
09-09-2020||News||Bridging the power gap with China||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on September 4, “We have an unprecedented situation on the India-China border, we have never had this sort of situation since 1962”. He demanded a reversion “to the status quo that existed before such aggressive actions took place”. However, neither he nor anyone else in government, nor official statements of military-to-military talks nor of diplomatic engagements has given a comprehensive account of either the “situation” or how the status quo has been broken.Details that have appeared in the media have been based on off-the-record briefings or leaks. Official statements have been imprecise. For instance, the ministry of defence statement on the defence minister’s recent discussions with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow held China responsible for the current difficulties for attempting to unilaterally alter the status quo. Have these attempts succeeded? If not, what is implied by reversion as demanded by the foreign secretary? While the precise nature of China’s territorial transgressions has not been officially clarified, what is clear is that Beijing’s actions have “transgressed the territory of trust”, as former external affairs minister Jaswant Singh accused Pakistan of doing in violating the Line of Control (LoC) during the Kargil conflict. And, this transgression by China has been enormous and grave. It follows then that India’s China policy, which was put in place in 1988 by Rajiv Gandhi and maintained by all successive governments, is no longer valid for its very premise was trust. That approach rested on a peaceful Line of Actual Control (LAC), finding a solution to the border problem, and uninhibited development of India-China relations in other areas, including trade. In seeking elements to guide the formulation of a fresh policy, it is essential to admit the great overall power differential between India and China. A comparison, in the regional context, admittedly crude though not simplistic, is the following: Pakistan is to India what currently India is to China. The crucial word is currently, for while Pakistan’s resource potential will remain permanently inferior to that of India, that is not true of India vis-à-vis China. India has a lot to catch up but it has the wherewithal to effectively bridge the gap which has grown over the past four decades. This will require a national consensus, but it can and must be done. As long the Pakistan-India-China power differentials remain as they are now, it would be useful to consider Pakistan’s India policy. It is rooted in permanent confrontation and a general avoidance of developing cooperative mechanisms including in the commercial and economic spheres. Significantly, in 1996, the then Chinese president Jiang Zemin advised Pakistan to pursue the Sino-Indian model of relations — to normalise and advance relations in other spheres while addressing mutual differences.Jiang Zemin’s views were disregarded because the Pakistan army obviously felt that commercial and economic relations would give India leverage to cause disruptions in case of open hostilities and even otherwise. Further, such a web of ties would be a disincentive for India to address the Jammu and Kashmir issue. Pakistan decided to continue to rely on essentially a three-pronged approach: The development of nuclear weapons and delivery systems, maintaining an effective military balance along LoC, and the instrument of terror. The overall consequence of its India policy has contributed immensely to Pakistan’s impoverishment over the past three decades.It would obviously be necessary to avoid the pitfalls of Pakistan’s India policy. Certainly, the use of terror or low-intensity conflict in dealing with a larger neighbour, even if possible, is counterproductive. But there is a need to pay far greater attention to upgrade India’s strategic programme to develop manifest deterrence through a triad. The hardening of defences all along LAC to prevent Chinese adventurism has to be undertaken on a priority basis. This will require financial investments but that cannot be avoided despite the current economic troubles.The other elements of China policy need greater consideration and dexterity. These relate to economic and commercial ties. Currently, India’s dependence on some supply chains emanating from China has strategic implications. This applies to a range of industries such as pharmaceuticals. These have to be reduced to a minimum and domestic production, as envisaged in Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar (self-reliance) programme, has to be fostered on an urgent basis. Other sources have to be developed even at a greater cost but the trade door should not be shut. Greater and open cooperation with major countries equally troubled by Chinese aggressiveness and lack of respect for global rules has to be actively cultivated. India must give up its traditional reluctance rooted in ideology, bearing in mind that it is too large to act as any power’s subordinate ally. Finally, the Sino-Pak nexus has to be addressed through working on the vulnerabilities of Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/bridging-the-power-gap-with-china/story-4OalcjuIms94RUIiHIR4AN.html
09-09-2020||News||An Academic Bank of Credit will transform Indian education||The National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) has introduced innovative concepts to improve access, equity and quality education in India. It is forward-looking and student-centric, giving students the freedom to choose disciplines, colleges and universities. This freedom is envisioned through the choice-based credit system, multiple entry-multiple exit (MEME) options in a programme and, most importantly, the establishment of an Academic Bank of Credit (ABC). ABC will digitally store academic credits earned from recognised higher education institutions (HEIs) and allow for credit redemption in order to be awarded a certificate, diploma or degree. ABC is an online entity to be established and managed by the ministry of education. It will function much like a commercial bank with students as account-holders to whom the bank provides services, including credit accumulation, credit transfer, credit redemption through the opening, closure and validation of accounts. Students who pursue education as freelancers can also accumulate credits. These credits can be deposited to student accounts. After the accumulation of credits, a student can redeem these in order to get any academic degree. It works on the principle of MEME as well as “anytime learning, anywhere learning, and any level learning”. It can facilitate the integration of campuses by creating student mobility within the university system. ABC can also help integrate skills into a credit-based system by providing a credit recognition mechanism. It will, however, not give awards, degrees or certificates. Opening an account with ABC is not mandatory.Its objectives include promoting student-centricity in higher education and enabling them to select courses, departments or institutions; allowing students to choose a pace for their studies along with associated cost, and enabling MEME for students to complete their degrees as per their preferences; and permitting teaching-learning activities with increased integration of campuses to facilitate lifelong learning among formal and informal students for full-time and part-time modes. Students who may or may not have been enrolled in HEI but wish to pursue an education and consolidate their academic records for employment or other purposes can register with ABC. It enables a student to accumulate institutional credits from numerous sources into a single account. It will maintain academic records and issue an official transcript. This transcript will be recognised by all the member-universities of ABC. If students are working towards a qualification, they will have to accumulate sufficient credits to gain the total credit value of the qualification. Students may be able to transfer their credits as part of one study programme to another, offered by the same institution, and/or transfer credit when moving from one institution to another. How students can transfer credits is determined by each institution’s assessment regulations. However, the transfer of credits between HEIs of similar categories will be allowed to ensure quality. For instance, the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) A-grade credits can be transferred to other A grades and to B or C grades. However, credits earned from HEI with lower NAAC grades may not be transferred at the same value to higher NAAC grade institutions. ABC can be operationalised under a standard framework such as the National Academic Depository under the aegis of the ministry of education. A participating institution/university will have to formally qualify and agree to be a part of ABC. The credits earned will be recorded with an approved national agency and will have a fully-defined shelf life for its value in the award of a degree/diploma/post-graduate diploma/certificates. ABC is a revolutionary step which will promote access, equity, quality, flexibility, mobility, collaboration, transparency, and integration to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of India’s education system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/an-academic-bank-of-credit-will-transform-indian-education/story-iHUdmNX0Qf1CQ0BVUXyqbP.html
09-09-2020||News||Air pollution can intensify Covid-19||As India faces a steep rise in Covid-19 cases, it is critical to employ all reasonable strategies to decrease transmission and to lower the number of severe infections which burden the health care system. Reducing air pollution is one such strategy that may be more important for India than any other country globally. So far, the spread of the pandemic has occurred during spring and summer when air pollution is relatively mild, but the interaction of high winter pollution levels with Covid-19 infections can have serious consequences.India has some of the highest exposures to air pollution in the world and faces a double impact from outdoor air pollution in cities and throughout the Indo-Gangetic Plain, plus household air pollution from the millions of chulhas in daily use especially in rural areas. Covid-19 is a respiratory infection, and we know from other such infections that air pollution can worsen their severity through its impact on the immune response. In 2019, nearly 200,000 respiratory infection deaths in India were linked to air pollution exposure. Simply put, air pollution may be an important factor that moves a mild Covid-19 infection to one that requires acute medical care. Although direct evidence of the impact of air pollution on Covid-19 is limited, and more time will be needed to conduct proper studies, evidence from the SARS epidemic in 2003 (caused by a similar virus) indicated a link between air pollution and increased mortality. Evidence from multiple countries, including studies from India, shows consistent associations between both short-term exposure to air pollution and hospitalisation for pneumonia infections (in children), and between long-term exposure and several types of respiratory infections in children. Studies of short-term increases in air pollution suggest a worsening severity of co-incident respiratory infections. This co-exposure interaction is supported by mechanistic studies which show how air pollution reduces the immune response to respiratory infections. For example, in the lower airways, where respiratory infections are most damaging, immune cells called macrophages can digest and destroy viruses and bacteria, but under conditions of air pollution exposure, these cells become filled up with particles and are no longer effective against the infection. Emerging research also suggests the air pollution may alter lung cells to increase the number of Sars-CoV-2 virus receptors. In addition, another group of studies indicates that longer-term exposure to air pollution increases the risk of infections, especially in those with pre-existing chronic lung disease. In this case, air pollution can lead to permanent structural changes in the lungs that erode a person’s reserves. An infection that might lead to mild symptoms in a healthy person results in severe impact in those with chronic lung disease. This may be one reason that many of the same diseases caused by air pollution are also present in the majority of people with Covid-19 infections severe enough to require hospitalisation.Along with these roles in increasing susceptibility to infections and worsening infection severity, some reports also suggest a role of air pollution in increasing transmission of the virus. Studies have detected the presence of the virus on air pollution particles, but this does not mean these particles are themselves infectious and current evidence does not suggest that the virus hitching a ride on air pollution particles is an important route of transmission. Further, there is little evidence to indicate that infections occur outdoors except when people are in very close proximity. Although there is no direct evidence, there is a plausible pathway by which air pollution may enhance transmission by making it more likely that an infected individual will cough.So, what does this all mean for India? From one perspective, the current timing of the pandemic in India during the months of the year when air pollution is at its lowest levels suggests a window of opportunity during which concerted actions to reduce virus transmission may be effective in “flattening the curve”. However, timing is important, as winter typically brings much higher levels of air pollution and the potential for the interaction with Covid-19 infections to lead to far larger impacts. Thus it is critical, even as economic activity increases, to accelerate the air pollution control measures already described in the National Clean Air Programme. Actions such as agricultural (stubble) burning that may lead to episodes need to be either curtailed entirely or managed in a way that is timed with tightening of pandemic management measures. In the future, full-scale lockdowns are unlikely, but may be replaced by on-again/off-again measures that could be targeted towards periods of high and low air pollution, to balance Covid-19 cases and air pollution against economic activity and employment. More rapid expansion of LPG use may reduce household pollution. There has never been a more important time for action on air pollution. Efforts implemented today will have immediate impact related to Covid-19 and will also continue to bear dividends long into the future via benefits on diabetes and chronic heart and lung diseases. What’s more, actions taken to improve air quality will benefit everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/air-pollution-can-intensify-covid-19/story-tmm1uBrK8yqX5r3dUhZzRO.html
09-09-2020||News||Shinzo Abe redefined India-Japan ties | Opinion||From capturing global strategic imagination with his “Confluence of the Two Seas” speech in the Indian Parliament to articulating the India-Japan Indo-Pacific Vision 2025 — the Shinzo Abe era is defined by high-powered diplomacy that delivered.As the challenges to the liberal order grew, India and Japan turned their geopolitical and geo-economic concerns into concerted actions. They advanced issue-based alignments, be it defending the rules-based order through Japan-United States (US)-India (JAI) and Quad or designing the Australia-India-Japan Supply Chain Resilience Initiative.China’s rise, alliance politics and hedging against American abandonment shaped Tokyo’s policy discourse. Abe’s strategic calculations manifested internal and external balancing. He rewired Japan’s post-war security posture, reinforced the US-Japan alliance, and wove a network of strategic partnerships across Indo-Pacific. Abe envisaged Tokyo’s role in the international system as a stabiliser and a rules-promoter. His Indo-Pacific Vision remained anchored on rule of law, freedom of navigation and over flight, trade liberalisation, and multilateralism.As Japan conceptualised universal value- based strategic designs, India has been accorded primacy in the Arc of Freedom and Prosperity, Asia’s Democratic Security Diamond, and the Free and Open Indo-Pacific. Abe’s strategic imagination was complemented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Act East policy. Mutuality of values and convergence of strategic interests added qualitative depth. Much of the dynamism draws from the personal comradery between the two leaders. The high-resolution optics — from shinkansen ride to Kobe and private dinner at Yamanashi home, Ganga aarti at Dashashwamedh Ghat and road show to Sabarmati Ashram — Abe has left a deep impression in Indian public memory. The leaders pushed for collective responsibility in securing the global maritime commons. Firming up maritime security cooperation with humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations, advancing maritime domain awareness, finalising reciprocal support concerning logistics, supplies, and services through Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA), and augmenting interoperability within Indo-Pacific navies through Malabar exercises enabled greater leeway in managing a range of shared challenges.The Abe era also played an instrumental role in enabling India’s economic modernisation. Tokyo is not just a leading source of Official Development Assistance (ODA), but also a top source of foreign direct investment. From mega industrial corridors, high- speed rail and modernising urban rapid transport system, Japanese development assistance has been an enabler. But it is not just mega projects in economic epicentres, Abe has successfully steered development assistance in strategic peripheries, including the Northeast and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Japan’s commitment to the Northeast is projected through the upcoming industrial township in Assam to road connectivity projects that advances quality infrastructure and links the Northeast to the regional value chains and markets of Southeast Asia.Abe drove infrastructure financing to engineer new frontiers of growth by seizing the international infrastructure market and buttressing strategic partnerships across Southeast and South Asia. Abe designed Japan’s Expanded Partnership for Quality Infrastructure initiative, which served as a win-win formulation for Delhi as it intersected with the Make in India initiative. Fostering economic linkages, industrial networks and connectivity by employing collective capabilities with other like-minded countries has led to joint projects in a few Bay of Bengal states. In navigating the geopolitics of Indo-Pacific, India-Japan prioritised the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) centrality and coordinated strategic agendas in the Asean-led multilateral frameworks. In shaping geo-economics, the Abe administration favoured India’s membership in the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), even though India has had unresolved outstanding issues. But there have been some misses as well. Trade balance and progress in high-technology trade needs more attention. As Abe eased Japan’s arms export policy, the latitude for defence technology cooperation has been redefined. Key policy documents and business lobbies in Japan have prioritised markets such as India, but trade in defence technology is a relatively new domain. While cooperative research on Unmanned Ground Vehicle/robotics have been undertaken, concluding the maiden G2G defence equipment cooperation has proved challenging.As Delhi gears up for a post-Abe leadership, India’s ascendency in Japan’s strategic frame will endure and outlive the Abe administration. This is primarily because the variables that pushed Tokyo to incorporate Delhi in its Indo-Pacific matrix will perhaps become even more urgent, given the geopolitics and geo-economics of the post-Covid-19 world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/shinzo-abe-redefined-india-japan-ties/story-vnqdjO8Ey65GAi48VZbXjI.html
09-09-2020||News||What will drive India’s next economic transformation, writes Amitabh Kant||With global supply chains being reforged, India must position itself as a vital link in this new order. Governments across the world are encouraging countries to shift their manufacturing out of China. A strong export orientation, cost-competitive manufacturing and creation of domestic champions is the need of the hour. An Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) will not be possible without growing exports to serve global markets. Therefore, global orientation is imperative. At the same time, India imports a large number of commodities that are available in abundance within India itself. Take coal for instance. Despite having some of the largest reserves in the world, India still imported coal worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore in 2018-19. Now, with commercial coal mining a reality, we should see steady reductions in our import bills. Defence is another area where India has been a large importer. A gradual import substitution of 101 items worth Rs 3.5 lakh crore over the next five years has already been announced and a bold move of increasing FDI limits from 49% to 74% also announced. India has an abundance of minerals which can go into making metals like aluminium which has strategic future uses and super-alloys needed for defence production and in a range of industries. Providing a reform-based stimulus to the economy during the Covid-19-induced recession, historic reforms were announced in the agriculture sector and the coal sector was de-monopolised, paving the way for private sector investment. A conducive business environment will enable both domestic and foreign investment. However, there are a few critical elements that must be addressed to create a business environment that is the envy of the world. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s vision for an Atmanirbhar Bharat hinges decisively on the success we are able to achieve in our manufacturing sector. We must move away from capital-linked subsidies to production-linked incentives. And this has been showing encouraging results. The production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for mobile phone manufacturing has been showing impressive results. Several other PLI schemes have been announced. This is one of the vital cogs in enabling large-scale, low-cost manufacturing. While imposing tariffs on imports seems like an easy solution to reducing imports, the effect is some time the opposite of what was expected. If duties are raised on critical inputs for exports, then the cost of exports would rise, making them uncompetitive in global markets. Even if duties are imposed on consumer goods, the duties should contain a sunset clause and be phased out in a clearly-defined timeline, allowing the domestic industry to grow.Land and labour have been the traditional constraints in achieving scale in manufacturing. Multiple labour laws at the central government-level will be subsumed into four labour codes, with three set to be tabled in the coming monsoon session of Parliament. Another vital element is that of easing the regulatory burden. India has already made progress in this regard, as evidenced by our jump of 79 positions in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Rankings. Going forward, delays in clearances and multiple permissions must become a thing of the past. The states must take the lead and cooperate on this front. India’s high cost of logistics relative to other competing nations has been a disadvantage. The central government will continue its push towards elevating India’s infrastructure to world-class standards through the National Infrastructure Pipeline. Our port turnaround time stands at approximately 60 hours, despite significant improvements in the past years. Digitisation of our ports will be critical in reducing our turnaround time.India’s domestic market will serve as the base of an Atmanirbhar Bharat. Combined with world class infrastructure and a conducive business environment, India will attract both domestic and foreign investments in manufacturing. These investments will, in turn, promote high quality, cost-competitive manufacturing, leading to India taking its rightful place in global value chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-will-drive-india-s-next-economic-transformation/story-xIQi61gZgF9Lnsa19IVimK.html
