15-09-2020||News||The invisible health crisis in organisations||A plummeting economy is not the only sickness that corporate India has been battling for some time now. In 2011, a Gallup survey, conducted across millions of employees in 142 countries, revealed that less than 20% of the workforce was actively engaged in their organisations. Over 60% were disengaged and approximately 20% were actually damaging their companies. While that number may not be true for all organisations, specifically, actively engaged employees are routinely outnumbered by disengaged ones in most. Project delays, cost overruns, cumbersome processes and safety violations are all manifestations of the core reason — employee disengagement.In addition to that, experts point out that an alarming one in six Indians suffer from some form of mental health issue, with a high skew towards urban metros, where most corporates function. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), India will lose $1.03 trillion between 2010 and 2030, because of mental health conditions. Indian corporates and society were inefficient and sick well before this pandemic. But here is why the two “co-morbidities” of disengagement and mental health pose an existential threat to economic recovery.There are multiple reasons for disengagement and mental health problems, and many of them are common. A lack of a sense of purpose or relevance, hyper-competitive or an intimidating work environment, multiple layers of hierarchy and a sense of helplessness are some reasons for disengagement. Lack of security, apprehensions about the future, loss of agency and overall pessimism are some causes of anxiety and depression. And these are the very aspects exacerbated by the pandemic, the economic decline, its implications and a cynical social narrative.Until recently, mental health, employee engagement and work-life balance were rolled into one “nice to have” initiative with most leaders paying lip service to it — while they created a dog-eat-dog environment in the workplace. Most organisations manage their employees by controlling their physical presence, rather than their emotional engagement. That is why being late to work is punished but being listless is not even measured. This suboptimal state might have been tolerable during good times. But in a crisis, the morale of the organisation is an existential ingredient. Disengaged and depressed troops are useless, no matter how brilliant the revival plans are. If we have to come out fighting from this economic body blow, leaders must remember that organisations are built and run by humans, not automatons. It is the morale of the employees and their active engagement which will provide the foundation of a revival — not just the latest management fad or technology platform.Steering through crises and rapidly-changing situations requires agility, the ability to innovate, and creativity. But these qualities need an environment of psychological safety. Corporates, however, have traditionally relied on “punitive” methods which deny a promised compensation, in an eventuality of failure, creating an environment where it is unsafe to fail, take initiative, be innovative or creative. As General Eisenhower famously observed: “You don’t lead by hitting people over the head. That’s assault — not leadership”. Scared troops are demoralised troops and the demoralised cannot innovate, be creative or agile.Navigating through volatility requires leaders to follow three cardinal principles, the first of which is to have as accurate a picture of the overall situation as possible. That accuracy depends on the level of candour or dissent the leader allows. A vulnerable leader gets more information, opposing views, out-of-the-box ideas and strategies that question convention. A “know-it-all” leader will be told what she wants to hear and, therefore, arrive at an incorrect situation analysis.The second step is to formulate a plan. Once again, employees operating in a psychologically-safe environment will contribute with ideas, tribal knowledge, collaborative strategies whereas those in an intimidating atmosphere will prioritise their parochial interests rather than organisational ones.And last, the plan must have the flexibility to deal with volatile changes in the ground situation, which needs a high degree of empowerment, requiring front-line leaders to have a sense of security. They need a mindset of “hope for success”, rather than a “fear of failure”.These three cardinal steps of leadership during a crisis necessitate the leader to be vulnerable, compassionate and caring. A telling example is the comparison of how countries with empathetic and vulnerable leaders fared during the pandemic compared to those with “strong” leaders.And that perhaps should be the silver lining emerging from this pandemic. A long-overdue social and professional acknowledgement of the two most debilitating and rapidly growing sicknesses of modern times — disengagement and depression and the realisation that creating an environment of psychological safety and optimism is a fundamental prerequisite to any economic recovery plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-invisible-health-crisis-in-organisations/story-xmiAGQRGvlUOjjLnlMW8LI.html
15-09-2020||News||Zhenhua Data case: How to think about Chinese surveillance||In coordinated disclosures, multiple news organisations around the world reported on Monday what they described as a widespread surveillance operation by a Chinese company.Zhenhua Data, the reports claimed, put together a database with the personal information of over two million people of public interest — politicians, celebrities, business leaders, prominent military officials and academics. In India, according to The Indian Express, these included the president, the prime minister, the Congress president and several chief ministers.The company describes its activities as “hybrid warfare” and counts among its clients, the Chinese military and intelligence. It has sold “services for military, security and foreign propaganda” to “domestic institutions” in China, including the government and security services, The Daily Telegraph noted. The data, purportedly trawled since 2017, includes biographies, family maps, and records of social media posts.The nature of this information and the way in which the company described its activities feed into larger concerns about Chinese surveillance operations on adversarial countries and their citizens. These have, at least in India, led to the banning of popular mobile apps such as TikTok and PUBG in recent months.Zhenhua Data’s activities, however, appear to be less novel or damaging than the adjectives used to describe it. Such operations are known as OSINT (open-source intelligence) gathering and analysis. The data in OSINT operations is publicly available. The novelty of the practice is in digging this data out, drawing linkages and contextualising it. Journalists have used it, famously, to nail the culprits behind the downing of civilian aircraft (flight MH17 over Ukraine and PS752 in Iran), fake news and disinformation operations, even identify military deployment. OSINT operations by intelligence agencies are usually hidden from public view.To put it simply, Zhenhua’s database is akin to putting together a dossier on a person with publicly available data. Such dossiers are not uncommon in security establishments. By nature, these dossiers are meant to include information that is not in the open, information that can compromise an individual, an institution or an establishment. A security analyst who follows surveillance told me that, by contrast, Zhenhua’s database was “not all that worrying”.What does appear to be new is the increasing frequency with which adversaries are drawing attention to China’s cyber operations. The Daily Telegraph noted that Zhenhua Data’s database was leaked by a company insider and first obtained by the Five Eyes intelligence network of the United States (US), the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. It was from this network that the information made its way to the press. Earlier this summer, a US Senate report released in July accused China of surveillance and censorship through its tech. A month before that, Australia disclosed a “large scale” cyber attack. While Prime Minister Scott Morrison did not name any suspects, the country’s security establishment told local journalists that the blame likely lay with groups in China.The larger threat stems from China’s position as a hardware and software powerhouse as it exports technology that is often at a more lucrative price point than alternatives. Overtly, this emanates from the country’s cyber security law, which legally mandates that all Chinese tech companies hand over data (stored in Chinese servers) if requisitioned by security agencies. Covertly, this emanates from software and hardware that foreign intelligence agencies have long suspected of having backdoors to allow interception as information streams across mobile networks, internet routers and server farms.Essentially, yes — China is watching. But Zhenhua Data is likely to have contributed only a small portion of its peripheral vision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-is-watching-how-to-think-about-chinese-surveillance/story-iJaKHBMD3KG65ZpITwVtSO.html
