18-09-2020||News||Here is how the Indian economy can rebound||The Indian economy is shrouded in pessimism. Despite dystopian short-term projections, India is on track to emerge as the world’s third largest economy by the end of this decade. The road ahead is long and hard but the math is incontestable. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for the year ending March 2021 is expected to fall by 10%. India’s GDP of Rs 203 lakh crore in March 2020 will, therefore, decline to Rs 183 lakh crore on March 31, 2021. At an exchange rate of Rs 75 per dollar, India’s GDP in March 2021 will thus be $2.4 trillion. Real GDP growth could rebound to 5% in the year ending March 2022 on a low base. Add inflation at the current level of around 6% and nominal GDP growth (real plus inflation) would surge by 11%. Thus, by March 2022, India’s GDP is likely to rise from $2.4 trillion in March 2021 to just under $2.7 trillion. Now work the math forward. The world’s fourth and fifth largest economies in 2020, Japan ($5.15 trillion) and Germany ($3.86 trillion), are barely growing. That is unlikely to change materially through this decade. In contrast, India’s real GDP growth between 2022 and 2030 could, with structural reforms, realistically average 6% per year with occasional crests and troughs. Along with average annual inflation at 4%, India’s nominal annual GDP growth would trend at around 10%. That translates into a GDP of $5.8 trillion by 2030 at current exchange rates, well ahead of Germany and slightly in front of Japan, assuming their historical rates of growth. There are several hurdles the economy will encounter. First, a fall in the value for the rupee against the dollar, reducing India’s dollar-denominated GDP. Second, tepid export growth, worsening India’s trade deficit. Third, stalled privatisation of listed Public Sector Units (PSUs), robbing them off greater efficiencies. Fourth, a lingering Covid-19 pandemic, stalling the resumption of full economic activity. Fifth, frequent state assembly election cycles, leading to populist policies, not necessarily sensible, reformist economic policies. Despite these caveats, the Indian economy will move forward haltingly but stubbornly. When Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi took office on May 26, 2014, he inherited a broken economy. GDP growth in 2013-14 had plunged to 4.7%. Non-performing assets (NPAs) for banks had risen alarmingly. Worse, they had been hidden in bank balance sheets by evergreening — rolling over bad old loans with new loans. Modi admitted last year that he regrets not publishing a white paper on the state of the economy in 2014. His reasoning at the time was it would send a wrong signal to foreign investors if they were made aware of the full extent of the economy’s distress in mid-2014.It was to prove a near-fatal mistake. Raghuram Rajan, who had been appointed governor of the Reserve Bank of India by then finance minister P Chidambaram in September 2013, ordered a review of bad bank loans in 2015. By then it was too late. Humongous NPAs, long hidden, were belatedly recognised in bank balance sheets in 2016. Over the past four years, major bankruptcies in the corporate, banking and financial sector can be traced back to the bad bank loans given without collateral, sometimes on the basis of forged documents, and occasionally after a friendly phone call to a PSU bank chairman from the ministry of finance. While the Modi government inherited a toxic banking sector, it hasn’t covered itself in glory either. It has erred by suspending the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) for six months till September 25 on account of the pandemic. Momentum has been lost. Wilful defaulters among promoters, cornered by IBC after it came into force in December 2016, now see an escape route. Any delay in prosecuting defaulters can be an unexpected but welcome gift to rogue promoters.The second error by the Modi government is not rationalising Goods and Service Tax (GST) rates. India needs to move swiftly to a single-rate GST — 17%, as suggested at the outset by former chief economic advisor Arvind Subramanian, despite his later misgivings about it being feasible in India, is a good median rate. Essentials like food can stay at 0% but the “sin” rate of 28% on luxury goods and alcohol needs to go. The third and most serious error by the Modi government is not providing a credible financial stimulus to the economy. It wants the cash-strapped private sector to invest, but won’t invest itself. The government has adopted the role of credit-guarantor instead of credit-giver. With banks reluctant to lend to corporates and non-banking financial companies, the government finds it has precious little to guarantee. Modi’s entreaty to be “vocal about local” should be amended to “vocal about local and global”. To achieve a $6 trillion GDP by 2030, India needs to be not only self-reliant but make the world India-reliant. Minhaz Merchant is the biographer of Rajiv Gandhi and Aditya Birla and a senior journalist and publisherThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/here-is-how-the-indian-economy-can-rebound/story-QG2iZJ9ziSD4R78Lm4l1ON.html
18-09-2020||News||How to leverage trained water professionals||Water is a key sector to overcome public health, livelihood and climate crisis-related challenges. To create lasting water security, the State has to actively engage with empowered local communities and innovative markets to enable the improved flexibility, adaptation and resilience that the sector demands.Water projects can be imagined at any scale, but contextual, local responses remain critical. For example, even if you planned to bring water from a faraway river to a city, you would need to understand how that new water will be used, design for excess flow and for sewage to be carried away.For this, you need trained professionals, local leaders and citizen volunteers who understand how local water behaves, both above and below the ground. They must be able to find granular solutions that accommodate upstream and downstream solutions created by others. Over the decades, successive governments have become more and more ambitious about scaling up water infrastructure. The ministry of jal shakti (MoJS) has budgeted ₹30,000 crore for water-related works in this year alone. And the Jal Jeevan Mission hopes to cover all the 145 million unreached rural households with Functional Household Tap Connections (FHTC) by 2024. The Atal Bhujal Yojana aims to improve groundwater management in 8,353 gram panchayats in five years. Tens of thousands of people across the country have been trained for such programmes. Across the country, they may be called bhujal jankars, dhara sevaks, or jal surakshaks. This excludes all the rojgar sahayaks, krishi mitras and swacchata doots who work in allied areas. Yet, if we had to map where all these trained people are, we would be in a fix. Nobody has a comprehensive idea of how effective the training has been either. What has been the impact on the livelihoods of these trainees? How has the knowledge transferred taken root in communities for ongoing problem-solving? There is no system to understand the latent, dispersed knowledge about water. There is a societal memory loss. These millions of skilled workers are hard to discover, but even if we could find them, there would be little trust in their prior knowledge and experience. So each training effort starts afresh, rarely building on the foundations that exist.How can we change this?What if we could “light up” all the people who have already undergone training in a way that programme leaders and also communities know who and where they are; what they already know; and what they have already done? Everybody would then have the ability to seek out exactly the people they need. Equally, trained practitioners would have the agency to access this information for their own purposes.Such discoverable, certifiable water leaders could be critical to create verifiable impact at scale in any water initiative. If done right, we believe that this can contribute to half a million jobs across the country. As we make skilled people more visible, what if we also digitally map and attest resources that they engage with, use and produce? There could be electronic registries of master trainers, teaching modules, water security plans, and water assets such as wells and farm ponds. Capacity-building budgets could then be redirected to fill only the gaps in training. The money saved could be used to pay for services delivered. This would incentivise people to remain in the sector, and both receive and provide value across time. Arghyam has recently funded the deployment of one simple digital attestation service, to begin with, in a few large programmes being implemented in some states together with non-governmental organisations. The pandemic has forced some physical training to go virtual. Interestingly, people are now experiencing the convenience of any time, anywhere, atomised learning sessions with expert trainers. Through this process, the trainees receive a digital attestation that they can own, access and share to leverage new opportunities. Our efforts are aligned with the tech design and the principles behind capacity-building platforms adopted by the government such as Diksha, ECHO and iGot.The early results are promising. Open data sets and a shared digital infrastructure can be very powerful in restoring the agency of samaaj through community institutions, of sarkaar through local government, and of bazaar through new livelihoods for skilled workers. If we have to effectively tackle the current and future pandemics, and collectively address climate-related emergencies, flexibility, adaptation and resilience are not just words. They are critical skills that communities must build quickly. The water sector is a good place to innovate in service of this imperative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-to-leverage-trained-water-professionals/story-6njUEHG9EcsiyjGlMlfFQP.html
