20-09-2020||News||Creating a new farm ecosystem||With the passing of two landmark agriculture bills in Parliament, we have been able to take the next step towards our vision of transforming farmers into entrepreneurs with higher incomes and better quality of life, cementing India’s position in the global market and ensuring “Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) agriculture”. Over the last few years, the government has launched initiatives for farmers and the agriculture sector, including a ₹6,685-crore scheme for the formation of 10,000 farmer producer organisations (FPOs); the one-of-its kind ₹1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF); the national Agriculture Export Policy; and the disbursal of more than ₹90,000 crore of direct benefit to farmers under PM-KISAN. Now, with The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, we have created the foundation to build a world-class agriculture ecosystem that will benefit farmers, consumers, wholesalers, processors, and start-ups.There are some who believe that these reforms will result in the end of procurement at minimum support price (MSP), closure of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), and loss of farmers’ land to corporates. I would like to assure that whether it is MSP or APMCs, all existing systems will continue. We have laid down stringent safeguards to secure farmers from any malpractices. The reforms will introduce competition and efficiency and improve these systems, as well as create freedom and choice for farmers.A FPO, which is an aggregation of farmers, provides higher bargaining power to farmers and helps them realise benefits from economies of scale. AIF and the market reforms have now provided additional enablers and opened up new opportunities for FPOs. They can invest in farm equipment and infrastructure and build forward market linkages by entering into agreements with agribusinesses. This will improve access to advisory, technology, and investment, aligning variety mix and quality as per market demand, and ensuring higher incomes. One of the best examples of a successful FPO is Maharashtra’s Sahyadri Farmers Producer Company Limited. At least 8,000 marginal farmers are registered under FPO, which exports more than 16,000 tonnes of grapes every season. It helps farmers enter into MoUs with leading FMCG companies and access high-tech infrastructure. With improved market linkages, we will also see a shift in what our farmers produce. For a long time now, India has been self-sufficient in many crops, including rice and wheat. An increase in understanding of market demand and trends, through direct engagement with agribusinesses, will enable farmers to grow crops with higher market value and reduce dependency on imports. For example, due to low domestic production, India imports more than $10 billion worth of edible oils. Similarly, we are seeing an increasing demand for healthy foods such as kiwi and avocado in cities; this is primarily served by imports. With reforms, investments can come in and farmers will be able to gather the market intelligence to diversify crop mix, increase domestic productivity to substitute imported crops, and lead India to complete self-sufficiency.The reforms will also provide an opportunity to agribusinesses to build consistent supply and standardised variety by direct procurement from farmers, run their operations more efficiently, and boost export volumes and share of food processing. This will also help eliminate other system inefficiencies such as high intermediary and logistics costs. For example, at least 1,000 seed potato farmers in Punjab, northern Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh have benefited from an increase of 10%-30% in productivity and 35% margin above cost under agreement with Technico Agri Sciences Limited (a subsidiary of ITC). There are thousands of examples of agribusinesses working with farmers leading to higher farmer income and development of agribusinesses. Beyond the investment in traditional agribusinesses, market reforms will drive innovation in the sector and allow new business models to evolve. Different businesses such as farm management services, quality grading and assaying centres, Grade-A warehousing companies, digital marketplaces, are nascent but growing. Innovative business models will attract more investor money and can achieve scale and improve productivity; improvement in post-harvest management will reduce wastage; and digital marketplaces will increase reach and market linkages.Market reforms will also drive private capital formation in the sector and give a boost to the rural economy. Capital formation in agriculture and allied industries has been stagnant with less than 2% CAGR over the last five years and private sector investments are further declining due to gaps in access. With the new market reforms, we will see growth in private sector investment across the value chain. This will create new jobs in allied sectors such as logistics service providers, warehouse operators and processing unit staff. We will also see multi-generational agriculture jobs — children of farmworkers can now aspire to become FPO CEOs or managers for procurement and marketing, without having to go to cities for such opportunities. India is at the cusp of a new frontier in agriculture growth and development — one that farmers, businesses, government and consumers will build together. Different government initiatives have been leading us down this path, and with the passing of the two Acts, we are now well-poised to make the vision of doubling farmer income, building India as the food basket of the world, and providing livelihoods in the agriculture and allied sectors a reality.Rajnath Singh is defence minister and has served as agriculture minister The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/creating-a-new-farm-ecosystem/story-g9GgDPlruF77QkPzz6vhwJ.html
20-09-2020||News||For marriage ‘equality’ that is truly equal||Since January, a petition challenging the applicability of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, to heterosexuals has been pending in the Kerala High Court. The petitioners are two gay men — 35-year-old Nikesh PP and 31-year-old Sonu MS —who had a wedding ceremony in the parking lot of a temple in 2018, and then petitioned the court to have their marriage legally solemnised under the secular law that came into existence to facilitate marriages between inter-faith and inter-caste couples who didn’t want to marry under religious personal laws.On September 8, another petition was filed in the Delhi High Court seeking recognition of gay marriages within the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, by intersex rights activist Gopi Shankar, the founder of lesbian collective Sakhi, Giti Thadani, transgender rights activist G Oorvasi and writer Abhijit Iyer Mitra. Their petition states that Section 5 of the Act did not specify that marriage must be between a Hindu man and a Hindu woman, but instead refers to marriage between “two Hindus”. The petition invoked Articles 14 (equality), 21 (life and personal liberty), and 25 (freedom of religion), arguing that the right to marry was thus part of the fundamental rights of Hindu LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender) couples.But there is much more to the issue of marriage equality than seeking it for only for Hindu LGBT persons.How one chooses to demand change — and for whom — is crucial. For one, calling it same-sex marriage is trans-exclusionary, because not every trans person identifies within the binary gender formulation. Hence, same-sex points to gay or lesbian couples, but excludes transmen, transwomen and other gender queer identities. The exclusion is egregious because even the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, passed in December 2019, does not touch upon transgender persons’ right to marry. Marriage equality, at a bare minimum, must allow consenting adults to enter into this form of partnership, irrespective of their sexual orientation or gender identity, across castes and religions. But that’s just one part of it.At the heart of the debate on granting marriage equality to LGBTI people (the I stands for inter-sex) people is a fundamental contradiction between the right to choose one’s partner and the reality that in the social contract of marriage in India, individual choice is often insignificant, and individual autonomy non-existent. The right to individual autonomy with respect to choosing a partner has been read into constitutional articles by the Supreme Court in path-breaking judgments such as the Hadiya case. Here, the court protected the right of Hadiya, an adult woman who converted from Hinduism to Islam, and wished to remain married to Shafin Jahan, a choice that was opposed by her father, who moved the Kerala High Court to regain control over his “child”. Countless other inter-caste, inter-religious and intra-gotra couples have faced violence, and even been murdered. This has a stifling effect on the freedom to choose one’s partner. In fact, the architect of the Indian Constitution, BR Ambedkar had pointed out decades ago, “As long as caste in India exists, Hindus will hardly intermarry or have any social intercourse with outsiders...”The feminist movement has critiqued the unequal power structures within the institution of marriage, which the courts have tried to balance through judgments over decades. The inequality written into the institution is both a function of social norms as well as regressive legislation, such as the non-criminalisation of marital rape and the failure of the executive to right this wrong. That women’s consent is considered unimportant in heterosexual marriages is our cue that marriage equality is more than a debate about making it legal for LGBTI people.Perhaps a more radical solution needs to be imagined: A partnership of equals in a format that empowers individuals whether straight or queer, married or in live-in relationships, to form contracts that they choose, whether of property or insurance or to avail tax benefits, and where religion, caste and gender identity are irrelevant.It also cannot continue to be left to the courts to do the duty of the executive. The State must step up to its responsibility in guaranteeing constitutional rights, ensuring that a free choice to enter egalitarian legal partnerships is granted, upheld and protected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/for-marriage-equality-that-is-truly-equal/story-DpIlyrUMQFXrXV3I610TOL.html
