22-09-2020||News||To sell Air India, reframe the terms||Air India’s (AI) third attempt to secure a buyer is likely to draw a blank. The bid, which closes on October 30, is expected to be postponed again. The restrictive terms have scared away buyers each time. The government believed buyers would line up despite the huge liabilities. Every year of delay will only make AI less attractive to any potential buyer. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri was candid enough to admit in Parliament: “With Rs 60,000 crores debt, the choice is not between privatisation and non- privatisation...but between privatisation and closing down.” In the new terms proposed, the government wants to offer 100% equity for sale of the airline and has wisely bundled Air India Express (the low-cost carrier unit) along with engineering and other subsidiaries — including its stake in joint ventures in catering, cargo, ground handling and other operations. It has excluded all real estate assets across the country, including the AI building in Mumbai.But there’s still an astronomical debt of around Rs 23,000 crore that is part of the bid. The ostensible logic here is that the assets are also of an equal amount. And therein lies the rub. While the debts are determinate, the assets are not. Most aircraft are on lease. Other high-value assets, including planes, which have been purchased over the years, and contracts will be of questionable value. There are allegations of corruption, and investigations by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and other agencies are in full swing.It is impossible for bidders to complete due diligence in such a short time-frame to get a realistic asset value to be able to make a bid. The lease rentals earlier negotiated may also have to be renegotiated. The government cannot deny these apprehensions as it has itself initiated enquiries and is keen to press charges.Closing the airline cannot be an option. That will mean wilfully absorbing all the liabilities while losing the best value that could be realised via a thought-through transparent bidding process in a timely manner. That is feasible only if AI is sold as a going concern. Though it has lost its sheen, it is still a much-loved brand, and has huge potential that can be unlocked by the right strategic investor, provided the government makes comprehensive changes in the terms. AI has a vast domestic and global network to key destinations, assured time slots and space in prized airports with airside access, hangars, engineering backbone, infrastructure, trained engineers and flight crew, bilateral rights, assurance of continued protection of those rights, huge aircraft orders with delivery timelines, and revenue of around Rs 25,000 crore, which can be doubled with better management in a short period. All these can ratchet up its valuation to about Rs 50,000 crore, comparable to rival carrier Indigo, by listing it after three to four years with the right restructuring, management and leadership. Offering AI as a zero-debt company will enable quicker and easier due diligence by bidders. In turn, they will gain confidence in what they are buying because it’s not easy to assess the huge inventory of aviation assets and numerous complex contracts. The failed bid of Jet Airways should be an eye-opener. Here are a few more suggestions that may attract more bidders. First, the bidding process must be a global, open, transparent electronic tender. The shortlisted bidders must first deposit the reserve price in an escrow and the bidding must commence and end within six to eight hours. It must not be a closed “sealed envelope” bid, as is often the practice which, apart from being vulnerable to malpractice, won’t get the best price. It should be an open auction where each bidder can increase the bid price after viewing the offer price of other bidders. But to get the highest valuation possible, the government must hold pre-tender meetings and understand bidder apprehensions before tender documents are finalised. This is key to attracting the highest number of bidders. The employees’ question may be the biggest deal-breaker. AI is overstaffed — its staff strength is over 30,000 if all contracted employees are included. The new owner must be allowed to retain only the minimum number of employees per aircraft. The staff strength per aircraft in Indigo is around 70 compared with about 470 in AI, and to be fair, the government must settle laid-off employees through an attractive voluntary retirement scheme by selling some of the airline’s real estate assets. AI’s trained and skilled manpower of pilots, engineers and cabin crew will definitely be needed by the new management. But the latter must have total freedom on this decision.This will facilitate a competitive playing field so that the company that wins can focus on the airline. The successful bidder should mandatorily be made to list AI on the stock exchange within 36 months of the takeover, prescribing minimum levels of Indian public holding of the stock so that it continues being looked up to as a national carrier. If the auction is marketed and managed well, AI will entice many buyers. Those managing the bid must do things differently. It may be pertinent to recall what Albert Einstein said: “Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results”. Captain Gopinath is founder, Air Deccan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-sell-air-india-reframe-the-terms/story-P2Y5xGdgUpAyXkkexHLHRJ.html
22-09-2020||News||India must take the lead in devising bio-defences||Although China may not have deliberately created Covid-19, it is possible that its release was the result of a lab accident at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which has been doing “gain-of-function” research on bat coronaviruses. Such research modifies a virus to make it deadlier or more transmissible — specifically, transmissible between species. We may never know the truth of the virus’s origin. But, the Covid-19 pandemic has shown the Chinese government what is possible: To decimate global economies without inviting a significant economic or geopolitical toll itself. So there are new dangers.Gene editing has now made it possible to engineer viruses whose effects range from Covid-19 to the bubonic plague. And the danger comes not only from governments: Rogue scientists and bio-hackers have access to the same tools. This is why India must take the lead in developing bio-defences. In my book, The Driver in the Driverless Car, I warned about the dangers of gene editing, forecasting that, in an era of bio-ethicists and bio-hackers, we will have to make difficult choices about whether to restrict the synthetic-biology technologies making the manufacture of these viruses possible. The danger is acute, the book explains, because in the near future, we will routinely have our genetic material analysed. With Artificial Intelligence (AI) and genomic data, scientists will decipher the complex relationships between DNA and biological processes and find treatments for diseases. Later in this decade, we will be able to download and “print” at home medicines, tissues, and bacteria custom-designed to suit our DNA and keep us healthy.As we are seeing with the development of vaccines for the Sars-CoV-2 virus, accelerated research and development is possible. In the past, the creation and testing of vaccine candidates against pathogens have taken decades. Now, we are on track to do it within months. There are several companies using genomic blueprints made of DNA or ribonucleic acid (RNA) to teach the body how to defend itself from Covid-19. By injecting these into human cells, they cause them to produce virus antigens — which the immune system reacts to. The Moderna Therapeutics and Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine candidates, now in phase-three clinical trials, were developed in weeks; it is conceivable that the same could be done in hours once the technologies are perfected.In the updated Indian edition of The Driver in the Driverless Car, I included details of a cancer-cure plan that I presented to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi at Kevadia, Gujarat, last October, a plan predicated on India’s readiness to embrace advancing technologies. With these, India has the potential not only to provide its people with the most-advanced medical care but also to cure cancer itself. It can lead the world in research and innovation and lay the foundation for a trillion-dollar medical industry. I proposed that in order to achieve this, India launch the largest clinical trial in world history and use technologies such as genomics, synthetic biology, sensors, 3D printing, and AI to analyse data and develop treatments. Not only will this provide direct benefit to cancer patients; the discoveries will lead to the creation of hundreds of start-ups in India and fuel innovation in the medical sciences. This is the type of initiative that India must launch in preparation for the next pandemic.India could also accelerate the process of testing vaccines — which has become the slowest part of the development cycle. In testing cancer drugs, for example, labs all over the world are creating three-dimensional cell cultures, “patient-derived organoids”, from a tumour biopsy. The leading company in this field, SEngine Precision Medicine, is able to test more than 100 cancer drugs on organoids, using the tumours rather than human subjects as guinea pigs. Researchers at Harvard’s Wyss Institute announced in January that they had developed the first human “organ-on-a-chip” model of the lung that accurately recapitulates human physiology and pathophysiology at organ sophistication. Massachusetts Institute of Technology engineers have been developing a microfluidic platform that connects engineered tissues from up to 10 organs, allowing the replication of human-organ interactions for weeks at a time and measurement of the effects of drugs on different body parts. Many more such systems are in development that could accelerate testing and treatment; and these are the missing component of bio-defence testing.All of these technologies can be designed and developed in India, with an investment comparable to the cost of the Mangalyaan and Chandrayaan-2 missions. In my conversation with him, I found PM Modi to be brilliant in understanding technologies and their potential. He was excited about having India take the global leader in medical research, and asked his chief scientific adviser, K Vijay Raghavan, to present him with a proposal to implement it by February. Then Covid-19 happened and all efforts were put on hold. It is time for India to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat by the coronavirus — and to implement the grand plans to build its bio-defences and benefit the world by curing disease.Vivek Wadhwa is a distinguished fellow at the Labor and Worklife Program of Harvard Law School and the author of The Driver in the Driverless Car: How Our Technology Choices Will Create the Future The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-must-take-the-lead-in-devising-bio-defences/story-ihNHSOmvUytCH9D9ASA5hM.html
22-09-2020||News||Devise a new labour law regime for gig economy workers||The Covid-19 pandemic has revealed multiple fault-lines in India’s economy and labour market. One prominent fault-line is visible in the domain of what is popularly known as the “gig economy”, or — more accurately — the platform economy. Earlier this summer, there were reports of a significant number of Ola drivers finding themselves unable to make ends meet because of the fall in revenue during the lockdown. More recently, there have been nationwide protests by Swiggy delivery workers, against their wage and working conditions. The root of the problem lies in an outdated labour law regime. Traditional labour law draws a distinction between employees or workmen, and independent contractors. The former enter into a defined relationship with their employer, characterised by features such as pre-set working hours, fixed wages, employer supervision, and so on. The latter, on the other hand, are deemed to negotiate their own terms with anyone willing to hire them. Under labour law, only the first category of workers is entitled to access the entire range of labour rights — from the right to a minimum wage, health and safety conditions and the right to collective bargaining. The employee/contractor binary, however, is based upon an outdated vision of work, where the factory or the shop floor was the predominant site of “work”. The platform economy is nothing of the sort. Thus, platform giants such as Uber, Ola and Swiggy invoke the fact that there are no fixed hours of work, that workers can log in and log out as they please, and there is no physical workplace. These platforms then claim an effective exemption from having to adhere to labour laws. This account, however, is a flawed account of the platform economy. In particular, it occludes how forms of physical control in the workplace have shifted to forms of digital control in the modern economy. Central to this is the app through which platforms function. In the case of Uber, for example, the app plays a central role: It serves as a gateway into the labour market; it is used to set prices over which drivers have no control; it is also used to award “ratings”, and the consequences of having one’s “rating” downgraded below a certain point can result in less lucrative work, or losing access to the app. It is clear that platforms retain significant amounts of control over workers (in some cases, through digital surveillance, even more control than traditional workspaces), and are in positions of power and dominance. From this perspective, there appears to be no justification in granting them immunity from following basic labour laws. However, for all these reasons, platform work remains very different from older forms of mainstream employment. Traditional tests of employment, therefore, are no longer enough. This has been recognised by courts all over the world, that have — while adjudicating “misclassification lawsuits” (ie, cases brought by platform workers arguing that the platform has wrongly classified them as independent contractors), found it difficult to employ traditional labour law frameworks, and have exhorted legislatures to develop new laws to deal with new forms of digital work. India’s draft labour codes do not yet address this issue, other than a few isolated provisions. This must change. It is vital that the law recognise platform workers as workers who are entitled to the full panoply of rights that labour laws accord to all workers, in the traditional sense. Efforts to this end are on in various jurisdictions — most notably in California. This endeavour is particularly urgent, as in its absence, platforms continue to take advantage of the regulatory vacuum, and exploit their workers. Carefully-drafted laws that recognise the reality of platform work, and guarantee to platform workers both procedural rights (such as collective bargaining) and substantive rights (such as minimum wages and safe working conditions) are the only solution to this problem. Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based advocateThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/devise-a-new-labour-law-regime-for-gig-economy-workers/story-eUgPxsALs8kokE40MddbGN.html
22-09-2020||News||The dangers of genetic engineering | Opinion||United States (US) President Donald Trump has said that Covid-19 either was intentionally engineered or resulted from a lab accident at the Wuhan Institute of Virology in China. He may be right about it having been a lab accident, and China bears responsibility for the carnage occurring worldwide. But the virus likely wasn’t deliberately engineered — despite recent reports.A research report in Nature Medicine contradicts the likelihood of intentional engineering of a pathogen for military use, on the basis that Sars-CoV-2 isn’t a mishmash of known viruses as the authors would expect of an engineered virus. “If someone were seeking to engineer a new coronavirus as a pathogen, they would have constructed it from the backbone of a virus known to cause illness,” the researchers said.But genetic engineering could well be the cause of the next pandemic — and India needs to be as prepared for this. Covid-19 has brought India’s economy to its knees even as it left China practically unscathed. This has undoubtedly brought home to the Communist Party of China (CPC) that biological pathogens can be as destructive as nuclear missiles — and have almost no geopolitical repercussions.What is worse, it isn’t just China. The technologies have democratised to such a degree that any country can engineer viruses. To start with, a lab would need to obtain the genetic information of viruses. The first genetic sequencing of the bacterium Escherichia coli was in the 1990s, when sequencing the bacterium’s four-and-a-half million base pairs took weeks of effort and tens of millions of dollars. Today, to spell out the three billion base pairs that dictate the construction and maintenance of a human being costs about $1,000 in the US and can be done in hours.The next step in engineering a virus is to modify the genome of the existing pathogen to change its effects. One technology in particular makes it almost as easy to engineer life forms as it is to edit Microsoft Word documents. Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) gene editing, developed only a few years ago, deploys the same natural mechanism that bacteria use to trim pieces of genetic information from one genome and insert it into another. This mechanism, which bacteria developed over millennia to defend themselves from viruses, has been turned into a cheap, simple, quick way to edit the DNA of any organism in the lab.To set up a CRISPR editing capability, the experimenter need only order a fragment of ribonucleic acid (RNA) and purchase off-the-shelf chemicals and enzymes on the Internet. Because it’s so cheap and easy to use, thousands of scientists all over the world are experimenting with CRISPR-based gene editing projects. Very little of this research is limited by regulations.China, having taken the lead because it puts technological progress ahead of all other concerns, including safety and ethics, has made the most astonishing breakthroughs.In 2014, Chinese scientists announced they had successfully produced monkeys that had been genetically modified at the embryonic stage. In April 2015, another group of researchers in China published a paper detailing the first-ever effort to edit the genes of a human embryo. The attempt failed, but it shocked the world: This wasn’t supposed to happen so soon. And then, in April 2016, another group of Chinese researchers reported having succeeded in modifying the genome of a human embryo not brought to term, in an effort to make it resistant to HIV infection. In November 2018, Chinese researcher He Jiankui announced that he had created the first “CRISPR babies” — infants whose genomes had been edited before birth. There was a global uproar, and this led the Chinese authorities — who, Jiankui claims, had supported his efforts — to jail him. But the Rubicon of biomedical science had been crossed. CRISPR isn’t the only genetic technology we need to worry about. A broader field, “synthetic biology”, is making the tools for genetic engineering widely available.Using brute-force DNA-manipulation methods, researchers have demonstrated that they can recreate deadly viruses such as that of smallpox, which took humanity decades to eradicate, and specimens of which are kept under high security in government labs in the US and Russia. In 2017, a research team at the University of Alberta in Canada created from scratch an extinct relative of smallpox, horsepox, by stitching together fragments of mail-order DNA. This took six months and cost about $100,000. Once the researchers had assembled the genome and introduced it into cells infected by another type of poxvirus, the cells began to produce infectious particles.Horsepox is not known to harm humans, but could be used to recreate smallpox — for a fraction of the cost the Alberta researchers expended — if edited with CRISPR.There should have been international treaties to prevent the use of CRISPR for gene-editing humans or animals; governments should have placed restrictions on labs doing the type of research that the University of Alberta and Wuhan Institute of Virology (among others) did. But there have been no checks or balances, and it is too late to stop the global spread of these technologies. The genie is out of the bottle. The only solution, now, is to accelerate the good side of these technologies and build defences. In the second part of this article tomorrow, I will explain the types of bio-defences that India can and must build.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-dangers-of-genetic-engineering-opinion/story-i1syP6tiQAg16EQ5A7jLSL.html
