25-09-2020||News||The key role of CSIR in the battle against Covid | Opinion||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), one of the first publicly-funded Science & Technology (S&T) research organisations in India, turns 79 today. CSIR has played a crucial role in shaping the developments of modern Indian society, and the Covid-19 pandemic is no exception. As India is seeing an accelerated increase in cases, there is an urgent need for innovations and products in drugs, diagnostics, surveillance and devices. In March, CSIR identified the unmet needs, assessed its strengths and capabilities for addressing the pandemic and adopted a multi-pronged strategy of working on diagnostics, surveillance, drugs, hospital assistive devices, personal protective equipment and supply chain and logistics. This strategy is now beginning to yield exciting solutions. A few days ago, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) formally approved the first indigenously-developed Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)/Cas9-based paper diagnostic test. Such a test puts the achievements of Indian innovators on the world map, as it has a resemblance to the similar tests in the United States (US), and yet has its own unique features that make it simpler to use. Similarly, the generic pharma industry might recollect the years when CSIR laboratories provided cheaper synthesis methods for drugs, as it has done during the current Covid-19 pandemic for remdesivir and favipiravir. Another bit of history might be in the offing as the first-ever Phase-2 clinical trials on a phytopharmaceutical drug candidate has begun after DCGI approval. Likewise, the immunotherapeutic drug, sepsivac has successfully completed Phase-2 trials on critically ill Covid-19 patients, and is now entering Phase-3 trials. CSIR is also working in collaboration with leading pharmaceutical industries for multiple-combination clinical trials in the country. With its engineering strengths, CSIR has been able to make devices like ventilators in record time, which are positioned to receive regulatory approval soon. CSIR-promoted technology in making rapidly deployable hospitals will also be implemented in the coming weeks. All these highly-visible developments now set the stage for the next wave of innovations, which promise to catapult India into the league of the most developed nations.The development of technologies against Sars-CoV-2, within a short time period, has been possible only due to the existing scientific strengths and infrastructure created within the CSIR ecosystem over the past several decades. It is interesting to note that among the many countries that became independent of colonial rule in the middle of the last century, India alone adopted a strong S&T policy — later even including it in its Constitution, a strategy that has yielded rich dividends. CSIR being one of the earliest S&T institutions in the country has played a major role in implementing S&T strategies for the development of the country. Ever since its inception in 1942, CSIR has carried out the pursuit of fundamental science at one end of the S&T canvas, and translated it for societal connect at the other. These distinct-yet-connected aspects demanded that CSIR develop a strong interface with industry and help promote innovations in S&T. The entire spectrum of activities of CSIR, between these two extremes, over the last 78 years, has been fascinating to watch. The implementation of these required establishing strong S&T infrastructure, promoting scientific entrepreneurship, development of programmes for industrial progress through S&T solutions, and bringing the benefits to society. The recent contributions of CSIR towards Covid-19 mitigation in a short span of a few months exemplify the support that the organisation has provided over the years. The industrial and societal connect of CSIR has seen many technologies being adopted at such a large scale that these often get masked by the fact that they once were developed in its laboratories. For example, the technology to make parboiled rice, widely used in many states, was developed at CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Mysuru. India became one of the top countries worldwide in the production of Mentha, thanks to the pioneering efforts carried out at CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Jammu. The rise of the generic pharmaceutical industry and the goal of making many drugs affordable were facilitated by efforts at CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), Pune and CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Hyderabad. Yet another illustrative example is how the strong infrastructure like the wind tunnel in CSIR-National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL) at Bengaluru was critical in deploying many strategic programmes in space and defence sectors.On the occasion of the 79th CSIR Foundation Day, it is worth recalling that the industrial connect has been in the CSIR genes from the beginning. Among the persons who played a critical role in the formation of CSIR was Khwaja Abdul Hamied, the founder of CIPLA. Interestingly, CSIR and CIPLA launched Ciplenza recently for use in Covid-19 patients continuing this decades-old partnership. The recent partnership of CSIR and Tata Sons for the CRISPR/Cas diagnostic test brings back memories of the support to CSIR at its inception from the house of Tata, which not only gave generous financial support but also garnered public support for funding CSIR. Thus, promoting socio-economic development of the country through S&T innovations forged in partnership with industry has been a defining feature of CSIR from 1942 to 2020. From bringing in self-reliance indelible ink to the fight against Covid-19, CSIR has played a vital role and shall do so in any future pandemic or calamity that may emerge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-key-role-of-csir-in-the-battle-against-covid-opinion/story-bVo8zdbzynhPz6THZ8AFYI.html
25-09-2020||News||Farm bills are welcome, but farmers need a rights-based protection law | Analysis||A decade ago, a few top Indian companies entered the fruit and vegetable market in Himachal Pradesh (HP). For the first few years, they gave farmers a good price for their entire produce. As their control over the market grew, they bought the best quality produce and left the rest to be sold by farmers at depressed prices through the weakened mandi system. Whenever prices increased, the companies sold in mandis, depriving farmers the benefit of higher prices. They built cold storages for themselves, but not for the farmers. Whatever mechanisation happened for farmers was through government schemes. Farmers may have got more for their produce because of the corporates, but profitability has not increased as input costs — labour wages and fertilisers — have almost doubled during this period. The farm reforms bills — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — approved by Parliament this week will initially do what corporates did in HP; push up prices in the initial years and eventually control the agriculture trade. They may then manipulate prices as commission agents in the mandis do. This is a big danger to farmers. They could take on commission agents through the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), which provides for quick dispute resolution. But, in the case of corporates, according to the proposed laws, grievance redressal is through civil courts, which could take years. The government has said that the minimum support price (MSP) will remain in place. But, the question is whether the private player will buy at MSP or not. The farm bills are silent on this and experience from various states shows that they may not, especially in years when the crop is good. This year, less than 1% of wheat in Bihar, where the APMC Act was abolished in 2006, was bought by the state government and the rest, farmers’ organisations claim, was bought by private players at less than the MSP. In Punjab and Haryana, which has a strong APMC-regulated mandi system, about 90% of wheat this summer was bought at the MSP by government agencies. So, Punjab and Haryana farmers get price protection while those in Bihar do not. The claim that mandis control farm prices is not entirely true. Only 36% of agricultural produce is sold through mandis, mainly in the food bowl states of Haryana and Punjab, where the farmers are most agitated against the current bills. This is because APMC reforms initiated from the time of the previous National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 2003 through the APMC Model Act has opened the agriculture trade in most states. Electronic trading and direct sale of produce to buyers in allowed in 22 states, deregulation of markets has taken place in 17 states, selling in private markets is allowed in 21 states, according to the 2019 state agriculture ministers’ conference report. The changed scenario in most states allows the farmer to choose between private buyers and the regulated mandi system. The farms bills, by abolishing the second option, leaves farmers at the mercy of unregulated private players. Both mandi and private buying should be based on the principle that a farmer has the right to recover inputs costs plus make some profit. There should be a base price for all agriculture and horticulture crops (a long-standing demand of farmers) below which the produce cannot be sold. Buying at a lower price should invoke penal action against the buyer and commission agent. The government can still have a higher MSP for limited crops they want to procure for food security and the public distribution system (PDS). A base price will ensure a fair price for every farmer, removing MSP limitations, which cover only 22 crops. Such a mechanism would help both farmers and private buyers as it will bring about transparency and accountability in the farm trade. It would be best if this mechanism is introduced through a rights-based farmer-protection law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/farm-bills-are-welcome-but-farmers-need-a-rights-based-protection-law/story-xnMhU4zd2OOQz21jDNpODK.html
