28-09-2020||News||UN must go back to its original mandate||The United Nations (UN) is observing the 75th anniversary of its founding amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Heads of States/governments marked the occasion with speeches delivered through the digital medium. They applauded the UN and the role it has played in the maintenance of international peace and security and in addressing major social and economic challenges. The reality is that the original and uplifting vision, which underlay the establishment of the UN, has lost its focus. The UN faces a crisis of credibility at the root of which is the enfeeblement of the spirit of internationalism and related to that, the diminishing role of multilateral processes in addressing cross-cutting and global challenges. This is evident in the marginal role that the UN is playing in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic and the doubts expressed over the credibility and effectiveness of the World Health Organization (WHO) in mobilising the international community in the fight against the virus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of the concerns of countries like India and the need for reform in his address to the UN.Despite the pandemic being a global crisis, it is being tackled as a public health emergency mostly at the national level. The results are suboptimal as is to be expected. The pandemic has spawned a major economic crisis, but countries are held in thrall by the growing confrontation between the largest and the second-largest economies of the world: The United States (US) and China. Without a minimal agreement between them on supporting the recovery of the global economy and trade, it is impossible to recreate the G-20 collaboration which dealt successfully with the global financial and economic crisis of 2007-08. The World Trade Organization has been rendered irrelevant by the growing salience of large multi-nation regional trade and investment arrangements such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) and the increasing recourse to bilateral deals. Both global economy and trade flows are becoming fragmented and the international economic environment is less conducive to the development of countries like India. Multilateralism is more important to emerging countries whose bargaining clout is still limited. But India, too, appears to have adopted the current preference among major countries to deal with issues through a narrower and more self-centred nationalism prism. The UN today is a depleted version of its founding ideals and there are several reasons for this. Its original democratic impulse, limited though it was by the institution of the UN Security Council with five permanent members with veto power, is now weak. Resolutions of the UN General Assembly are rarely taken seriously. Its agenda is limited by the narrow sensitivities of its most powerful members. A major problem relates to finance. The assessed contributions to the UN, based on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of its members, is barely enough to support the UN establishment leaving virtually nothing for its wide range of activities, including peace-keeping. The UN and its specialised agencies are able to engage in their mandated activities only through project funding from major donor countries. They determine where and how these funds will be spent. It should come as no surprise, therefore, that the activities of the UN are heavily oriented towards the preferences of the donors and not the priorities of its larger membership. Developing countries who are in the category of middle powers, such as India, Indonesia, Brazil, South Africa and Mexico, for example, could prevent the capture of the UN by a small cluster of richer countries, China now among them, through larger contributions to the general budget. However, even among these countries the tendency is to mimic the behaviour of the affluent countries. They, too, would rather seek to influence the activities of the UN to pursue their own foreign policy aims rather than serve the larger purpose of a relatively more autonomous UN.It is now apparent that in key areas of technology and public health, large multinational corporations are playing an increasingly influential role. The turnover of five big tech companies, Amazon, Google, Apple, Microsoft and Facebook together exceeds the GDP of some of the largest economies of the world at over $5 trillion. They run large philanthropic foundations and agencies but it would be naïve to think that their activities are de-linked from their business interests. When the UN becomes a partner of these foundations and receives funds from them, then it is unlikely to encourage any questioning of their activities. The credibility of the UN is further undermined through these associations.The major powers and more affluent nations have no interest in leading the UN back to its original vision and mandate. They are comfortable with its current role as their handmaiden and its collaboration with big business. It is the large constituency of developing countries, including middle powers like India, whose interests would be served by a UN which in its role and activities, truly reflects the interests of its larger membership. I recall my experience as India’s Alternate Representative to the Committee on Disarmament (CD) in the early 1980s. The Disarmament Secretariat led by Ambassador Rikhi Jaipal, played the role of adviser and counsellor to the Non-aligned and Neutral Countries in the CD, helping them set the agenda, marshall their arguments and acquaint them with procedural issues. If such secretarial positions are financed by project funds, independence of action by UN functionaries is impossible. It is these fundamental issues which need to be addressed by the UN at 75 if it is to regain its credibility and effectiveness. Shyam Saran is a former foreign secretary and senior fellow, CPR The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/un-must-go-back-to-its-original-mandate/story-xICJGY0B40huYjYtTOuLlL.html
28-09-2020||News||Pakistan’s opposition, public increasingly irked by the military’s role in politics||Former Pakistan prime minister (PM), Nawaz Sharif’s, defiant roar summarises both his biography and Pakistan’s history over the past three decades. The occasion was an opposition conference on video on September 20. Quite apart from what the former PM said, the occasion was significant. The conference was hosted by the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP). It brought together all the major opposition parties and leaders. The Pakistan Muslim League (N) — Nawaz Sharif’s party — coordinating action with the PPP has not been seen for some time. These two together make up a large chunk of the political spectrum and both are now increasingly led by charismatic next generation leaders — Nawaz Sharif’s daughter Maryam Nawaz and Benazir Bhutto’s son Bilawal Bhutto Zardari. What is common to both is that they attach to their names that of a parent who was the political face of Pakistan for long periods of its history — Nawaz Sharif and Benazir Bhutto. This is dynastic politics, of course, but it is also real politics. What made the news most was Nawaz Sharif’s broadside against Prime Minister Imran Khan and his government, of course, but more against those “who installed Imran Khan and who manipulated elections to bring an incapable man like him into power and thus, destroyed the country”. Khan’s failures of economic and foreign policy, on Kashmir, Pakistan’s international isolation, alienation from Saudi Arabia and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the stagnation of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), thus formed one aspect of the speech. The real firepower was in the references to the erosion and throttling of democracy, that “every child knows that no prime minister has been allowed to complete five years in power”, of a “state above the state”. All this refers to the role of the military — euphemistically called the establishment — in politics. What has been less reported than his references to the military and the generals were the comments about the judiciary and how it acts in concert with the military.Nawaz Sharif has been PM longer than anyone else — in all over nine years but spread over three terms in which the first (November 1990-July 1993) and the third (June 2013-July 2017) are separated by a quarter of a century. While the military, or at least certain generals, had much to do with his meteoric rise through the 1980s, once PM, Nawaz Sharif acted as if he was in charge. His first tenure ended, therefore, with a bitter feud with the president; the second with a coup after General Pervez Musharraf’s Kargil misadventure; the third with what amounted to a judicial coup – or so at least many in Pakistan felt. In each of the three terms, his party had a majority but this was no defence against the forces arrayed against him.The third term was marked by near constant friction with the military on a whole range of issues. A close political associate and astute observer, former foreign minister Sartaj Aziz, has recently written: “Nawaz Sharif’s transition away from the military establishment grew incrementally when his core political interests or stakes were threatened by the absence of real democracy”. Nawaz Sharif’s second and third terms stand out for his willingness to walk Pakistan’s most dangerous minefield — relations with India. That story is well known. The point, however, is that Nawaz Sharif understood intuitively that his authority as PM could be cemented only by limiting the role of the military and for this to happen some improvement of relations, if not normalisation with India, was essential. Sartaj Aziz also notes, “Fundamentally, Nawaz Sharif did not fully comprehend the depth and strength of de facto forces and also ignored the importance of a broader coalition of political forces for establishing the supremacy of democratic institutions.” Whether this present front of opposition unity and better atmospherics between the leaders of the PML-(N) and the PPP, therefore, heralds something new happening in Pakistan is too early to say. Nawaz Sharif stands disqualified from politics for life and effectively in exile. Most Pakistani politicians in the opposition are fearful of the skeletons in their cupboards and the risk of jail or worse is real. Yet for all this both the PML-(N) and the PPP have remained largely intact with no major desertions or breakaways in the past two years. Khan’s problems, on the other hand, are mounting — not the least of which is managing the growing clamour in public discourse that the military is too involved in national affairs. Nawaz Sharif’s speech is designed clearly at advancing this discourse. Certainly he knows that what displeases the military more than anything else is an open discussion of its political role. Possibly he believes that agitation on this front will increase pressure — both on Khan and the military — and mistakes happen under pressure. The September speech may well mark Nawaz Sharif’s fourth foray into Pakistan’s murky terrain of curbing the military. If that is so, then describing Nawaz Sharif as epitomising a man with his future behind him may well sum up his biography as also Pakistan’s political history. T C A Raghavan is a former high commissioner to Pakistan. He is currently director-general, Indian Council of World Affairs The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/pakistan-s-opposition-public-increasingly-irked-by-the-military-s-role-in-politics/story-M46BvE5zUDfqBfIg426xgM.html
28-09-2020||News||To beat the pandemic, begin mass campaign on safety protocols||As the Covid-19 cases keep increasing, people across the world are desperate for a solution. While many vaccine trials are ongoing, should we treat the vaccine as a silver bullet, an exclusive solution to the pandemic? Perhaps not. Developing vaccines takes time. Historically, the world’s fastest vaccine to be developed – for mumps – took five years. A vaccine receives regulatory approvals after rigorous tests for efficacy and patient safety. And then, there is the challenge of inoculating billions of people in diverse countries. The little that we know about what curbs the spread of the virus forms the basis of Covid-19 safety advisories: Wearing masks, social distancing, and handwashing give us a reasonable degree of protection. Yet, as soaring case numbers indicate, there is a gap between the mass communication of Covid-19 prevention information and its uptake.We, in India, can perhaps find lessons in how we faced another challenge not so long ago. Accounting for 60% of global cases, India was once the world’s polio epicentre. We had the vaccine; however, what was lacking was mass understanding of the need to immunise children well in time. Such was the distrust among many people that in many cases, vaccinators were regularly turned away. In the face of this resistance, India’s polio vaccine campaign at the time leveraged opinion leaders and deployed a mass communication outreach to support behaviour change. The campaign’s compelling appeal gave frontline health workers the social licence to go door-to-door to ensure coverage. The campaign won the trust of communities at the grassroots level, making the two polio drops for infants socially acceptable. While India was familiar with vaccines (for smallpox, cholera, typhoid, and TB, among others) early on, the polio campaign was a unique one. Along with ending polio, the campaign provided the proof that vaccinations work; and, the collective journey to a polio-free India built a trust of vaccines among citizens. This month, a special Covid-19 edition of the Edelman Trust Barometer, which covered 3,400 respondents from seven countries (India, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, South Korea, and Singapore), found that at 83%, India has the highest receptivity rate for a government-approved, no-cost vaccine among the countries surveyed. In comparison, only 65% of all respondents in the seven countries surveyed were willing to take such a vaccine.India’s successful polio communication, exemplified by the vaccination efforts, can give us some learnings we can apply now. Considering that Covid-19 outbreaks take place at the community level, fighting the disease will also need concerted local action. According to Dr David Nabarro, World Health Organization Special Envoy for Covid-19, prioritising three universal essentials can help keep people safe: Wearing masks, hand hygiene and physical distancing. From rural hubs to urban wards, we require a mass campaign to communicate these fundamentals to every citizen through constant reiteration. The prevention campaign needs to engage large audiences. Places of congregation, like markets, offices, public transport, slums, and residential areas, must be specially targeted. Just as non-compliance with road safety rules leads to traffic fines and more, there must also be strict emphasis on compliance for the Covid-19 safety protocols. The campaign against the virus must also fight misinformation, a major risk amid an ‘infodemic’ of Covid-related content. As the economy reopens, it is imperative that there is sustained dissemination of Covid-19 prevention messages using every channel of mass communication, from posters, billboards and wall-writings to radio, TV, and social media. In addition to the three essentials, communication also needs to provide clarity on how the virus spreads. The vaccine will come in due course. Until then, stringent caution, robust communication of Covid-19 safety protocols, and compliance to trusted actions are the vaccine.Rakesh Thukral is managing director, Edelman India The views expressed are personal***||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-beat-the-pandemic-begin-mass-campaign-on-safety-protocols/story-Yme5vukLrGbmDPR4XdzIYP.html
28-09-2020||News||India’s old-age homes have been successful in staving off Covid-19||Globally, the Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on older people. In some Western countries, the average age at death due to Covid-19 is about 80 years. Covid-19 related mortality rates are high among the aged and in people with co-morbidities such as diabetes and high blood pressure. The virus affects the young, but does not cause severe disease and high death rates. In developed countries with good health care and social welfare systems such as Sweden, the United Kingdom (UK) and Canada, a large proportion of deaths were in old-age homes, usually referred to as care homes. In the West, care homes for the elderly are part of a well-developed social arrangement in which people voluntarily admit themselves into care homes when they cannot manage a home on their own, and need to be looked after since children do not usually take care of their parents. So, it is surprising how and why developed countries failed to protect the elderly against the virus.In India, however, most of the elderly either live with their children, alone with house help or with relatives. But in the last few years, there has been a surge in numbers of old-age care homes in big cities since children are increasingly moving to places, often far away from their parents. During the pandemic, on hearing that the elderly are at most risk and high mortality rates were seen in care homes, we dug a little deeper. The data published shows that at higher age groups especially after 50, the mortality from Covid-19 is much higher. The case fatality rate among people above 70 in India is upwards of 15%, while for those below 30 years it is 0.5% or lower. But surprisingly, there are no reports of deaths in India’s care homes. This is inexplicable, especially because outside of the elderly care homes, there is a high proportion of deaths among the elderly due to Covid-19. So, it would appear that in the West, care homes, which are well-funded, have good infrastructure, and are professionally managed could not protect the residents from the pandemic leading to a high number of deaths, whereas Indian old age homes have been able to protect the elderly against the Covid-19 pandemic despite lacking the resources and professional management. Our systematic study gives us a few insights: Informal inquires tell us that old-age care homes in India took several steps to protect their residents. The home administrators first stopped all contact with the outside world to the extent possible; decongested the old-age homes by sending some residents to stay with relatives; and stopped the infection from spreading by ensuring that care workers were given temporary accommodation in the homes themselves. Proper sanitisation of all the items from the outside including vegetables was being done on an everyday basis. They also sanitised the premises frequently. While it is difficult to believe, it was these simple steps taken by Indian old-age homes that seemed to have been able to ward off the deadly virus to a large extent. Are there any other explanations for this? A more thorough study on a larger sample of old-age care homes and sero-surveillance in the old age homes may tell us if the residents were not affected at all or had contracted a very mild form of the disease and were cured without treatment. Unfortunately, none of the research agencies or other individual researchers has been able to identify the course of developments in Indian old-age homes during the Covid-19 epidemic. So far, no one has taken the pains to study it in a scientific manner. If we embark on a serious study of the old-age care homes in India, it may open a new chapter in the ongoing process of understanding the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the elderly. This could prove interesting and educational and shed light on an aspect of the disease which has not been fully understood yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-s-old-age-homes-have-been-successful-in-staving-off-covid-19/story-X5NNnjgKIE9pEDdhmR9ZJK.html
28-09-2020||News||The monsoon session was a farce, writes Kapil Sibal||Proceedings in the recently-concluded sessions of Parliament have demonstrated that Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s concept of atmanirbharta (self-reliance) is not limited to the economic realm. These proceedings have also shown that in conducting the business of the House, the government is completely self-reliant: It does not need the Opposition, holds the views of other political parties in contempt, interprets procedures to suit itself and has no regard for the traditions of the House. This level of self-reliance saw parliamentary proceedings being converted into a farce.The quintessence of democratic functioning in the context of parliamentary proceedings is that members sit in one chamber. This allows for feisty debates, thoughtful interventions and an open exchange of views as millions watch. However, during this monsoon session, members of both Houses were divided between the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha, social distancing norms being the rationale. This resulted in many of us belonging to the Rajya Sabha being accommodated in the Lok Sabha, connected by a large TV screen, looking at the Chairman presiding over the Rajya Sabha chamber. Fifteen members of the Rajya Sabha from the Congress were in the Upper House, 10 in the chamber and five in the galleries, while the remaining 26 were accommodated in the Lok Sabha. At the best of times, while sitting in one chamber, it is tough to catch the Chairman’s eye to make a contribution or to raise a point of order.The majority of Congress members found it impossible to catch the Chairman’s attention. In effect, only 10 Congress members in the Rajya Sabha chamber were actively involved in the functioning of the House, while the majority was too far away to count. This logic was also true for other parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The essential element of parliamentary functioning is the significance of Question Hour. That is when ministers are made accountable. In this session, Question Hour was done away with. The only possible reason, albeit irrational, was that the sittings of each House were limited to four hours and, therefore, the accountability of the government was not as important as passing key legislations. The only chance the Opposition has to expose the ineptitude of Treasury Benches was thus excised. Without Question Hour, the public watching these proceedings had no opportunity to assess responses of the government on key national concerns.The other problem that made this session futile except for government diktats was its limited duration. Here the Rajya Sabha was at a disadvantage. The time allotted to it was from 9 am to 1 pm. The time allotted to the Lok Sabha was from 3 pm to 7 pm giving it the advantage of extension of its session by ascertaining the sense of the House. That advantage was not available to the Rajya Sabha since it had to end the session before 3 pm. This represented yet another form of discrimination.One wonders why this session became necessary at all. The Ordinances relating to one, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; two, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and three, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, could well have continued without calling this session, especially since there was no desire, considering the truncated nature of the proceedings, to either listen to the Opposition or for that matter allowing for reference of the bills either to the Standing Committee or Select Committee for a more thoughtful consideration. For amending other laws requiring urgent attention, that too could have been done through the ordinance route since the BJP has shown time and again that debate and discussion are not the preferred mode of transacting legislative business. As expected, the government was in no mood to refer any of these matters for further consideration. In light of the amendments moved, Opposition members demanded a division in the belief that 18 political parties in the Rajya Sabha, including those who otherwise support the BJP barring the Janata Dal (United), were opposed to the legislation in its present form. Had the division been allowed, that would have demonstrated widespread opposition to the ordinances. The deputy chairman, allegedly, refused to order a division thereby preventing political parties from making their stand clear by recording their votes of dissent something perhaps not palatable to government. What followed was pandemonium with marshals being deployed to bring order in the House. The Chair then suspended eight members of the House. All this acrimony is symptomatic of a mindset that brooks no opposition. The suspended members sat all night in protest under the gaze of the Mahatma in the Parliament house complex. The attempt by the deputy chairman to assuage their feelings by sharing a cup of tea with them in the morning was hardly a gesture that could have evoked a positive response. The session ended with the Opposition boycotting the remainder of the session with the leader of the Opposition registering his anguish at the manner in which the Chair treated him by curtailing his interventions.In fact, this government takes pleasure in silencing the Opposition. Any form of protest is regarded as an affront to the Chair and any dissonance from the Opposition benches is silenced by shutting off the microphone.To top it all, our self-reliant PM has never answered a question in either House since 2014. His preferred mode of communication is through monologues. A healthy dialogue is alien to his persona. He relies more on numerical rather than moral strength. It is time to say goodbye to the procedures which made Parliament the institution it was. Today, it is a pale reflection of its glorious past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-monsoon-session-was-a-farce-writes-kapil-sibal/story-YOax9g2WJh3bZwHttC96zJ.html
