29-09-2020||News||How the new farm bills are exploitative||Three farm bills — the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Bypass Bill, and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill — have disappointed farmers across the country. Before I come to the harsh provisions of the bills, I wish to note that their journey — without any meaningful consultation, debate, or majority in the Rajya Sabha — marks a new low in democratic lawmaking. The bills represent an unprecedented encroachment into the rights of the states: Agriculture is a state subject under the Constitution. The government introduced e-National Agriculture Market (eNAM) in 2016 to address issues arising from the inefficiencies in existing mechanisms and different APMC Acts in different states. Till May, the government was confident of adding more mandis to eNAM. However, the market was not well-designed and the states were not incentivised to push for its adoption. So, only 1,000 out of 6,900 APMCs had joined eNAM. As a result, the government’s hyperbole of doubling farmer incomes and offering them higher support prices has been exposed. A properly-implemented digital platform could have resulted in better terms for farmers. With the APMC Bypass Bill, even that halfhearted attempt to leverage digital technology as a step towards a unified agricultural market has been abandoned.APMCs have performed regulatory, match-making, and price discovery functions since inception. They have also assimilated the regional and local socio-economic landscape. Mandi fees and other associated costs of selling through APMCs constituted a key drawback as this reduced effective prices available to the farmers. This has needed reform for some time now. This could have been addressed by passing the burden of these costs to large corporate buyers, the use of technology, and by a financial line to the states to underwrite these expenses. This would have enabled APMCs to preserve its local character, allowed small and medium farmers to bargain collectively and to exchange crucial information. The Bypass Bill will help a few large farmers who can obtain favourable terms from buyers. Large buyers, in turn, driven by the need to minimise the cost of procurement, would prefer to deal with large farmers. This will create a separate ecosystem in which buyers divide up regions and large farmers among themselves, drive hard bargains and transact on terms that are publicly invisible. In the absence of a regulator, cartelisation of buyers and inferior terms for farmers cannot be prevented. The anti-competitive and exploitative impact of the bills has not been examined. Far from converging prices towards the minimum support price (MSP), the bills will create asymmetric markets in which farmers are the losers. In countless examples of privatisation from across the world, the “invisible hand” of regulation has been necessary to ensure favourable terms to those with the least bargaining power. The bills also lack any semblance of a genuine grievance redressal mechanism. Agriculture suffers from poor and uneven infrastructure and access to markets. In fact, there are too few mandis. As per the National Commission on Farmers, there should be a mandi every 80 sq km; there is only one every 435 sq km. Farmers hold a low share of warehousing facilities and have no access to good agri-logistic facilities like cold chain infrastructure and reliable grading and assaying facilities. Privatisation of trading will selectively benefit peri-urban farmers with access to better infrastructure and literate farmers, though the caveats listed here would continue to apply to them. The only important example of a large-scale experiment with the abolition of APMCs is available from Bihar, which repealed the APMC Act in 2006. Studies in the state have concluded that there has been little change in the way farmers sold their produce before and after the repeal. Small farmers continue to sell to traders on unfavourable terms, even when transport facilities are available. In any case, widely varying efficiency and modalities with which the Act has been implemented in the states make interstate comparisons meaningless.The bills divert attention from the anti-farmer stance of the government. Small and marginal farmers form 86% of the farming community and contribute over 50% of crop output. This majority faces substantial bottlenecks in connecting to markets and the bills bring no relief to them. There has been no systematic attempt by this government to infuse capital, technology and knowledge to make farming on small land-holdings profitable. In the absence of infrastructure, small and most medium farmers will continue to turn to local traders. With the marginalisation of APMCs, this relationship will turn even more adverse for the farmer. Input cost-price mismatch will worsen and rural indebtedness; as per the National Sample Survey Office, a farming household is likely to have 630% higher debt-to-asset ratio in 2013 than in 1992, and this has worsened in the last six years. Starting with demonetisation, withdrawal of support to agricultural research, the steep fall in international commodity prices, disruption of logistics on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, and forcing of APMCs into irrelevance are likely to push millions of farmers deeper into poverty and encourage profiteering, widen income and wealth inequalities and fuel social unrest.These reasons should convince us that while agricultural marketing and procurement need examination, this needs extensive consultation, most importantly with farmers, the organisations that represent them, and state governments, whose experience with the farm sector is much more vast, diverse, and nuanced than that of the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-new-farm-bills-are-exploitative/story-wIiWHtJWAvQDXrRQ3HVxAP.html
29-09-2020||News||2020 is the year of Indian-Americans, and they’re not with Trump||Throughout the 232-year history of the United States (US) presidential elections, India had rarely been a campaign issue. The current election, pitting President Donald Trump and former vice-president Joe Biden, is changing that. With the election day less than seven weeks away and early voting already in progress in several states, both campaigns are touting their strong support for India.Foreign leaders and the politics of other countries become issues in US presidential campaigns only when they have direct implications for the US or foreign policy consequences. The exceptions have been Israel and Cuba. They are perennial campaign issues because of the presence of a large number of voters who have an interest in the domestic politics of those countries.India has become a campaign issue in the current election cycle for this same reason. Both the Trump and Biden campaigns are touting their support for India to woo the 1.8-million Indian-American voters, who have a strong presence in battleground states such as Florida, Pennsylvania and Michigan.Indian-American populations in swing states, such as Pennsylvania, Michigan and Florida are large enough to tilt the race one way or the other. According to a survey by AAPI Data, which tracks demographic data on Asian-Americans and Pacific Islander communities, there are 87,000 Indian-American voters in Florida, 61,000 in Pennsylvania, and 45,000 in Michigan.These are among the dozen states that will decide the fate of Trump and Biden on November 3. To put the size of the Indian-American electorate in context, Trump won Michigan in 2016 by 13,080 votes and Pennsylvania by 44,292.Trump’s campaign was the first to start focusing on India. Trump, who had professed his “love” for “Hindus” during his insurgent campaign in 2016, appeared with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in two public events over the past 12 months, in Houston last year and in Ahmedabad in February. For its part, the Biden campaign has also been courting the Indian-American community aggressively. On August 15, India’s Independence Day, Biden and vice-presidential nominee Kamala Harris addressed the Indian-American community, where both vouched their strong support for India.Until recently, neither the Democratic nor the Republican Party made any concerted effort to earn Indian-American votes. This was due to the relatively small size of the Indian-American electorate and the fact that it was concentrated in reliably Democratic states such as California, New York and New Jersey and routinely voted Democratic.This year, the Indian-American electorate is on the radar screens of both Democrats and Republicans. Around 56% of Indian-American registered voters told the AAPI Data pollsters that they have been contacted by the Democrats in the past year and 48% said they were approached by the Republicans. Even though Trump was the first to begin targeting Indian-American voters, he doesn’t appear to have made a lot of progress. The recent AAPI Data survey found that only 28% of Indian-Americans plan to vote for Trump. Two-thirds of the registered voters said they will vote for Biden. There are many reasons the president hasn’t been able to move the needle substantially with the Indian-American community. First and foremost is the former vice-president’s long track record as a supporter of India, dating back to his Senate days. Second, Trump’s approach to India, much like his approach to politics and governing, in general, has primarily been one of sloganeering rather than consistency in policy positions. Finally, similar to a vast majority of Americans outside of Trump’s base, Indian Americans perceive the Trump presidency as one of chaos and confrontation for the US, India and the world.  At this point in time, however, it appears that verdict will be that Donald Trump should be a one-term president and that India should start developing its future relations with Joe Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/2020-is-the-year-of-indian-americans-and-they-re-not-with-trump/story-yREJNlDKVrD8I3OQplVEfO.html
29-09-2020||News||The impact of Covid-19 on state economies||An unfortunate consequence of Covid-19 is the adverse impact on the economy. India’s economy contracted by 23.9% in the first quarter of the fiscal year, according to data from the government. It reveals that all sectors of the economy, except agriculture, shrank in the first quarter. Beyond the national level, however, we are keen to understand how state economies are doing. It might be a while before the data on state economies becomes available, so we used micro-data from the Google mobility report to analyse contractions in economic activity across states. We studied trends in the retail and recreation sector such as visits to restaurants, malls, commercial centres and so on to gauge the impact of Covid-19 on economic activity. The analysis reveals an overall sharp contraction of approximately 38% that still prevails across India, compared to the period prior to Covid (January 3 to February 6). The time trend shows an immediate decline of more than 75% as soon as the national lockdown was imposed and a further decline to approximately 85% by the end of April. The revival since has been slow and varied across states. Nevertheless, all states have experienced a severe contraction in mobility trends suggesting a sharp decline in economic activity. The biggest decline has been in states such as Manipur, Goa, Nagaland, Mizoram and Maharashtra while the least has been in Bihar, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. A natural hypothesis is that the extent and severity of the infection within a state would determine the magnitude of its economic slowdown. So we studied the relationship between Covid-19 prevalence (cases per million in the state) and severity (deaths per million) within a state and the economic contraction there. It is interesting to note that there is no discernible relationship between infection in a state and the decline in economic activity measured by mobility. It is puzzling to see states like Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram and Kerala witness a big decline in economic activity while the prevalence and severity of the infection remain low. Among large states, the biggest economic contraction is in Maharashtra. This is not surprising given the status of the infection in the state which is growing. Maharashtra has five districts within the group of the worst 10 affected districts in the country. If we proxy the government’s effort by the extent of Covid-19 testing, then Maharashtra has consistently reported the highest test positivity rate (TPR) in the country. The latest statistics show that this might worsen further. High and rising TPR indicates that the infection is way ahead of our knowledge from testing, as a larger fraction of cases is positive for every 100 tests. Against this reality, the performance of poorer states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar become noteworthy because they have maintained their TPR well below the World Health Organization prescribed benchmark of 5%. What remains a concern, however, is the growing share of antigen tests compared to the more reliable RT-PCR tests across states. In a meeting with the chief ministers of the seven biggest Covid-19-afflicted states, Narendra Modi stressed on increasing RT-PCR tests and emphasised on conducting follow up tests for all people who tested negative through the antigen tests. The policy implications from these empirical trends speak to health governance and the impact on the economy. Never before has the federal structure of health governance had such a profound bearing on India’s economy. Poor Covid-19 management in an economically-strategic state like Maharashtra affects the overall national fight against the virus and frustrates attempts at economic revival. A big decline in economic activity in states where the pandemic has been relatively muted in prevalence and severity also highlights the role of dispelling fear and panic among people. Until a vaccine becomes commonly available, we will have to learn to live with the virus. A low middle-income country like India cannot afford to be petrified into economic inaction. The Centre must take a leadership role and ensure better Covid-19 management — starting with Mumbai and Delhi. One can begin with the simplest policy objective of ensuring a minimum test positivity rate and share of RT-PCR in testing composition within these Covid-19 hotspot cities. India needs to reboot its Covid-19 strategy — for the sake of its economy. The pathway to economic recovery lies through the health care sector and collective Covid-19 management. Data shows that economic recovery has been higher and faster in several European countries struck by the pandemic in the summer months earlier this year. India, with a much lower mortality rate, continues to struggle with slow economic recovery. We need more confidence-building measures to overcome this. Data suggests that India has a high Covid-19 recovery rate and a majority of infected people are recovering at home with minimal intervention. The most credible strategy for economic recovery is easy access to Covid-19 testing and when required, easy access to hospital beds. This will dispel the widespread fear among people and help in boosting the economy. Without this, India’s economy will experience prolonged uncertainty and, therefore, a slow recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-impact-of-covid-19-on-state-economies/story-omzaH05tw6ahNSg5V5zgKK.html
29-09-2020||News||One million lives lost to Covid-19, writes WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus||One million people have now been lost to Covid-19 and many more are suffering because of the pandemic. This milestone is a difficult moment for the world but there are glimmers of hope that encourage us now and in the near future. Just nine months on from the virus first being identified, some of the best scientists in the world have collectively developed tests to diagnose cases, identified treatments like corticosteroids to reduce mortality in the most severe cases of Covid-19, and produced vaccine candidates that are now in final phase three trials. While we await further breakthroughs, we have seen that the virus can be effectively contained through the application of tried and tested public health measures. Many countries have driven an all-of-government, all-of-society response. With the right preparedness infrastructure in place, they were able to act early to contain outbreaks before transmission got out of hand. Thailand has a well-resourced medical and public health system. Informed by the best available scientific advice, and a trained and committed community health workforce, Thai authorities acted decisively to suppress the virus, to build trust and to increase public confidence.Italy was one of the first countries to experience a large outbreak outside China, and in many ways was a pioneer for other countries. Learning from the Wuhan experience, Italy put strong measures in place and was able to reduce transmission and save many thousands of lives. National unity and solidarity, combined with the dedication and sacrifice of health workers, and the engagement of the Italian people helped bring the outbreak under control. Although the Americas has so far been the most-affected region, Uruguay has reported the lowest number of cases and deaths in Latin America, both in total and on a per capita basis. This is not an accident. Uruguay has one of the most robust and resilient health systems in Latin America, with sustainable investment based on political consensus on the importance of investing in public health.Pakistan deployed the infrastructure built up over many years for polio to combat Covid-19. Community health workers who have been trained to go door-to-door vaccinating children against polio have been redeployed and utilized for surveillance, contact tracing and care. This has both suppressed the virus and, as the country stabilizes, the economy is also now picking up once again. Reinforcing the lesson that the choice is not between controlling the virus or saving the economy; the two go hand-in-hand. There are many other examples including Cambodia, Mongolia, Japan, New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Senegal, Spain, Vietnam and more. Many of these countries learnt lessons from previous disease outbreaks of SARS, MERS, measles, polio, Ebola and flu to hone their health system and respond to this new pathogen.But the key lesson is the same: No matter where a country is in an outbreak, it is never too late to turn things around. There are four essential steps that all countries, communities and individuals must focus on to take control the epidemic. First, prevent amplifying events. Covid-19 spreads very efficiently among clusters of people.Second, reduce deaths by protecting vulnerable groups, including older people, those with underlying conditions and essential workers.Third, individuals must play their part by taking the measures we know work to protect themselves and others – stay at least one metre away from others, clean your hands regularly, practice respiratory etiquette, and wear a mask. Avoid the “three Cs”: Closed spaces, crowded places and close-contact settings.And fourth, governments must take tailored actions to find, isolate, test and care for cases, and trace and quarantine contacts. Widespread stay-at-home orders can be avoided if countries take temporary and geographically-targeted interventions.The 75th session of the UN General Assembly provides a moment for the world to come together to reflect on the past year and to forge a collective way forward. This is critical, because this public health emergency of international concern needs a global solution.The global economy is expected to contract by $7 trillion in 2020 as a result of the pandemic. Only by tackling it together, will lives and livelihoods be restored. Launched in April this year, the Access to Covid-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator is the only global initiative offering a solution to speed up the end of the Covid-19 pandemic.With the largest portfolio of Covid-19 tools in the world, investing in the ACT-Accelerator increases the probability of being able to access the “winning candidate” and hedges the risk that countries that have already entered individual bilateral agreements end up with products that are not viable. It needs US$35 billion to meet the goal of developing new tools and producing and delivering 2 billion vaccine doses, 245 million treatments and 500 million diagnostic tests over the next year. That’s just 1% of what G20 governments have already committed to domestic economic stimulus packages.While today’s milestone gives us pause for reflection, this is a moment for us all to come together, in solidarity, to fight back against this virus. History will judge us on the decisions we do and don’t make in the months ahead. Let’s seize the opportunity and bridge national boundaries to save lives and livelihoods.Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus is director-general, World Health OrganizationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/one-million-lives-lost-to-covid-19-writes-who-chief-tedros-adhanom-ghebreyesus/story-z3CBZuvgKdf2W52ZqW2QPN.html
