29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘20% rural students lack books’||About 20% of rural children have no textbooks at home, according to the Annual State of Education Report (ASER) survey conducted in September, the sixth month of school closures due to COVID-19 across the country. In Andhra Pradesh, less than 35% of children had textbooks, and only 60% had textbooks in Rajasthan. More than 98% had textbooks in West Bengal, Nagaland and Assam. In the week of the survey, about one in three rural children had done no learning activity at all. About two in three had no learning material or activity given by their school that week, and only one in 10 had access to live online classes. However, it’s not always about technology; in fact, levels of smartphone ownership have almost doubled from 2018, but a third of children with smartphone access still did not receive any learning materials. Permission to States Although the Centre has now permitted States to start reopening schools if they can follow COVID-19 safety protocols, a majority of the country’s 25 crore students are still at home after seven straight months. The ASER survey provides a glimpse into the levels of learning loss that students in rural India are suffering, with varying levels of access to technology, school and family resources, resulting in a digital divide in education. ASER is a nationwide survey of rural education and learning outcomes in terms of reading and arithmetic skills that has been conducted by the NGO Pratham for the last 15 years. This year, the survey was conducted via phone calls, reaching 52,227 rural households with school age children in 30 States and Union Territories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/20-rural-students-lack-books/article32967953.ece
29 October 2020||Kolkata,||BJP hits the streets over custodial death||Protests, demonstrations and road blockades over allegations of political violence and custodial death returned to West Bengal on Wednesday, barely a couple of days after Durga Puja festival drawing to a close. State unit Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders held a protest at Gandhi Statue on Mayo Road in Kolkata over the alleged custodial death of Madan Ghorui, a BJP worker from Patashpur in Purba Medinipur district. Family members of Ghorui, along with State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu and Mahila Morcha president Agnimitra Paul held a demonstration for hours at the venue demanding probe by a central investigating agency into the death.  ‘Will he get justice?’ “Madan Ghorui, BJP booth vice-president who died in police custody, will he never get justice? All we asked for was a second post-mortem, which was granted but the State govt has been creating obstacles, WHY? What are you scared of Didi? This is police brutality and murder!,” West Bengal BJP tweeted from its official Twitter handle. On October 16 the Calcutta High Court ordered a fresh post mortem of the body at a State-run hospital and directed that the proceedings be video recorded. Late on Wednesday there was violence in Bagnan area of Howrah district over the death of another BJP worker Kinkar Majhi who, according to party leaders, was shot on Saturday night and succumbed to injuries. The party has also called for a 12- hour bandh in Bagnan on Thursday. State unit BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said that the administration is not giving the body of the BJP worker to the family saying he has tested positive for COVID-19. Several BJP supporters gathered at the State-run NRS Medical College and Hospital where Majhi’s post mortem was done. Mr. Basu said that more than 120 BJP supporters have been killed in political violence in the State in the past few years during the regime of Trinamool Congress. TMC’s new campaign Meanwhile, the Trinamool Congress has launched a digital ‘Mark Yourself Safe from BJP’ campaign across all it’s social media handles to “unite people against the wrongdoings committed by the BJP across the country”. “The website,savebengalfrombjp.com, has already seen over five lakh people mark themselves safe. The number is rising every hour. The Facebook group for this campaign also has nearly 82,000 members,” TMC said in a press statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-hits-the-streets-over-custodial-death/article32968177.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,||NHAI asked to rectify defects at NH 66-Ullal Road Junction||With frequent road accidents, including Tuesday’s death of a couple riding a two-wheeler exposing the chinks in the construction of the flyover on National Highway 66 at Thokkottu Junction, Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash on Wednesday directed the National Highways Authority of India to immediately address the issue. After inspecting the Ullal Main Road-NH 66 Flyover Junction where the couple on the motorcycle came under the wheels of a container truck on Tuesday, Mr. Vikash told The Hindu that the road geometry looked unscientific prima facie . No traffic from service roads should directly be allowed to enter or cross a highway; however, in this particular case, vehicles were allowed to cross NH 66 directly from the Thokkottu service road towards Ullal Main Road, he said. “I have told NHAI that it should ensure no accidents take place at Ullal Junction due to improper construction,” he said. Priya Fernandes (32) died on the spot in Tuesday’s accident, while her husband Rayan Fernandes died in a private hospital. While NHAI was directed to explore means to improve the junction geometry, the Mangaluru City Traffic Police would arrange for erection of speed breakers at the joining point of the Thokkottu service road with NH 66 near Ullal Junction, the Commissioner said. The immediate merger of traffic from the service road with that on the highway was incorrect, Mr. Vikash said and added that the police and NHAI would address issues one by one. He said that drivers of vehicles moving on the flyover cannot see vehicles coming from the service road and joining the highway immediately after the flyover’s down-ramp. Thus, both would be in danger, he said and added that such a scenario should be avoided. The Commissioner said that he was aware of the existence of the U turn ahead of the flyover and he would discuss the matter with NHAI and traffic experts shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nhai-asked-to-rectify-defects-at-nh-66-ullal-road-junction/article32968752.ece
29 October 2020||KOCHI,||ED records arrest of Sivasankar||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Wednesday night in connection with the money laundering angle of the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. His arrest was recorded by around 10.15 p.m. after nearly seven hours of questioning by the investigating team at the agency’s office here. Mr. Sivasankar will be produced before the Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, on Thursday. Anticipatory bail The day's drama unfolded after the Kerala High Court rejected his anticipatory bail in the morning. Two ED officials arrived at a private Ayurveda hospital in Thiruvananthapuram where Mr. Sivasankar was undergoing treatment for back pain and served him a summons for further interrogation. The embattled bureaucrat appeared stoic and refused to answer questions from journalists as he emerged from the hospital flanked by plainclothes officers. The investigating team soon whisked him away in their official car to their office in Kochi. The agency suspected that Mr. Sivasankar helped gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh conceal the vast proceeds from the crime in bank lockers and accounts. Swapna had allegedly spirited away a part of the booty to Dubai in foreign currency and Mr. Sivasankar had accompanied her on some of the trips. The ED believed that the illegal profits were ploughed back into the gold smuggling operation headed by persons with suspicious links to radical organisations in the country and abroad. Hence, the agency wanted to question him under Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The provisions relate to raising funds, directly or indirectly, for anti-national activities and include offences that imperil the economic security of the country. The illegal acts under the UAPA are also "scheduled" offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Call data records Customs officials quizzed Mr. Sivasankar on his links with Swapna. It is learnt that the interrogation was based on the call data records of Swapna and their joint trips to the UAE, especially in 2018 and 2019. The details of certain calls made from Swapna's mobile number to an unknown number after the gold consignment was seized on July 5 were also inquired by the investigating team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-records-arrest-of-sivasankar/article32968145.ece
29 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||West Graduates Constituency records 70.11% polling in Council elections||Polling in the elections to the Karnataka West Graduates Constituency of the Legislative Council spread over the districts of Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttara Kannada concluded peacefully without any glitches on Wednesday. As much as 70.11 % of the total electorate, including some COVID-19 positive patients, exercised their franchise. The constituency has a total of 74,278 voters, including 47,954 men, 26,673 women and 11 of the other gender. Of these, 52,080 voters, including 35,664 men, 16,415 women and one of the other gender, voted on Wednesday. With that, 74.93 % of the men voters, 61.54 % of the women voters and 9.09 % voters of the other gender exercised their franchise. Among the four districts, Gadag with 15,978 voters recorded the highest polling percentage of 74.59 % followed by Uttara Kannada, which has 13,148 voters, with 71.08 % and Dharwad, which has 21,549 voters, with 68.65 %. And, Haveri district, which has the highest number of voters — 23,603, recorded 67.89 % polling. Polling began on a slow note with only less than 10 % of the voters turning up to vote in the first two hours. By noon, polling picked up with 24.89 % voters exercising their franchise. By 2 p.m., it was 44.47 % and by 4 p.m., it increased to 57.96 %. In the last elections in 2014, only 36,001 voters out of the total 94,352 cast their votes for 49.48 % polling. Prominent among the elected representatives who cast their votes were Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, MLC Pradeep Shettar and Srinivas Mane and the former Minister Basavaraj Horatti. Mr. Joshi and Mr. Shettar said that it was heartening to see that despite the fear of COVID-19, the graduate voters were coming out to exercise their franchise. Confusion As polling began, there was some confusion as an additional list of voters carried by a few political parties did not tally with the voter list at the polling stations. Mr. Shettar even raised the issue with Assistant Returning Officer and Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil. However, it later turned out that the additional list being carried by the party workers was not an updated one. Mr. Nitesh Patil told The Hindu that they had supplied the updated voter list to all polling stations and it was given to candidates also. However, it turned out that some carried an old additional list creating confusion among voters. “We have cleared confusion,” he said. Due to the pandemic, elaborate arrangements had been made at the polling stations, including setting up of isolation facilities for COVID-19 positive patients. In Dharwad district, two COVID-19 positive patients cast their votes wearing personal protection equipment at Booth No 50 in Annigeri. The administration had arranged for transportation for them and the polling station was sanitised after they cast their votes. Meanwhile, Election Observer Shalini Rajneesh visited various polling stations in the constituency and interacted with the polling staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-graduates-constituency-records-7011-polling-in-council-elections/article32968089.ece
29 October 2020||Patna,||In Bihar poll rallies, Modi invokes Ram temple issue||Even as polling for 71 seats was on in Bihar on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi invoked the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya, and attacked Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and chief ministerial face of the ‘ Mahagathbandan ’ Tejashwi Yadav by indirectly calling him “Jungle raj ka yuvraj (crown prince of the rule of lawlessness)”. The first phase of polling for 71 seats was held amid tight security. Officials followed COVID-19 guidelines. Mr. Modi addressed three public meetings for the second phase of election, coming up on November 3. At a public meeting in Darbhanga, he said, “This is the land of Maa Janaki (mother Sita) and after decades of struggle, Ram temple construction has started in Ayodhya now… Those political people who were earlier asking for dates [of temple construction] too are now applauding the construction.” He added, “BJP ki pehchan hai ... jo kehte hain , karte hain (BJP is known to do what it says).” Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed Mr. Modi and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar at his public meetings in West Champaran and Darbhanga districts. ‘Effigies of PM burnt’ “Congress knows how to run the country, how to stand with farmers, but we do not know one thing, and that is how to lie…. We cannot compete with the Prime Minister in lying,” Mr. Gandhi said at a meeting in Valmikinagar, West Champaran. Slamming Mr. Modi, he said, “During Dussehra, people generally burn effigies of Ravan but this time they burnt effigies of Modi, Ambani and Adani across Punjab. What is the reason?” He said, “This is a big and sad thing happening with the Prime Minister of India. Congress gave direction to the country… We gave MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act), waived farmers’ loan… We stood with farmers and generated employment.” Mr. Gandhi said, “Prime Minister now does not say in his speeches that he will give jobs to 2 crore youths of the country as he knows he is lying and people also know it…I guarantee, if he will announce 2 crore jobs, the crowd will chase him away.” He also took on the PM over the issues of demonetisation and the lockdown. “The motive of demonetisation and lockdown was the same…it was aimed at destroying marginal farmers, small businessmen, traders and workers,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-bihar-poll-rallies-modi-invokes-ram-temple/article32967939.ece
29 October 2020||MADURAI,||PIL petition wants inclusion of OBC category in census details||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered notice to the Centre on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the government to include Other Backward Class (OBC) category in the House Listing Operation (HLO) and Population Enumeration (PE) before commencement of Census 2021. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered notice to the Centre on the PIL petition filed by R. Thavamanidevi from Madurai, coordinator of All India OBC Coordination Committee (AIOCC), who sought a direction to the government to consider the representation sent by the committee to include the OBC category. The petitioner said that after independence, the Census Act 1948 was passed and the census was carried out in two phases – House Listing Operation and Population Enumeration, using separate schedules for collection of information. The Central government decided to delete caste particulars from both the HLO and the PE, except for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Recommendations were made by various commissions, including Kaka Kalelkar Commission and Mandal Commission, to conduct caste census, but the authorities did not take into account the recommendations. Despite the constitutional mandate to provide adequate representation to the backward class, no efforts had been made to conduct OBC census. The Registrar General and Census Commissioner had notified under the Census Act that the HLO of Census 2021 would take place from April 1 to September 30, 2020, and the Census Officers were instructed to collect information on 31 questions. However, due to COVID-19, the census operation was postponed sine die before the commencement. She pointed out that while seeking information about the head of the household in question number 10, only SC/ST/others had been elicited and OBC had been omitted. The representation made by the AIOCC to include the OBC category before the commencement of the Census 2021 should be considered, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pil-petition-wants-inclusion-of-obc-category-in-census-details/article32967984.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Green’ crackers to make full-fledged Delhi debut||Delhi is set for its first full-fledged date with ‘green’ crackers this Deepavali amid growing sentiment against not deepening the air pollution crisis the Capital countenances every winter. A ban on fireworks was imposed in 2018 and in 2019 only ‘green’ crackers were allowed, but the permission had come too late for manufacturers to ensure their availability on time. The production levels, however, are likely to be on the lower side this year due to the ongoing novel coronavirus pandemic, with the Capital continuing to register high daily numbers of fresh infections. According to the Delhi police, 40 traders in all had applied for a licence to sell firecrackers in 2019; this year they received only 28 requests, out of which 15 have been given the nod. Around eight shops in Old Delhi have an all-year licence to sell firecrackers. Traders aren’t betting on heavy sales and have invested cautiously. “This year, due to the lockdown, the manufacturing of fireworks remained suspended. The lockdown was lifted only during the rainy season that is unfavourable for manufacture of firecrackers. Supply is scarce and due to economic slowdown, we are not expecting buyers because green fireworks are somewhat expensive compared to conventional fireworks,” said Ankit Jain, a trader based in Old Delhi. Emission tests Anto Alphonse, DCP (North), said a team of the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation and Delhi Police would ensure the sale of green fireworks this Deepavali. PESO gives a final manufacturing licence after emission tests. “There is a list of green fireworks manufacturers. The team will ensure traders purchase fireworks from authorised manufacturers in order to prevent the sale of unauthorised products. We also request people to purchase only green fireworks from licenced shops,” said Mr. Alphonse. “After a wait of two years, we were hopeful of doing good business this year but the COVID-19 pandemic has severely hit sales. Even the wedding season was cold this year due to restrictions. There has been no sale of fireworks for celebrations other than Deepavali. Every year we are facing losses due to some reason or the other. I will surrender my licence if the situation doesn’t improve this year because solely depending upon the fireworks business for livelihood is no longer sustainable,” said a trader who wished not to be named.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/green-crackers-to-make-full-fledged-delhi-debut/article32968319.ece
29 October 2020||Guwahati,||‘Will not allow ‘Miya Museum’ in Assam’||The Bharatiya Janata Party in poll-bound Assam has said it will not allow any museum on culture and heritage of the people living on ‘char-chaporis’ to be set up at the Srimanta Sankaradeva Kalakshetra, the showcase of Assamese culture in Guwahati named after a 15th-16th century Vaishnavite saint-reformer. ‘Char’ in Assamese means sandbar while ‘chapori’ is a flood-prone riverbank. “Why should a ‘char-chapori’ museum be established at the Kalakshetra? No community barring the minorities live on the ‘chars’ and all of us know where most of them are from,” State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass told journalists on Tuesday. “Under no circumstances will the BJP allow such a museum that may hurt the self-esteem of the Assamese people,” he added while accusing Congress MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed of triggering the controversy for polarising people on religious lines. Mr. Dass defended the BJP legislators who were part of the 16 members of the Departmentally Related Standing Committee (DRSC) that had recommended the museum in its report to the Assembly on March 24. The committee headed by AGP lawmaker Utpal Dutta had six MLAs of the BJP. “Only five of the MLAs were present at the DRSC meeting, which anyway can only make recommendations that are not binding on the government,” Mr. Dass pointed out. He also said the DRSC did not mention any ‘Miya Museum’ that Mr. Ahmed referred to in his posts and interviews. “The Congress MLA used the term because his party wants to create a controversy,” Mr. Dass said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-not-allow-miya-museum-in-assam/article32968179.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,||62 persons had COVID-related stroke in Bengaluru from June to August||As many as 62 people diagnosed with COVID-19 suffered a stroke in the city during the infection between June and August. Of these, 16% died in hospital, a study by doctors from St John’s Medical College Hospital has revealed. The multi-centre retrospective study from 13 hospitals has been accepted for publication in the International Journal of Stroke, the official publication of the World Stroke Organization. A stroke is the sudden onset of neurological deficit due to vascular causes. Thomas Mathew, Professor and Head of the department of Neurology at St. John’s Medical College Hospital, who is the principal investigator of the study, told The Hindu that COVID-19 related strokes (CORS) are associated with increased mortality and morbidity. “We found that mortality among the 62 CORS was high compared to the non-COVID-19 strokes diagnosed during the corresponding period last year. While 111 suffered a stroke from June to August last year according to St. John’s Stroke Registry, no death was reported,” he said. Of the 62 CORS, 60 (97%) patients had ischemic strokes while two (3%) had haemorrhagic strokes. A majority of them (59.7%) had a “bad” stroke wherein the large artery was blocked. The mean age of patients was 55.66 with a standard deviation of 13.20 years. While 34 (77.4%) were male patients, 26 % (16/62) of patients did not have any conventional risk factors for stroke. Risk factors Attributing CORS in those without risk factors to inflammation triggered thrombosis and damage to endothelium due to COVID-19, Dr. Mathew said: “However, in the remaining 46 patients, 54.8% had diabetes, 61.3% had hypertension, 8% had coronary artery disease, and 4.8% had atrial fibrillation.” Manifestations City-based neurologists said they were seeing various neurological manifestations of COVID-19. Amit Kulkarni, consultant neurologist at SPASRH Hospital, said with COVID-19 the problem was not just the sequelae of lung involvement but also varied other aspects like clotting occurring in the arteries of the lung, arteries of the brain, veins in the leg and venous sinuses in the brain, causing deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, arterial and venous strokes in the brain. “What is also unusual about this disease is the varied immunological manifestations like limp paralysis of arms and legs (Guillian Barre syndrome), facial paralysis with asymmetry, cranial nerve palsies causing double vision, drooping of the eye and muscle involvement (myositis). We have noted quite a few peripheral nerve palsies presenting with foot drop in patients recently affected or recovering from COVID (inability to extend the foot) where the other routine blood work is negative for any connective tissue disease and there is no spinal/peripheral cause of nerve compression,” he said. G.T. Subhas, former president of Bangalore Stroke Support Group and former director of Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute said the common symptoms of stroke can be remembered by Facial Drooping, Arm Weakness, Speech Difficulties and Time to reach a stroke ready hospital abbreviated as FAST. Do not ignore “Both during and post COVID-19, people should not ignore warning signs such as dizziness, sudden weakness in limbs and difficulty in speaking or understanding words. “Patients should reach the hospital within three or four hours of the stroke. The earlier the patient is rushed to a hospital, the better the outcome,” he added. Hospitals that were part of the study included St. John’s, Bengaluru Medical College and Research Institute, Manipal Hospitals, Sakra, Apollo, M.S. Ramaiah, Satya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, and Narayana Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/62-persons-had-covid-related-stroke-in-bengaluru-from-june-to-august/article32968085.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Political parties demand fresh elections to local bodies||The major political parties requested State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar at the all-party meeting held on Wednesday that the local body elections should be held afresh keeping in view of the alleged massive irregularities and violence that vitiated the filing of nominations, which led to their postponement. Telugu Desam Party State unit president K. Atchannaidu insisted that the process of elections should be carried out afresh and online nomination system must be followed. He stressed on the need to order an inquiry into the violent incidents that prompted the SEC to defer the polls. Besides, he said the TDP had no confidence in the State police machinery and polling machinery should be deployed from outside. Terming unanimous elections to the urban and rural local bodies as a fraud, BJP leader Paka Satyanarayana demanded their cancellation and issue of a fresh notification. He requested Mr. Ramesh Kumar to draw observers from other States to ensure free and fair elections, and to hold a meeting with officials of the Medical and Health Department to arrive at safety measures to be taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Congress State working president Shaik Masthanvali said all “rigged” elections should be cancelled and a fresh notification be issued, and that he was shocked to note that the officials whom the SEC had ordered to be removed, were still not relieved of their duties. He sought clarity on the creation of new districts and suggested that the number of polling stations be increased. Jana Sena Party vice-president B. Mahender Reddy stated in a representation to the SEC that it should take further course of action on the elections strictly in accordance with the norms of the Election Commission of India. He wanted the violence that marred the filing of nominations in February/March to be investigated. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna and CPI(M) leader Y. Venkateswara Rao said the elections that were already held should be cancelled and the fresh election schedule should be finalised after due consultation with the government and officials of the Medical and Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parties-demand-fresh-polls-to-local-bodies/article32967947.ece
29 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,||Anantapur police rescue abducted dentist||The Anantapur police on Wednesday rescued a Hyderabad-based dentist, Hussain of Kismatpur Dental Hospital, after he was allegedly kidnapped from his hospital on Tuesday afternoon and was being shifted to Bengaluru in an “inhuman condition” in an SUV, in the early hours of Wednesday. While the police nabbed Sanjay, 25, one of the suspected kidnappers, three others fled under the cover of darkness. The police suspect that the doctor was kidnapped for a ransom of Rs. 10 crore allegedly in Bitcoins, as the doctor was also a real-estate dealer. The doctor’s nails were cut and he had injuries on face and head, the Rapthadu police told The Hindu . The doctor was given first-aid and handed over to a team of Hyderabad police, which reached Anantapur by noon. The Rapthadu police informed their Hyderabad counterparts at 6.30 a.m. about the rescue of the doctor. Nine persons were allegedly involved in the kidnap of Dr. Hussain, and the suspected kidnappers used a vehicle with Maharashtra registration to shift him to Bengaluru. The Hyderabad police had alerted Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu at 5 p.m. on Tuesday about the possible movement of the alleged kidnappers on the National Highway No.44 based on their cellphone locations. When the kidnappers reportedly noticed the Rapthadu police team checking vehicles at Marur Toll Plaza at 2 a.m., they allegedly sped off towards Kanaganapalli on NH 44. After a hot chase for an hour from two different directions and taking assistance from the mobile location tracking system, the vehicle was traced at Bukkacherla village. Three of the suspected kidnappers fled under the cover of darkness, Rapthadu sub-Inspector P.T. Anjaneyulu said. The accused fully wrapped the doctor in clothes and dumped him in the gap between the front and rear seat of the SUV. According to the victim, he was kidnapped by five unidentified persons who had come in ‘burquas’ to his hospital and allegedly confined him to a room in an undisclosed place in Hyderabad till 5 p.m. The suspected kidnappers, who spoke in Marathi, allegedly handed him over to four other persons asking them to go either to Bengaluru or Shivamogga in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-rescue-abducted-hyderabad-dentist/article32967872.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliamentary panel asks Twitter for affidavit on geo-tagging glitch||The Joint Committee of Parliament on the Data Protection Bill sought an affidavit from Twitter Inc., the U.S.-based parent company of the social media platform, asking them to explain why it had shown Ladakh as a part of China, a panel member said on Wednesday. The decision to seek an affidavit from the parent company was taken after the panel found the explanations offered by the Twitter India representatives, who appeared before them on Wednesday, to be “unsatisfactory and inadequate”. Appearing before the panel headed by Bharatiya Janata Party MP Meenakshi Lekhi, representatives of Twitter India “apologised” and claimed it to be a “mistake” as the app’s geo-tagging had suffered a technical glitch. “The Committee was of the unanimous opinion that Twitter’s explanation on showing Ladakh as a part of China was inadequate,” Ms. Lekhi told PTI after the meeting. She said Twitter representatives told the panel that the company “respects the sensitivities of India”. “But it is not only a question of the sensitivity of India or Indians. It is a question about national integrity and sovereignty of the country, and not respecting that is a criminal offence. And displaying Indian map improperly and incorrectly is an offence of treason and attracts imprisonment of seven years,” Ms. Lekhi said. The panel that questioned Twitter India’s executives for over two hours on the issue of Ladakh, also asked about its “banning policy”. “Shadow banning, banning policy — there is no clarity about it. Such actions are very subjective... Twitter is becoming a law unto itself and, under these circumstances, they are violating Article 19 of the Constitution about the freedom of expression,” Ms. Lekhi said. “The recent geo-tagging issue was swiftly resolved by our teams. We are committed to openness, transparency around our work and will remain in regular touch with the Government to share timely updates,” a Twitter spokesperson said in a statement. Twitter faced a backlash from social media users after its geo-tagging feature recently displayed “Jammu & Kashmir, the People’s Republic of China” in a live broadcast from a war memorial in Leh, Ladakh. A senior member told The Hindu that Twitter India was seen as a “marketing arm” of the parent company and, therefore, a written explanation has been sought from Twitter Inc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parliamentary-panel-asks-twitter-for-affidavit-on-geo-tagging-glitch/article32967954.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects Delhi government’s plea against bail to Pinjra Tod activist||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected an appeal by the Delhi government against the grant of bail to Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita in a case connected to the riots that rocked north-east Delhi in February. A Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan dismissed the government’s plea that Ms. Kalita was an “influential person”. The court said bail could not be denied merely because a person had influence. The court questioned the apprehensions raised by the government that Ms. Kalita would tamper with the witnesses. The High Court had granted her bail saying the witnesses in the case were mostly police officers. The court, in its bail order on September 1, concluded that the police had shown no evidence to back their claim that Ms. Kalita instigated communal violence or hate speech. It said she was engaged in a peaceful protest, which was her fundamental right. Ms. Kalita and her colleague, Natasha Narwal, were arrested in May and booked for rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder. They were charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-rejects-delhi-governments-plea-against-bail-to-pinjra-tod-activist/article32968317.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Adhere to norms on online learning or face action: DPI||After reports of children complaining of eye problems and schools exceeding the time limit set by the government on the duration of online sessions, the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has said that strict action would be taken against managements not following the rules. In an order dated October 22, but made available on Wednesday, the DPI said such schools will face action under Section 124 (a) of the Karnataka Education Act. However, there are no changes in the guidelines recommended by the expert committee formed by the State government to look into the modalities of online classes. It had submitted a detailed report in July allocating screen time and frequency of online classes. The maximum screen time per session that is allowed will be 30 minutes and 15 minutes extra for class 6 upwards. Anbu Kumar, Commissioner, DPI, said the intention of issuing the circular once again was not aimed at punishing schools but towards regulating the problem. “If schools are found to be violating it repeatedly and wilfully, we will take strict action against them,” he said. Nagasimha G. Rao, child rights activist and Director of Child Rights Trust, pointed out that the government should have a robust mechanism to follow up or monitor the implementation of the report. “There is no information available on the number of schools conducting online classes. BEOs, DDPIs should be directed to constantly monitor schools,” he said. A father of a class 7 student enrolled in a private school said most parents were unlikely to complain if a school didn’t adhere to the guidelines or question the management as it’s a question of their child’s education. “I have not heard of any actions being taken against schools for violating the guidelines. Hopefully, this time the government will take action,” he said.                           If schools are found to be violating it repeatedly and wilfully, we will take strict action against them. Anbu Kumar,Commissioner, DPI   There is no information on the number of schools conducting online classes. BEOs, DDPIs should be directed to monitor schools. Nagasimha G. Rao,Child Rights Activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/adhere-to-norms-on-online-learning-or-face-action-dpi/article32968275.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Stroke care and State’s pandemic priorities||Neurologists have called for a re-organisation of various aspects of stroke treatment and rehabilitation in the State to overcome the challenges posed by COVID-19 to stroke management and to provide better outcomes for patients. On World Stroke Day that falls on October 29, they have highlighted the importance of maintaining the continuum of care for stroke patients even in the midst of the pandemic. The public should be encouraged to seek timely treatment for stroke while also ensuring that public health systems have better care strategies in place to give optimum care for stroke patients. The drop in the reporting of stroke cases at hospitals and the disruption of stroke care and rehabilitation services during the past eight months of the pandemic has been worrying neurologists across the State. While time is the essence in stroke care, during the past few months, delays in seeking timely care, especially in the case of people who suffer minor strokes or transient ischemic attack (TIA), has been well-documented. The delays are often rooted in the fear and indecision over visiting hospitals during COVID-19 and getting infected, apart from scarcity of ambulance services, and the fear of using public transport vehicles. Screening time However, on top of this, the time taken for screening patients through a COVID gateway, testing and donning of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) etc. has been creating further delays at hospitals, pushing up the door-to-needle time (DNT or the time from presentation of patient with symptoms at the hospital to the start of clot-lysing treatment) beyond the recommended 30-40 minutes. “In the event of a stroke, accessing timely care is more important than the risk of possible exposure to COVID-19. Comprehensive stroke care centres like ours have now put in place new protocols so that the DNT is well-maintained and acute care is not compromised,” says P.N. Sylaja, Professor of Neurology, who is heading the comprehensive stroke care programme at Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST). A study conducted in 13 major stroke care centres in the country, including SCTIMST, on the changes noted in acute stroke care following COVID-19 has reported on overall reduction of about 61.22% in the reporting of weekly stroke cases. Intravenous thrombolysis and endovascular procedures were also severely affected, with an overall reduction of 64.76% and 67.21%, respectively. Stroke rehabilitation services, especially for outpatient care, were markedly affected in more than 53% of surveyed hospitals. Stroke rehabilitation “Stroke rehabilitation is the key to bringing stroke victims back to normal life but this has been significantly affected during COVID-19 as home physiotherapy is not working out, neither patients nor physiotherapists are willing to take risks. This has resulted in sub-optimal results for stroke-recovery patients. We have now started tele-rehabilitation services, mostly speech therapy and tele-consultation services for follow-up of patients,” Dr. Sylaja says. Neurologists are also concerned that secondary prevention is getting affected as most people are staying home and not properly monitoring blood sugar levels or blood pressure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stroke-care-and-states-pandemic-priorities/article32968246.ece
29 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||Paddy procurement impasse ends||The impasse over the procurement of paddy has ended. Officials said here on Wednesday that an agreement had been reached between the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) and mill owners for the procurement of paddy including in Kuttanad and Palakkad. As per the agreement, mills would cooperate with Supplyco for a period of six months. Earlier, mills decided to keep away from the procurement after they failed to reach an agreement with the government over compensation for the procured paddy, which got destroyed in the 2018 floods. Following this, the government decided to rope in cooperative societies to procure paddy directly from farmers. However, lack of storage, among other facilities for cooperative societies in the district, resulted in a delay in the procurement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paddy-procurement-impasse-ends/article32968141.ece
29 October 2020||Pune,||More recoveries take active cases below 1.30 lakh||Recoveries continued to exceed cases with Maharashtra reporting 6,738 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday as opposed to 8,430 recoveries, taking the State’s total case tally to 16,60,766 while its number of active cases dipped further to 1,29,746. With 91 deaths, the death toll has reached 43,554. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 14,86,926 with the recovery rate rising further to 89.53%. “Of a total 87,68,879 laboratory samples tested thus far, 16,60,766 (18.94%) have returned positive with 68,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate in Maharashtra currently stood at 2.62%. Pune district reported only 787 cases to take its total case tally to 3,31,592 while seven deaths saw its total death toll climb to 6,636. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s recovery rate is currently 93.53% with the number of active cases currently at just over 13,000. Mumbai reported 1,354 cases to take its total case tally to 2,54,240 of whom 19,357 are active. The city’s death toll rose to 10,196 with 31 fatalities Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 350 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,00,842 of whom 4,902 are active. Ten deaths took the fatalities to 2,712. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported not a single death with its cumulative death toll standing at 1,399. As many as 269 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 46,927 of whom 4,764 are active. Sangli reported more than 200 cases and two deaths on Wednseday as the district’s total case tally rose to 46,429 of whom 2,977 are active. Its death toll has risen to 1,519. In its lowest surge in months, Kolhapur recorded just 72 new cases as its case tally reached 47,038 of whom 1,295 are active. With three deaths, the total toll is 1,606. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 385 cases as its total case tally reached 93,099 of whom only 5,219 are active. With six fatalities on Wednesday, the district’s total death toll reached 1,536. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported 130 new cases and two deaths as its total case tally reached 53,347 of whom only 2,113 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,344. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Thane reported 350 cases as its total case tally crossed the 80,000-mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-recoveries-take-active-cases-below-130-lakh/article32968794.ece
29 October 2020||MYSURU,||Two contract killers among 5 held for retired principal’s murder||Five persons, including two contract killers, have been arrested for the murder of Parashivamurthy, a retired principal, on September 20. The arrested include 37-year-old Nagesh, recovery agent of a bank, and 22-year-old Niranjan, a construction worker, who acted as contract killers, besides two teachers of Vishwachethana Sanskrit School in the city. The two teachers are 52-year-old Vishwanath K., and 55-year-old Parashiva. The other person is 54-year-old Siddaraju, also a teacher, but at Madiwalaswamy Sanskrit School, who acted as a middleman with the contract killers. During interrogation, the accused said they hatched a conspiracy to kill Parashivamurthy, who as secretary of Vishwachethana Sanskrit School, was demanding a cut in the salaries of teachers. “They said the deceased was harassing them to part with a fixed amount of money from their salaries as teachers every month. They said they were fed up with his torture and rude behaviour,” a police official said. It may be mentioned here that Parashivamurthy, 67, was hacked to death at his residence in Nivedithanagar in Saraswathipuram police station limits on the night of September 20. The deceased had retired after serving in government colleges in Mysuru, Hassan, and Chitradurga. The two alleged killers scaled the compound wall before entering the house and attacked the retired principal with weapons. CCTV cameras installed in the house of a neighbour had captured the movement of the alleged killers. Parashivamurthy’s wife, Savitha, who was not present in the house, lodged a complaint with the police after the brother of the deceased brought the matter to her notice. Parashivamurthy was found in a pool of blood in the hall with injuries on his neck, hand, and stomach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-contract-killers-among-5-held-for-retired-principals-murder/article32968277.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital’s daily virus tally crosses 5K for first time||The Capital reported 5,673 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, which is the highest single-day jump in the number of cases, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Over 60,571 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 9.37%. The Capital had recorded its previous highest number of cases on Tuesday when 4,853 people had tested positive. The number of new cases recorded on Monday stood at 2,832, 4,136 on Sunday, 4,116 on Saturday and 4,086 on Friday. The health bulletin stated that 40 deaths were reported on Wednesday while 4,128 patients recovered, taking the total recoveries to 3,34,240. The total number of COVID-19 cases now stands at 3,70,014 with 6,396 fatalities. There are currently 29,378 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capitals-daily-virus-tally-crosses-5k-for-first-time/article32968320.ece
29 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||I dedicate this award to the entire farm fraternity: Dangapur||Siddaramappa B. Patil Dangapur, who has been selected for the Rajyotsava Award for his contribution to agriculture in the region, has said: “I am greatly indebted to the State government for recognising my services. I dedicate this award to the entire agriculture fraternity.” The farmer leader started his journey in public life by raising his voice for farmers rights and led several agitations at district level, State level and even at the national level. He mobilised a large number of farmers for national-level farmers conventions in various States. The 74-year-old Mr. Patil was appointed district secretary of Krishik Samaj in 1980. He has been the president of the Zilla Krishik Samaj for the last 35 years. Mr. Patil has organised various seminars on advanced techniques of farming. He also helped in bridging the gap between agriculture scientists and farmers. Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, Mr. Patil recalled that he was jailed for a week for leading an agitation as district convener of the Progressive Farmers Struggle Committee during the Bharat Bandh call against the then Chief Minister R. Gundu Rao in 1982. The septuagenarian said that he was the first to take a delegation to the Commission for Agriculture Costs and Prices (CACP) demanding an increase in the minimum support price (MSP) for red gram. Mr. Patil also educated farmers in the district about the benefit of crop insurance schemes. He encouraged the farming community to insure their crops so that they can claim losses suffered due to natural calamities. Meanwhile, agriculture experts and progressive farmers from the district, who expressed happiness over the award being conferred on Mr. Patil, also said that recognition has come late to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-dedicate-this-award-to-the-entire-farm-fraternity-dangapur/article32968087.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,||IMA case: HC grants bail to prime accused||The Karnataka High Court has granted bail to Mohammed Mansoor Khan, managing director and chief executive officer of I Monetary Advisory (IMA) Group of companies, who is the prime accused in the money laundering case involving over Rs. 4,000 crore, which was registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar granted bail by imposing the condition that Khan should not alienate any of his properties till conclusion of the trial, and in case a need arises to alienate, he should disclose to the trial court the purpose which necessitates alienation and obtain permission of the trial court. The High Court considered two main reasons, his ailments related to the heart, and his return from abroad and voluntary surrender before the police along with the passport, for granting bail. As it was apprehended on behalf of the ED that he may attempt to alienate properties if he was enlarged on bail, the court said that necessary conditions can be imposed to prevent such an attempt. Khan has been in judicial custody since August 2019. While asking him to furnish a bond for Rs. 5 lakh and two sureties of like sum, the court directed the trial court to ascertain the whereabouts of the sureties before accepting the surety bonds. As the ED has already filed a charge sheet against him, the High Court directed Khan to regularly appear before the sessions court for the purpose of the trial besides asking him to mark his attendance in the office of the ED once a month. While Mansoor Khan has been granted bail in the ED case, he is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and remains in judicial custody. The CBI has registered four cases in connection with the IMA scam. “Our investigation is in progress. At this juncture, there is no scope for bail, and if he applies for bail, we will file objections,” a senior CBI officer said. Early in October, the CBI filed a supplementary charge sheet against 28 accused, including the managing director and CEO of IMA. Six police officers, who are under investigation by the SIT for their alleged involvement in the scam, have been named in the CBI’s supplementary charge sheet. Three police officers were suspended by the government based on the report filed by the CBI while it is yet to take action against two IPS officers named in the supplementary charge sheet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ima-case-hc-grants-bail-to-prime-accused/article32968276.ece
29 October 2020||ANANTAPUR/HYDERABAD,||Kidnapped dentist rescued in Anantapur||Anantapur police on Wednesday morning rescued Hyderabad-based dentist Dr. Behjath Hussain, after he was kidnapped from his yet-to-be inaugurated clinic on Tuesday afternoon. He was being shifted to Udupi in an inhuman condition in an SUV. The police could nab only one kidnapper, Sanjay (25) while three others fled in the cover of darkness. The dentist, who is also a realtor, was kidnapped for a ransom of Rs. 10 crore in bitcoins. When rescued, Dr. Hussain’s nails were cut and injuries were found on his face and head, the Rapthadu police told The Hindu.  He was given first-aid and handed over to a team of Cyberabad police, which reached Anantapur by noon. Anantapur police informed their counterparts in Cyberabad at 6.30 a.m. about the doctor’s rescue. Totally 13 persons were involved in the kidnap and they used a vehicle of Maharashtra registration - MH 40 A 7128 to shift him from Hyderabad to Udupi. Rapthadu Sub-Inspector P.T. Anjaneyulu along with his team checked all vehicles at Marur Toll Plaza since 2 a.m. and the kidnappers on coming to know about the presence of police turned towards Kanaganapalli at Dolphin Dhaba on National Highway no 44. After a hot chase for an hour from two different directions and taking assistance from the mobile location tracking system, the vehicle was intercepted at Bukkacherla village. Out of the four, three kidnappers fled under the cover of darkness, said the sub-inspector. Wrapped in clothes, the kidnapper stuffed Dr. Hussain in the legroom. According to the victim, who is also a real-estate operator having Prestige Royal Woods Villas in Kismatpur, he was kidnapped by four unknown persons clad in burqas from his clinic and confined him to a room in an undisclosed place in Hyderabad. The Marathi speaking kidnappers handed over the doctor to four others, who asked them to go either to Bengaluru or Shimoga in Karnataka. They started from Hyderabad past midnight. The Cyberabad police had alerted the Anantapur SP B. Satya Yesu Babu about the possible movement of the kidnappers on the National Highway based on their cell phone locations. Later in the evening, Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said that Dr. Hussain was abducted by his ‘close relative’ Mustafa, who is into the hospitality industry in Hyderabad and Pune. He said that seven people in connection with the case were arrested, while five others including kingpins Mustafa and Mubashir Ahmed alias Khaled are still at large. The arrested are Sumit Chandrakanth Bhosale (28), Akshay Balu Vairekar (24), Vicky Datta Shinde (20) from Pune, Mohd. Raheem (18) from Chandrayanagutta, Mohd. Imran (21), Mohd. Irfan (25) from Kukatpally and Sanjay (19) of Udupi. “Mustafa became close to the victim’s family with a plea of getting a flat on rent for Mubhashir in the newly constructed building. Without anticipating the danger from the accused, Dr. Hussain gave a flat on rent to Mubashir at Bandlaguda,” Mr. Sajjanar said, adding that since then they were keeping a close on the movements of the dentist and were waiting for a ‘right time’ to execute their plan. On Tuesday afternoon, four people clad in burqas barged into the clinic and hit the victim with a toy pistol. His assistant was locked in the washroom with hands tied and mouth gagged. “They took him to Yellammabanda and sent a voice message to the family members demanding Rs. 10 crore in bitcoin,” the Commissioner said. He said that 12 teams consisting over 100 police personnel were pressed into action to trace and rescue Dr. Hussain. Mr. Sajjanar advised people not to disclose their financial issues with unknown persons or servants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kidnapped-dentist-realtor-rescued-in-anantapur/article32968641.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||54% turn up to cast vote||The first phase of the Bihar Assembly election was held on Wednesday in 71 constituencies across 16 districts. Though the election took place amid the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the Election Commission’s Voter Turnout App, the provisional polling percentage was 54.26%, updated till 10 p.m. Polling ended peacefully amid reports of clashes between supporters of two parties in Shahpur, Kaimur and Gaya, and electronic voting machines not working properly in some places. The second phase of polling for 94 seats will be held on November 3, while the third one for 79 seats will be conducted on November 7.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/52-turn-up-to-cast-vote/article32967955.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Curbs likely to stay on T.N. schools, colleges, cinemas||Schools, colleges and cinemas in Tamil Nadu may have to remain closed for some more time. Citing hard-won gains against COVID-19, District Collectors and other top officials said it would be prudent to bring down the numbers further before exploring the possibility of further relaxations. At a meeting with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday, a couple of officials said cinemas were a luxury at this point in time during the fight against the pandemic. Noting that schools in countries like the U.K. had seen a surge in cases, they urged caution on the issue of reopening schools. A senior official said the State government was also waiting for the Centre to issue guidelines for the reopening of schools. It is also learnt that a member of the medical committee felt that the government could look at allowing students of Classes 9 to 12 to attend classes in school. “But overall, the feeling was that there should not be any hurry to reopen schools and colleges,” the official said, adding that a few Collectors felt that a decision on reopening cinemas could be taken at a later date. At the review meeting, Mr. Palaniswami said a decision on representations received from the film industry for the reopening of cinemas would be taken based on inputs from Collectors and the medical committee. He expressed concern over the people’s lack of compliance with COVID-19 prevention measures. He said nearly 35% of the people were not wearing masks in spite of the State government’s efforts to create awareness. “The Deepavali festival is around the corner. In Chennai, there are streets full of people, many of whom are not wearing masks. The police should continuously create awareness. Only then will we have a situation where everyone is wearing a mask and be able to stop the spread of the virus,” he said. Despite efforts to bring the number of cases down, there had been a sudden spike in some districts, he said, and advised the Collectors to take steps to curb COVID-19. “In some districts, the number of [daily] cases is above 100. Before Deepavali, it should be brought down to less than 100. In districts with less than 100 cases, the number should be brought down to below 50. In districts reporting less than 50 cases, it should be brought down to nil. I request district administrations to work towards ensuring that we move to a situation where there is no spread of COVID-19,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The Chief Minister said Collectors should monitor whether proper treatment is being provided to patients and whether all protocols are being followed. He also praised the district officials for the decline in cases and expressed confidence that very soon, the State would be free from the spread of the virus. The Chief Minister also told the police department that some people were trying to create law and order problems in the State and urged them to be vigilant and keep a watch on them and keep the people of the State safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-likely-to-stay-on-tn-schools-colleges-cinemas/article32967985.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Youth dead, three injured in explosion in restaurant||A 20-year-old youth was killed and three others were injured when a food steamer in a hotel at Richmond Circle exploded on Wednesday night. “The explosion took place around 8 p.m. in the kitchen while the victims – all employees – were working,” said a police officer. “Initial investigations point to overheating of the steamer at New Udupi Upahar, but we are yet to ascertain the exact cause,” said the police. Fire and emergency service personnel extinguished the fire before it could spread. Teams, with the assistance of volunteers, rescued the injured employees who were rushed to a hospital nearby. One of the employees, Manu, who hails from Assam, succumbed to his injuries and was declared as brought dead. He had been hired three months ago to help in the kitchen. “Three other employees – Pradeep, Mohan and Naveen – have sustained severe burn injuries,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youth-dead-three-injured-in-explosion-in-restaurant/article32968525.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Sangh Parivar to counsel people against revenge crime||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal and the Hindu Jagaran Vedike will jointly undertake counselling people who have a tendency to take revenge through use of criminal force in general so as to prevent revenge crimes in the region. “It is sad to hear about the murders of Kishan Hegde (in Udupi), Sampath (in Sullia) and Surendra Bhandary (in Bantwal) as a result of financial dispute, their alleged association with the underworld, gang war and personal enmity. We have decided to act and stop any further murders of Hindu youths on account of revenge,” Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s Mangaluru Divisional Secretary Sharan Pumpwell told reporters here on Wednesday. Hindu Jagaran Vedike honorary State president Rajashekarananda Swami said that revenge killing is not a solution to a problem. Disputes should be solved amicably and under lawful means. “We will make an effort to reform such youths, involve them in the cause for the country and stop them from creating unrest in society,” he said. If the issue is not addressed now, these youths would turn into dons and become a nemesis to society in the coming days. “The task on hand is challenging and a sensitive one. We are making a beginning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sangh-parivar-to-counsel-people-against-revenge-crime/article32968753.ece
29 October 2020||guwahati,||7 Kaziranga workers held||A piece of rhino horn has led to the arrest of 17 people, including seven casual workers of the prime wildlife habitat in Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-kaziranga-workers-held/article32968182.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Tall order||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tall-order/article32968322.ece
29 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram last State to report COVID fatality||Mizoram on Wednesday became the last of the States in the country to report a COVID-19 fatality. State health officials said a 62-year-old man died at Zoram Medical College in Aizawl after undergoing treatment for more than 10 days. “The first COVID-19-related mortality in Mizoram comes as a huge shock to the entire State. We are pained and will continue putting up our guard against this pandemic,” said Chief Minister Zoramthanga, adding that the man had co-morbidities. The State reported its first COVID-19 death 223 days after a 76-year-old man in Karnataka became India’s first victim of the virus on March 12. Mizoram has so far recorded 2,607 COV-ID-19 cases, of which 2,233 patients have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mizoram-last-state-to-report-covid-fatality/article32968325.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Tall order||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tall-order/article32968181.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Work over||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-over/article32968091.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||In a world of its own||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-a-world-of-its-own/article32968858.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Deadly mixture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deadly-mixture/article32968887.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CM asks officials to ensure MSP||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to ensure that no crop is purchased at less than the MSP and the payments should be done to the farmers within ten days of the purchase. In a review meeting on Wednesday, he insisted that no farmer should incur losses and instructed the officials to take immediate action on receiving alerts of farmers selling away their produce below the MSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-asks-officials-to-ensure-msp/article32967944.ece
29 October 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),||Six students drown in rivulet||Six students, who went for a swim in Pedda Vagu, a rivulet, in Vasantawada village in the mandal in Agency area, drowned on Wednesday. Villagers of Bhudevipeta went for ‘vana bhojanams’ into the forests to celebrate the conclusion of Dasara festivities. The students, went into rivulet,which was in spate. As they reportedly didn’t know swimming, they drowned. The victims have been identified as Ganagdhara Venkataramana (17), Sriramula Shiva (17), Kunavarapu Radhakrishna (16), Killa Sai (17), Gottiparthi Major (16) and Karnati Ranjith (16), all natives of Bhudevipeta hamlet, said Integrated Tribal Development Authority Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana. On receiving information, police rushed to the spot and launched a search for the missing students. Expert swimmers retrieved the bodies after a few hours, the Velerupadu police said. Overflowing The rivulet (Pedda Vaagu) was overflowing due to heavy rains that had been lashing for the last few days, said residents of Vasantawada. While the women in the families were cooking, a few youth crossed Pedda Vagu, to fetch water. While returning, one teenager slipped and fell in waters. To save him, five of his friends jumped into the water and were reportedly swept away, said West Godavari district Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, who visited the spot. “Post-mortem was conducted on the bodies at the spot. Later, police handed over the bodies to the family members,” the SP said. Governor expresses grief Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed grief over the death of the students. He conveyed condolences to the bereaved families. The students were studying Intermediate and other courses in different colleges, Mr. Suryanarayana said. The Velerupadu police registered a case and took up investigation. A pall of gloom descended in Bhudevipeta and Vasantawada villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-students-drown-in-rivulet-in-w-godavari/article32967951.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Stunning view!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stunning-view/article32967949.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||In the midst of nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-the-midst-of-nature/article32967987.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Kidnapped dentist rescued in Anantapur||Anantapur police on Wednesday morning rescued Hyderabad-based dentist Dr. Behjath Hussain, after he was kidnapped on Tuesday. He was being shifted to Udupi in an inhuman condition in an SUV. The dentist, who is also a realtor, was kidnapped for a ransom of Rs. 10 crore in bitcoins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kidnapped-dentist-rescued-in-anantapur/article32968599.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||Is it a crime to worship Durga, asks Congress||The Congress on Wednesday asked if it is a “crime” to worship “Maa Durga”, referring to Monday night’s police firing in Munger that killed a 22-year-old youth and injured several others while they were on their way to immerse an idol of Goddess Durga. The party, however, denied it was trying to politicise the issue in the midst of Bihar polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/is-it-a-crime-to-worship-durga-asks-congress/article32968183.ece
29 October 2020||Kolkata,||Governor to meet Shah||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday. The Governor took to social media to announce his visit to Delhi and the meeting. “West Bengal Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar would be on an official visit to Delhi from Oct 28-30. Governor Dhankhar leaves for Delhi on evening of Oct 28 and returns to Kolkata on Oct 30. His engagements include calling on the Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah on Oct 29,” Mr. Dhankhar tweeted. The Governor had met the Home Minister in July this year and said that the “governance in the State was on a cliff’s edge”. Mr. Dhankhar is likely to visit Darjeeling hillsin November and spend a few weeks. The Darjeeling hills is expected to witness heightened political activity in the coming months after Gorkha Janmukti Morcha founder Bimal Gurung made a public appearance after three years and announced support to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Meanwhile, State unit BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that BJP president J.P. Nadda would visit West Bengal on November 6 to preside over organisational meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-to-meet-shah/article32968178.ece
29 October 2020||Srinagar/Bengaluru,||NIA conducts searches in Bengaluru, Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted searches at one place in Bengaluru and 10 premises in Kashmir, including the office of daily Greater Kashmir, houses of two human rights activists and a journalist, in a case pertaining to “raising funds and using it for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities”. An NIA spokesman said the 10 searches took place in Srinagar and Bandipora, and at Thanisandra in Bengaluru. The Kashmir Editors Guild has expressed concern over the searches at the Greater Kashmir premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-conducts-searches-in-bengaluru-kashmir/article32968524.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||President suspends DU V-C for ‘misconduct’||The National Investigation Agency on Wednesday conducted searches at one place in Bengaluru and 10 premises in Kashmir in a case pertaining to “raising funds for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-searches-10-places-in-kashmir/article32968324.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Corpn. decides to stop receiving solid waste||The council of the Mangaluru City Corporation in its meeting here on Wednesday decided that solid waste from three outside urban local bodies and 15 gram panchayats will not be received at its compost plant at Pachchanady after three months. It decided that solid waste from those civic bodies should be accepted at Pachchanady till the next three months only, if they sent segregated waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corpn-decides-to-stop-receiving-solid-waste/article32968756.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||268 visually impaired staffers to get salaries||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to pay salaries to 268 visually impaired employees, who were not paid during the lockdown, and said, “Denying benefits during the pandemic was ‘illegal’.” A Division Bench was hearing a public interest litigation filed by the National Association for Blind through advocate Uday Warunjikar after the civic body did not pay full salaries to the 268 employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/268-visually-impaired-staffers-to-get-salaries/article32968800.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||Koshyari gets sarcastic response from Pawar||When Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari sent a coffee book named ‘Jana Rajyapal - Bhagat Singh Koshyari’, detailing his one year in the office, to NCP chief Sharad Pawar, he never expected that he would receive a letter full of sarcasm from the veteran politician. Mr. Pawar in his letter dated October 21 to the Governor said there was no mention of term ‘jana rajyapal’ (people’s Governor) in the Constitution, referring to the title of the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/koshyari-gets-sarcastic-response-from-pawar/article32968801.ece
29 October 2020||BELAGAVI,||KMF on the path to recovery||Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF), which suffered huge losses during the COVID-19-induced lockdown, is on the path to recovery. There is an irony in the process of recovery though. Senior officials say that the lockdown that nearly shut down several dairies and processing plants in different States has created opportunities for the dairy cooperative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kmf-on-the-path-to-recovery/article32968095.ece
29 October 2020||MYSURU,||Dasara brought no cheer to Mysuru zoo||The COVID-19 pandemic has left a lasting damage on the tourism industry and the footfall at the Mysuru zoo during this year’s Dasara and during the festivities last year clearly illustrate it. In 10 Dasara days last year, the zoo had managed to attract a whopping 1.65 lakh visitors. This year, the number stood at just 20,000, reckoned to be lowest in its recent history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dasara-brought-no-cheer-to-mysuru-zoo/article32968279.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Panel to assess structures of Hussainsagar||The State government has constituted a 10-member committee of officials and experts to take up a comprehensive assessment of the structures of the Hussainsagar in Hyderabad. According to the orders issued on Wednesday, the committee will be headed by Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation) C. Muralidhar and ENC of Roads and Buildings I. Ganapathi Reddy, Chief Engineers of Central Designs Organisation, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) T. Srinivas, Sridhar and B.L.N. Reddy, respectively, three professors of IIT-Hyderabad – Uma Shanker, Suriya Prakash and Shashidhar, Executive Director of Hyderabad Water Works M. Satyanarayana and Joint Secretary in the Irrigation Department S. Bheem Prasad will be the member-convenor. The Telangana government has decided to get the assessment done due to the recent unprecedented rains and floods in and around GHMC area. A majority of the 185 lakes located in the city limits have exceeded the full tank level (FTL), straining their bunds and regulatory infrastructure. Following the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, 15 teams have been formed by the Irrigation department for monitoring the flood situation in respect of these lakes. The committee constituted now would take stock of the current scenario and challenges in the future, particularly in terms of the tanks’ structural stability, hydrological aspects, flood routing and improvements needed to the structures, in the city. The 10-member committee could co-opt any other departmental/subject experts as per necessity and is tasked to submit its comprehensive report within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-to-assess-structures-of-hussainsagar/article32968608.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Death sentence for Warangal mass murderer||A local court in Warangal on Wednesday awarded death sentence to Sanjay Kumar Yadav of Bihar, after convicting him for killing nine persons, including a three-year-old boy, five months ago. The 24-year-old convict, who was brought to the First Additional District and Sessions Judge court hall amidst tight security, remained expressionless as the punishment was announced. The death sentence was conveyed to him in Hindi through a translator. Judge K. Jaya Kumar pronounced the verdict in the sensational case of mass murder committed by a single person. The killings on the intervening night of this May 20 and 21 in Gorrekunta village of Geesukonda mandal in Warangal district were widely discussed as all the victims were members of migrant workers’ families. These homicides were executed during the lock-down imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic, initially triggering speculative theories about possible motives. Mamnoor Assistant Commissioner of Police G. Shyam Sunder, who investigated the case, filed charge-sheet within a month. The police accused Sanjay of killing the nine persons to cover-up the murder of a woman Rafika. “A separate murder case was registered by Government Railway Police of AP against Sanjay for this. Charge-sheet is yet to be filed in this case,” Public Prosecutor Mokila Satyanarayana Goud said. Sanjay is also facing another criminal case registered by Warangal police under section 376 (rape) of IPC and Sections 5 and 6 of POCSO Act. This case was booked after investigators found that he had allegedly sexually assaulted Rafika’s minor daughter and impregnated her. Charge-sheet was filed and trial of the case is likely to begin soon. Mr. Satyanarayana Goud explained that Rafika was a close relative of Nisha Alam, one of the nine victims. The latter knew that Rafika, who had three children, was in a live-in relationship with Sanjay. As Rafika pressured Sanjay to marry her, he decided to eliminate her. After throwing her from running train in March at Tadepallygudem, he returned to Warangal. Nisha Alam grew suspicious as he evaded answers to queries about Rafika. When she threatened to approach police, Sanjay decided to eliminate her and her family members. He mixed sleeping pills in the food prepared for the birthday party of Nisha Alam’s son. After consuming it, Nisha Alam and five of her family members along with three other migrant workers fell unconscious. Sanjay dumped them in a nearby well, killing all of them, the PP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-sentence-for-warangal-mass-murderer/article32967875.ece
29 October 2020||Patna,||Bihar election phase 1 sees 54% turnout||The first of the three-phase Bihar Assembly election in 71 constituencies across 16 districts ended peacefully on Wednesday, amid reports of clashes between supporters of two parties in Shahpur, Kaimur and Gaya, and electronic voting machines (EVM) not working properly in some places. According to the Election Commission’s (EC) Voter Turnout App, the provisional polling was 54.26% that was updated till 10 p.m. Nearly 2.15 crore eligible voters exercised their franchise, marginally lower than in 2015. The second phase of polling for 94 seats will be held on November 3, while the third one will be on November 7 for 78 seats. Counting of votes will be done on November 10. FIR lodged An FIR was lodged at the Kotwali police station in Gaya against Prem Kumar, BJP candidate and Agriculture Minister in the Nitish Kumar Cabinet, for wearing a mask with the party logo while casting his vote at a polling booth. However, Mr. Kumar later told reporters that “it was unintentional and he couldn’t throw attention to it as he was busy”.  Young voters between the ages of 18 and 35 and women were mostly seen in queues to exercise their franchise at many places. There were reports of EVMs not working at some booths in the Suryagarha constituency of Lakhisarai, Paliganj and other places as polling began in the morning, but the problem was rectified by officials. Clashes between supporters of two candidates were reported in the Shahpur constituency of Buxar and Kaimur, while a candidate’s vehicle was damaged by some people in the Tekari constituency of Gaya district. “Good turnout of voters even during the COVID-19 pandemic is not a good sign for the ruling NDA as people usually turn out in large numbers to vote against the present government”, said political analyst Ajay Kumar. As many as 1,066 candidates were in the fray for Wednesday’s polls, which took place in a total of 31,371 polling booths. The total number of electorate in this phase was 2,14,84,787. Unemployment, corruption at lower level of bureaucracy, prohibition and migration have been the main issues for voters. COVID-19 guidelines At some polling booths, people were seen exercising their franchise without wearing masks and without following social distancing, though at some places some of the voters and poll officials were seen following the ECI guidelines. Of the 71 seats in the first phase, the RJD won 27 in 2015, while the JD(U) got 18, the BJP 13, the Congress nine and others four. Principal Opposition party RJD has nominated its 25 sitting legislators, while the JD(U) and the BJP did so for 23 and 13 seats respectively. The Congress has repeated its eight MLAs, while the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) one each. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-election-phase-1-sees-52-turnout/article32967898.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||Troops standing firm on LAC: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday expressed the confidence that ongoing talks for a peaceful resolution of the crisis with China “will continue”, while troops are standing firm along the disputed border in eastern Ladakh. He said the concept of integrated battle groups and theatre commands would be “game changers” in the way armed forces fought future wars. “It is our national responsibility to ensure availability of best weapons, equipment and clothing to our troops braving extreme weather and hostile forces to defend our territorial integrity,” Mr. Singh said at the Army Commanders’ Conference that began on Monday. “There are no budgetary constraints for capability development and meeting other requirements of the Army,” he asserted. With several rounds of talks failing to make any headway for disengagement and de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control, both sides have prepared to be deployed in the high altitudes though the harsh winter. Mr. Singh said the creation of the post of Chief of the Defence Staff and the Department of Military Affairs was a “momentous decision” and the concept of integrated battle groups, integrated theatre commands and integrated air defence command would be game changers in future wars. “He also alluded to the establishment of the defence cyber and space agencies which will enhance the kinetic potential of the forces,” a Defence Ministry statement said. Mr. Singh said the government was focused on “enhancing combat capability and ensuring welfare of soldiers”. The delegation of financial powers, the defence procurement manual and the Army headquarters restructuring proposals were under review and would be finalised soon. He also reiterated the government’s resolve to corporatise the Ordnance Factory Board to enhance their efficiency and accountability. Cross-border terror On the border with Pakistan, Mr. Singh appreciated the Army’s response to cross-border terrorism and ceasefire violations. “I compliment the excellent synergy between the Central Armed Police Forces and police forces and the Army in tackling the menace of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. It is due to the synergised operations in the Valley that the Union Territory is moving to a stable and peaceful environment conducive for overall growth and development,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/troops-standing-firm-on-lac-rajnath/article32967909.ece
29 October 2020||KOCHI,||ED arrests senior Kerala bureaucrat||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Wednesday night in connection with the money laundering angle of the UAE Consulate-linked gold smuggling case. His arrest was recorded by around 10.15 p.m. after nearly seven hours of questioning by the investigating team at the agency’s office here. Mr. Sivasankar will be produced before the Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam. on Thursday. Anticipatory bail The day’s drama unfolded after the Kerala High Court rejected his anticipatory bail in the morning. Two ED officials arrived at a private Ayurveda hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, where Mr. Sivasankar was undergoing treatment for back pain and served him a summons for further interrogation. The embattled bureaucrat appeared stoic and refused to answer questions from presspersons as he emerged from the hospital flanked by plain clothes officers. The investigating team soon whisked him away in their official car to their office in Kochi. The agency suspected that Mr. Sivasankar helped gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh conceal the vast proceeds from the crime in bank lockers and accounts. Swapna had allegedly spirited away a part of the booty to Dubai in foreign currency, and Mr. Sivasankar had accompanied her on some of the trips. The ED believed that the illegal profits were ploughed back into the gold smuggling operation headed by persons with suspicious links to radical organisations in the country and abroad. Hence, the agency wanted to question him under Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The provisions relate to raising funds, directly or indirectly, for anti-national activities and include offences that imperil the economic security of the country. The illegal acts under the UAPA are also “scheduled” offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Customs officials quizzed Mr. Sivasankar on his links with Swapna. It is learnt that the interrogation was based on the call data records of Swapna and their joint trips to the UAE, especially in 2018 and 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-senior-kerala-bureaucrat/article32967879.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Infections in Kerala may be plateauing: experts||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph, which had dipped with a slump in testing changed course on Wednesday, registering 8,790 new cases from 66,980 samples. Epidemiologists said that the State’s weekly growth rate, at 10%-15% two weeks ago, came down to less than 5% during October 18–25 and the active case pool stabilised at around 95,000. At the current growth rate it could take weeks for the active case load to cross a lakh, they said. The test positivity rate on Wednesday was 13.12%. With 27 fresh deaths from October 16 to 26 being added to the official list, the State’s COVID-19 toll stood at 1,403 deaths. Thrissur accounted for 10 of these deaths, Thiruvananthapuram five, Ernakulam four, Palakkad and Alappuzha two each while Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kollam reported one death each. Ernakulam district reported the highest number of cases at 1,250, Kozhikode 1,149, Thrissur 1,018, Kollam 935, Alapuzha 790, Thiruvananthapuram 785, Kottayam 594, Malappuram 548, Kannur 506, Palakkad 449, Pathanamthitta 260, Kasaragod 203, Wayanad 188 and Idukki 115. Cases in Telangana were back in a familiar range, with 1,481 people testing positive on Tuesday, with 40,081 people being tested. Four more COVID-19 patients died. Of the 1,481 new cases, 279 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 138 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 111 from Rangareddy, 82 each from Khammam and Nalgonda, and 79 each from Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Karimnagar. No case was registered in Wanaparthy and just four were recorded in Narayanpet. So far, 41,55,597 samples were tested and 2,34,152 cases detected. On Wednesday, there were 17,916 active cases while 2,14,917 had recovered, and 1,319 died.Karnataka on Wednesday reported 3,146 cases taking the total to 8,12,784. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,612 cases, taking the district’s tally to 3,30,862. The State’s test positivity rate for the day reduced to 3.65%. As many as 7,384 persons were discharged on Wednesday taking the total number of recoveries to 7,33,558. Of the remaining 68,161 active cases, 939 patients were being monitored in ICUs. After a dip in the number of tests since Monday, as many as 86,154 tests were conducted. With this the total number of tests rose to 76,00,348. For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu recorded a little over 2,500 new cases, with 31 of the 37 districts reporting less than 100 fresh cases. A total of 2,516 persons tested positive of which Chennai had fewer than 700 cases, and 35 persons, including a 101-year-old woman, died. Fresh coronavirus infections have been marginally declining in the State in the last few days. The overall tally of cases stood at 7,16,751. As another 35 fatalities were recorded, the State’s toll crossed 11,000. Till date, a total of 11,018 persons succumbed to COVID-19.   (With inputs from   Hyderabad, Chennai   and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/infections-in-kerala-may-be-plateauing-experts/article32967894.ece
29 October 2020||Srinagar,||Two JeM militants gunned down||Two Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) militants were killed in a night-long operation in central Kashmir’s Budgam on Wednesday. “Two militants were killed in the operation. One was identified as Ilyas, a Pakistani militant, and another Javed Ahmad, from south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. The role of Ilyas in highway attacks can’t be ruled out. The police are investigating his involvement,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. The militants were encircled on Tuesday evening by a joint team of the security forces in Budgam’s Mouchwa area, triggering a fierce encounter. The exchange of fire was reported till late in the night. “The operation was halted late in the night and resumed in the morning,” a police official said. The militants were hiding in a residential area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-jem-militants-gunned-down/article32967915.ece
29 October 2020||Srinagar/Bengaluru,||NIA searches 10 places in Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted searches at one place in Bengaluru and 10 premises in Kashmir, including the office of the daily Greater Kashmir , houses of two human rights activists and a journalist, in a case pertaining to “raising funds and using it for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities”. An NIA spokesman said the 10 searches took place in Srinagar and Bandipora, and at Thanisandra in Bengaluru. “These searches were made in connection with a case pertaining to certain so-called non-governmental organisations [NGOs] and Trusts raising funds in India and abroad in the name of charitable activities and then using those funds for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities in J&K,” the spokesman said. On October 8, the NIA registered a fresh case under Sections 120B, 124 A of the IPC and Sections 17, 18, 22A, 22C, 38, 39 and 40 of the UA(P)A, 1967 “on receipt of credible information that certain NGOs and Trusts are collecting funds through so-called donations and business contributions etc. and are utilising these funds for secessionist and terrorist activities in J&K”. According to the NIA, the premises searched include the residence and office of Khurram Parvez, coordinator of the J&K Coalition of Civil Society, his associates Parvez Ahmad Bukhari, a journalist, Parvez Ahmad Matta and Bengaluru-based associate Swati Sheshadri. “Parveena Ahanger, Chairperson of the Association of Parents of Disappeared Persons (APDPK), and offices of NGO Athrout and the Greater Kashmir Trust were also searched”, the NIA said. Several incriminating documents and electronic devices have been seized, the NIA spokesman said. “Further investigation is on,” he added. Sources said a Hurriyat activist’s house was searched in north Kashmir’s Bandipora. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and ex-Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti condemned the searches. “The NIA raids on human rights activist Parvez and the Greater Kashmir office in Srinagar is yet another example of the Government of India’s vicious crackdown on freedom of expression and dissent. Sadly, the NIA has become BJP’s pet agency to intimidate and browbeat those who refuse to fall in line,” she tweeted.  Kashmir Times editor Anuradha Bhasin said the searches at the newspaper office and Mr. Parvez’s house “are attempts to impose silence even on our whispers”. “This comes a day after the disempowering land laws. Can this be just a coincidence?” she tweeted. The Kashmir Editors Guild (KEG) has expressed concern over the pre-dawn NIA searches at the Greater Kashmir premises. “Kashmir media continues to get targeted, demonized, vilified and raided by both the state and non-state actors for a long time now. Kashmir media has proven record of being a professional institution that maintained textbook objectivity, while maintaining its core journalistic values. The KEG expresses its concern over the mounting costs of being a journalist in Kashmir”, a KEG spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-searches-10-places-in-kashmir/article32967917.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala told to enforce Motor Vehicles Act strictly||The Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety has asked Kerala to strictly enforce the provisions of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 and to review the decision to impose compounding fee, fine and punishment for violations other than those prescribed in the Act. The State has been asked to use the provisions of the Act to disqualify and revoke driving licences of two wheelers and light motor vehicles for speeding and non-wearing of helmets. The three-member committee headed by Abhay Manohar Sapre has given direction to invoke the provisions of the Act on community service by offenders. Bowing to pressure from motorists, the State had reduced the penalties while implementing the amended Act last year against the wishes of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH). While speeding will attract Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 4,000 under the Act, in Kerala one has to pay only Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 3,000. Driving without seat belt and helmet (rider and pillion rider) will earn a penalty of Rs. 500 in the State, while it is Rs. 1,000 as per the Act. In the case of not giving way to emergency vehicles, the penalty as per the Act is Rs. 10,000, but it is Rs. 5,000 in the State. Sanjay Mitra and Nishi Mittal are the other members of the committee. The observations should be complied with by the authorities concerned by January 31, 2021. A comprehensive compliance report along with the copy of orders issued should be submitted by February 15, 2021, the committee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-told-to-enforce-motor-vehicles-act-strictly/article32968220.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||Dismiss Bihar government: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday asked if it is a “crime” to worship “Maa Durga”, referring to Monday night’s police firing in Munger that killed a 22-year-old youth and injured several others while they were on their way to immerse an idol of Goddess Durga. The party, however, denied that it was trying to politicise the issue in the midst of the Bihar election and asserted that it would speak up for any community, caste or religion if they were ‘brutally’ targeted like the devotees of Goddess Durga. Since Tuesday, the Congress — which is part of the grand alliance in Bihar and kept its campaign focussed on issues like unemployment — has held three press conferences on the firing and dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to dismiss the Nitish Kumar government for targeting the bhakts [devotees] of Maa Durga’. “Prime Minister Modiji, if you have any wisdom left, then you should dismiss this government that fired upon the devotees of Maa Durga in such a cruel manner ... If you don’t do so, then it will be proven that sanskar [tradition] and sanskriti [culture] are only a means to achieve power and not a matter of faith for the BJP,” Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala told reporters at a joint press conference in Patna with Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday. While Mr. Yadav asked for a court-monitored probe, the Congress asked the BJP to explain its ‘silence’. “Is it now a crime to do Durga Puja?” asked Rajya Sabha MP Abhishek Singhvi at another press briefing. “The devotees were being chased like animals and treated like worms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dismiss-bihar-government-congress/article32967896.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||For votes, Owaisi banks on his stand against CAA, NRC||At Kochadhaman’s Janta Haat, in Kishanganj district of north Bihar, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi is speaking under a green canopy erected in a ground. Mr. Owaisi’s poll pitch is clear — AIMIM is the only party that took to the streets against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and he is the only one who had the “guts” to tear the legislation in Parliament. The others are betraying the electorate and stealing their votes, he said. He points a finger at JD(U) president Nitish Kumar for garnering votes with the promise of “ sangh mukt ” Bharat, and later, as Mr. Owaisi says, “sipping milk in PM Modi’s lap.” “This is your fight, this is the fight for your children’s future,” Mr. Owaisi said. He appeals to the crowd to gain zehani and siyasi freedom (mental and political freedom) from these parties. He promises schools, colleges, hospital, and an airport at Purnia. In a close contest, as Bihar Assembly election 2020 is turning out to be, one of the key questions is: will the AIMIM play a bigger role than just being a spoiler? Mr. Owaisi first came to Bihar five years ago contesting in the 2015 Assembly election. He has managed to gain more trust since then but there are also many who reject what they call his “fundamentalist” ideas. In this election, the AIMIM is contesting 20 seats, out of which 12 are against the RJD or the Congress. The AIMIM’s expansion will come at the Mahagathbandhan’s cost. The National Register of Citizens (NRC) issue may have faded out of the national debate but is very real here. A thorny issue “They want to weed out Muslims, where should we go? Why don’t they shoot us here itself, on our land. Better to die here rather than in an alien country,” said Ramzan Ali Sheikh, a farmer. “I don’t want my government, I only want a leader who will raise my issues,” he said. He has been voting for the Congress, but he says, this time it is going to be ‘ patang chaap ’ (‘kite’, the AIMIM’s symbol). His anger against the Congress is because of the incumbent legislator Abdus Subhan, who has been around for two decades. Miles away in the Kishanganj constituency, 23-year-old Khurshid Alam expresses dissatisfaction with the Congress’s ‘lukewarm’ response to CAA and triple talaq. Zia-ur-Rehman, a farmer, concurs with Mr. Alam. “The lockdown was imposed to clamp down on CAA and NRC protests. Where did COVID go now? Is COVID only for the common man, not for netas who hold big rallies,” he asked. All, though, agree that the AIMIM is a far more powerful counter to the BJP than the Congress or the RJD. In the 2019 bypolls, the AIMIM won in the Kishanganj Assembly constituency, giving it its first berth in the Bihar Assembly. Old-young divide The AIMIM is also courting the Dalit community with the ‘Jai Bheem’ and ‘Jai Meem’ narrative. There is a young and old divide too, with the younger lot seeing the AIMIM as a fresh alternative to the RJD and the Congress. The older voters are worried about the party’s strident line. Naushad Alam, from the Palsa panchayat in the Amour Assembly constituency, pointed to his neighbour and said, “He is a Yadav, when he and I do not have a problem eating together or mingling together, why should anyone else have. This is my India and his. It is ours.” Regardless of critics, the AIMIM’s presence has visibly grown. It is not clear whether Mr. Owaisi has the critical mass of support to play more than a spoiler’s role in this election, but, the AIMIM has made it to a close contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-polls-owaisi-banks-on-his-stand-against-caa-nrc/article32967903.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Boundary issue with India is bilateral, China tells Pompeo||China has accused United States Secretary of State Mike Pompeo of “repeating old lies” and “violating the norms of international relations”, and told Washington “the boundary question is a bilateral matter between China and India” and “there is no space for a third party to intervene.” Two strong statements from the Foreign Ministry in Beijing and the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi followed Mr. Pompeo’s remarks at Tuesday’s 2+2 ministerial dialogue, which he attended along with Secretary of Defence Mark Esper, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Mr. Pompeo said the U.S. “will stand with the people of India as they face threats to their sovereignty and their liberty.” He also hit out at the Communist Party of China (CPC), saying it was “no friend to democracy, the rule of law, transparency, nor to freedom of navigation, the foundation of a free and open and prosperous Indo-Pacific.” ‘Geopolitical games’ The Chinese Foreign Ministry accused the U.S. of “preaching an outdated Cold War mentality and preaching confrontation and geopolitical games”, and told Washington to not involve itself in the boundary dispute. “I want to say that the border affairs between China and India are things between the two countries,” its spokesperson Wang Wenbin said. “Now the situation across the border is generally stable and the two sides are resolving relevant issues through consultations and negotiations”. In a statement, the Chinese Embassy said the U.S. was looking to “stir up confrontation among different groups and blocs and to stoke geopolitical competition.” Regional peace “China has been advocating that the development of bilateral relations between countries should be conducive to regional peace, stability and development, and not infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of a third party. The boundary question is a bilateral matter between China and India. The two sides have been discussing disengagement and de-escalation in the border areas through diplomatic and military channels. China and India have the wisdom and ability to handle their differences properly. There’s no space for a third party to intervene,” it stated. India and the U.S. discussed the situation in Ladakh at the dialogue, with the eighth round of Corps Commander-level talks expected to take place soon, with little progress towards disengagement and a return to the status quo in the wake of China’s mobilisation of troops and transgressions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) starting early May. On Mr. Pompeo’s remarks on the CPC, the embassy statement said he “repeated old lies, attacked and made allegations against China, violated the norms of international relations and basic principles of diplomacy, instigated China’s relations with other countries in the region, which once again exposed their Cold War mentality and ideological bias,” adding that China “expresses its firm opposition to it”. U.S.’ COVID-19 response The statement also hit out at the U.S. government for its response to the COVID-19 pandemic and accused it of “trying to shift the blame”. It said: “This year, under the leadership of the CPC, the Chinese people have achieved strategic victory in fighting the virus. The U.S. side once again tries to shift the blame onto China on COVID-19, which is indeed distorting facts to mislead the public. What China has done and achieved in our fight against the virus are open for all to see. We hope U.S. politicians could focus on their own epidemic response and saving lives instead of shifting the blame on others.”  Now the situation across the border is generally stable and the two sides are resolving relevant issues through consultations and negotiations Wang Wenbin Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boundary-issue-with-india-is-bilateral-china-tells-pompeo/article32967907.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru/Hubballi/Kalaburagi,||Karnataka Council polls: High turnout amidst pandemic||The first elections in the State amid COVID-19 pandemic, to four Legislative Council seats on Wednesday, recorded a turnout that was better than the previous elections, belying expectations. The average turnout of all four constituencies put together was 72.3%. While average turnout in two graduates’ constituencies was 72.9%, teachers’ constituencies reported average polling of 70.26%. The four constituencies are spread across 18 districts in the State. Elections were held to Karnataka West Graduates’ (KWG), Karnataka South East Graduates’ (KSEG), Karnataka North East Teachers’ (KNET), and Bangalore Teachers’ in which 40 contestants, including four members who had retired earlier, were in fray. The elections were necessitated after S.V. Sankanur, R. Chowda Reddy Thoppalli, Sharanappa Mattur, and Puttanna had retired on June 30 after finishing their term. Highest and lowest KSEG constituency recorded the highest turnout with 74.84% of the total 1.09 lakh voters turning up amidst several precautionary measures owing to the pandemic. In 2014, of the total 98,337 voters, 52.25% had voted. The Bangalore Teachers’ constituency, which has the lowest number of voters in the polling list at 21,963, also reported the lowest among the four constituencies with 66.2% turnout. This in comparison to 2014 when 44.91% of the total 36,916 voters had participated in polling. The KNET constituency reported 73.32%, of the total 29,236 voters exercising their franchise. In 2014, 60.3% of the 31,809 registered voters had polled in KNET. KWG, which had a total of 74,278 eligible voters, recorded polling of 70.11% as against 49.48% of 94,352 eligible persons voting in 2014. Muted response Earlier in the day, as the polling commenced at 8 a.m., the first two hours saw a muted response from the voters, but picked up after 10 a.m. By 2 p.m., the voting percentage had crossed 50% in both teachers’ constituency, while the graduates’ constituencies were inching closer to 50 %.  Patients vote Owing to the pandemic, elaborate arrangements had been made at the polling stations, including setting up of isolation facilities for COVID-19 positive patients. In Dharwad district, two COVID-19 positive patients cast their votes wearing PPE kits at booth no. 50 in Annigeri. The administration had arranged transportation for them and the polling station was sanitised after they cast their votes. Besides Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and former Minister Basavaraj Horatti were among the prominent voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/council-polls-pandemic-doesnt-deter-voters/article32968133.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Central Asian republics call for destruction of terror ‘safe havens’||The Central Asian republics joined India on Wednesday in demanding destruction of “safe havens” of terrorism. The second meeting of the India-Central Asia Dialogue jointly expressed support for the peace negotiations in Afghanistan, which is expected to usher in a new age for the war-torn country. “The Ministers strongly condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and reaffirmed the determination of their countries to combat this menace by destroying terrorist safe-havens, networks, infrastructure and funding channels. They also underlined the need for every country to ensure that its territory is not used to launch terrorist attacks against other countries,” said a joint statement issued after the meeting.  Delivering his opening remarks, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar described the Central Asian region as India’s “extended neighbourhood”. Among the key takeaways from the meeting was the announcement of an additional $1 billion Line of Credit by India for the Central Asian countries. It is expected that the money will be spent for major infrastructural and connectivity projects. Chabahar port The joint statement highlighted the appreciation from the Foreign Ministers of Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and the First Deputy Foreign Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic for India’s “efforts to modernise the infrastructure of the Chabahar port in Iran, which could become an important link in trade and transport communications between the markets of Central and South Asia”. The meeting also led to the announcement of grant financing by India for high-impact community development projects in the countries. It also led to the establishment of working groups by India Central Asia Business Council comprising the key Chambers of all participating countries. Apart from Dr. Jaishankar, the meeting was attended by his counterparts Mukhtar Tleuberdi (Kazakhstan), Sirodjiddin Muhriddin (Tajikistan), Rashid Meredov (Turkmenistan), Abdulaziz Kamilov (Uzbekistan) and First Deputy Foreign Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic Nuran Niyazaliev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-central-asian-republics-call-for-destruction-of-terror-safe-havens/article32967900.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Left parties flay pact with U.S.||The two major Left parties have slammed the agreements which the Centre has signed with the United States this week, saying the pacts would bind the armed forces with the U.S. military and its strategic designs in the long term. “The interlocking of the communications and electronic systems are going to adversely affect the integrity and independent decision making of the Indian defence structure. These agreements will make us dependent on U.S. weaponry whose technology and systems are going to be controlled by the United States,” said a joint statement issued on Wednesday by CPI general secretary D. Raja and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury. “The emerging military alliance with the U.S. will have long-term consequences for independent foreign policy and strategic autonomy. It is not in conformity with national interests,” said the statement, cautioning that India should not become subordinate to America’s geo-political strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-parties-flay-pact-with-us/article32967919.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||President suspends V-C of Delhi University for ‘dereliction of duty’||President Ram Nath Kovind, in his capacity as Visitor of Delhi University, has suspended Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi and ordered an inquiry against him over allegations of grave misconduct, dereliction of duties, abuse of power and lack of commitment to uphold the provisions of the Delhi University Act. Mr. Tyagi had been appointed Vice-Chancellor in March 2016. An order issued by the Ministry of Education said all orders issued by Mr. Tyagi during his period of absence on medical grounds after Pro Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi assumed charge of the Vice-Chancellor on July 17 be set aside and to be treated as null and void. It further stated that Prof. Joshi would function as the Vice-Chancellor during the period of suspension/absence of Mr. Tyagi for the smooth functioning of the university. The order read “The President of India has placed Prof. Yogesh Tyagi under suspension with immediate effect until further orders as he may influence/coerce witnesses and tamper with material records of the university so as to ensure a fair inquiry.” Allegations against Mr. Tyagi include failing to make key appointments to the post of Pro Vice-Chancellor, Registrar, Finance Officer and Treasurer, Controller of Examination, Librarian, Dean of Colleges, Constitution of Governing Bodies and several other posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-suspends-v-c-of-delhi-university-for-dereliction-of-duty/article32967911.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||IT Ministry working to comply with CIC orders on Aarogya Setu||Following a show cause notice issued over the government’s “preposterous” response to an RTI (Right to Information) query related to the Aarogya Setu application, the IT Ministry said it was taking steps to comply with the CIC’s orders, while adding that the app had been developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) in collaboration with volunteers from industry and academia. “As per the orders of the CIC, Central Public Information Officers (CPIOs) of Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY), National e-Governance Division (NeGD) and NIC have been directed to appear on November 24, 2020. MeitY is taking necessary steps to comply with the orders of the CIC,” the IT Ministry said in a statement.  Evasive reply The statement comes after the Ministry and NIC were slammed by the CIC over their reply to an RTI stating that they do not have any information about the “creation” of the Aarogya Setu application promoted by the government to contain the spread of COVID-19. The CIC termed the response as “preposterous” and issued a show cause notice to the NIC to explain why a penalty under the RTI Act should not be slapped on it for “ prima facie obstruction of information and providing an evasive reply”. In the order, Information Commissioner Vanaja N. Sarna pointed out that the website of the application mentions that the content on it is “owned, updated and maintained” by MyGov and MeitY, and directed the CPIO of the Ministry to explain why they did not have the requisite information. ( With PTI inputs )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-ministry-working-to-comply-with-cic-orders-on-aaroyga-setu/article32967918.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Kidnapped dentist rescued in Anantapur||He said that seven people in connection with the case were arrested, while five others including kingpins Mustafa and Mubashir Ahmed alias Khaled are still at large. The arrested are Sumit Chandrakanth Bhosale (28), Akshay Balu Vairekar (24), Vicky Datta Shinde (20) from Pune, Mohd. Raheem (18) from Chandrayanagutta, Mohd. Imran (21), Mohd. Irfan (25) from Kukatpally and Sanjay (19) of Udupi. Close to victim “Mustafa became close to the victim’s family with a plea of getting a flat on rent for Mubhashir in the newly constructed building. Without anticipating the danger from the accused, Dr. Hussain gave a flat on rent to Mubashir at Bandlaguda,” Mr. Sajjanar said, adding that since then they were keeping a close on the movements of the dentist and were waiting for a ‘right time’ to execute their plan. Clad in burqas On Tuesday afternoon, four people clad in burqas barged into the clinic and hit the victim with a toy pistol. His assistant was locked in the washroom with hands tied and mouth gagged. “They took him to Yellammabanda and sent a voice message to the family members demanding Rs. 10 crore in bitcoin,” the Commissioner said. 12 teams in action He said that 12 teams consisting over 100 police personnel were pressed into action to trace and rescue Dr. Hussain. Mr. Sajjanar advised people not to disclose their financial issues with unknown persons or servants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kidnapped-dentist-rescued-in-anantapur/article32968888.ece
29 October 2020||M. RajeevHYDERABAD,||KCR to launch Dharani portal today||The stage is all set for launch of the ambitious Dharani portal, the one-of-its-kind integrated land record management system, on Thursday. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will formally launch the portal at Muduchintala village in the neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri district on Thursday afternoon. The launch will also witness resumption of registration services that had been abruptly stopped since September 7 consequent to the passage of bills ushering in major reforms in the Revenue Administration. Though the launch of the portal was programmed on October 25, coinciding with auspicious Vijaya Dasami, it had to be deferred by a few days as inclement weather conditions had impacted the progress of putting in place online network for the smooth functioning of Dharani. Problems on account of the network were visible during the trial run of the portal in the last few days when the Revenue officials faced technical glitches due to slow broadband services. Concerns were expressed by the staff, who attended the training courses, over the speed and network connectivity related issues. While there were complaints that the tahsildars could not log on to the network despite repeated attempts from some places, those who managed to login complained that they could not upload any documents. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has assured that he would take the responsibility of ensuring the required speed and bandwidth of the network so that there is no scope for complaints in that direction. On the technological front, the government has taken steps to ensure that data uploaded on the portal is protected. Servers are, accordingly, being set up at multiple locations like New Delhi or Bhubaneswar as part of effective disaster management practices and they would also act as backup mechanism to ensure that data is stored in a fool-proof manner. There are disaster recovery sites that would be part of the Dharani application combining data of registration and mutation of immovable properties in the State. The government has initiated steps to see that experienced players were made part of supply installation and commissioning of the high speed SAN (storage area network) with capacity of 200 TB connecting different data storage devices to seven servers that would be exclusively functioning for Dharani. The portal was conceived as a one-stop solution for all land related transactions across the State and decided to make all the transactions online. This on the one hand would reduce human intervention to the maximum extent and pave the way for hassle-free, simple and transparent process for the people on the other. Booklets on operational guidelines have been circulated at all levels and officials concerned were given hands-on training on conducting registrations, mutations and other processes through Dharani. Concerns are also being expressed over the sudden shift to the new system without rectifying the problems encountered in the data entered in the Re-Settlement Register and other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-to-launch-dharani-portal-today/article32968603.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India deplores personal attacks on French President||India on Wednesday came out in support of French President Emmanuel Macron, who has been subjected to personal attacks and harsh observations in various parts of the world after he spoke in favour of the freedom of expression against the backdrop of the beheading of a schoolteacher in Paris who had shown some cartoons of Prophet Muhammad to students. “We strongly deplore the personal attacks in unacceptable language on President Emmanuel Macron in violation of the most basic standards of international discourse. We also condemn the brutal terrorist attack that took the life of a French school teacher in a gruesome manner that has shocked the world,” said the Ministry of External Affairs. France has come under intense criticism in the Arab world and Pakistan after the development. This has been accompanied by strong reaction against Mr. Macron in various Muslim-majority societies. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan repeatedly raised the issue in his public speeches in the last few days. On Wednesday, he wrote to leaders of Muslim States to “act collectively to counter the growing Islamophobia in non-Muslim states”. Bangladesh, too, saw protests during the last few days over Mr. Macron’s remarks. “There is no justification for terrorism for any reason or under any circumstances,” India’s statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-deplores-personal-attacks-on-french-president/article32967901.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala private bus operators seek package||Private bus operators in the State have demanded a special package on the lines of the revival package announced by the government for the KSRTC. “The private bus operators operate three times more services than the KSRTC. But 80% of the buses are off the road due to poor patronage. We were given only six months concession in road tax from April due to COVID-19. This benefited only 20% of the stage carriers and the tax concession amounted to Rs. 7 crore,” Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation president M.B. Satyan and general secretary Lawerence Babu said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-private-bus-operators-seek-package/article32968222.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||In TS, new revenue sub-districts created||Furthering the reforms initiated to streamline the revenue administration to make it simple and corruption-free, the government has decided to ensure formation of new sub-districts for establishment of offices of sub-registrars at the grassroots level. The decision follows the enactment of the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books Act, 2020 appointing tahsildars as joint sub-registrars.  Orders have been issued notifying new sub-districts in line with request made by the Commissioner and IG of Stamps and Registration department on Wednesday. The orders said the IG of Stamps and Registration recommended that the government create new sub-divisions in the administration districts with jurisdiction co-terminus with those of the revenue mandals with an office of the Joint Sub-Registrar at their respective headquarters and appointing tahsildars as Joint Sub-Registrars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-revenue-sub-districts-created/article32968655.ece
29 October 2020||KOCHI,||Survivor in actor rape case moves High Court||Aggrieved by the "biased and hostile attitude" of the court considering the female actor rape case, the survivor has moved the Kerala High Court for transferring the trial to another court. The State has also moved the High Court for the transfer of court in the case, which is likely to come up for hearing on Friday. ‘Mute spectator’ In her petition, the actor submitted that the Special Judge of the Additional Special Sessions Court (SPE/CBI-3), Ernakulam, "sat like a mute spectator" when she was examined and harassed by counsel of actor Dileep, the 8th accused. The court failed to record certain portions of the testimonies deliberately and without any lawful justification and the repeated prayers of the special public prosecutor to record them fell on deaf ears, she submitted. She complained that the court failed to restrict the number of lawyers of the accused in the court hall during her examination and thus failed to uphold the spirit of the in-camera trial. The application of the prosecution to cancel the bail granted to Dileep was kept pending. A witness in the case complained to the survivor that she was harassed by the court for one of her Facebook posts, the actor submitted. Responding to the developments, legal sources maintained that neither the victim nor any witness raised complaints of bias or hostility during the days of of their examination or the preceding days. A balance was always struck regarding the number of lawyers and other officials who would be present in the court hall from both the prosecution and defence benches in the true spirit of the in-camera proceedings, the sources said. On the complaint of the court remaining a mute spectator, the legal sources indicated that the court could interfere in the cross-examination only when some scandalous references are made against the victim or attempts to degrade her character are made in the court. In no other circumstances the court can intervene in the cross-examination of witnesses, which is part of fair trial. Decorum maintained Other than legally permissible interactions, no derogatory and scandalous remarks or allegations were made in the court and the decorum of the judicial proceedings was always maintained, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/survivor-in-actor-rape-case-moves-high-court/article32967880.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Court grants bail to Ministers Jaleel, Jayarajan||R. Jayakrishnan, Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Thiruvananthapuram, on Wednesday granted bail to two Ministers alleged to be among the six Left Democratic Front (LDF) legislators responsible for the vandalism in the Assembly on March 13, 2015. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan and Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel are accused in the offence that occurred when they were in the Opposition. The case The LDF legislators disrupted the Assembly to prevent the then Finance Minister K.M. Mani from delivering his Budget speech on the ground that he had accepted bribe from the Kerala Bar Hotel Association (KBHA) to revoke cancelled liquor permits. Bail amount Mr. Jayakrishnan ordered the Ministers, who presented themselves in his court, to post Rs. 35,000 each as bail amount. The CJM had in September turned down a plea by the government to withdraw the case and ruled that “public interest” and “unity of the legislature” were not sufficient grounds to arbitrarily set aside a case that involved wanton destruction of public property and unruly behaviour, The High Court had later upheld the CJM’s order. It was now hearing a plea by the government to quash the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-grants-bail-to-ministers-jaleel-jayarajan/article32967882.ece
29 October 2020||KOCHI,||Ebrahim Kunju quizzed||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday questioned V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader and MLA representing the Kalamassery constituency, over allegations of money laundering against him. Mr. Kunju, former Minister for Public Works in the United Democratic Front during 2011-16, is accused of depositing about Rs. 10 crore into the bank account of his party's mouthpiece Chandrika when high-value currency notes of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 were demonetised by the Centre in November 2016. He was let off after nearly two-and-a-half hours of questioning at the agency’s office here. The Kerala High Court had asked the ED to probe the case in response to a public interest litigation filed by Kalamassery native Girish Babu, who alleged that unaccounted money was transferred into two bank accounts of the Chandrika in Kochi on November 15, 2016. The IUML leadership had rejected the allegations as baseless while claiming that the transactions were actually part of routine long-term subscriber funds collected by the newspaper management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ebrahim-kunju-quizzed/article32967886.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||In Bihar poll rallies, Modi invokes Ram temple||“Forget about jobs… even private companies providing jobs here will flee from Bihar… extortion calls will be made by those patronised by them if they [the RJD] come to power,” Mr. Modi said in an indirect reference to Mr. Tejashwi Yadav’s promise of providing 10 lakh jobs to youths with his first signature at his first Cabinet meeting, if he came to power. “They have the habit of commission khori (taking a cut) in every project. Please take in mind their [the RJD’s] track record... those who made people’s life hell with crime and corruption. Their motto was paisa hajam , pariyojna khatam (money gobbled, projects ended). The people of Bihar have decided to defeat them and vote for the NDA that wants to make Bihar a self-reliant State… to make Bihar free from being a bimaru (sick) State,” he stated. Steps for farmers, poor The Prime Minister listed out the steps taken by the NDA government for farmers and the poor. “A sum of Rs. 1 lakh crore has been transferred directly into the farmers’ accounts, 40 lakh crore bank accounts have been opened for the poor, free LPG gas connections have been provided, and every poor man is getting medical facility up to Rs. 5 lakh. Even as the pandemic is on, we have ensured free ration for the poor for eight months. Very soon, Bihar too will be among those States where tap water will be available in every household,” he said. “Developments in Darbhanga district, like the opening of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the construction of an airport, software park and the Ramayan circuit, would help people,” he stated. Mr. Modi recalled how the Kosi mahasetu (great bridge) project was constructed by the NDA government after a long delay. “Now, through the Kosi mahasetu , a distance of 300 km has been reduced to just 20-22 km and an eight-hour journey cut to just half-an-hour.” Mr. Nitish Kumar was present on the dais along with the BJP leaders. “In the last 15 years, Bihar has made progress under Mr. Kumar’s leadership and you all should vote for him again for its development,” Mr. Modi reiterated at all the three public meetings, and asserted that Mr. Kumar would be CM again. Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed Mr. Modi and Mr. Kumar at his public meetings in West Champaran and Darbhanga districts. “Congress knows how to run the country, how to stand with farmers, but we do not know one thing and that is how to lie….we cannot compete with the Prime Minister in lying,” Mr. Gandhi said at a meeting in Valmikinagar in West Champaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-bihar-poll-rallies-modi-invokes-ram-temple/article32967888.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||20% rural students lack books: ASER survey||The ASER survey provides a glimpse into the levels of learning loss that students in rural India are suffering, with varying levels of access to technology, school and family resources, resulting in a digital divide in education. ASER is a nationwide survey of rural education and learning outcomes in terms of reading and arithmetic skills that has been conducted by the NGO Pratham for the last 15 years. This year, the survey was conducted via phone calls, reaching 52,227 rural households with school age children in 30 States and Union Territories. It found that 5.3% of rural children aged 6-10 years had not yet enrolled in school this year, in comparison to just 1.8% in 2018. This seems to indicate that due to the disruptions caused by the pandemic, families are waiting for the physical opening of schools to enrol their youngest children, with about 10% of six-year-olds not in school. Among 15-16-year-olds, however, enrolment levels are actually slightly higher than in 2018. Enrolment patterns also show a slight shift toward government schools, with private schools seeing a drop in enrolment in all age groups. In 2018, ASER surveyors found that about 36% of rural households with school-going children had smartphones. By 2020, that figure had spiked to 62%. About 11% of families bought a new phone after the lockdown, of which 80% were smartphones. This may indicate why WhatsApp was by far the most popular mode of transmitting learning materials to students, with 75% of students who got some input receiving it via the app. About a quarter of those who got input had personal contact with a teacher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-rural-students-lack-books-aser-survey/article32967889.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Panel asks Twitter for affidavit on glitch||“The Committee was of the unanimous opinion that Twitter’s explanation on showing Ladakh as a part of China was inadequate,” Ms. Lekhi told PTI after the meeting. She said Twitter representatives told the panel that the company “respects the sensitivities of India”. “But it is not only a question of the sensitivity of India or Indians. It is a question about national integrity and sovereignty of the country, and not respecting that is a criminal offence. And displaying Indian map improperly and incorrectly is an offence of treason and attracts imprisonment of seven years,” Ms. Lekhi said. The panel that questioned Twitter India’s executives for over two hours on the issue of Ladakh, also asked about its “banning policy”. “Shadow banning, banning policy — there is no clarity about it. Such actions are very subjective... Twitter is becoming a law unto itself and, under these circumstances, they are violating Article 19 of the Constitution about the freedom of expression,” Ms. Lekhi said. “The recent geo-tagging issue was swiftly resolved by our teams. We are committed to openness, transparency around our work and will remain in regular touch with the government to share timely updates,” a Twitter spokesperson said in a statement. Twitter faced a backlash after its geo-tagging feature displayed “Jammu & Kashmir, the People’s Republic of China” in a live broadcast from a war memorial in Leh, Ladakh. A senior member told The Hindu that Twitter India was seen as a “marketing arm” of the parent company and a written explanation has been sought from Twitter Inc. Some members noted that Twitter Asia, based in Singapore, mainly deals with advertisement revenues and takes all major decisions related to the region. ( With PTI inputs )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-asks-twitter-for-affidavit-on-glitch/article32967890.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,||ISRO to launch satellite EOS-01 on November 7||India would launch its latest earth observation satellite EOS-01 and nine international customer spacecraft onboard its Polar rocket PSLV-C49 from the spaceport of Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh on November 7, ISRO said on Wednesday. This is the first launch by ISRO since the COVID-19 lockdown came into force in March. ISRO Chairman K. Sivan had said in June that ten space missions being prepared for launch this year had been ’disturbed’ due to the lockdown. EOS-01 is intended for applications in agriculture, forestry and disaster management support, ISRO said. The launch is tentatively scheduled at 3.02 p.m. on November 7 subject to weather conditions from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota, the statement noted. The customer satellites are being launched under commercial agreement with NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), Department of Space, the space agency said. The live telecast of the launch will be available on ISRO website and its YouTube, Facebook and Twitter channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isro-to-launch-satellite-eos-01-on-november-7/article32967906.ece
29 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Hand over church keys: Orthodox faction||In view of the Supreme Court dismissing a petition by the Jacobite faction against the takeover of the Marthoman church at Mulanthuruthi, the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church on Wednesday urged authorities to expedite the procedures to hand over the church to it. In a statement, synod secretary Yohannon Mar Dioscoros said the Orthodox Church expected to receive the keys of the Mulanthuruthi church in a peaceful atmosphere.  “We hope that the keys will be handed over peacefully to the legally appointed vicar as per the court order. We also hope that those who had promised that peace would be maintained as per the discussions led by the Chief Minister will not breach their promise,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hand-over-church-keys-orthodox-faction/article32968221.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||No room for complacency, says CSIR chief||“The only proven way to control the pandemic across the world is following some simple precautions of wearing face masks, personal hygiene and social distancing, particularly during these festival times,” said Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Director General Shekhar C. Mande on Wednesday. In a communication to all CISR labs across the country, the DG cautioned against people congregating in one place. “It will only be befitting tribute to countless corona warriors if we truly observe discipline during the festival season and not lead to explosion of the pandemic because of our complacence,” added the DG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-room-for-complacency-says-csir-chief/article32967887.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||All SOPs were followed in phase 1: EC||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on Wednesday said polling in phase one of Bihar Assembly election, the first general elections to be held during the COVID-19 pandemic, had been carried out with all COVID-19-safety standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place and that voters cast their ballots in a disciplined manner. Speaking at the Election Commission’s (EC) post-polling briefing, Mr. Arora said despite the pandemic, the turnout till 5 p.m. had been 52.24%. He thanked the voters, political parties and administration in Bihar for their participation. From entering the polling station till casting votes, all SOPs — thermal scanning at the gate, hand sanitisers being made available and wearing gloves while casting the vote — were followed, he said. “For the EC, it was a leap of faith and not a leap in the dark.” Mr. Arora said 0.22% of ballot units, 0.25% of control units and 1.28% of VVPATs had to be replaced during phase 1. Deputy Election Commissioner (DEC) in-charge of Bihar Chandra Bhushan said 89 cases under the IPC and NDMA had been lodged for violating COVID-19 norms. DEC Ashish Kundra added that 450 complaints of violation of the model code of conduct had been lodged via the C-Vigil application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-sops-were-followed-in-phase-1-ec/article32967904.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. flays govt. on quota decision||Congress State president Mullappally Ramachandran has criticised the State government for implementing reservation for forward communities even before the Supreme Court delivers its verdict on it. He said here on Wednesday that when implementing the reservation for the forward communities, it should not deprive the existing beneficiaries of reservation. The Congress did not have any issues with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on the issue of reservation. “The CPI(M) is playing the quota game for political gains,” he said. The party’s political affairs committee met briefly via video link to discuss the matter given the move on the part of the IUML to mobilise other backward class social organisations to thwart the policy. The Congress appeared keen not to provoke influential social organisations such as the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam and Kerala Pulayar Maha Sabha that have reacted favourably to the IUML’s overture. Mr. Ramachandran said the Congress backed the amendment to increase reservation quota in Parliament. The party was not against giving reservation to the poor among forward castes. However, the party was opposed to the bungling manner in which the LDF government had implemented the policy in Kerala. The political affairs committee of the KPCC would give more clarity soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-flays-govt-on-quota-decision/article32967884.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,||60 persons, 5 organisations get Rajyotsava award||To mark the 65th Karnataka Rajyotsava celebrations on November 1, the State government on Wednesday announced its annual Rajyotsava Award for 60 people and five organisations for their work in 25 fields. This year, the Karnataka Rajyotsava Award would be presented on November 7. The award carries a purse of Rs. 1 lakh, a 25-gm gold medal, and a citation. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will present the award at a function at Ravindra Kalakshetra here, Minister for Kannada and Culture C.T. Ravi told presspersons. In the previous years, the award was presented on November 1. Except for sports, all award-winning personalities are aged above 60, with a focus on representation to all districts. Kabaddi player Usha Rani of Bengaluru, who won the silver medal in 2018 Asian Games, and Yuva Brigade, a right-wing youth outfit, are among the winners. Applications received A total 1,788 applications were received for the award, and a committee, headed by the Chief Minister, selected the winners, Mr. Ravi said. Mr. Ravi clarified that clearance from the Election Commission had been sought before announcing the awards in the light of election code of conduct in place. Bypolls to two Assembly segments are being held on November 3.  Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will present the award at a function at Ravindra Kalakshetra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/60-persons-5-organisations-get-rajyotsava-award/article32967876.ece
29 October 2020||Pune,||Onions: Constant price fluctuation matter of grave concern, says Sharad Pawar||Dubbing the Centre’s decision to halt onion exports while continuing with its imports ‘illogical’, Nationalist Congress Party Chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday urged the Narendra Modi government to pay more attention to the onion problem. The constant fluctuation in the prices, which had acutely hit the farmers in Nashik and elsewhere, was a matter of grave concern, he said at a meeting with cultivators and traders. Mr. Pawar was speaking in Nashik where he held an important meeting with onion cultivators and traders to mediate in the crisis that has arisen after auctions were suspended at the agriculture market produce committees (APMCs) earlier this week in protest against the Centre’s imposition of a stock limit. As a result, traders in Nashik have been refusing to buy onions from farmers, with 15 APMCs and four sub-committees in the district, which is one of India’s most important onion-producing hubs, remaining shut on Monday. The former Union Agriculture Minister told farmers that one must not expect too much from the State government as all decisions relating to import and export of onions were taken at the national level. “Do not expect too much from the State government as the Centre takes all decisions regarding the import and export of onions. The State government has nothing to do with the action taken against the traders,” Mr. Pawar said. Stating that Nashik ranked first in the country in terms of the quantity and quality of its onions, Mr. Pawar assured farmers and traders that he, along with two farmer and trader representatives, would soon be holding talks with the Central government on stock limits. “Frequent fluctuations are a matter of grave concern which the Centre needs to pay urgent attention to…I appeal to all traders to start onion auctions instead of keeping the market shut in protest,” he said. To check the soaring prices and provide relief to consumers, the Centre had last week imposed a stock holding limit on retail and wholesale traders till December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/onions-constant-price-fluctuation-matter-of-grave-concern-says-sharad-pawar/article32967905.ece
29 October 2020||Guwahati,||Assam: 5 arrested in JEE proxy candidate case||The police at Azara on the western edge of Guwahati on Wednesday arrested five people, including a doctor, in connection with a case against a Joint Entrance Examination Mains topper who scored 99.8% by using a proxy for the test held on September 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-5-arrested-in-jee-proxy-candidate-case/article32968520.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||Plea against NCW Chairperson over ‘love jihad’ tweet||A petition was filed before the Bombay High Court on Wednesday seeking a direction to remove Rekha Sharma, Chairperson of the National Commission for Women, over a tweet on ‘love jihad’ posted on her account. Saket Gokhale, a social activist, filed the petition stating that Ms. Sharma had engaged in a blatantly communal and divisive discourse. It points to a communal dog whistle policy which is intended to target the Muslim community, vilify inter-faith couples, and create discord in society, the petition said. The plea also quoted a tweet by Ms. Sharma. Mr. Gokhale, petitioner-in-person, said, “There are old tweets of the Chairperson which are extremely misogynist and sexist for the purpose of making political attacks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-against-ncw-chairperson-over-love-jihad-tweet/article32967920.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic police test pop-up cycling lane on Kamarajar Salai||The Greater Chennai Traffic Police tested a temporary pop-up cycle lane on the arterial Kamarajar Salai on Wednesday morning. Cyclists welcomed the move but pointed out that they need similar measures in other areas too.  The Hindu had published an article, ‘Lockdown brings spotlight back on bicycles’ on October 28, highlighting the need for more infrastructure for cyclists in the city. N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, had said that they would set up a temporary pop-up lane for cyclists on Kamarajar Salai. “We tried it out from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. on Wednesday. I also inspected the same. Cyclists were happy to use the lane,” he said. Siddharth Dhawan, a cyclist, said it was a pleasant experience. “For the first time, there was space for cyclists. But a few motorcycles kept coming into the lane,” he said. However, many cyclists failed to notice it. Divagaran T., founding member of ‘We are Chennai Cycling Group’ (WCCG), said it was a welcome move. “But we will need similar steps for those who commute daily, especially on arterial roads,” he said. ‘Signs needed’ Urban design specialists said the Chandigarh police, through social media, had been informing motor vehicles not to encroach on the dedicated cycle lanes. “Signages should be used to inform riders that the lane is for cyclists. A similar measure can be implemented in Chennai. Fining those who park in these lanes and effective parking management will also help,” said A.V. Venugopal, senior research associate, Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP). Ashwathy Dilip, senior programme manager, ITDP, said, “A cycle may be the only vehicle they own due to their financial condition and they will be cycling long distances for work. There should be sufficient infrastructure through the entire city as a network to help them ride safely. The pilot is a great step in this direction but it should soon expand into a city-wide network.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-police-test-pop-up-cycling-lane-on-kamarajar-salai/article32968550.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||65 babies born on a single day at Egmore children’s hospital||On the morning of October 28, doctors and staff of the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG) and the Government Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore, were in for a surprise. A count revealed that as many as 65 babies, including a pair of twins, were born on October 27 in the hospital, well above the usual daily average of 45 to 50 deliveries. S. Vijaya, director of IOG, said the number of deliveries at the hospital was not more than 45 to 50 on most days. “A few days ago, we had 54 deliveries. When we saw the hospital report for October 27 at 7 a.m. on Wednesday, we were surprised as we had 64 deliveries and 65 live births, including a pair of twins. We have not had so many deliveries on a single day in the recent past, and that too, in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic. The number of women approaching IOG for deliveries has increased during and post the lockdown period,” she said. Among the 64 mothers, who gave birth at the hospital, four had tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 23 girls and 42 boys were born. “We have admitted a number of pregnant women who had tested positive for delivery. The government maternity hospitals in the city were allocated for specific zones by the Chennai Corporation. Pregnant women who tested positive and reside in Ayanavaram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Pulianthope come to IOG for delivery,” she said. Dr. Vijaya added that the inflow of pregnant women to the outpatient department had also increased after the lockdown restrictions were relaxed. “Our outpatient department is crowded. We are getting at least 150 to 200 patients a day when compared to 60 to 80 during the lockdown. After restrictions were relaxed, many women are coming for their regular gynaecology check-ups. We have also resumed performing surgeries while the infertility and oncology outpatient departments have also started to function,” she said. A total of 850 persons were working at the IOG that was established in 1844, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/65-babies-born-on-a-single-day-at-egmore-childrens-hospital/article32968553.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over increase in minimum balance for postal savings accounts||Postal customers have raised concern over the increase in minimum balance for savings bank accounts. The Department of Posts had also given a deadline to maintain the new minimum balance by December. The department had recently issued a circular in post offices that the minimum balance for savings account had been raised from Rs. 50 to Rs. 500. This has caused worry among many customers. Customers in southern suburbs noted that the post offices now insisted that account holders must maintain a minimum balance of Rs. 500 by December 11. Post offices would levy a penalty of Rs. 100 every year for failing to maintain a minimum amount in account. V.Santhanam, social activist, said many customers, particularly in the city’s peripheral areas and rural localities, were unorganised workers. Some belonged to the middle class. “The low minimum balance in post office savings accounts had attracted many to open new accounts. It would burden many customers who can’t afford to open bank accounts,” he said. In Chromepet post office alone, there were about 25,000 such accounts and many of them made transactions within Rs. 500. The department may consider increasing the minimum amount to Rs. 100, he added. Residents demanded that the postal department must withdraw the raise in minimum balance and also annual penalty. They plan to make representation to the Department of Posts, Tambaram division, and also plan to hold a protest in Chromepet soon. Officials of the Postal Department said there were about three crore accounts, including recurring deposit and monthly income scheme, across the State. The announcement related to minimum balance would have an impact on nearly two crore accounts. “We have already recommended to the Union Ministry of Finance to withdraw the announcement on minimum balance and consider revising it to Rs. 100-Rs. 200 and cancel the penalty. We have also suggested postponing the deadline for maintaining new balance,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-increase-in-minimum-balance-for-postal-savings-accounts/article32968937.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||31 of 37 districts see under 100 fresh infections||For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu recorded a little over 2,500 new cases of COVID-19, with 31 of 37 districts reporting less than 100 fresh cases. A total of 2,516 persons tested positive for COVID-19. Chennai saw fewer than 700 cases, and 35 persons, including a 101-year-old woman, died. Fresh infections have been marginally declining in the State in the last few days. The State’s tally stood at 7,16,751. The number of active cases came down to 26,356, as 3,859 more persons were discharged after treatment. Till date, a total of 6,79,377 persons have been discharged in the State. With 35 more fatalities being recorded, the State’s toll crossed 11,000. Till date, a total of 11,018 persons have succumbed to COVID-19. The 101-year-old woman from Chengalpattu had systemic hypertension, and had tested positive for COVID-19 on October 20. She was admitted to the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, on October 25. However, she died within a few minutes of admission, due to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and systemic hypertension. Six districts, including Chennai, accounted for nearly 60% of the fresh cases. The city’s case load continued to show a downward trend, with 688 new cases being recorded. Chennai’s tally stood at 1,97,751. As many as 218 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore. Erode witnessed a surge in cases as 155 persons tested positive, taking its tally to a little over 10,000. Chengalpattu reported 150 new cases. There were 147 cases in Salem and 138 in Tiruvallur. Tiruppur reported 96 cases, while Kancheepuram saw 86. A majority of the remaining districts had less than 50 cases each. In the last 24 hours, 72,433 samples were tested in the State, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 97,32,863.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-of-37-districts-see-under-100-fresh-infections/article32968023.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Northeast monsoon sets in over State||The northeast monsoon set in over the south peninsular region, including Tamil Nadu and Kerala, on Wednesday. While it made a weak onset over the State, it is expected to pick up pace in a few days, according to the Meteorological Department. Northeasterly winds and a cyclonic circulation over the southwest Bay of Bengal, off the coast of northern Tamil Nadu, aided the commencement of the northeast monsoon. After an extended stay, the southwest monsoon retreated from the country on Wednesday and paved the way for the onset of the northeast monsoon. Tamil Nadu receives an average of 44 cm of rain during the northeast monsoon between October and December. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director of Meteorology, Chennai, said the northeast monsoon commenced with sporadic rain over southern Tamil Nadu and the coastal areas of the State, and did not cover the entire region. Melur in Madurai district received 6 cm rainfall, the highest during the 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday. In Chennai district, Nungambakkkam and Sholinganalllur received 1 cm rainfall. “There was no significant weather system to bring heavy rain. The cyclone over the Pacific Ocean, too, was drawing moisture away. The influence of the global weather pattern La Niña could also be a reason for the weak start of the monsoon,” he said. Though the average onset date is around October 20, a deviation of seven or eight days is still considered normal. For the next two to three days, the Meteorological Department has forecast light to moderate rain over a few parts of southern Tamil Nadu and one or two places in northern parts of the State and Puducherry. There may be heavy rain over one or two areas in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Virudhunagardistricts. In Chennai, light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely in some areas till Friday. The city may experience a day temperature of 30 degree Celsius for two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/northeast-monsoon-sets-in-over-state/article32968034.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown brings spotlight back on bicycles in Chennai||The COVID-19 pandemic has made many pick up cycling to boost their fitness level and some have even started cycling to work. However, many cyclists complain of lack of safety and stress the need to have adequate infrastructure to encourage cycling. The Greater Chennai Corporation has set up bicycle lanes of 17 km on two stretches in the city. However, these lanes are mostly occupied by cars and other vehicles, forcing the cyclists to fight for space on the main road. “I used to cycle from Royapuram to my office on Anna Salai till September. However, after traffic increased, I stopped. Drivers of big vehicles do not respect cyclists and since there is no dedicated lane on main roads, it feels risky,” said S.K. Prabhu, who now commutes by a motor vehicle to work. The fear lingering in the minds of cyclists like him are not unfounded as 45 cyclists were killed and 143 were injured in the city in road accidents in 2019. However, despite the risks, many people continue to cycle. Divagaran T., founding member of the We Are Chennai Cycling Group (WCCG), said that cycling increased during lockdown as public transport was not available and people wanted to become fitter. “Post lockdown traffic is coming back to normal. There should be a dedicated lane, so that more people take to cycling. The police should ensure that other vehicles do not use this and cyclists should use it effectively. Cities like Bengaluru have made a lot of arrangements, including setting up pop-up lanes on arterial roads,” he said. The WCCG and Felix John, who has been chosen “bicycle mayor” of Chennai, has written to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami several times requesting him to demarcate neighbourhood shopping streets as walking/cycling tracks, create temporary pop-up lanes using cones and expand the city’s bicycle-sharing system with regular sanitising strategies. “Congestion, over-speeding vehicles and lack of illumination on roads pose dangers for cyclists in the city. After lockdown was lifted, the danger has become more as many are driving their cars and bike in a rash manner as they are taking out the vehicle after a long time,” said Mr. John, who was made the bicycle mayor of Chennai by BYCS Amsterdam, a social enterprise, to promote cycling in Chennai. “However, more and more people are taking to cycling despite all these problems,” he added. T. Radhakrishnan, who runs Cyclogen, a bicycle shop, said the sale of performance bikes increased in the city after lockdown. “Now many policemen and fire service personnel are purchasing bikes as they have started cycling for fitness. Though the demand has increased, now the supply is affected. The waiting period for even small parts runs to months,” he said. Safety for women While many women say that cycling gives them a sense of freedom, they complain of being targeted for harassment by men while riding. “My friend from Purasawalkam was harassed while she was riding,” said Aparna Shankar, an engineer, who cycles to work daily. N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic), said that the traffic police would try using pop up lanes during the early morning hours for those who cycle as a form of exercise. “If there is demand, then we will introduce the system during other hours too. The problem is if we dedicate a lane, it should be utilised or it will be like eating into the space for other vehicles,” he said. Mr. Kannan said the department valued non-polluting commuters. “Sadly, pedestrians and cyclists are the common victims of road accidents. Now, as part of the road adoption project, we are removing encroachments from pavements so that pedestrians can use it. We will make roads safe for cyclists and have informed my men to ensure that cyclists do not face any problems on the road,” he added.  We will make roads safe for cyclists and I have informed my men to ensure that cyclists do not face any problems on the road N. Kannan  Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-brings-spotlight-back-on-bicycles-in-chennai/article32968928.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID to probe PG medical admissions||The Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered a Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) inquiry to ascertain if there was a conspiracy between officials of the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) and private medical colleges, in filling up 74 management quota postgraduate seats, without conducting mop-up counselling this year. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh wanted the Director General of Police to ensure that the scope of the inquiry is extended to find the amount of money collected by private colleges from students admitted on August 31 — the last date for PG admissions. The investigators were further given liberty to probe other issues that unfold. The judge directed the investigating team to submit its report before the court on or before January 31 and directed the Registry to list the case for reporting compliance on February 1. He expressed anguish over medical seats being allotted to unmeritorious candidates, every year, on one pretext or the other, and said that COVID-19 had come in handy this year. Hearing cases filed by meritorious candidates who had either lost the chance of getting admitted in postgraduate courses or could not shift to a better branch of medicine due to the non-conduct of mop-up counselling, the judge wondered how the DME could permit private colleges to fill up management quota seats, on their own, on August 31. The judge said the DME ought to have approached the Supreme Court seeking more time, without presuming that the latter would not grant any extension. A failure to do so had resulted in 36 of the 74 PG seats getting filled with candidates who had secured somewhere between 200 to 300 marks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Further, 23 more seats had been filled up with candidates who had secured just 300 to 400 marks. “Candidates who had really worked hard and secured higher marks than these candidates will get an impression that there is something beyond merit that can secure admission for a candidate, and that is their purchasing power,” the judge lamented. Observing that it was important to identify the malice afflicting the system by taking the bull by its horns, Justice Venkatesh said stringent steps must be taken to ensure probity and send a strong message that such illegal actions would not be tolerated.  On the DME’s claim that COVID-19 was the reason for the non-conduct of mop-up counselling for management quota seats, the judge said: “There is an attempt to put every blame on COVID-19, even when it does not have a direct nexus to the action performed by an institution or any instrumentality of the State. There cannot be a greater sin than to make use of the present situation and gain advantage for one’s self-aggrandisation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-to-probe-pg-medical-admissions/article32968014.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vacancies soar after TNEA counselling||After four rounds of single-window counselling for engineering admissions, 71,195 seats have been filled. The total intake for this year stood at 1,57,689 seats, in 461 colleges. The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) committee had declared 1,10,873 candidates eligible. TNEA officials are awaiting the government’s nod to conduct supplementary counselling, in which several hundred more seats may get filled. Only 13 colleges, including Anna University’s four campuses, the government engineering college in Salem, CIPET, CECRI and the Indian Institute of Handloom Technology, Salem, besides PSG College of Technology, PSG Institute of Technology and Applied Research and Thiagarajar College of Engineering, have managed to fill all seats. From the first round, absenteeism has been hovering past 37%. In the first round, 38.76% candidates did not turn up for counselling. This rose to 41.43% in the second round and fell to 40.23% in the third. In the fourth round, absenteeism stood at 31.42%, Absenteeism in government seats has not resulted in candidates seeking seats under management quota either. Several middle-rung colleges have not been able to fill even 50% of their management quota seats, college officials said. Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa said, “It is a combination of factors. In the last few years, the employability of engineering graduates has come down drastically. Except computer science and information technology, all other branches, especially manufacturing and civil engineering, have not been able to take in students.” Government colleges offering Tamil-medium engineering programmes too are struggling to fill seats, he said. The government will have to form a committee of educationists to critically assess the needs of the colleges. “Engineering has to be made attractive for students to opt the programme. Students will shun mediocre colleges with mediocre faculty,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vacancies-soar-after-tnea-counselling/article32968019.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK buoyed by response to ‘ban Manusmriti’ campaign||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) founder Thol. Thirumavalavan’s decision to organise State-wide protests demanding a ban on Hindu religious text Manusmriti may have been borne out of a necessity to respond to a social media campaign, which said he disrespected women, but senior leaders in the party say they have inadvertently walked into a “political goldmine”. ‘Smear campaign’ VCK general secretary Sinthanai Selvan said the party was forced to respond and counter-attack the “smear campaign” to create a perception that Mr. Thirumavalavan disrespects Hindu women. “They took a small video clipping of his speech in an intellectual forum to portray our leader as someone who disrespects women. We had to respond to ensure this doesn’t become another ‘Karuppar Koottam’ [a group accused of denigrating Kanda Shasti Kavasam ]. We did not want to be on the backfoot,” he told The Hindu. “We didn’t expect this kind of support for our campaign,” he said. “The protests have attracted rationalist and secular organisations, spread across Tamil Nadu, towards VCK,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan’s campaign has reinvigorated the now forgotten ideals of the Dravidian movement (anti-caste and anti-Brahminism) politics, contended J. Balasubramanian, assistant professor, journalism, Madurai Kamaraj University. Right wing view According to him, Hindu right-wing forces view Mr. Thirumavalavan as an obstacle to their growth in Tamil Nadu. Punitha Pandian, editor, Dalit Murasu , said: “Going back to the roots, and speaking the politics of Ambedkar and Periyar should be welcome.” “No matter what agenda they have, a political party calling for a ban on the Manusmriti is unprecedented   ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-buoyed-by-response-to-ban-manusmriti-campaign/article32968025.ece
29 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Comply with reservation rules, UGC tells varsities||The University Grants Commission has issued an advisory to registrars of institutions to strictly comply with the reservation rules of the Central government. Institutions have been instructed to upload and update the reservation roster on their websites periodically. The universities must also ensure that the roster system is followed by colleges affiliated to it. The institutions are expected to upload data pertaining to students as well as faculty and non-teaching staff. University professors say the reservation roster is followed strictly by State-run universities and its departments, constituent colleges and government colleges in admission of students. With colleges offering two shifts, even in government colleges concerns about reservation roster for faculty had been raised. The UGC’s periodic advisory cannot be applied to self-financing colleges as they face many hurdles, say professors. The high faculty attrition and the offer of new courses are two major factors. A journalism professor in a State university gave the example of how when Visual Communication was introduced 15 years ago there were not enough faculty to teach the subject. The universities permitted colleges to recruit faculty, by relaxing not only reservation norms but also qualification requirements, in the interest of students. Fifteen years later, the relaxation on qualification requirement was revoked. “But not any more. Now there is a sufficient pool of teachers,” he pointed out. Several violations At Anna University it is a different situation, however. Senior faculty point to several violations in student admissions as well. “So far, even admission details have not been made transparent. Over the years candidates have been admitted under the NRI quota based on the approval of the Syndicate. Where the class strength must be 60, it has been violated to admit as many as 10 or 12 more students. The explanation is that students might vacate the seat when they get a preferred course in either medicine or one of the IITs. These seats are then allotted to the NRIs,” a faculty explained. Sometime ago, the appointment of 200 faculty over a period of a decade raised concerns as not only was the reservation roster system violated but the appointments did not follow even the mandated qualification requirement. “Until recently we did not follow even the All India Council of Technical Education norms. It is only now that the university is applying for NAAC and NBA accreditation. Each department must apply independently. Now we are required to provide the details which will be verified by the accreditation authorities,” said a senior professor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/comply-with-reservation-rules-ugc-tells-varsities/article32968926.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court quashes TNSEC's order for re-election in Kumalankulam panchayat||Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) cannot be allowed to conduct re-election in a local body where attempts had been made to subvert the election process after declaration of results, the Madras High Court has ruled. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh held so while setting aside an order passed by TNSEC on June 22 for conducting re-election in Kumalankulam village panchayat in Keerapalayam Panchayat Union of Cuddalore district. The judge directed the TNSEC to declare the writ petitioner R. Jayalakshmi as the winning candidate since she had secured the highest number of 2,524 votes after contesting the elections using the auto rickshaw symbol allotted to her. He pointed that another contestant by name Vijayalakshmi had contested in lock and key symbol and secured only 1,478 votes. However, after declaring the results, the officials had interchanged the symbols between the two contestants in one of the forms. "This is a clear after thought and an apparent attempt made to dislodge the election process for reasons best known to the official respondents," the judge said and ruled that it does not call for cancelling the entire election and ordering fresh polls. Though the TNSEC as well as the State Government contended that the petitioner could only file an election petition and not a writ petition, the judge rejected their contention on the ground that the petitioner had challenged only TNSEC's cancellation order and not the election process. "This court cannot mechanically relegate the parties to file an election petition when the monstrosity of the situation apparently establishes subversion of the election process by adopting illegal means. These are exceptional cases where this court has to step in and exercise its writ jurisdiction and prevent such subversion of election process. "The case on hand clearly falls under this category. Therefore, the plea taken on the side of the respondents regarding the alternative remedy available to the petitioner, under the Panchayat Act, is held to be not sustainable," the judge said.  This is an apparent attempt made to dislodge the election process for reasons best known to official respondents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-quashes-tnsecs-order-for-re-election-in-kumalankulam-panchayat/article32968876.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-registration now for visits to hill stations||Those looking to visit hill stations in the State no longer need to obtain prior permission by applying for e-passes. Henceforth, it will be sufficient if they provide basic details regarding their visit, through e-registration, and obtain an auto-generated acknowledgement, Advocate-General Vijay Narayan informed the Madras High Court on Wednesday. The submission was made before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, who closed a writ petition filed against the State government’s earlier insistence on obtaining prior permission before visiting hill stations. Easing restrictions The A-G told the court that a government order had been issued on Tuesday, replacing the requirement of obtaining e-passes with e-registration. Under the new system, there was no question of denial of permission. Visitors just had to enter basic details regarding their visit and undertake travel. Pointing out that the State government had already replaced the old system of issuing e-passes with e-registration for those visiting Tamil Nadu from other countries and States, the A-G said a similar registration system had been introduced for visits to hill stations too. When the petitioner’s counsel insisted that e-registration must be permitted after travel too, the Chief Justice refused to pass any such order. He said some restrictions must be in place to keep a check on the spread of COVID-19, since many people were not following the safety norms required to keep the virus at bay. Recalling his recent visit to see the sunrise in Kanniyakumari, the CJ said 800-1,000 people had gathered at the spot and 75% of them were not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-registration-now-for-visits-to-hill-stations/article32968027.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT forms joint panel to evaluate ECR stormwater drain project||The National Green Tribunal has appointed a joint committee with representatives from various government agencies to evaluate the Integrated Storm Water Drain (ISWD) project of Kovalam basin and submit a report. The bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta has ordered that the committee must submit a report on whether the project needed Coastal Regulation Zone clearance and environmental impact of the ISWD on aquifer and coastal zone along the East Coast Road. The joint committee will have officials from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Chennai Metrowater, Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority, Water Resources Organisation, Public Works Department and National Institute of Ocean Technology. The committee also needs to recommend methods to carry out the project without causing environmental impact on the aquifer and coastal areas. It must submit the report by December 4. This follows a case filed with the NGT seeking its intervention in preventing the construction of stormwater drains in ECR and affecting the aquifer. Meanwhile, responding to the Greater Chennai Corporation’s press release on Tuesday, members of the VGP Golden Seaview Residents Welfare Association, Palavakkam, said rainwater can be easily drained with more recharge wells. R. Balakrishnan, the association’s treasurer said, “Inundation during 2015 was manmade in the area as commercial establishments had let out stagnant water into the roads.” Environmentalist Nityanand Jayaraman said the information specified by the Corporation, including rainwater harvesting through the project and flooding instances, could not be verified as project documents were not in the public domain. Moreover, the high-tide line stretch between Palavakkam and Uthandi, had been identified as a Coastal Regulation Zone 1A and turtle nesting area. Mr. Jayaraman said the residential and commercial structures in 980 hectares were not entirely built up as made to appear by the GCC and had unpaved spaces, and comply with rainwater harvesting norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-forms-joint-panel-to-evaluate-ecr-stormwater-drain-project/article32968559.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||98% discharged persons show lung recovery||Healthcare providers at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, Chennai, have been assessing the lung function and cardiac capacity of persons discharged after COVID-19 treatment by getting them to take a six-minute walk and a few steps up and down a platform. For a closer look at their lung conditions, a repeat CT (computed tomography) chest scan is done, and 98% patients have shown complete resolution of lung involvement. The six-minute walk test around a demarcated space and the Harvard step test, along with an ECG, are part of assessments at the post-COVID-19 outpatient (OP) ward at the hospital. Six weeks after discharge, patients are screened and tested for the functional capacity of their lungs, heart and eyes, and their psychological well-being, according to a press release. “The post-COVID-19 OP is a one-stop comprehensive facility for discharged persons. We assess the lung function of the patients through the walk test. We measure their oxygen saturation (SPO2) levels and heart rate before and after the test. The Harvard step test is a basic test to assess their effort tolerance. We assess both their pulmonary and cardiac capacity,” R. Jayanthi, dean of the hospital, said. Started on October 1, the OP has screened 186 persons — 148 men and 38 women — so far. Apart from lab services, the facility provides CT chest scans, lung function tests and psychiatric counselling, among other things. Patients with 20% and higher lung involvement during hospitalisation are subjected to a repeat CT chest scan after six weeks to check for complete resolution or residual lesions. Of the 132 patients subjected to repeat CT chest scans, more than 98% showed complete resolution of lung involvement, she said. Some patients who had more than 75% lung involvement in their initial CT scans also showed complete resolution during their visits. The resolution of lung involvement due to COVID-19, doctors said, could be attributed to proper stratification and timely administration of drugs. Those with residual lesions were asked to come in for review after six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/98-discharged-persons-show-lung-recovery/article32968561.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||World Bank expected to fund a slew of civic projects in Chennai||The World Bank is expected to fund a number of civic projects, including hospitals under the Chennai City Partnership after March 2021. At a meeting with World Bank officials on Tuesday, Greater Chennai Corporation officials explained the proposals pertaining to public health, solid waste management and road infrastructure. “We need better hospital infrastructure post COVID-19. World Bank is expected to fund hospital infrastructure development by the Corporation. World Bank has focused on indicators that point to aspects such as human resources for better delivery of public health services,” said an official. Mega street project The Corporation has sought Rs. 2,400 crore for development of mega street infrastructure in various parts of the city. The World Bank is unlikely to fund the entire project of mega streets covering 116 km. But the first phase of the project is expected at six locations. The officials are likely to fund projects that aim to decongest the city, recognising that reducing vehicle movement was the key to urban mobility. The Corporation officials said their focus would be on public transport-driven mobility supported by safe, comfortable, and connected networks of walking and cycling infrastructure. Civic officials at a series of meetings with the World Bank have accepted that old school solutions such as flyovers, wider roads, and elevated expressways would make matters worse by attracting more traffic, increasing pollution, and reducing resilience to face future pandemics. “A final decision is likely to be made by the State government regarding World Bank-funded projects in two weeks,” said a senior civic official.  A final decision is likely to be made by the State government regarding World Bank-funded projects in two weeks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-bank-expected-to-fund-a-slew-of-civic-projects-in-chennai/article32968927.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Applicability of Bihar’s Mahadalits model to T.N. divides opinion||Opinion remains divided among serving and retired policymakers over the applicability of the Mahadalits model of Bihar for addressing the demand for re-categorisation of a group of six castes as Devendra Kula Vellalars in Tamil Nadu. Senior officials who follow the issue closely are of the view that the State government ought to take the consent of the Centre in the event that it agrees with the position of the proponents of the demand. However, a former secretary of the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department feels that based on the Mahadalits model, the Tamil Nadu government can issue an executive order without attempting to alter the State's list of Scheduled Castes. The issue at hand is that sections of people belonging to six castes — Kudumban, Pallan, Devendrakulathan, Kadaiyan, Pannadi and Kalladi — would like to have the generic name, Devendra Kula Vellalars. Their demand is being considered by a committee of State government officials. Another demand There is one more demand, which pertains to the removal of their castes from the Schedule. But this is not being addressed by the panel. The clue that the Mahadalits example of Bihar provides to Tamil Nadu is that the government there, without the Centre’s sanction, took a decision in 2007 to call certain SCs ‘Mahadalits’. Till date, this has not been approved by the Central government. But the absence of the Union government’s approval is no bar to the Bihar government in implementing a number of welfare schemes for the Mahadalits. Still, C. Chellappan, former member of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes, is of the view that it would be proper for the Tamil Nadu government to obtain the Centre’s nod if it accedes to the re-categorisation demand, as otherwise, this may get caught in a serious legal battle. But the supporter of the Bihar model says the State government, while issuing its order, can stipulate that the proposed generic name can be mentioned in caste certificates in respect of those who request for it. Former police officer V. Kamaraja and Sholavandan legislator K. Manickam believe the State government is fully empowered to act in this regard.  The Bihar government, without the Centre’s sanction, took a decision in 2007 to call certain SCs Mahadalits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applicability-of-bihars-mahadalits-model-to-tn-divides-opinion/article32968011.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK re-organises Chennai district units||The ruling AIADMK on Wednesday announced the re-organisation of district units in Chennai. Earlier, there were five district units. The number has now gone up to eight. The new units were carved out of the North Chennai (South) and South Chennai (North and South) units. Each district secretary would have two Assembly constituencies to look after. The three new district secretaries are Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, organising secretary Adhi Rajaram and former Velachery legislator M.K. Ashok. They will be in charge of the district units of North Chennai (South-East), North Chennai (South-West) and South Chennai (South-East) respectively, according to a press release issued by coordinator-Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator-Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The existing three functionaries, N. Balaganga, B. Sathyanarayanan and V.N. Ravi, will hereafter be the district secretaries for North Chennai (South-West), South Chennai (North-West) and South Chennai (South-South). R.S. Rajesh — North Chennai (North-East) and T.G. Venkatesh Babu — North Chennai (North-West) were left untouched in the latest exercise. Mr. Jayakumar was appointed the district secretary for the undivided North Chennai unit in 2000 and 2010. In both the 2001 and 2011 Assembly elections, the party performed well in the northern parts of the city. Mr. Rajaram, who was made the secretary of the South Chennai unit in November 1994, became a controversial figure when his name figured as a key accused in a case of assault concerning advocate K.M. Vijayan, who ran a legal battle against the State government’s policy of 69% quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-re-organises-chennai-district-units/article32968567.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safety remains a concern||More than 83% of women and 77% of men in Chennai fear to cycle on the roads due to speeding vehicles — this was the outcome from India Cycles4Change challenge jointly organised by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Smart Cities Mission, and Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) As part of the India Cycles4Change Challenge, 50 cities rolled out a survey to understand the perception of citizens towards cycling. Over 57,000 responses were collected to understand the barriers faced while cycling, the purpose of the cycling trip, the frequency of cycling, and an opinion on safe cycling infrastructure. “In Chennai, we spoke to 2,000 people. Of these 98% said that they would cycle if there is necessary infrastructure to make cycling safe and convenient. Many felt that they found traffic intersections and one-ways as danger prone areas. They had a fear of being hit by speeding vehicles,” said Ashwathy Dilip, senior programme manager, ITDP. She said apart from this, a Cycle Handle Bar survey was conducted and senior officials from Greater Chennai Corporation rode bicycles to understand the challenges faced by cyclists in the city. Over 100 cyclists, including GCC Officials, rode for 7 km. “We want to make cycling a habit in Chennai. We got an insight of what problems cyclists face on a daily basis. This will help us in framing policies and quick innovative solutions,” said Meghanath Reddy, Deputy Commissioner, Works, Greater Chennai Corporation. He said that Chennai was the first city to adopt the non-motorised transport policy. “Cycle lanes will be a component of the Mega Street Project,” Mr. Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-remains-a-concern/article32968929.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM flags off COVID-19 awareness vehicles||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday flagged off seven vehicles for creating awareness on COVID-19 on behalf of the Department of Social Welfare. These are part of 33 such vehicles to be rolled out by the department. He also released short films and jingles on COVID-19 awareness produced by the Information and Public Relations Department. The Chief Minister gave away a cash incentive of Rs. 54 lakh on behalf of the State government to 14 students who won medals in the national-level school sports competition for the year 2018-19. He also presented a cheque of Rs. 15 lakh to fencer C.A. Bhavani Devi. Mr. Palaniswami launched the lawyers’ stipend scheme for young law graduates by presenting nine young lawyers with a stipend of Rs. 3,000 per month for two years. The Chief Minister released 23 booklets on issues such as abolition of child marriage, prevention of sexual harassment against adolescent girls and ways to tackle such issues. He also laid the foundation stone via video conference for the Ranipet Collector’s office to be built at a cost of Rs. 118.40 crore and released five books of the School Education Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-flags-off-covid-19-awareness-vehicles/article32968566.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vanathi Srinivasan is BJP national president of Mahila Morcha||Tamil Nadu BJP State vice-president Vanathi Srinivasan was appointed national president of BJP’s Mahila Morcha on Wednesday. Ms. Vanathi, who hails from Coimbatore, and has been a member of the BJP since the early 1990’s, is the second woman leader from Tamil Nadu BJP unit to be appointed to a significant post. While she has been elevated within the party, former State BJP president Tamilisai Soundararajan was appointed the Constitutional head of Telangana last year. A lawyer by profession, Ms. Vanathi began her political stint with the ABVP in 1987 and joined the BJP in 1993. Since then, she has held various posts in the party. She was also a member of the Censor Board, Tamil Nadu, between 2004 and 2006 and was earlier the State general secretary of Tamil Nadu BJP’s Mahila Morcha between 2004 and 2009. After being elevated as State secretary and State general secretary, she was recently made one of the State vice-presidents. Ms. Vanathi has also contested the Assembly elections unsuccessfully twice – from Mylapore in 2011 and Coimbatore South in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-role-for-vanathi-srinivasan/article32968028.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on career options in design and animation to be held on Oct. 31||The Hindusthan College of Arts and Science, Coimbatore, DJ Education and Training (MAAC) and The Hindu Education Plus are presenting a webinar on career opportunities in the field of animation and design. The webinar will focus on the three-year B.Voc degree programme in graphic design, its admission eligibility and curriculum and aspects of industry integration, eligibility for higher studies and the job opportunities available. Students who are currently studying or have just completed Plus 2 as well as diploma holders can attend the webinar which will be held on October 31 from 11.30 a.m. onwards. A. Ponnusamy, principal, Hindusthan College of Arts & Science; Sivaprasad Velayudhan, founder, Realworks Studios; and Stalin T.M., Creator and Educator in the field of 3D Animation with VFX, MAAC will speak at the event. The session will be moderated by S. Sudarshan, The Hindu.  Students can visithttp://bit.ly/DJTHEPand register for free to attend the webinar or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-career-options-in-design-and-animation-to-be-held-on-oct-31/article32968555.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vanathi Srinivasan is BJP Mahila Morcha chief||Tamil Nadu BJP State vice-president Vanathi Srinivasan was appointed as the BJP’s Mahila Morcha national president on Wednesday. Ms. Srinivasan, who hails from Coimbatore, and has been a member of the BJP since the early 1990s, is the second woman leader from the Tamil Nadu BJP to be appointed to a significant post. While she has been elevated within the party, former State BJP president Tamilisai Soundararajan was appointed as the Governor of Telangana last year. A lawyer by profession, Ms. Srinivasan began her political stint with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad in 1987 and joined the BJP in 1993. Following this, she had held various posts within the party. She was the State general secretary of the Tamil Nadu BJP’s Mahila Morcha from 2004 to 2009. After being elevated as State secretary and State general secretary, she was recently made one of the State vice-presidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanathi-is-national-president-of-bjp-mahila-morcha/article32968084.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More young people reporting blood clots during pandemic, say experts||The number of younger patients reporting to hospitals with blood clots in large blood vessels had increased due to COVID-19, said Bhuvaneshwari Rajendran, consultant neurologist and neurophysiologist, Kauvery Hospital. Addressing a virtual conference on ‘Stroke emergency and rapid response’ organised as part of The Hindu Wellness Series along with Kauvery Hospital on Wednesday, she said that the clots appeared to form as a result of the body’s immune response to COVID-19. Sivarajan Thandeeswaran, senior consultant, stroke and neurovascular medicine, Kauvery Hospital, said a majority of such young patients who were reporting clots in blood vessels going to the limbs and heart had comorbidities, particularly diabetes and hypertension. Highlighting the risk factors of stroke, Dr. Bhuvaneshwari stressed on the need for everyone to keep diabetes and hypertension under control to prevent stroke. Pointing out that stroke had a high mortality rate with roughly 41% of patients not surviving, Dr. Thandeeswaran said getting immediate medical attention was crucial. Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy, neurologist, neuropsychiatrist and Founder of Buddhi Clinic, highlighted that though 25 % of stroke patients could get clot busting done, only 10 % of them get medical attention in time even in developed countries. Speaking in detail on rehabilitation measures needed for stroke patients, he said that though stroke was related to the brain it affected the whole body. He said it affected physical, functional, cognitive, emotional and behavioural aspects of patients. He said rehabilitation of stroke-affected patients was a team effort that started at the hospital’s intensive care unit and continued at home with the support of family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-young-people-reporting-blood-clots-during-pandemic-say-experts/article32968556.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||330 kg of ganja seized||The police on Wednesday seized 330 kg of ganja from four suspects, who smuggled it from Andhra Pradesh in a goods carrier, for distribution here. Following a tip-off, personnel from the Prohibition and Enforcement Wing, St. Thomas Mount, mounted surveillance near Guindy. The special team, led by inspector Rajalakshmi, was pursuing leads for over 20 days and caught a goods carrier in the early hours of Wednesday. As the occupants were evasive during enquiry, the team searched the vehicle and found ganja concealed inside a consignment of dry fish. The police arrested M. Magesh, 29, and B. Muthukrishnan, 36, of Red Hills, S. Murali, 30, of Puzhal, and B. Magudeeswaran, 35, of Dindigul district. Interrogation revealed that they had brought the contraband from Andhra Pradesh. They intended to divide the contraband into small parcels and distribute them to several outlets in the city, the police said. They seized 330 kg of ganja, Rs. 2.8 lakh in cash, four mobile phones and a goods carrier from them. Investigation is on to trace their links.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/330-kg-of-ganja-seized/article32968049.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Did Governor authorise fine for flouting of COVID-19 safety norms, asks HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday wanted to know whether the Governor had approved a government gazette notification issued on September 4 for the collection of fines ranging from Rs. 200 to Rs. 5,000 for issues such as violation of quarantine measures, failure to wear masks, non-adherence to physical distancing norms, spitting in public places and so on. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy raised the query during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by R. Muthukrishnan, 77, of Ramapuram here, with a plea to declare the notification as illegal. The litigant claimed that the notification had been issued by the Health Secretary without the sanction of the Governor. When State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan sought some time to obtain instructions, the judges adjourned the case to Thursday. In his affidavit, the litigant said Section 76(2) of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act of 1939 was amended recently, empowering government officials to enforce certain acts required to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The amendment did not declare non-adherence to such norms as a punishable offence that could be compounded. Yet, the government, through the gazette notification, declared them to be offences which could be compounded on payment of fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/did-governor-authorise-fine-for-flouting-of-covid-19-safety-norms/article32968031.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Breast cancer awareness programme held||The Government Royapettah Hospital (GRH) organised an awareness programme on breast cancer on Wednesday. As part of this, doctors, nurses and medical students took out an awareness rally on the hospital premises. P. Vasanthamani, dean of the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital, spoke on the importance of creating awareness of breast cancer and its prevention. R. Mani, medical superintendent of GRH, spoke on the oncology services offered by the hospital. Anand Prathap, resident medical officer, GRH, said the hospital offered integrated oncology services as it had all three departments of medical, surgical and radiation oncology. The hospital received patients not only from around the city but also from other districts of Tamil Nadu and even neighbouring States. He added that early detection, diagnosis and availability of advanced technology helped improve the survival rate of patients. Balaraman, medical superintendent of KMC, and heads of department Gangadharan (Medical Oncology) and Saravanan (Radiation Oncology) of GRH spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/breast-cancer-awareness-programme-held/article32968547.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Less than 10 streets under containment’||The number of barricaded streets have gone down to less than 10 after the Greater Chennai Corporation started resuming containment zone operations in the first week of October. In data provided by the civic body, Manali has three streets under containment, which is the maximum, while Teynampet zone has two. Tondiarpet, Adyar and Sholinganallur have one each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-than-10-streets-under-containment/article32968548.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life after losses in online games||A 26-year-old man ended his life as he was addicted to playing online rummy and lost huge money, alleged his friends. However, police said the reason for his decision was yet to be ascertained. The victim, Kumaresan, a native of Adanool village in Villupuram district, was staying with his friends and working as a collection agent of a private bank. He used to play online games and lost a lot of money. He borrowed money from his friends. His father used to send Rs. 5,000 every month. Last March, he met with an accident and underwent treatment. In August, he came back to his room in Perambur. He stayed alone during the puja holidays when his friends had gone to their native places. On Tuesday night, he ended his life. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life-after-losses-in-online-games/article32968557.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin flays lack of facilities in colleges||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said it was highly condemnable that online classes for first-year students in the 10 newly-launched government arts and science colleges were not conducted due to the lack of infrastructure. In a statement, he said around 2,000 students were affected by the indifference of the Higher Education Department. Since semester examinations would be held in December, the internal assessments would be have to be conducted before that. “How will the students be able to write the examinations without attending classes?” he asked. Urging Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to set up infrastructure and appoint teachers on a war footing, Mr. Stalin said the government should create a congenial atmosphere for students to write exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-flays-lack-of-facilities-in-colleges/article32968738.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM inagurates subway in Korratur||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday inaugurated a total of 21 projects, mostly bridges, constructed at a combined cost of Rs. 81.24 crore across the State, through video conferencing. This included the Rs. 21.96 crore limited use subway that replaced level crossing 4 near the Korattur railway station. The work to connect various areas in Korattur north, including Agraharam, Balaji Nagar, Sivalingapuram, Kavya Nagar, Saradha Nagar and Subbulakshmi Nagar, took nearly eight years to complete. The construction was done jointly by Southern Railway and the State Highways Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inagurates-subway-in-korratur/article32968558.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Continue free laptops and cycles scheme’||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Wednesday said that the free laptop and cycles schemes for students studying in government schools and other educational institutions should not be discontinued by the State government for the current year. In a statement, Dr. Anbumani said that almost 11 lakh students have benefited from the scheme since it’s introduction in 2011-12. “There are media reports that these two schemes will not be implemented for this year and the money will be spent for the purpose of containment of COVID-19. This would affect the studies of the students,” he said. Dr. Anbumani said that if the scheme is continued next year, it will create more confusion as the State government would need to provide free laptops and cycles for Class XI and XII students next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/continue-free-laptops-and-cycles-scheme/article32968877.ece
29 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras varsity records 99.88 pass percentage||A total of 2,734 candidates in the final year of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in the University of Madras will have to take the arrears exams. According to the data accessed from the University, 2,695 undergraduate and 39 postgraduate students, who were absent for the exams, will have to write them again. The over all pass percentage among candidates who appeared for the final year end-semester exam is around 99.88%. A total of 1,05,826 undergraduate candidates had appeared for the April 2020 exam, which was held by the end of September. The university received 4,07,319 answer scripts of which 4,04,125 were declared to have passed. Similarly a total of 3,657 postgraduate students appeared for the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-varsity-records-9988-pass-percentage/article32968933.ece
29 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation releases list of 100 property tax defaulters||The Coimbatore Corporation on Wednesday released the list of top 100 property tax defaulters comprising various educational institutions and other establishments. The top 20 defaulters in the five zones of Coimbatore Corporation – East, West, South, North and Central – were featured in the list. With the total property tax due being around Rs. 21 crore, the Central Zone was the highest among the five zones with around Rs. 7.6 crore of property tax yet to be remitted. This was followed by East Zone (Rs. 5.66 crore), North Zone (Rs. 4.58 crore), South Zone (Rs. 2.15 crore) and West Zone (Rs. 1.01 crore). In a press release, Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian urged the defaulters to remit the due property tax at the earliest to prevent punitive action. He warned that the defaulters will face disconnection of water supply and seizure of properties as per the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act. A senior official said that the defaulters have been given a time of 10 days to pay the pending property tax. Further action will be initiated if the defaulters do not pay within the given time period, according to the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-releases-list-of-100-property-tax-defaulters/article32968568.ece
29 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||More MSMEs to be involved in defence, aerospace sectors: Defence Secretary||The Union Government is looking at doubling the number of Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in the defence and aerospace sectors in the next four to five years, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar said here on Wednesday. Launching defence activities through the Codissia Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre (CDIIC) at a virtual meet, he said the industrial eco-system and Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore should now get into the defence and aerospace sectors, which are at a watershed moment in the country. With several initiatives of the government to indigenise and encourage innovation in the sectors, there were huge opportunities for MSMEs. The units should look at not just producing for the Indian needs but also explore export opportunities. Global OEMs are open to sourcing from India, he said. Mr. Ajay Kumar exhorted the MSMEs to ensure that the products that they made were of high quality and cost-effective. Further, testing and certification procedures need to be bench-marked against the best in the world. “This is an area we need to start doing some work. The cost should come down for testing and certification and there can be tremendous use of technology for it. The Codissia (Coimbatore District Small Industries Association) and CDIIC should partner with the government to identify other areas that can be taken up under indigenisation and innovation,” he said. Mission Director of Atal Innovation Mission Ramanan Ramanathan said the mission had selected 100 centres, including the one set up in Coimbatore. The aim was to create world class start-ups and provide facilities for them to develop the best products. Sanjay Jaju, Joint Secretary (DIP), Department of Defence Production, said 50 products had been identified for indigenisation with CDIIC in four years. K. Gopal, MSME Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu, said the State government was taking a lot of efforts to push Defence-related activities in the Defence corridor in the State. V. Sundaram, director of CDIIC, said 10 incubatees would be selected for incubation this year and four of them had been identified. Another six would be finalised soon. The CDIIC would look at having testing and prototyping facilities too. He urged the government to come out with a single tender process for MSMEs. R. Ramamurthy, president of Codissia, said the plan was to make Coimbatore a Defence hub in another 10 years. The CDIIC signed agreements with 5 Base Repair Depot, Air Force and Naval Ship Repair Yard, Kochi, for indigenisation of their components and products. Rear Admiral Deepak Bansal, Admiral Superintendent of Yard, Naval Ship Repair Yard, Indian Navy, and Air Commodore P.K. Sreekumar, Air Officer, Commanding, 5 Base Repair Depot, Indian Air Force, were present at the launch event. A press release from NSRY said, the MoU allowed it to use world class facilities of MSMEs based in Coimbatore for hardware development, material testing and analysis and obsolescence mitigation programmes in respect of legacy equipment. In addition to this, the Naval Yard would be exposed to new manufacturing techniques, Industrial Safety and Quality Assurance that were being pursued by modern MSMEs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-msmes-to-be-involved-in-defence-aerospace-sectors/article32968068.ece
29 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Revenue officers submit demands to Collector||Tamil Nadu Direct Recruitment Revenue Officers' (Grade-II) Association on Wednesday submitted a petition to the District Collector highlighting their demands. The association urged the Government to release a revised list of deputy tahsildars and tahsildars by implementing a Supreme Court order dated March 12, 2019. Similarly, officers who are included in the list of district revenue officers should be promoted to fill the existing vacancies. Efforts should also be taken to release the list of deputy collectors as per orders of the Supreme Court and the High Court, said the petition. The association wanted a revised Government order to be issued based on the High Court order regarding inter se seniority in the case of revenue assistants. It wanted the Revenue Secretary and the Commissioner of Revenue Administration to take appropriate action to settle all cases related to inter se seniority. In the case of revenue assistants who are directly appointed through the Combined Subordinate Service Examination-I of the TNPSC, the association wanted their rank to be changed from probationary revenue inspector to probationary deputy tahsildar on completion of training for five years. The association urged the Government to grant a grace amount of Rs. 2 lakh for Government officers who underwent treatment for COVID-19 and a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh for Government officers who succumbed to the disease when they were into pandemic prevention activities. State treasurer of the association Ramesh Bose said that the State-level office bearers have planned to meet the Revenue Minister, Revenue Secretary and the Commissioner of Revenue Administration on November 4 to press their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-officers-submit-demands-to-collector/article32968572.ece
29 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two drown in separate incidents||Two persons drowned in separate incidents reported in Coimbatore rural on Monday. In the first incident, R. Prasanthkumar (18), a resident of Lenin Street at Vilankurichi in Coimbatore city, drowned while taking bath in river Bhavani on Monday afternoon. Brief halt The police said that Prasanthkumar went to the Vanabadrakaliamman Temple near Mettupalayam along with his friends and they made a brief halt at Alangombu to take bath in river Bhavani while returning. Prasanthkumar did not know swimming and he drowned after being carried away by strong undercurrents, said the police. On Sunday, a 35-year-old man from West Bengal had drowned while taking bath in the river at Alangombu. In another incident, M. Vignesh (23) from Mahalakshmi Nagar at Karaiyampalayam near Mylampatti drowned while taking bath in Ambarampalayam river near Pollachi on Monday. The accident took place when Vignesh had come to his uncle’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-drown-in-separate-incidents/article32968573.ece
29 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on career opportunities in animation||The Hindu Education Plus in association with Hindusthan College of Arts and Science and D.J. Education (MAAC) will organise a webinar on career opportunities in the field of animation and design on Saturday. Intended for aspirants currently studying in Class XII, those who have recently completed Class XII and Diploma holders, the webinar will focus on aspects including the three-year degree programme of B. Voc in Graphic Design, programme structure, job opportunities after completion of the course and eligibility for higher studies. The speakers for this webinar are A. Ponnusamy, Principal of Hindusthan College of Arts and Sciences, Coimbatore; Sivaprasad Velayudhan, Founder of Realworks Studios and T.M. Stalin, Creator and Educator in the field of 3D Animation with VFX, MAAC Coimbatore. The webinar will begin on Saturday at 11.30 a.m. Aspirants who are interested to participate shall register free of cost either by using the linkhttp://bit.ly/ DJTHEPor scanning the given QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-career-opportunities-in-animation/article32968070.ece
29 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Burglars take away jewellery, laptops from house||Thieves broke open a house near Sundarapuram in Coimbatore city and took away 42.5 sovereigns of jewellery and two laptops when the family members were away. The police said that the burglary took place at the house of J. Nikash at Velankanni Nagar near Sundarapuram. According to the police, the family members were away from the house from October 24 evening. They returned home around 11.30 a.m. on Tuesday and found that the front door was broke open. When checked inside, Mr. Nikash found that 42.5 sovereigns of jewellery and two laptops were missing, said the police. Case registered The Podanur police registered a case and started investigation based on a complaint lodged by Mr. Nikash. CCTV visuals checked The police checked visuals from surveillance cameras in the locality as part of the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/valuables-stolen-from-house/article32968071.ece
29 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Child-friendly zones set up in six all-women police stations||The Cuddalore district police have created child-friendly spaces in the All Women Police Stations (AWPS) in Cuddalore, Panruti, Chidambaram, Sethiyathope, Neyveli and Virudhachalam. They are aimed at ensuring a friendly environment to children. A number of women who approach the AWPS for lodging complaints, including domestic abuse, are invariably accompanied by their children. The mothers bring their children as they cannot leave them alone at home. “We wanted to have a safe and playful environment for the children and created child-friendly spaces. An enquiry will obviously take time. “While the parents are meeting the police officers, the children will be taken to the spaces within the premises and kept there till the process is over,” says Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav. Cartoon characters have been painted on the walls and colouring books and toys are also available to keep the children engaged. The facility is similar to a crèche and has mats for kids to sleep, Mr. Abhinav also added. According to Sethiyathope AWPS inspector Agnesh Mary, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 mandates provisioning of child-friendly atmosphere. As per the Act the victim has to be safeguarded at every stage of the judicial process by having child-friendly mechanisms for reporting and investigation. “When victims of Pocso cases are brought to the AWPS, they initially refuse to talk as the incident has a tremendous effect on the mental health of the child. Now, we have tried to make the children comfortable by setting up child-friendly centres. The facility will also help provide an atmosphere of security to them”, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-friendly-zones-set-up-in-six-all-women-police-stations/article32968866.ece
29 October 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘CM neglects farmers’||Accusing the AIADMK government and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami of being anti-farmers, the All India Congress Committee secretary Sanjay Dutt said that the CM, who portrayed himself as a farmer, had neglected farmers in the State. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, he said that the Farmers’ Act passed by the Centre had been designed for the benefit of a few corporate houses, close to the BJP and its leaders. The Act, in no way, would help improve standard of life of farmers. It will only ruin their lives. The AIADMK government too, instead of objecting to the Act, had welcomed it, Mr. Dutt said and added that the farmers should take it up seriously and support the Congress and its allies. Asked to comment about the prospects of the Congress in Bihar elections, he said, ‘it would be the beginning of the end for the anti-Congress parties,’ he claimed. To another query, he said that from the demonetisation move made by the BJP till the latest Farm Act, every action of the Central government had been anti-people. Not a single segment in the society was safe and felt insecure with the presence of the BJP at the Centre. The poor handling of the COVID-19 had exposed the efficiency levels of the government, he said and urged the government not to play with the lives of the common man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-neglects-farmers/article32968038.ece
29 October 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Minorities joining BJP’||The Hindu Makkal Katchi state president Arjun Sampath has urged the State government to ban the Viduthalai Siruthai Katchi as it has allegedly indulged in creating rift between various communities in the society. Speaking to reporters, he said that the recent utterances of the VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan was targeted to create law and order problems in the State. The VCK, he alleged, was bent upon misleading the communities including women in the recent issue - Manusmriti - which had snowballed into a major controversy. The DMK was encouraging the VCK and some unknown outfits, who claimed themselves as saviours of secular fabric. Mr. Sampath said that the Dravidian rule will soon come to an end in TN and a spiritual path of governance would emerge here. The people were fed up with the Dravidian parties and deprived of their benefits, he charged. Earlier, he visited Hindu Makkal Katchi functionary Manikandan from Vedasandur, who was allegedly attacked by the VCK cadres and was undergoing treatment at the Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minorities-joining-bjp/article32968036.ece
29 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two high-level bridges to come up on Kadambur – Makkampalayam road||People living in the hill areas of Guthiyalathur and Koothampalayam panchayats in Sathyamangalam block will soon be able to cross the two forest streams along Kadambur – Makkampalayam Road without any difficulty, as a tender is expected to be floated for the construction of two high-level bridges at an outlay of Rs. 6.39 crore. As many as 21,750 people live in the revenue hamlets in the two panchayats located inside the Guthiyalathur reserve forest and about 20.90 km from the Kadambur bus stand. The road passes through forests and two stretches are still not provided with a tar top, which makes it difficult for motorists. During rainy season, flash floods in the two streams along the stretch--Guthiyalathur Pallam and Sakkarai Pallam -- cut-off movement of people. During such times, residents find it difficult to travel between Makkampalayam and Kadambur and they have been demanding bridges across the streams for long. Technical sanction  The Block Development Office, with the due permission from the District Forest Officer, Sathyamangalam, has submitted a proposal to the State government for technical sanction. Administrative sanction has been obtained for the project. While the bridge at Sakkarai Pallam is to be constructed at Rs. 335.50 lakh, the bridge at Guthiyalathur Pallam will come up at Rs. 303.50 lakh with funding under NABARD scheme 2019-20. District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) sources said that sanction order was expected in the coming weeks after which tender will be floated for the construction work. Under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, the BDO office had sought approval from the Central government for formation of a 7-km road for which six hectare forest land is to be utilised and compensatory revenue land had also been identified at Arigiyam hamlet. Officials said that the application would be submitted for approval of the Standing Committee of the National Board for the Wildlife. “After obtaining permission, the road will be laid,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-high-level-bridges-to-come-up-on-kadambur-makkampalayam-road/article32968077.ece
29 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Student’s team gets grant to develop hand wash monitoring system||A team of six students from the Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam, has been given a grant of Rs. 2.75 lakh to develop their project “Smart Handwash Monitoring System” into a product. Supporting innovators The National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board, Department of Science and Technology had launched the National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing the Innovations (NIDHI)- Promoting and Accelerating Young and Aspiring Technology Entrepreneurs (PRAYAS) to supports innovators turn their ideas into a product. The students, K.J. Kishore Kumar, Hemang Murugan, R. Sharan, K. Bharani, V. Iswariya and Keerthana Chad participated in ‘IESA MEDTECHNOVATION’ -- an Industry-Incubator led innovation event to foster Digital HealthTech innovators. A total of 27 jury comprising experts from healthcare, technology and investment, shortlisted 16 innovators who were given a boot camp on “Building customer needed product and raising investment”. The team’s project tracks hand hygiene compliance during the pandemic. Using image processing technology, the process of hand washing is monitored and necessary guidelines are intimated through sensors in the device. Under the NIDHI-PRAYAS, the team was granted Rs. 2.75 lakh for developing the idea into a product.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-team-gets-grant-to-develop-hand-wash-monitoring-system/article32968075.ece
29 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Implement wage hike, say conservancy workers||Over 500 conservancy workers staged a protest demanding implementation of wage hike announced by the State Government here on Wednesday. The State government in March this year had announced a wage hike of Rs. 1,000 for 66,130 workers involved in solid waste management in 12,525 village panchayats across the State. However, a Government Order is not passed and workers continue to receive their monthly wage of Rs. 2,600 till now. Members of the Erode District Local Body Workers’ Association, affiliated to AITUC, were urging the government to pass the order so that the workers received revised wages and also arrears.  On Wednesday, the protesters led by MPs A. Ganeshamurthi (Erode) and K. Subbarayan (Tiruppur), former MLA P.A. Sundaram, AITUC president S. Chinnasamy, assembled near a marriage hall at Sampath Nagar. They later submitted a petition to District Collector Kathiravan, who promised to take up the issue with the State government. Later, the protest was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implement-wage-hike-say-conservancy-workers/article32968079.ece
29 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Public cautioned against use of fake drugs||The Pharmacovigilance Centre of Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) Drugs has asked the public to remain cautious against use of counterfeit drugs or drugs prescribed by quacks, as they may cause Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR). They can report any issues related to fake medicines and ADR in AYUSH system to the centre without delay. The centre functions at the Siddha Wing of the Perundurai Government Hospital.  D. Venkatachalam, centre coordinator, and S. Yamini Priyadharsini, programme assistant, told The Hindu that during the COVID-19 pandemic people were not only using Allopathic medicines, but also Siddha and Ayurvedic medicines. The State government had even established separate facilities for Siddha treatment and had introduced special health care scheme “Arogyam”. It is also distributing Siddha medicines like Kabasura Kudineer as immune modulators for COVID-19. However, there are lot of counterfeit medicines in the market, they said. Original medicines will have manufacturing license number from the State Licensing Authority (IM), batch number, manufacturing date, expiry date and contact address or customer care support numbers. Whereas fake medicines will only have FSSAI, cottage industry and small scale industry licenses and women self-help group manufacturing details. Similarly, practitioners list can be accessed at the Tamil Nadu Siddha Medical Council portalwww.tnsmc.com, they said. The Peripheral Pharmacovigilance Centre at Erode can be reached atppvcayusherode@gmail. com. Complaint forms and more details are available inwww.ayushsuraksha.comor contact 011-26950401/402.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-cautioned-against-use-of-fake-drugs-in-ayush-system/article32968074.ece
29 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Area under cultivation increased by 5,622 hectares: Collector||The area under crop cultivation has increased by 5,622 hectares, compared to the corresponding period last year, said Collector C. Kathiravan during the farmers’ grievance meeting held over video conferencing here on Tuesday. Addressing farmers, he said that crops were cultivated in 46,343 hectares, including paddy in 24,512 hectares, small millets in 16,759 hectares and pulses in 5,072 hectares. He said that the area under cultivation has increased this year due to availability of water and other factors. Oil seeds were cultivated in 18,326 hectares, which is an increase of 2,036 hectares compared to last year. Mr. Kathiravan said that adequate stock of seeds and fertilizers were available at the agriculture extension centres. He urged farmers to use water judiciously and install a drip irrigation system in their fields. The Collector asked farmers to approach the agriculture officers if the crops were affected by diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/area-under-cultivation-increased-by-5622-hectares-collector/article32968078.ece
29 October 2020||ERODE/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||I-T officials search several premises in west TN||Officials of the Income-Tax Department began searches on several premises in Erode, Namakkal, and Coimbatore on Wednesday. The official began the search at an educational institution on Erode-Perundurai Road. Sources said that over 30 officials, split into various teams, began the search at 18 schools and colleges, located at Vaikalmedu, Koorapalayam Pirivu and at Sampath Nagar. All these institutions come under Nandha Educational Institutions run by founder-chairman V. Shanmugan. Two teams Further, two teams comprising over 15 Income-Tax officials began searches at the residence and the office of a contractor in Namakkal. V. Sathya Moorthy, an engineer who runs a private construction company, is involved in constructing housing board tenements in various districts and has also executed projects for Public Works Department and a few other departments. His company is also constructing the Namakkal Medical College and Hospital, for which the foundation was laid in March this year. Officials commenced the raid at 11 a.m. at his residence in Surya Garden and at his office in Kandasamy Nagar. In Coimbatore, a team of six officials conducted searches at the residence of R. Krishnan, also known as “Paiya” Gounder, at Kalapatti. He is in-charge of the DMK's Coimbatore urban district west unit. DMK cadre gathered in front of the house and raised slogans against the I-T officials, following which the police spoke to them. According to unconfirmed information, he is said to have business associations with the Nandha group of institutions. ‘Vindictive move’ The DMK’s Singanallur MLA N. Karthik said the raids at the residence of ‘Paiya’ Gounder was a planned, vindictive move by the BJP and AIADMK governments. The raids target DMK leaders, including MP S. Jagathrakshakan. Despite these moves, the DMK will win the 2021 Assembly elections and M.K. Stalin will be the Chief Minister, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-officials-search-several-premises-in-west-tamil-nadu/article32968029.ece
29 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||VCK stages protest demanding quota for OBC students in medical admission||Members of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) staged protests in Krishnagiri, Salem and Tiruchengode demanding 50% reservation for students belonging to Other Backward Classes (OBC) in medical admission . In Krishnagiri, over 200 party members took part in the protest held as part of the State-wide protests called by VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan to condemn the Centre’s stand on refusing reservations for OBC students in medical admission. ‘Withdraw cases’ The VCK had also called for a protest against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “malicious” propaganda against Mr. Thirumavalavan for his take on the Manusmriti on the status of women. The protesters demanded that the cases against Mr. Thirumavalavan be withdrawn. The Cyber Crime Branch of the State police had registered an FIR against him for his remarks on Manusmriti . In Salem, the party members staged a road roko near the District Collectorate. They alleged that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test denied opportunity to students from downtrodden communities. The Supreme Court’s recent order declining reservation for students this year was a setback to the students. The delay in providing reservation would shatter the dreams of thousands of students who aspired to become doctors. The protesters were removed by the police and lodged in a marriage hall. At Tiruchengode in Namakkal district, the party members staged a demonstration near Anna Statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-stages-protest-demanding-quota-for-obc-students-in-medical-admission/article32968081.ece
29 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||NHAI begins road laying work under elevated highway||The long wait seems to have come to an end for vehicle users taking New Natham Road here as the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has begun relaying the road that had been dug up for the construction of the city’s first elevated highway. After carrying out groundwork for the last two weeks, the NHAI has begun laying dense bituminous macadam (DBM), the course layer, on the stretches of road between IOC junction at Tallakulam and Oomachikulam, where launching of concrete girders has been completed. The girders have been launched in 78 of the 188 spans planned under the project to construct the elevated highway for a length of 7.3 km. “We have completed girder launching in around 45% of the total stretch and planned to lay the road for around 3.2 km in the first phase,” a senior NHAI official said. The NHAI had originally planned to lay the road to make it smooth and motorable on the stretch between IOC junction and Athikulam junction to facilitate procession of Lord Kallalazhagar during Chithirai festival. However, COVID-19 pandemic brought the work to a standstill and normal celebrations of Chithirai festival were also cancelled. The dug-up road and the loose top soil were putting road users to a lot of inconvenience though the stretch between IOC junction and Bharathi Ula Road has remained closed ever since the work began in November last. “We have planned to complete the road laying work along with pedestrian pathway with railings by December,” the official added. While the project was originally planned to be completed by this November, following the disruption due to the lockdown, the officials have now planned to complete a good portion of the project by May 2021. The final layer of the road would be laid later. The elevated corridor is part of four-laning of Madurai-Natham highway to provide a shorter four-lane road route to Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-begins-road-laying-work-under-elevated-highway/article32968742.ece
29 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic regulation for Thevar jayanthi||Madurai City police have made elaborate traffic regulation in view of Muthuramalinga Thevar jayanthi on Friday. Trucks and heavy vehicles are banned from entering the city between 6 a.m. and 10.30 p.m. Except for vehicles that are permitted by Madurai City Police to participate in Muthuramalinga Thevar jayanthi, no other vehicle would be allowed to enter Goripalayam junction, according to a statement. Vehicles coming from New Natham Road and Azhagarkoil Road should take diversion at Periyar statue junction and go through K.K. Nagar, Aavin junction, Anna Nagar Main Road, PTR Bridge and Kamarajar Salai. Vehicles from Mattuthavani and Aavin junction should go through Race Course Road and Lotus Tank to reach New Natham Road. The statement said vehicles coming from North Veli Street and Yanaikkal should go through New Bridge, Palam Station Road, M.M. Lodge Road junction, Kansapuram Road and E2E2 Road to reach Periyar Maligai. Vehicles proceeding to New Natham Road and Alagarkoil Road from Dindigul Road and Thathaneri Road should go through Kulamangalam Road. Vehicles going toward Goripalayam junction from Melamadai should go through Aavin junction and Kuruvikaran Salai. Vehicles going to Pasumpon should take the Ring Road, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-to-be-regulated/article32968044.ece
29 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Digital form of business helps bring down corruption’||With the advent of more and more public institutions offering digital form of transactions, allegations such as corruption were declining, said Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N. Jagatheesan here on Wednesday. Speaking at the Vigilance Awareness Week programme organised by the United India Insurance Company Limited at its divisional office, he stressed the need for creating awareness of digital form of transactions. For reservation of tickets in train, bus and air, hotel accommodation, payment of taxes and remittance of premiums to insurance companies the digital form was swift, and it also played a pivotal role in minimising corruption. He urged the insurance industry to encourage more people to use the digital form as it saved time and facilitated in saving documents for future claims, Mr. Jagatheesan said. The COVID-19 pandemic had, in a way, encouraged more people to adapt to the online mode through their work from home (WFH) culture. J. Selvam, secretary of the Chamber, said the digital form of doing business helped various stakeholders in the transport industry to a phenomenal extent. The usefulness of VAHAN used in road transport sector had, in fact, given a new meaning to the digital form as the users could check the details through the App and avoid visiting the RTO. Earlier, United India Insurance senior divisional manager P. Rajendran, in his welcome address, said regular campaigns about evils of corruption and the role of vigilance officers had benefited the consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digital-form-of-business-helps-bring-down-corruption/article32968729.ece
29 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea seeks probe into MKU scandals||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered notice to Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to initiate criminal investigation into ‘the various scandals that are plaguing the university’. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered notice to the university on the petition filed by M. Lionel Antony Raj of Madurai, who said the MKU was offering distance education programmes, apart from regular courses and research projects. Several complaints had been raised over the functioning of the distance education programme. Between 2017-2019, a scandal broke out regarding conduct of examinations and several irregularities, including financial malpractice, unlawful collection of fees, tampering of names in admission register and award of degrees, were brought to light.  DVAC probe Though the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption was conducting a probe into the scandals, not much progress had been made. Even in 2020, similar irregularities in the conduct of examination had taken place, he said. This was only the tip of the iceberg, the petitioner said and sought a direction to the authorities to initiate criminal investigation into the various scandals that had affected the university, in order to bring the administration back on the right path.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-seeks-probe-into-mku-scandals/article32968730.ece
29 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on animation and design on Saturday||The Hindusthan College of Arts and Science, Coimbatore, DJ Education and Training (MAAC) and The Hindu Education Plus are presenting a webinar on career opportunities in the field of animation and design. The webinar will focus on the three-year B. Voc degree programme in graphic design, its admission eligibility and curriculum and aspects of industry integration, eligibility for higher studies and the job opportunities available. Students who are currently studying or have just completed Plus 2 as well as diploma holders can attend the webinar which will be held on October 31 from 11.30 a.m. onwards. A. Ponnusamy, principal, Hindusthan College of Arts & Science; Sivaprasad Velayudhan, founder, Realworks Studios; and Stalin T.M., Creator and Educator in the field of 3D Animation with VFX, MAAC will speak at the event. The session will be moderated by S. Sudarshan, senior deputy manager (advertisement sales), The Hindu.  Students can visithttp://bit.ly/DJTHEPand register for free to attend the webinar or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-animation-and-design-on-saturday/article32968057.ece
29 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Nine locations identified for Collectorate||The State government on Wednesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that a decision was yet to be taken on the site for construction of the Tenkasi collectorate building. Additional Advocate General M. Sricharan Rangarajan submitted that nine locations in Tenkasi were identified for the construction of the collectorate. An inspection team comprising officials from the Revenue Department and the district administration had inspected the sites. The representations sent by various political parties, associations and the general public were taken into consideration and the State government will decide the site for constriction of the collectorate building based on the report of the inspection team, he submitted. Taking note of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi disposed of a batch of public interest litigation petitions that were filed with regard to the site of the collectorate building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-locations-identified-for-collectorate/article32968039.ece
29 October 2020||MADURAI / CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Controversial ABVP leader made member of AIIMS in Madurai||The Union Health Ministry has appointed controversial oncologist and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) president Shanmugam Subbiah as a member of the proposed All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai, triggering strong condemnation from Opposition parties. DMK president M.K. Stalin, MDMK leader Vaiko and MPs from different parties of Tamil Nadu criticised his appointment. Dr. Subbiah, Professor and head, Department of Surgical Oncology, Government Kilpauk Medical College, Chennai, was in the news a few months back, after he was accused of urinating outside the apartment of an elderly woman, following a row over the parking of his car. CCTV footage of the incident was widely circulated on social media. However, Dr. Subbiah had denied the charges. The complaint was eventually withdrawn following an alleged compromise. In a notification on October 15, Sunil Sharma, joint secretary, Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, mentioned him as one of the members of AIIMS, Madurai. Mr. Stalin on Wednesday demanded the removal of the oncologist from the AIIMS board and the appointment of MPs from Tamil Nadu in his place. In a statement, he said AIIMS was set up from the taxpayer’s money and not from the BJP’s party fund. “It is a gross misuse of power to appoint Dr. Subbiah to the position. His appointment is proof that the BJP has no respect for women,” he said. He said by appointing Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University Vice-Chancellor Sudha Seshayyan to the AIIMS board, the BJP had actually insulted her. “She has lofty ideals about women and should quit the post to prove her integrity,” Mr. Stalin said. ‘Denigrating institution’ MDMK general secretary Vaiko demanded that Dr. Subbiah be removed from the board, saying his appointment had denigrated a great institution. Expressing shock, DMK MP Kanimozhi wondered, “Is this an endorsement of his indecent behaviour and an incentive for other BJP cadre to follow suit?” Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore (Congress) said he was given the post only because of his association with the RSS. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan (CPI-M) questioned whether the new post was given to Dr. Subbiah for his “lowly act”. Villupuram MP Ravikumar (VCK) said his appointment was an insult to women. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri demanded Dr. Subbiah’s immediate removal from the committee. Among other members are the Director General of Health Services, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; the Director of the Institute, and the Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu.  It is a gross misuse of power to appoint Dr. Subbiah to the position. His appointment is proof that the BJP has no respect for women M.K. Stalin DMK president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/controversial-abvp-leader-made-member-of-aiims-in-madurai/article32968015.ece
29 October 2020||MADURAI/ THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Further fall in daily cases in Madurai||Madurai reported 47 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, with which the district’s tally of cases moved up to 18,611. There were 80 discharges from hospitals in the district. Thirty-eight people tested positive in Kanniyakumari, taking the district’s tally of positive cases to 14,810. After 62 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 542 active cases. Thoothukudi’s overall case count moved up to 14,887 following the admission of 31 fresh cases. While 49 people were discharged from hospitals, 474 COVID-19 patients are under treatment. The district lost one more life to the viral infection, which took the death toll to 130. With the addition of 21 cases, Tirunelveli’s tally rose 14,156. The district has 272 active cases after the discharge of 40 people. Virudhunagar recorded 19 fresh cases, which raised the total number of positive cases to 15,391. After 25 people were discharged, the number of active cases stands at 189. The death toll of the district remains at 220. Theni also registered 19 new cases to have an overall case count of 16,183. Hospitals in the district discharged 28 people upon their recovery. Sivaganga reported 17 new cases, with which its tally went up to 5,850. Hospitals in the district marked the discharge of 17 people after successful treatment. Ten people tested positive for the viral infection in Ramanathapuram, which saw its overall case count rise to 5,977. Hospitals in the district discharged 17 people. Dindigul accounted for eight fresh COVID-19 cases, which pushed the district’s case tally to 9,749. There were 23 discharges reported in the district. Tenkasi, which once battled hard with ‘Puliyangudi cluster’, now has 104 active cases with the addition of six new cases on Wednesday. The district’s total case count reached 7,802.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-district-records-19-fresh-cases/article32968052.ece
29 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Milk producers association president dies||K.A. Sengottuvelu, president of Tamil Nadu Milk Producers Welfare Association died in Chennai on Wednesday. He was 92, and was suffering from age-related ailments. Mr. Sengottuvelu hailed from Namakkal district and had been fighting for the cause of dairy farmers since 1975. CM condoles death Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled his death, and said Mr. Sengottuvelu strove for the development of milk producers and to protect their rights. Secretary of the association M.G. Rajendran said Mr. Sengottuvelu was known for his negotiation skills. He got what the farmers wanted and was respected by senior government officials. P.V. Senthil, State vice-president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee, said Mr. Sengottuvelu had dedicated his life for the uplift and welfare of farmers. E.R. Eswaran, general secretary of Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi, recalled that Mr. Sengottuvelu was fondly called ‘KAS’, and despite age-related ailments, he continued to meet ministers and officials and take up with them issues concerning dairy farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-milk-producers-welfare-association-president-dies/article32968030.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC refuses to entertain petition for release of local body funds||The Supreme Court on Wednesday did not entertain a petition seeking a direction to the Centre to release local body funds for Tamil Nadu, pending since 2016. The petition said the delay in the release of funds had impacted development works in the State. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde asked the petitioner-advocate, C.R. Jaya Sukin, to approach the Madras High Court. “I will withdraw this with liberty to go to the High Court,” the lawyer said. Mr. Sukin submitted that development works had been stopped for last four years in gram panchayats, corporations, municipalities and town panchayats across the State. “There are a lot of issues on a daily basis that can be solved at the local level, but the Union of India had not given funds, ” his petition said. The plea said the that seats in various local bodies in the State had been lying vacant since October 2016. “On December 6, 2019, the apex court directed the state election commission to hold the panchayats election in all levels expect nine districts,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-refuses-to-entertain-petition-for-release-of-local-body-funds/article32968035.ece
29 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. begins post-COVID survey among recovered patients||The Union Territory has launched a post-COVID survey among recovered patients to identify those with after-effects that would require medical or psychological intervention. Teams of ANMs and ASHA workers are engaged in door-to-door visits of patients, who recovered from the COVID-19 infection and were discharged, to assess their general health status. The recovered patients are asked to fill in a 17-point questionnaire that elicits details ranging from intensity of coronavirus on a scale of mild to moderate to severe, institution of hospitalisation and duration of stay to a checklist of symptoms — fever, fatigue, anxiety, breathlessness, joint pain, headache, loss of taste/smell, chest pain, blurring of vision or any other discomfort. The survey will also check for their co-morbidities, whether there was any instance of visiting the doctor for illness or any investigation/medicines were adopted for post-COVID issues. “The survey will provide us some insights into COVID-19 sequel to guide a long-term follow-up or treatment programme,” said T. Arun, Health Secretary. “The initial survey is being undertaken by ASHA workers and ANMs and based on the data, we will make available specialist services of doctors and nurses, from medical to psychological counselling, to those who require it. If needed, they will be referred to an institution,” Mr. Arun said. The plan is to set up a secondary-level network of post-COVID clinics in hospitals, PHCs and focus centres as part of providing a continuum of care, extending well beyond recovery and discharge from an institution. “The survey is half-way through in regions such as Mahe and Yanam though in Puducherry, it could take more time as the cumulative number is higher and increasing by the day here,” said S. Mohan Kumar, Health Director. The Union Territory, with a recovery rate averaging 85% in recent weeks, has an aggregate of over 30,000 recovered patients. As of Wednesday, there were 30,307 recovered patients in the Union Territory. Puducherry had 24,653 recovered patients, Karaikal 3,116, Yanam 1,796 and Mahe 742. Long-term monitoring “It is remarkable that so far there has not been a single post-COVID death, especially among the subset of recovered patients with co-morbidity. A long-term monitoring will help prevent post-COVID casualties,” said Mr. Arun. Officials expect the post-COVID survey to be completed in the Union Territory in the next 10 days. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said that based on the consolidation of feedback, a treatment plan would be framed for the subset of patients who still suffer from any long-term problem after recovery. Mr. Rao said preliminary results of surveys showed that a significant proportion of recovered patients in the range of about 5% were carrying some medical problem even months after discharge. “We have asked the teams to complete the survey for the entire Union Territory by this week,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-begins-post-covid-survey-among-recovered-patients/article32968875.ece
29 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP women cadre court arrest||Around 50 members of BJP Mahila Morcha on Wednesday courted arrest while trying to stage a protest seeking the arrest of VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan for his recent interpretation of what Manusmriti said on women. The women workers of the party tried to stage a protest in front of the Office of Superintendent of Police on Jawaharlal Nehru Street. They were prevented from entering the office. They courted arrest and were released later, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cadre-court-arrest/article32968045.ece
29 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry logs 102 new cases, the lowest in over 5 months||The Union Territory logged its lowest COVID-19 infection rate in over five months as 102 cases emerged from testing 3,792 samples on Wednesday. Puducherry accounted for 75 of the new cases, Karaikal and Yanam eight each and Mahe 11. The test positivity rate fell to 2.68% in the last 24 hours while the case fatality rate was 1.71% and the recovery rate stood at 87.64%. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said it has been decided to strengthen monitoring of home isolation patients to cut down deaths further. Of the 3,686 active cases in the Union Territory, 2,146 patients were under home quarantine. “Instead of tele-counselling, we have decided to send teams of doctors and nurses to undertake daily assessment of the patients,” Mr. Rao said. The capital registered two deaths to take the cumulative toll to 590. With this, the toll in the capital aggregated to 487 followed by Karaikal (55), Yanam (42) and Mahe (six). Awareness campaigns The Minister said the awareness campaigns would be intensified ahead of the extended festive season that was due to commence with Deepavali falling in the middle of next month when tourist footfall would increase exponentially in the city. “It is that much more important that people adhere to wearing masks and maintain physical distancing over the next couple of months to preempt an upsurge in infections,” he said. The Health Department has to date tested 2,97,195 samples, of which 2,59,928 returned negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-logs-102-new-cases-the-lowest-in-over-5-months/article32968873.ece
29 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Ward-wise population of SC/ST to be announced before Nov. 10||The Local Administration Department has promised to prepare the notification announcing the population of SC, ST, SC(W) and General(W) ward, municipality, commune panchayat and village panchayat-wise details in the Union Territory before November 10, State Election Commissioner said in a release. Draft rolls The Electoral Registration Officers have also agreed to prepare the draft electoral rolls before November 15 to conduct the civic body elections, the release said. The SEC on Wednesday held a video-conferencing with polling officers to discuss the conduct of civic body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ward-wise-population-of-scst-to-be-announced-before-nov-10/article32968869.ece
29 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||VCK blames Centre for delay in implementing OBC reservation||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Wednesday blamed the BJP-led Central government for the delay in implementing 50% reservation for OBC students in the all-India quota for medical admission. Interacting with the media after participating in an agitation organised by the VCK here on the reservation issue, he said the BJP government was solely responsible for not implementing 50% reservation in medical admission this year. If implemented, the biggest beneficiary was the OBC students belonging to the Hindu community, he said. He also blamed the Centre for the delay by the Governor in giving sanction for implementing 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical colleges. The Governor seemed to be functioning at the behest of the Centre, he said adding the party would launch an agitation against the Centre on the reservation policy. Leaders belonging to the Congress, CPI and CPI (M) also participated in the protest near Anna Salai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-blames-centre-for-delay-in-implementing-obc-reservation/article32968871.ece
29 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. not serious about welfare of students’||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader in the Assembly A. Anbalagan on Wednesday said if the Congress was really concerned about students’ welfare, the government should have enacted a legislation making it mandatory for private medical colleges to surrender 50% of the seats to government quota every academic year. In a statement, Mr. Anbalagan referred to the Chief Minister’s statement on Tuesday that the Cabinet had recommended to provide 10% reservation for government school students in medical admission. The Chief Minister had also stated that if the Lt. Governor failed to give accord to the Cabinet decision, he would launch an agitation against her. The statement showed that the reservation decision was more political and not aimed at the welfare of the students, the AIADMK leader said. If the government was seriously concerned about the future of the students, it should bring a legislation making it compulsory for private medical colleges to part with 50% of the seats and surrender it to government quota, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-not-serious-about-welfare-of-students/article32968868.ece
29 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC resumes bus service to Yercaud after six months||Bus service to Yercaud, which remained suspended for the last six months due to COVID-19 pandemic, resumed here with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) operating three buses on Wednesday. Located in Shevaroyan Hills, there are 67 villages and 27 hamlets with a population of over 41,000. Tourism is a major activity in Yercaud and due to COVID-19, bus service from Salem was suspended in March this year. This affected the livelihood of people in the hilltop, as they depended on buses to reach markets and for work. Recently, plantation workers from Yercaud submitted a petition to District Collector S.A. Raman urging the administration to restore bus service. On Wednesday, three buses were operated between Salem and Yercaud. “Based on the patronage, more buses will be operated in a phased manner,” they said. Buses will also be operated to interior villages and hamlets in the coming days. Drivers and conductors instructed commuters to wear masks and maintain personal distancing while travelling in the bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-resumes-bus-service-to-yercaud-after-six-months/article32968083.ece
29 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Milk transported in special parcel train||For the first time in the history of Southern Railway, general second class coaches were utilised to transport toned milk from Salem to Dimapur in Nagaland to the Assam Rifles. Second class coaches A press release from the Salem Railway Division said that boxes of toned milk, weighing 138 tonnes, were moved in a special parcel train comprising 13 general second class coaches and a luggage-cum-brake van coach on Wednesday. The division has been transporting milk since December 2019 and has transported thousands of boxes of toned milk, loaded in 35 parcel vans, to Assam Rifles during COVID-19. The Business Development Unit of Salem Division came up with the idea of utilising general second class coaches to move parcels, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-transported-in-special-parcel-train/article32968069.ece
29 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Tiruchi EPFO has low issue pendency ratio’||The Tiruchi Region of Employees’ Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) has a low pendency ratio with respect to resolving issues faced by subscribers, M. Madhiazhagan, Additional Central Provident Fund Commissioner, Tamil Nadu (excluding Chennai and Puducherry), said on Wednesday. Almost 97% of the total queries/grievances filed online by subscribers hda been resolved, especially during the pandemic period, Mr. Madhiazhagan told mediapersons after inaugurating the new premises of EPFO Office on Medical College Road at Pandian Nagar (Thanjavur Co-operative Printing Press Ltd campus). The new premises would start operating from November 1. During the lockdown period from March to August, Tiruchi Region successfully extended the benefits to the extent of Rs. 8.61 crore to 57,736 employees under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana scheme. Further, linking of Aadhaar and bank accounts of 2,93,223 and 2,56,778 members respectively was also carried out enabling subscribers to avail utility of the benefits faster, he added. Stating that the Tiruchi EPFO Region catered to the needs of 14,05,329 members associated with 15,641 establishments located in the districts of Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai, Pudukottai, Karur, Kallakuruchi, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Cuddalore and Villupuram, Mr. Madhiazhagan said around Rs. 79 crore was being collected as monthly subscription from the subscribers of EPF. The Thanjavur District EPFO office, established in the 1980s, catered to the needs of around 1.06 lakh members attached to 1,378 establishments, mostly educational institutions and hospitals functioning in Thanjavur district (excluding Kumbakonam) and parts of Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-epfo-has-low-issue-pendency-ratio/article32967990.ece
29 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Illegal pathway blocking inlet channel cleared||An illegal path blocking the inlet channel to Maruthuva Eri (lake) at Royamundanpatti hamlet in Vendaiyampatti village panchayat near Budalur was cleared by officials on Wednesday after farmers and office-bearers of the CPI(M)-affiliated Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam threatened to clear the encroachment. The path was reportedly created by an individual to ‘access his land’ on the other side of the channel. The delay in action by officials after the issue was brought to the notice of Revenue and Public Works Departments irked local farmers. Backed by TNVS, the farmers cautioned that they would remove the encroachment by themselves on Wednesday. As they got ready to get into the act, Revenue and PWD officials rushed to the spot and initiated necessary steps to clear the encroachment. Thanking the officials for clearing the encroachment, the local farmers claimed that removal of the unauthorised path would help improve the storage at the lake and fulfill the irrigation requirements of around 250 acres of farm land in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegal-pathway-blocking-inlet-channel-cleared/article32967993.ece
29 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Onions sent to southern districts||Sale of ‘Bellary’ onion for Rs. 45 a kg commenced in the Cooperation Department’s ‘Farm Fresh’ outlets here on Wednesday as the district received 10 tonnes of vegetable reached here. Since the gap between demand and supply of onion has widened beyond manageable proportions, it is being sold anywhere between Rs. 120 and Rs. 150 in the retail market, much to the agony of the consumers, especially those who are organising functions like weddings. Against this backdrop, the Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju announced that the ‘Farm Fresh’ outlets would soon start selling onion at Rs. 45 a kg to help consumers particularly the poor. As the district received 10 tonnes of onion from Nasik, the sale commenced on Wednesday. In the first phase, onion at discounted price is being sold at 15 places within the Corporation limits and more ‘Farm Fresh’ outlets will be opened based on demand. “We’re selling 2 kg per consumer. If the government decides, sale of onion through ration shops will also be considered,” said Ravichandran, Regional Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies. He informed that onion had been sent to Tirunelveli (two tonnes) and Kanniyakumari (eight tonnes) districts also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/onions-sent-to-southern-districts/article32968048.ece
29 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||A bathroom is built here with plastic bottles||The Thoothukudi Corporation has used discarded plastic drinking water and soft drink bottles for constructing a bathroom as part of its solid waste management programme. The discarded one litre-bottles have been used like bricks for constructing bathrooms after filling the bottles with beach sand. Though the plastic bottles are collected separately from residents as non-degradable waste, collection of these plastic vessels from public places is still a challenge for the corporation’s workforce. The plastic bottles discarded in drainage channels often clog the underground channels to cause overflow of sewage through manholes which is another challenge being faced by the urban civic body. When COVID-19 pandemic was in its peak in the district, those who came to the district from other districts or States were isolated in ‘quarantine camps’, where food and drinking water were served. Since the water was served in bottles, empty plastic bottles were collected and used for creating bathrooms. The bottles have been closed tightly using adhesives so that they would get desired strength and ready to be used like bricks. “We’ve used discarded plastic bottles in a novel fashion for useful purpose and a bathroom has been created at Perumalpuram micro compost centre. The bathroom is useful to workers deployed there as they can leave this premises after taking bath in this bathroom,” said V.P. Jayaseelan, Corporation Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-bathroom-is-built-here-with-plastic-bottles/article32968041.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||243 fresh cases, two deaths recorded||The central districts recorded 243 new positive cases on Wednesday. Two deaths, one each in Ariyalur and Karur, were reported in the region, according to a medical bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 48-year-old woman from Ariyalur with comorbidity of diabetes and a 40-year-old man from Karur, who suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome, succumbed to the viral infection on Wednesday. Despite recording a sharp decline, Thanjavur reported the highest number of new cases — 51 — in the region. Tiruchi reported 48 fresh cases, while none were from existing containment zones. A total of 28 patients, including 23 hailing from Tiruchi, were discharged from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Nagapattinam reported a sharp drop with 41 new cases. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur saw 34 fresh cases. Patients in both districts were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and with a history of respiratory illnesses. Pudukottai recorded 32 cases among which were local index cases with no history of travel or contacts. In Karur, 21 patients, including residents of Vengamedu, Kavundampalayam and Thanthonrimalai, tested positive. In Ariyalur, 12 reported positive. In Perambalur it was four, with two hailing from Perambalur block and one each from Veppur and Veppanthattai blocks. A total of 527 throat swabs were lifted at government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for processing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/243-fresh-cases-two-deaths-recorded/article32967996.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||When mourning never ends||Nadukattupatti, the village in Manapparai block where a two-year-old boy fell in a borewell hole and died seems untouched by time. The fields are lush and rows of maize are ready for harvest. Amid the green lies a small area of grey- encased in concrete, where there used to be a borewell, into which two-year-old Sujith Wilson fell on October 25, 2019 and later died. “My son has not left us. He is with me in spirit and I feel him here often. Since he died, I have rarely left the house as I do not want to leave him here alone,” said Kala Mary, Sujith's mother. In between sobs, Ms. Mary said that the five days when they fought to save her son were the worst part of her life. “I do not wish it upon my worst enemies. My son yearned for me and I was not able to reach him.” Sujith's older brother Punith Roshan, who is now old enough to go to first standard, believes that his brother lives under the concrete, said Ms. Mary. “If anyone visits our home, he first takes them to the concrete spot and shows it to them. He did not ask us any questions about where his baby brother went. He has lost his playmate and now usually spends time on his own,” she wept. Despite an 80-hour-long battle and at least 15 different equipment applied in an attempt to rescue the boy, he died and his body was removed from the well on October 29, 2019, around 2.30 am. The borewell in Nadukattupatti was too small, and the child’s head was only as big as the opening, said M. Manikandan, a Madurai-based teacher who invented a ‘borewell robot,’ which was also employed to rescue the boy. The apparatus has oxygen supply, light, a high-resolution camera and arms to hold and carry the child. “The rocks too were slippery. Every time we touched the child, he would slip further down. It was difficult to hold him in place and try and rescue him,” he said. Vehicles passing by the narrow road in front of Sujith's house slow down to take a look at the spot. “While some pray for him and for us, many see at it and remember our terrible ordeal,” Ms. Mary said. Sujith's family received money from friends, wellwishers and political parties, but not a rupee has been touched, said Britto Arockiyaraj, his father. “I earn Rs. 500 a day as construction worker. For now, that is enough for my family. The money will help my son in the future,” he said. Changes in TNFRS Since the incident last year, the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services department has attempted to fabricate machines to handle borewell-related accidents. A team of advisers, including researchers from Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, and Mr. Manikandan were consulted and an order has been placed for 20 such machines. A special training programme was held for all TNFRS personnel across the State on initial handling of such situations, C. Sylendra Babu, Director, Fire And Rescue Services, said. All fire stations have now delegated a technical station officer to keep a check on open borewells in the region, and to report it to the district administration immediately, he added. First anniversary The family has organised a prayer and a lunch in Sujith’s memory on October 29. “Anybody and everybody who prayed for our boy is invited. He is also the son of whoever prayed for him and in his honour, we would like to serve whoever wishes to come,” Ms. Mary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-mourning-never-ends/article32968002.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Business complex in knee-deep sewage||Stagnation of sewage water in the basement floor of a commercial complex on Madurai road has posed serious health hazards to customers and local residents. Customers visiting SBI, UCO Bank and the regional office of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation and other private commercial establishments at Shree complex undergo untold sufferings due to stagnation of the sewage water. Knee-deep sewage, discharged by commercial establishments and residents of the building, has been stagnating for more than two weeks, emitting a pungent stench and turning the area into a breeding ground for vectors. With sewage water occupying the entire basement floor, it looks like a pool. Apparently, sewage generated from the building could not be discharged into the storm water drain on Madurai road ever since the construction of the drain began a few weeks ago. A few other complexes also face the issue. Since the outlet points have been blocked, the onus on clearing sewage has been passed on to owners of the complexes and buildings. Some of them engage private players to clear sewage water. However, the evidently half-hearted efforts have failed. There is also a view that the Corporation, which is supposed to ensure smooth flow of sewage and domestic waste, has passed the buck on users. The tussle has ultimately caused hardship to hundreds of customers, pensioners and others, who visit the commercial complexes. It poses serious threat to public health to provident fund members, and elderly persons, who visit the EPFO office to get their grievance redressed. They fear that it will spread diseases especially when people are already going through trying times due to the spread of COVID-19. “The customers face untold sufferings due to the problem. It is time the issue issue gets solved before the onset of monsoon,” says Shashikant Dahiya, Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner, Tiruchi. The tenants and the establishments that function in the complex took up the issue with the Corporation and owner of the building. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian toldThe Hinduthat he had personally visited the spot to take stock of the situation. The sewage stagnation posed the danger of spreading diseases. Hence, the owner and tenants of the complex had been served notices to solve the issue within seven days. Else, action would be taken against the responsible persons under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/business-complex-in-knee-deep-sewage/article32968004.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Air quality monitoring station commissioned at Bharathidasan University, St. Joseph’s College||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday commissioned Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board’s Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) at Bharathidasan University and St. Joseph’s College. The facility, each costing Rs. 2 crore, was started at 25 locations across the State. The data from the stations would enable government agencies to keep the general public informed about the current level of air pollution, and formulate strategies, policies and decisions, besides generating knowledge on the long-term and short-term implications on public health. The establishment of ambient air quality station provided direction for management of air quality, maintenance of ecological safety and conservation, and creation of sustainable environment for human society and nature, officials said. The station was inaugurated at Bharathidasan University in the presence of Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar, Registrar G. Gopinath, Joint Chief Environmental Engineer K. Elankumaran, District Environmental Engineer R. Lakshmi and other senior officials. The establishment of CAAQMS was a sequel to the memorandum of understanding signed by the university’s Department of Environmental Biotechnology with TNPCB. According to officials, all parameters of air quality such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, ozone molecule, gaseous ammonia, nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide, BTX – Benzene, Toluene, Xylene, and meteorological parameters — rainfall, solar radiation, wind direction, wind speed, temperature and humidity — would be monitored continuously by TNPCB and Indian Institute of Technology-Madras. The data from the station could be used by scientists, academicians and students for teaching and research purpose, the Vice-Chancellor said. Featuring measuring instruments and display units, the CAAQMS facility at St. Joseph’s College had been made useful to the public through installation of LCD board for projection of real-time data. The facility envisaged tracking air quality in various places, including residential localities, industrial sites, commercial locations and roadside areas to a five-km distance in the surroundings, College Principal Rev. Fr. M. Arockiasamy Xavier said. Monitoring helped in assessing the level of pollution in relation to the ambient air quality standards, and set the target for pollution reduction. The college would conduct awareness programmes at the local level for students and the general public of the importance of environment and health and secure projects from national agencies for broad-basing efforts for pollution control, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-quality-monitoring-station-commissioned-at-bharathidasan-university-st-josephs-college/article32968000.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Education Plus webinar to be held on October 31||The Hindu Education Plus webinar on ‘Career opportunities in the field of animation and design’, presented by Hindhustan College of Arts and Science, and DJ Education (MAAC), will take place on October 31 from 11.30 a.m. The webinar, which is meant for students at higher secondary level, 12th pass students, and diploma holders, will focus on the three-year degree programme in B. Voc in Graphic Design. Talks on programme structure, industry-integrated curriculum, and job opportunities after completing the course will be delivered by A. Ponnusamy, Principal, Hindusthan College of Arts and Sciences, Coimbatore; Sivaprasad Velayudhan, founder, Realworks Studios; and Stalin TM, creator and educator in the field of 3D Animation with VFX, MAAC, Coimbatore. Aspiring participants can click the link or scan the QR code and register for free to make an informed career decision: http://bit.ly/DJTHEP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-education-plus-webinar-to-be-held-on-october-31/article32967998.ece
29 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tahsildar’s house burgled||Gold jewellery weighing 16 sovereigns and Rs. 10,000 in cash were reportedly stolen from the house of a Special Tahsildar at Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Mannachanallur on Tuesday. The Special Tahsildar serving at Manapparai T Seykizhaar had left for work and his wife was away when unidentified persons gained entry into the house after breaking the locks of the grill gate and decamped with the valuables kept inside the almirah. Mannachanallur Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-jewels-stolen-from-tahsildars-house/article32968006.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Special team to track fake passport-holders||Special team has been formed to identify the persons holding fake passports after a youth from Idinthakarai, who is in Saudi Arabia now, is found to be holding a fake passport The crime came to light when A. Suman, 43, of Idinthakarai under Koodankulam police station limits, applied online for renewing his passport even as he was in Saudi Arabia, where he is working for the past few years. When the Koodankulam police visited Idinthakarai to inquire about Mr. Suman’s antecedents, they found that the applicant had gone to Saudi Arabia using the passport of one Sathish Kumar, also from Idinthakarai. After Satish Kumar was killed in a road accident, Mr. Suman allegedly used the passport of the deceased to travel to Saudi Arabia. After registering a case against Mr. Suman, the police informed the District Police Office about it. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan alerted higher-ups, Home Department, Ministry of External Affairs, which in turn has apparently alerted the Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia to track the offender. Background When anti-KKNPP protests were in its peak in 2012, the police registered cases against hundreds of protesters, who participated in the relay agitation going on under a ‘pandal’ erected in front of St. Lourde’s Church. Though the agitation was going on in the coastal hamlet without permission from the police, the police did not enter the village to arrest the organisers but cases under ordinary charges were registered regularly.. When the agitation overflowed on the boundary of the KKNPP, it led to clash between the police and the protesters on September 9, 2012, in which senior police officers were injured. Immediately, cases were registered under punitive sections. The police started refusing to give ‘no objection certificate’ to passport applicants from a few coastal hamlets of Tirunelveli district. Though petitions were submitted to the police seeking withdrawal of cases so as to get the ‘no objection certificate’ from the police during passport application / renewal verification, their demand is yet to be fulfilled. “Any decision in this connection has to be taken by the government and not by the police here. Whenever we get the applications for a new passport or renewal of travel document, we clear the applications. Those who are not involved in any incident associated with the anti-nuke protest get clearance while others don’t get it,” says Mr. Manivannan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-team-to-track-fake-passport-holders/article32968043.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Progress of ongoing projects reviewed||The District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee meeting held here on Wednesday reviewed the progress of the ongoing projects being implemented here with the funds released by the Member of Parliament and the MLAs and also the schemes being run with the Centre’s funding. Even as Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish was chairing the meeting, Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam appealed to the members of the committee to ensure the early completion of all ongoing projects with superior quality. He also exhorted the officials to identify the bottlenecks in completing the projects and make earnest efforts to ensure the timely completion. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency Manthirachalam, Dean, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital M. Ravichandran, Project Officer, Mahalir Thittam, Michael Antony Fernando and the senior officials of various government departments participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/progress-of-ongoing-projects-reviewed/article32968058.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Soothsayer held for sexually assaulting girl||The Srivaikundam All Women Police have arrested a soothsayer-cum-traditional medicine practitioner for allegedly sexually assaulting a seven-year-old girl when she was brought to him by her mother for ‘treatment’. They said a woman from a village near Srivaikundam took her daughter to P. Chinnadurai, 55, of Keezha Puliyanga Colony in Puthukkudi Keezhur on September 25 as the girl was suffering from a wound on her foot for the past few months. After sending the mother to buy turmeric and eggs for the ‘treatment,’ Chinnadurai tried to sexually abuse her. Even as he was attempting to rape the girl, the woman entered the house. However, Chinnadurai stopped her at the main entrance of the house and sent her again to the shop to buy a few more items required for the ‘treatment’ in a bid to delay her presence in his room by more than an hour. Seizing the opportunity, Chinnadurai allegedly sexually assaulted girl. As the victim was crying inconsolably even after returning home in the night due to pain and bleeding, the woman came to know that her daughter had been raped by the soothsayer. When she questioned him, he threatened her that he would destroy her family with his black magic powers. Fearing, the woman did not even share it with her husband, who is working in Coimbatore. When she told her husband about their daughter’s trauma recently, he asked her to come to Coimbatore with their daughter. As she was examined by a doctor in the Government Hospital, he told the couple to register a complaint with the police without further delay. On returning to Srivaikundam, the couple filed a complaint with All Women Police Station and subsequently case was registered against Chinnadurai under Sections 5(m) (penetrative sexual assault on a child below 12-years-old) and 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and 506 (i) (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Chinnadurai was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soothsayer-held-for-sexually-assaulting-girl/article32967994.ece
29 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers begin sit-in protest||Opposing the construction of transmission towers on agricultural lands, the Federation of Farmers Associations Against Transmission Towers started a sit-in protest near Tiruppur district on Wednesday. The farmers demanded that the district administration should not allow works to lay high-tension power lines for the 765 kV Virudhunagar–Coimbatore transmission link as a case against the project is yet to be heard by the Madras High Court. The administration must also cancel the orders given to a private firm for the construction of transmission towers, they demanded. District secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association R. Kumar participated in the protest at Uthukuli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-begin-sit-in-protest/article32968571.ece
29 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Male leopard found dead||A five-year-old male leopard was found dead with an improvised projectile lodged in one of its hind limbs near Pandalur on Tuesday. The leopard was found dead inside a tea field belonging to a major tea estate in Pandalur, and a post mortem was conducted. Apart from a few bite marks sustained possibly as a result of a fight with another animal, the post-mortem revealed that the animal had been shot with a projectile which had lodged itself in one of its hind limbs, which forest officials believe had led to its death. The animal was found dead just a few kilometres away from the area where a male elephant was found dead with a similar projectile lodged in one of its legs last month. On Wednesday, District Forest Officer, Gudalur Division, Sumesh Soman, admitted that there were “similarities” between the two incidents, but added that it was too early to come to a conclusion as to whether the killings of both the animals were connected. “Three forest teams, a tracking team and a sniffer dog have been pressed into service to find the persons responsible,” said Mr. Soman, who added that the leopard had been shot just a few days prior to being found dead inside the estate. This is the third major wildlife crime reported in the Nilgiris in the last few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/male-leopard-found-dead/article32968578.ece
29 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||72 new cases reported in Vellore district||With 72 new cases reported on Wednesday, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 17,714. As many as 16,973 people have been discharged and the active cases in the district stands at 437. The district’s death toll stands at 304. In Ranipet district, 28 cases were reported positive taking the total to 14,761. In Tirupathur, the total number of positive cases stood at 6,561 with 34 new cases. In Tiruvannamalai district, a total of 21 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 17,471. Out of this, 16,789 have been discharged and there are 421 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/72-new-cases-reported-in-vellore-district/article32968932.ece
29 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Five sentenced to life for rape, murder||The Fast Track Mahila Court in Villupuram on Wednesday convicted and sentenced five offenders to life imprisonment until death and life imprisonment along with fine for dacoity, rape and murder of a 37-year-old woman in 2011. The court also convicted four of the offenders to the same prison terms for the dacoity, rape and murder of a 39-year-old woman in 2012. The sentences would run concurrently. According to Special Public Prosecutor K. Rathika, the accused Ilayaraja alias Ambigapathy, 28, Madiazhagan, 29, Vadivel, 33, Guru Balan and Balamurugan robbed, sexually assaulted and murdered a 37-year-old woman in an agricultural field at Kothanur on April 23, 2011. The case was subsequently transferred to the CB-CID on a petition filed by the victim’s husband in the Madras High Court. Preliminary investigations by the police revealed that four of the accused — Ambigapathy, Madiazhagan, Vadivel and Gurubalan had robbed, sexually assaulted and murdered another woman on June 26, 2012. At the end of the trial, the Fast Track Mahila Court judge G. Santhi convicted the accused in both the murders. Fine imposed The judge sentenced the five offenders to undergo life imprisonment till the remainder of their life for rape and murder, life imprisonment for dacoity and slapped a fine of Rs. 18,000 each in the first murder case. The court also sentenced four of them to the same prison terms in the second case. The sentences would run concurrently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-persons-sentenced-to-life-term-for-rape-and-murder/article32968046.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore continues to witness fall in cases||As many as 685 persons recovered from COVID-19 and returned to their homes in Coimbatore district on Wednesday, three times higher than the number of new cases reported on the day. The 218 new cases reported on Wednesday took the district’s tally to 42,516. The Health Department on Wednesday said that seven more COVID-19 patients from Coimbatore district succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 547. The department is expecting a steady decline in the daily caseload, which according to officials may fall below the 200-mark this week. Tiruppur district reported two deaths and 96 cases, taking the district’s overall tally to 12,397 cases. On Tuesday, two men from the district, aged 78 and 66, died at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, the media bulletin said. Out of 12,397 cases, 976 were active and 11,234 patients have recovered. Tiruppur district reported 187 deaths in total. On Wednesday, 111 patients from the district were discharged from various hospitals. Erode district reported 155 new cases taking the district’s tally to 10,015. While 106 persons were discharged, 801 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem reported 147 new cases taking the district’s tally to 26,838. While 186 persons were discharged, 1,737 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll in the district to 411. Namakkal district reported 52 cases taking the district’s tally to 8,887. As many as 121 persons were discharged, while 646 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 94. In the Nilgiris, 30 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases stands at 6,520. The death toll in the district stands at 38 while 277 people are undergoing treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 27 COVID cases while Dharmapuri recorded 25 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/western-region-sees-750-new-cases-12-deaths/article32968073.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Examinations conducted for NCC cadets||The ‘B’ and ‘C’ certificate examinations for 30 National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets were conducted at Government Arts College on Wednesday. The examinations were organised of NCC Group Coimbatore and 2 Tamil Nadu Artillery Battery NCC Coimbatore for students who missed the examinations held in February. The 30 cadets were from eight districts under the Coimbatore NCC Group – Coimbatore, Tiruppur, the Nilgiris, Salem, Erode, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts, a release said. Officiating Group Commander Col. Mangesh Wankhade monitored the conduct of the certificate examinations. Lt. Col Siva and Lt. Col. Girish Parthan made the arrangements for the examination with all the COVID-19 safety protocols, according to the release. Lt. Col. Parthan said that 14 cadets attended the ‘B’ certificate and 16 cadets attended the ‘C’ certificate examination. “Both the examinations were conducted simultaneously,” he said. The written examination for these certificates was held from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and the practical examination was held from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Clearing the ‘B’ and ’C’ certificate examinations enables the NCC cadets to avail various degrees of concession in joining defence forces as well as for higher studies, according to Lt. Col. Parthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/examinations-conducted-for-ncc-cadets/article32968570.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Freight train sets off on electrified stretch||An electric loco-hauled freight train was operated on Mayiladuthurai-Thanjavur stretch for the first time after the broad gauge section was energised following completion of overhead electrification works. Transporting fertilizer from Bilaspur, the freight train arrived at Thanjavur junction at 7.40 p.m. on Tuesday after a halt at Mayiladuthurai on the mainline section that falls under Tiruchi Railway Division. Ahead of operation of the freight train on the 68-km stretch via Kumbakonam, a trial run was carried out successfully a few days ago after completion of overhead electrification works by Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), a Government of India enterprise under the Ministry of Railways. This was the last and final stretch of the 228-km mainline section from Villupuram to Thanjavur via Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam to be electrified. The portion from Villupuram to Mayiladuthurai was electrified earlier. A senior railway official told The Hindu on Wednesday that the freight train was operated on the newly energised stretch after obtaining approval from the Southern Railway General Manager on Tuesday. However, statutory clearance from the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru, was mandatory for operation of passenger trains on the section. Meanwhile, a senior RVNL official said the organisation submitted relevant documents to the Commissioner of Railway Safety pertaining to completion of overhead electrification works on the Mayiladuthurai-Thanjavur stretch and invited the top official to conduct mandatory inspection of the track. The inspection by the Commissioner of Railway Safety is expected to be carried out next month. RVNL was entrusted with the task of executing the overhead electrification project on the entire mainline section from Villupuram to Thanjavur at a cost of around Rs. 300 crore. Two new traction substations — at Cuddalore and Thanjavur — were constructed as part of the project and commissioned earlier. The mainline section with single track is one of the important stretches under the Tiruchi division to have become fully electrified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freight-train-sets-off-on-electrified-stretch/article32968005.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Port-Maduravoyal corridor may be redesigned, says Gadkari||The Chennai Port-Maduravoyal elevated corridor is likely to be re-designed into a double-decker project and have six to eight lanes, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday. Addressing the media after meeting Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Mr. Gadkari said he had suggested this idea to the Chief Minister since the State government had sought more ramps. The fresh design would ensure that the corridor serves the public for at least 20 years, he said. But since it would involve an increase in cost from Rs. 3,100 crore to Rs. 5,000 crore, Mr. Gadkari sought a waiver of SGST on steel and cement and royalty for sand and aggregate for the project. “It would lead to a notional loss of revenue to the State. But it would be of international standards and serve its purpose. The Centre and the National Highways Authority of India would bear the remaining cost,” he said, adding that Mr. Palaniswami had said he would hold discussions on the proposal and get back to him. During the meeting, representatives of the State government had stressed the need for widening two stretches of NH 45 between Guduvanchery and Chettipunniyam and from Maduravoyal to Sriperumbudur NH4 into eight-lane roads. “It would cost Rs. 700 crore, and we have given an assurance that the projects would be taken up. But the State government has to ensure the availability of land,” he said. Mr. Gadkari, who thanked the Chief Minister for agreeing to provide land for the proposed multi-modal logistics park near Chennai, said the plan was to put it out to tender by January 2021. He said he had no objection to the handing over of NH 136 and NH 544H to the State government. The Union Minister also requested the State government to expedite the process of land acquisition for various projects in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/port-maduravoyal-corridor-may-be-redesigned-says-gadkari/article32968563.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Curbs likely to stay on schools, colleges and cinemas in State||It is also learnt that a member of the medical committee felt that the government could look at allowing students of Classes 9 to 12 to attend classes in school. “But overall, the feeling was that there should not be any hurry to reopen schools and colleges,” the official said, adding that a few Collectors felt that a decision on reopening cinemas could be taken at a later date. At the review meeting, Mr. Palaniswami said a decision on representations received from the film industry for the reopening of cinemas would be taken based on inputs from Collectors and the medical committee. He expressed concern over the people’s lack of compliance with COVID-19 prevention measures. He said nearly 35% of the people were not wearing masks in spite of the State government’s efforts to create awareness. Festival season "The Deepavali festival is around the corner. In Chennai, there are streets full of people, many of whom are not wearing masks. The police should continuously create awareness. Only then will we have a situation where everyone is wearing a mask and be able to stop the spread of the virus," he said. Despite efforts to bring the number of cases down, there had been a sudden spike in some districts, he said, and advised the Collectors to take steps to curb COVID-19. "In some districts, the number of [daily] cases is above 100. Before Deepavali, it should be brought down to less than 100. In districts with less than 100 cases, the number should be brought down to below 50. In districts reporting less than 50 cases, it should be brought down to nil. I request district administrations to work towards ensuring that we move to a situation where there is no spread of COVID-19," Mr. Palaniswami said. The Chief Minister said Collectors should monitor whether proper treatment is being provided to patients and whether all protocols are being followed. He also praised the district officials for the decline in cases and expressed confidence that very soon, the State would be free from the spread of the virus. Stating that some people were trying to create law and order problems in the State, the Chief Minister urged the police to be vigilant, monitor such elements and keep the people of the State safe.  The Deepavali festival is around the corner. In Chennai, there are streets full of people, many of whom are not wearing masksEdappadi K. PalaniswamiChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-likely-to-stay-on-schools-colleges-and-cinemas-in-state/article32968010.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Twisted||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twisted/article32968920.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fervent plea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fervent-plea/article32968576.ece
29 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Seer ends fast after assurance from CM on Panchamsali reservation||Basava Jaya Mrutyunjya Swami, seer of the Panchamsali Peetha mutt, ended his fast seeking inclusion of Panchamsali community under 2A reservation category following an announcement by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had agreed to “consider the demand favourably”. Mr. Savadi met the seer, who was holding his dharna in front of the Suvarna Soudha, and told him that the CM had assured him of a positive decision, if he brought all the MLAs from the community to Bengaluru. Mr. Savadi even facilitated a telephonic conversation between the Chief Minister and the seer. Earlier in the day, the seer told journalists that the Panchamsali community, the largest sub-caste of Lingayats in terms of numbers, had been deprived socially and economically. It was presently in the 3B category of Other Backward Classes. This category covers 85 caste groups with only 5% reservation. “We want to be shifted to 2A that has fewer caste groups, but has 15% reservation. This means that the chances of our youth getting education and employment benefits will increase three times.” He defended his demand by saying that Panchamsalis were as backward as the other caste groups in 2A category. Over 90% of the community members are either farmers or farm labourers. “They have suffered losses since the 90s when agriculture became less remunerative. They have not been able to send their children to good schools or colleges,” he claimed. He said he would appeal to Mr. Yediyurappa to recall the support given to him by the community since his initial days in politics. “We have been making this demand to every government till now, but it was not accepted,” he said, adding that they were hopeful since the Chief Minister was a Lingayat. He said that the demand for a separate Lingayat religion was not in contravention of the demand for reservation for Lingayat sub-sects. “They are two different things and the demands are made before two different platforms. While the Central government has to grant us the minority tag, it is the State government that has to readjust our reservation categories. I am actively involved in both the agitations.” The seer said a statue of Rani Channamma, who belonged to the Panchamsali community, should be erected in front of the Suvarna Soudha. District in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, Rajya Sabha member Eeranna Kadadi, former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, and former MLA and district BJP president Sanjay Patil met the seer to express solidarity with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-ends-fast-after-assurance-from-cm-on-panchamsali-reservation/article32968128.ece
29 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KMF on the path to recovery||Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF), which suffered huge losses during the COVID-19-induced lockdown, is on the path to recovery. There is an irony in the process of recovery though. Senior officials say that the lockdown that nearly shut down several dairies and processing plants in different States has created opportunities for the country’s second largest dairy cooperative. A senior officer told The Hindu that KMF had sold over 2,150 tonnes of milk powder to Bihar and around 1,100 tonnes of butter to the same State and also others. “We are selling 3.5 lakh litres of milk per day to other States. This includes sales to other milk federations and the counter sales of Nandini outlets in other States. We are focusing on increasing the range and quantum of our products sold,” the officer said. ‘Temporary’ KMF chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi said that the recovery is temporary and the organisation has to build on its gains to make sure it stays ahead of competition. “It is pretty much as if we were the last shop that is open after a storm, that people rush to buy essentials. But we can not depend on that. We need to strengthen our position and move forward to consolidate the gains,” he said. “We have sold over 120 tonnes of sweets in the Navaratri season alone and we plan to sell more,” he said. “Federations in other States have approached us with offers to buy our milk and milk products. We are putting in place a system to quicken out-of-State sales,” he added. “However, there is still a long way to to go. We sell only around half of our daily procurement of 80 lakh litres of milk, everyday. We have 12.6 tonnes of butter and 27.5 tonnes of milk powder in stock. Our capacity to convert all unsold milk into products with longer shelf life needs to be scaled up. For this, we need investment. We are constituting a group to study this and suggest measures,” he said. Sales plans KMF also plans to increase the number of sales outlets — Nandini parlours and Nandini shoppee — across the State and outside. “We now have 1,462 Nandini parlours and 220 shoppees. We plans to open more, in the franchise model, and to explore new markets,” he said. He said that KMF is the only major dairy technology agency in the State that buys high and sells low. Highest price “We give the highest price to farmers, but sell our products at the least possible price to consumers. As we are a cooperative, our operating costs are very low. However, we are managing it efficiently. Despite our losses, we were able to donate Rs. 8 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief fund,” he said. Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi observed that of the 80 lakh litres of milk collected everyday by the federation, only around 10 lakh litres comes from the 14 North Karnataka districts. He said that KMF will take up an awareness and education campaign for farmers in North Karnataka to increase their contribution to KMF procurement. Started in 1974, KMF is the largest dairy cooperative in the country after AMUL. It has 14 unions covering all the districts in the State. Its procurement more than doubled after the State government began paying incentive to farmers for every litre of milk sent to KMF in 2008.  Senior officials say that the lockdown that nearly shut down several dairies and processing plants in different States has created opportunities for the country’s second largest dairy cooperative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmf-on-the-path-to-recovery/article32968097.ece
29 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||15-month-old undergoes complex heart surgery||Doctors at KLE society’s Prabhakar Kore hospital saved the life of a baby after conducting a complex heart operation for a congenital defect in Belagavi on Wednesday. The 15-month-old boy from Kankumbi village was operated upon for a ventricular septal defect or a hole in the wall that that divides the two lower chambers of the heart. Rotary’s Global Grant project the Gift of Life sponsored the surgery. The child had complained of chest infection and cough, shortness of breath, sweating, and poor weight gain. Cardiac surgeon Praven Tambrallimath had recommended surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-month-old-undergoes-complex-heart-surgery/article32968121.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sports academies resume play||Sports activities, both professional and recreational, came to a halt during the lockdown to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. This unforeseen crisis affected the finances of the several sports academies in the city. However, with the easing of restrictions, a semblance of normalcy has returned. Academies are not running anywhere near full capacity yet, but beleaguered administrators are happy to see some light after a long period of darkness. Indian Davis Cup coach Zeeshan Ali, who runs the Zeeshan Ali Tennis Academy on Sarjapur Road, said, “Less than 10% of the children have come back. Only those seriously pursuing the sport have returned. I am grateful that we have at least re-started operations. In terms of revenue and business, it’s absolutely not feasible. Last year, I had 12 coaches. Now, I have just two. We have stopped our residential program.” Zeeshan explained that until schools reopen fully, the turnout at his academy will continue to be low. “For someone who is 13 or 14, and has played tennis for seven to eight years, to lose a year is tough. They are losing time,” he said. The Karnataka Institute of Cricket (KIOC), which counts Manish Pandey and K. Gowtham as its alumni, is slowly coming back to life. Irfan Sait, Director, KIOC, is cautiously optimistic. “Around 35% of our wards are back. It is a huge improvement over the dark times when our gates were shut. While our senior players have been very keen to return, some parents are not comfortable with their young children returning,” he said. To help compensate for the heavy losses suffered during the lockdown, he has had to make some tough decisions. “We had to reduce our staff. We had 12 groundsmen; now we have five. We had to let go of some of our hostel and office staff. We have also cut costs by being careful with electricity usage and so on,” he added. The Champions Table Tennis Center, however, has not been able to re-start operations. The centre, established by Anjana Rao in the Transcend Group of Institutions campus in Jarganahalli, was forced to vacate the premises. “We were unable to pay rent. We were hoping for some concession on rent, but it did not happen. We are looking for a new venue. I have received a lot of calls from parents who are keen to send their children to our table tennis camp. That is encouraging,” she said.  Less than 10% of the children have come back. Only those seriously pursuing the sport have returned Zeeshan Ali, Zeeshan Ali Tennis Academy     While our senior players have been very keen to return, some parents are not comfortable with their young children returning Irfan Sait, Director, Karnataka Institute of Cricket   We were unable to pay rent. We are looking for a new venue. I have received a lot of calls from parents who are keen to send their children to our camp. That is encouraging Anjana Rao, Champions Table Tennis Center||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sports-academies-resume-play/article32968536.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Study finds access to electricity almost 100% in State||Karnataka is the only State, among the 10 that were surveyed, where access to electricity is almost 100%, and the differences in the five distribution companies’ access rate across customer categories is not statistically significant.  This is one of the findings of the ‘Electricity access and benchmarking of distribution utilities’, a joint study by Smart Power India, NITI Aayog and the Rockefeller Foundation. The study was conducted across 10 States, 25 utilities, over 25,000 respondents from different consumer categories, such as households, agriculture, commercial enterprises, and institutions from both urban and rural areas. The study has brought out findings on grid connectivity, electricity access, customer satisfaction, and the state of the utilities’ capacity to deliver. The Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (BESCOM) has scored a high access index score, while the other four utilities in the State — the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Company (CESC), the Hubli Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM), the Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company(GESCOM), and the Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (MESCOM) — have been given a medium scoring. Customer satisfaction is often considered the goal of a service-driven industry. The study took into consideration customer satisfaction on six parameters – providing a new connection, power reliability, power quality, billing and collection process, complaint resolution process, and service provided. Interestingly, in this category, BESCOM and MESCOM were rated high, while CESC, HESCOM, and GESCOM got a medium rating. With regard to the utilities’ capacity to deliver electricity access sustainably, all five utilities received a medium rating. The study has found that among the 25 utilities, CESC is among the three to have the lowest average number of hours of supply each day for agricultural customers at 6.7 hours. The other two are Gujarat South and Punjab. For all other utilities, the hours of supply to agricultural customers varies from eight to 21 hours. While citizens here may complain about numerous unscheduled power cuts, the study has found that less than 10% of customers of CESC, MESCOM, and GESCOM claimed to have been notified by the utility, while it was nearly 20% for HESCOM and BESCOM. With regard to affordability, cost as percentage of household expenditure, the study found that BESCOM was the least affordable, with around half of all household customers reporting unaffordable access. Though all 25 utlities were observed to have performed well on providing metered connection for the majority of customers across all categories, GESCOM was among the three with the lowest percentage of customers with a metered connection. According to the study, 100% of BESCOM and CESC customers reported a fixed billing frequency, while it was nearly 100% in MESCOM and HESCOM, and between 90% and 100% for GESCOM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-finds-access-to-electricity-almost-100-in-state/article32968137.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ASER report underlines digital divide in schools||Online learning, which has become the norm due to the COVID-19 pandemic, has brought to the fore the digital divide in education with only children having access to smartphones and internet experiencing the benefits. The extent of the divide is stark, according to the Annual Status of Education Report (Rural) 2020 Wave 1 Report, which was released on Wednesday. Only 63% of students aged between 5 and 18 years, enrolled in government schools in rural Karnataka, have access to smartphones. Among those enrolled in private schools, 82% had access to smartphones. This year, the report examined the apparent effects of the pandemic on schooling and learning opportunities of children in rural India. For Karnataka, 3,128 households in 900 villages across all 30 districts were surveyed. A total of 7,557 children in the 5-18 years age group were surveyed. The survey revealed that 89% of children enrolled in private schools and 80% of students enrolled in government schools have access to television. Rise in enrolment The report explored provision of and access to remote education mechanisms and materials in rural parts of the country, and how children, families, and educators were engaging with these from their homes. It noted an increase in enrolment in government schools: 71.86% of boys and 75.1% of girls have been enrolled in government schools this year, as against 66.2% boys and 74.2% girls in 2018. It highlighted the role of government school teachers in ensuring that students were not left behind. Around 61% of government school teachers visited students or spoke to them or their parents in the reference week, which is the week before the survey was conducted. The percentage of private school teachers who took similar initiatives stood at 55.6. As far as availability of textbooks for their current grade was concerned, 93.9% of children in government schools had textbooks whereas only 76% of children in private schools had textbooks. However, only 73% of children in government schools and 67% of children in private schools received the learning material and activities in the reference week. The data applies only to rural schools. The rise of WhatsApp According to the survey, WhatsApp was the most used medium to share learning/activity material in private schools (76.2%) and government schools (40.3%). “As schools are closed, children rely mainly on the resources available at home to help them learn. These resources can consist of people who can help them to study (for example, educated parents); technology (TV, radio or smartphone); or material (such as textbooks for the current grade),” a release by ASER said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aser-report-underlines-digital-divide-in-schools/article32968538.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||By-poll: BJP councillor arrested||Yeshwantpur police arrested a BJP councillor following a complaint filed by Congress leaders after members of the saffron party’s Yuva Morcha, headed by councillor B.K. Venkatesh, disrupted the road show of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday. Mr. Venkatesh was later released on station bail. FIR registered Following a complaint filed by B.K. Gopala Krishna of the Congress, a First Information Report (FIR) has been registered against Mr. Venkatesh and eight others. It was alleged in the FIR that on Tuesday Mr. Siddaramaiah was campaigning for Congress candidate H. Kusuma in the by-election to the Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituency. Mr. Venkatesh and others allegedly abused him near Chowdeshwari bus stand around 1 p.m. and again while he was addressing the crowd around 7.45 p.m. in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/by-poll-bjp-councillor-arrested/article32968529.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fatalities breach 11,000 mark||Over seven months after Karnataka reported the country’s first COVID-19 death (on March 12), the State’s COVID-19 toll breached the 11,000 mark on Wednesday. With 55 new deaths, the toll touched 11,046. This is apart from 19 non COVID-19 deaths. Nearly 53% (5,209) of the total deaths have been reported since September 1 and 1,010 fatalities have been added in the last 16 days. A total of 5,934 of the total deaths are among those aged above 60. The State recorded its first 100 deaths on June 17. Subsequently, the total number of deaths touched 1,032 on July 16, almost doubled in 12 days to touch 2,055 on July 28 and added another 1,036 in the next 10 days. On an average, the State has been recording 101 deaths per day since July 16 till October 12. After that, an average of 64 deaths have been reported per day. The toll crossed the 4,000 mark on August 17 and another 1,029 deaths were added in 10 days to touch 5,091 on August 26. Eight days after that, the toll crossed 6,000 on September 3. The toll touched 7,067 on September 11, 8,023 on September 20, 9,119 on October 2, 10,036 on October 12, and 11,046 on October 28. Case Fatality Rate While the State’s cumulative Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is 1.35%, it stood at 1.74% on Wednesday. Karnataka is now in the second position in terms of deaths. With 3,801 deaths in Bengaluru Urban so far, this district has contributed 34.4% of the total deaths. The number of deaths in Bengaluru has increased from 2,391 on September 12 to 3,801 on October 28 recording a surge of 37%. On Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban reported 23 deaths. While the number of deaths have touched 953 in Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad have reported 671 and 559 deaths, respectively, and Ballari 531.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fatalities-breach-11000-mark/article32968125.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Need to reimagine healthcare system’||There is a need to rethink and reimagine the healthcare system in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic, Dr . Gagandeep Kang, professor of Microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said on Wednesday. Delivering a lecture on 'Reimagining the Indian Healthcare System', on the occasion of the 47th Foundation Day of Indian Institute of Management Bangalore, she said, “A lot has changed in the last six months; we have recognized that diagnostics is important and needs to be scaled to provide information on infectious diseases. We have begun to manufacture equipment, tools, consumables, kits that we have never done at scale before. We realized that global supply chains are easily disrupted and strategic planning for disasters requires an understanding of critical control points. And I hope that we have realized the tremendous economic impact of the pandemic and our attempts to control it, require us to rethink, reimagine India’s healthcare system”. “At the moment, the world is in crisis, pinning hopes on a vaccine that will not restore us to 2019, no matter what we fervently desire. But in nine months, public health and science have shown us that we can move with speed, that we can implement measures of control, collaborate and come with new technologies for potential, if partial, solutions,” she said. Replying to a question on whether there is any evidence to encourage mainstreaming of AYUSH, she said, “I think there are too many detractors of the traditional systems of medicines. “What it requires actually is a collaboration and complementarity where we establish same quality system that we use of western medicine to the traditional systems of medicines. And test them rigorously for impact.” Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairman of Board of Governors of the Institute, said the pandemic turned everything upside down but also resulted in a few positive developments. “Seventeen years ago with the help of ISRO, we launched telemedicine programmes across the country. I was treating patients from Tripura, Siliguri and sitting in my office. I treated 53,000 heart patients. Telemedicine was not acceptable then. The Medical Council changed the regulation to legalize telemedicine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-to-reimagine-healthcare-system/article32968528.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sigandur temple row now takes a caste turn||The Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner’s order appointing committees to look after the administration of Sigandur Chowdeshwari Temple has not gone down well with leaders of the Arya Idiga community and the Brahma Shree Narayanaguru Dharma Paripalana Parishat (BSNDP), an organisation of the Idiga/Billava communities. With this, the controversy that began with differences between trustees of the temple and the priest has taken a caste turn. Leaders of the Arya Idiga community have come out openly in support of S. Ramappa, a trustee. The BSNDP had earlier given a call for a Sigandur Chalo with a demand to remove Sheshagiri Bhat, the priest. The protest rally, earlier scheduled for October 29, has been postponed. The differences between the trustees and the priest hit the headlines when the temples were ready to invite devotees back after the COVID-19 lockdown was relaxed. There had been heated arguments between the two camps over the temple responsibilities. While the priest’s camp alleged that the trustees were not allowing them to perform their duties on the temple premises, the trustees’ faction defended that they were following strict COVID-19 guidelines. The incidents took an ugly turn when a person, said to be a supporter of Mr. Ramappa, was assaulted on the premises by a brother of Mr. Bhat on October 16. Following the instruction from the Chief Minister, Shivamogga DC K.B. Shivakumar visited the temple and on October 23 issued an order constituting two committees. The constitution of committees has been viewed by the Idiga/Billava community as an attempt by the government to take over the temple belonged to their community. Kattigehalla Raghupathi, leader of the community, in a press conference in Shivamogga, recently said that the DC had constituted the committees without hearing the trustees. The office-bearers of BSNDP also held a press conference and said that the organisation would oppose any attempt by the government to take over the temple. Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa during his visit to Shivamogga earlier this week said the government constituted committees only to avoid the mismanagement of funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sigandur-temple-row-now-takes-a-caste-turn/article32968135.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BEL pays total dividend of 280% to Centre||Navratna Defence PSU Bharat Electronics Ltd. (BEL) paid a total dividend of 280% to the Union government for the financial year 2019-20. M.V. Gowtama, Chairman & Managing Director, BEL, presented the 140% final dividend cheque of Rs. 174.44 crore, payable on the shares held by the government, in New Delhi on Wednesday. The interim dividend of 140% (on a face value of Rs. 1 per equity share) was paid to the Union government in February this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bel-pays-total-dividend-of-280-to-centre/article32968138.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ganja worth Rs. 32L seized||The East Division police on Tuesday recovered 16 kg of marijuana and one kg of marijuana oil worth Rs. 32 lakh from them. They arrested Mohammed Shakir, 34, a native of Kannur, and his associate Krishna Kumar, 36, from Palakkad, Kerala while waiting for clients at Bagmane Tech Park, said the police. They claimed to have sourced the drugs from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganja-worth-rs-32l-seized/article32968527.ece
29 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Diploma exam results today||The results of the diploma examinations conducted by the Board of Technical Examinations will be announced on Thursday at polytechnics across the State. The results will also be available onwww.bteresults.net, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/diploma-exam-results-today/article32968531.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Date extended||The last date to submit online applications for IGNOU July 2020 admissions has been extended till October 31. For details, visitwww.ignou.ac.in, or call 080-29607272.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/date-extended/article32968130.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suneel Kumar to be DGP(CID) for a day||Senior IPS officer T. Suneel Kumar will officiate as Director General of Police for a day before he retires. Presently Additional Director General of Police, Anti-Corruption Bureau, he was promoted as DGP and posted as DGP of Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Wednesday evening. He will take charge on Thursday. But he will hand over charge the same evening, as he retires from service on October 31, and October 30 and 31 are government holidays. “I have had a satisfying career in the State. I am thankful for the love and affection people have shown me,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu . He hails from Andhra Pradesh. Senior ADGP rank officer Amar Kumar Pandey has been posted as DGP, Training. C.H. Pratap Reddy, ADGP, Communication, Logistics and Modernisation, has been given the additional charge of ADGP (Law and Order).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suneel-kumar-to-be-dgpcid-for-a-day/article32968134.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3,146 cases reported||The State on Wednesday reported 3,146 new cases taking the total number of cases to 8,12,784. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,612 cases taking the tally here to 3,30,862. The State’s positivity rate for the day reduced to 3.65%. A total of 7,384 persons were discharged on Wednesday taking the total number of recoveries to 7,33,558. Of the remaining 68,161 active cases, 939 patients are being monitored in the ICUs. After a dip in the number of tests since Monday, 86,154 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 61,8898 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 76,00,348.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3146-cases-reported/article32968116.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||List announced||The Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) has announced the list of the candidates eligible for the main examination for recruitment to 106 (94+12 HK) posts in each of the services in Group A and B Gazetted Probationers 2017-18. The probationary examination was conducted on August 24, 2020. Details can be obtained fromhttp://kpsc.kar.nic.in /list/eligibility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/list-announced/article32968539.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Regularise water, sanitary connections||The BWSSB has urged owners of buildings, whose unauthorised water and sanitary lines have been disconnected, to submit applications online for regularising the connections. Such lines would be immediately sanctioned without levying any penalty. However, owners of buildings for which pro rata charges are applicable and the sewerage connection has already been cut are liable to be fined, besides a complaint being lodged at BMTF, if the connections are not regularised by November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/regularise-water-sanitary-connections/article32968530.ece
29 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Six held, valuables recovered, pistols seized||Shivamogga police have arrested six inter-State robbers and recovered valuables worth Rs. 9.31 lakh from them. The arrested are from Uttar Pradesh and they had allegedly been involved in theft and chain-snatching cases in Shivamogga district. They are Faizal, 25, Salman, 24, Ashish Kumar, 36, Mehatab, 35, Salman, 22, and Mohammed Chand, 23. Mohammed Chand is a native of Shivamogga. He had settled in Uttar Pradesh. The police recovered 213.2 grams of gold ornaments from the accused and seized a bike, two pistols and 12 bullets from them. Shivamogga SP K.M. Shantaraj, in a press conference in Shivamogga on Wednesday, said a special team was constituted to chain snatchers in the city. The team took six people into custody on September 16. The arrested were preparing for a robbery. During the inquiry the police learnt that the team was involved in four cases reported in 2019 and one case reported in 2020 in Shivamogga district. They had been remanded to judicial custody. The police had taken into custody Faisal and Ashish for further interrogation. The police took them to Uttar Pradesh to recover the stolen valuables, Mr. Shantaraj said. The SP has announced a cash prize for the police team, appreciating their work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-held-valuables-recovered-pistols-seized/article32968286.ece
29 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE favours postponing GP elections||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has favoured postponement of the gram panchayat elections due to COVID-19. He told presspersons in Shivamogga on Wednesday that the State government was prepared to conduct polls for over 6,000 gram panchayats. However, considering the safety of the rural people, it would be good if it is postponed, he said. The State Election Commission (SEC) had said the elections could be held in November-December. “The people in rural areas have also sought postponement of the elections. However, we will go by the decision of the SEC and the courts,” he added. The High Court of Karnataka last week gave liberty to SEC to decide on holding the elections even though the court has reserved orders on a PIL, which sought directions for holding the polls without further delay. During the hearing, the Bench said the elections can be held in districts where the number of COVID-19 cases is less while reminding about the conduct of SSLC exams, when the A-G said it was difficult to enforce COVID-19 norms during election campaign at village levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-favours-postponing-gp-elections/article32968129.ece
29 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Crop insurance for 21,414 growers||The growers of horticulture crops in Shivamogga district, who suffered a loss due to rain havoc last year, will get insurance amount, said Lok Sabha member B.Y.Raghavendra in a press release on Wednesday. The district has got Rs. 28.94 crore under the weather-based crop insurance scheme. This would benefit 21,414 growers of areca, pepper and mango in the district. The amount would be credited to the accounts of the beneficiaries, he said. He thanked the Centre and State governments for the scheme and appealed to the farming community to make better use of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crop-insurance-for-21414-growers/article32968285.ece
29 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Ashok Shettar and B.F. Dandin chosen for Rajyotsava Award||Two academics from Hubballi Ashok Shettar, who changed the engineering education scenario in North Karnataka, and B.F. Dandin, who despite coming from a humble background went on to build 65 educational institutions, have been chosen for the Rajyotsava Award this year. Prof. Shettar, with over 35 years of experience in teaching and administration, is now the Vice-Chancellor of KLE Technological University (KLETU) in Hubballi. He is considered a face of engineering education because of the changes he was able to bring about in engineering education apart from contributing towards entrepreneurship development in North Karnataka. Apart from transforming the BVB College of Engineering and Technology into KLE Technological University, Prof. Shettar has been actively involved in various initiatives and plans aimed at bringing about comprehensive development of the region. Under him, KLE Technological University has taken up entrepreneurship development programme providing incubation facility for over 40 start-up companies on the university campus. His initiatives have also helped in bridging the gap between academia and industries. And, various projects aimed at finding technological solutions for the farm issues have also been executed. Humble beginning Despite being from a humble background, Mr. Dandin (86), a college teacher initially, started with the establishment of a free hostel for poor students from rural areas Kanakadasa Prasada Nilaya and Sangolli Rayanna High School in Hubballi in 1965 with the help of a few like-minded philanthropic people. Mr. Dandin, who was the first to get education in his family, knew the problems of the poor students from rural areas in getting education. Although he did not have enough resources, he was able to go ahead with his plan as like-minded people helped him in his endeavour. What had a humble beginning has now grown leaps with the establishment of 65 educational institutions imparting courses in various streams in various districts. As chairman of the Kanakadasa Education Society, Mr. Dandin continues to lead and motivate his team even at this age. Expressing happiness for having been selected for the award, Mr. Dandin said that he was happy that his service towards providing education to the children of backward classes had been recognised by the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashok-shettar-and-bf-dandin-chosen-for-rajyotsava-award/article32968111.ece
29 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||73.32 % polling in North East Teachers Constituency||Polling in the election to the North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council went off peacefully on Wednesday. Though polling was slow in the beginning, it slowly picked up by noon and registered a voter turnout of 73.32 % by the end of the process at 5 p.m. Of the 29,236 voters, 21,436 exercised their franchise in 147 polling stations established across Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari districts. As many as 15,058 men voters of the 18,949 and 6,378 women voters of the 10,285 cast their votes. In terms of voter turnout, Yadgir was leading with 78.33 % at 4 p.m. followed by Koppal with 77.87 %, Raichur 72.31 %, Ballari 70.53 % and Bidar with 70.50%. Kalaburagi was at the bottom of the with 50.59 %. At the end of polling, all districts improved their voting percentage and most of them maintained their positions. As per the final data provided by the Regional Commissioner’s office, Yadgir recorded 81.59 % to remain on top of the list followed by Koppal with 80.86 %, Raichur 74.97 %, Bidar 74.40 %, Ballari 74.34 % and Kalaburagi 67.72 %. Due to the COVID-19 situation, the polling staff screened voters for temperature, sprayed sanitiser into their palms and gave them hand gloves before allowing them inside polling stations. Regional Commissioner N.V. Prasad visited a few polling stations in Kalaburagi in the morning. Bidar Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran R paid a visit to a polling station at Janwada in Bidar and inspected the polling process. Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijay Jyothsna visited a few polling stations in Kalaburagi and took stock of the situation. As polling ended at 5 p.m. without any untoward incident, the polling staff transported the ballot boxes to the designated strong-rooms. There are five candidates in the fray in the constituency: Sharanappa Mattur of the Congress, Shashil G. Namoshi of the BJP, Timmayya Purle of the Janata Dal(S), Vatal Nagaraj of the Kannada Chalavali Vatal Paksha and Independent candidate Chandrakanth Singhe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7332-polling-in-north-east-teachers-constituency/article32968099.ece
29 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Gynaecologist Nagaratna selected||A Nagaratna, a gynaecologist & obstetrician, who runs the Geetha Nursing Home at KC Road in Ballari, is among the four people selected for the Rajyotsava Award 2020 in the field of medicine. Apart from running the nursing home with her husband Joshi D. Suyajna, Dr. Nagaratna has been providing shelter and medical care for the old, especially those who are deprived of love and care of their children, for the last two decades. “I am happy that the government considered my service to society and selected me for the Rajyotsava Award in the field of medicine. I am serving society as much as I can. The award has enhanced my responsibility further,” Dr. Nagaratna told reporters after the list of award winners was released on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gynaecologist-nagaratna-selected/article32968103.ece
29 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||KK region neglected in Rajyotsava award list||Writer H.T. Pote has accused the State government of neglecting Kalyana Karnataka region as it did not get a fair share in the Rajyotsava awards, the list of which was announced on Wednesday. Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, Dr. Pote said that 65 persons from various fields were selected from across the State, but Kalyana Karnataka remained ignored as only seven persons from the six districts were selected for the award. Kalyana Karnataka region is historically rich in the field of art, culture, and literature. Kalaburagi district has got scholars who worked on Janapada Sahitya, Dasa Sahitya, and Tatvapadakars, but not a single person from the district has been selected for the 65th Rajyotsava Award, he said. The government has not even considered the names of social activists from the region who fought for oppressed communities and marginalized sections of the society, Dr. Pote alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kk-region-neglected-in-rajyotsava-award-list/article32968119.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corpn. to stop receiving solid waste from outside civic bodies after three months||The council of the Mangaluru City Corporation in its meeting here on Wednesday decided that solid waste from three outside urban local bodies and 15 gram panchayats will not be received at its compost plant at Pachchanady after three months. It decided that solid waste from those civic bodies, including Ullal City Municipality, Bantwal Town Municipality, Kotekar Town Panchayat and 15 gram panchayats, should be accepted at Pachchanady till the next three months only, if those bodies sent segregated waste. The council decided to write to them to pay their solid waste processing fee due to be paid to the corporation for long. Raising the solid waste management issue at the landfill site of the corporation at Pachchanady, Leader of the Opposition Congress Abdul Rauf wanted to know what action had been taken by the corporation against officials who, according to him, were responsible for the garbage slip at the landfill site in August 2019 affecting many families and farmland. Reacting to this, a BJP councillor Sudhir Shetty Kannur said that there was no point in blaming the officials for it as civic bodies located outside Mangaluru have been sending their garbage to Pachchanady for a decade thus, contributing for the increase in garbage at the landfill site. This arrangement should be controlled, he added. Mr. Shetty said that as those civic bodies received grants from the government, they should make their own arrangements for processing solid waste generated in their jurisdiction. They should be responsible for disposing of waste generated by them. Seeking a total ban on solid waste being received at Pachchanady from outside civic bodies, the former Mayor and Congress councillor M. Shashidhar Hegde urged the council to pass a resolution. Mr. Rauf urged Mayor Diwakar to give a ruling banning receiving solid waste from outside. The Mayor and Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar said that the corporation cannot impose a total ban with immediate effect. Those bodies should be given some time, at least three months, to make alternative arrangements to process their waste. Till then, only segregated waste should be accepted at Pachchanady. The corporation Commissioner told the council that in the case of garbage slip, the High Court of Karnataka has not passed any order to initiate action against officials on the ground that they were responsible for it. It has asked the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to reply in the matter, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corpn-to-stop-receiving-solid-waste-from-outside-civic-bodies-after-three-months/article32968774.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Deliberations on current issues mark District Youth Parliament||Heated discussions on prevalent issues, strong rebuttals, House procedures and deliberations marked the Dakshina Kannada District Youth Parliament held on the virtual platform on Wednesday. The Union government’s Nehru Yuva Kendra, Mangaluru, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and UN Volunteers India organised the event. The Centre for Integrated Learning, a non-governmental organisation, was the technical partner. Inaugurating the event, Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra asked the students to utilise such opportunities to groom themselves into better citizens. Such activities will go a long way in inculcating and realising the roles and responsibilities of individuals in safeguarding the secular and democratic fabric of the Constitution, he said. State Director of Nehru Yuva Kendra Sanghatan (NYKS) Atul J. Nikam said that the Youth Parliament is a structured simulation for educating students on the functioning of the parliamentary system of democracy. It makes the youth realise their roles and responsibilities as citizens of a democracy, he said. Speaking on the occasion, Debjani Samantaray, National Project Manager for Strengthening NYKS and National Service Scheme (NSS), which is a Joint Project of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, UNV and UNDP, said that such platforms provided an opportunity to channelise the energy and enthusiasm of the youth for positive purposes. Convener of Centre for Integrated Learning Srinivasan Nandagopal highlighted the process of the conduct of the Youth Parliament, while the District Youth Coordinator, Nehru Yuva Kendra, Mangaluru, Raghuveer Souterpete, conducted the virtual inauguration of the event. Chief Executive Officer of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Selvamani R. was present, according to a release from the Nehru Yuva Kendra, Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deliberations-on-current-issues-mark-district-youth-parliament/article32968779.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Corruption is akin to indulging in anti-national activities’||Comparing corruption to indulging in anti-national activities, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Wednesday asked government employees to be introspective imagining them in the place of the common man while discharging their duty. Such an introspection or experiences of harassment at government offices before one joined the government service should guide government servants to deliver service without expecting anything in return, Dr. Rajendra said, speaking at the Vigilance Awareness Week observation at his office. The Vigilance Awareness Week with the theme “Vigilant India-Prosperous India” is being organised by the administration in association with the District Legal Services Authority and the Bar Association, Mangaluru. The Deputy Commissioner said that government servants should ensure that all government schemes reach the targetted groups without there being any corruption. Leading a life of honesty would inspire hundreds of people, he told officers and employees urging them to discharge their duties without expecting any favour. Dr. Rajendra also cautioned government servants stringent action would be initiated if any lapses in their working was found. Senior Civil Judge and District Legal Service Authority’s member secretary A.G. Shilpa said that every government servant should also create legal awareness besides following the law of the land. Demanding and accepting bribe, accepting favours in other forms, misusing public office, etc., were offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, she said. General public may complain to the Anti Corruption Bureau in Mangaluru on Ph: 0824-2483000, ACB Inspector of Police on Ph: 9480806291 or the Superintendent of Police on Ph: 9480806231, she said. Konkan Railway Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. commenced observing the Vigilance Week on Tuesday at its corporate office in Navi Mumbai and at all establishments across its network. Employees were administered the vigilance pledge virtually. Reiterating the Central Vigilance Commission’s call, KRCL urged people to actively work towards promotion of integrity in all aspects of life for the progress of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corruption-is-akin-to-indulging-in-anti-national-activities/article32968789.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||51 apartments, 3,500 houses in city start converting wet waste into compost||As many as 51 apartments and 3,500 houses in the city have begun making compost from wet waste now, according to Environment Engineer of the Mangaluru City Corporation Madhu S. Manohar. He told the council meeting of the corporation here on Wednesday that the civic body has begun receiving applications from some of them seeking rebate in the solid waste management cess being collected while they paid property tax. Short of vehicles Replying to questions from councillors, he said that Antony Waste Handling Cell Pvt. Ltd., which is handling solid waste for the corporation as its contractor, has deployed 18 compactors (large vehicles) against the requirement of 23 vehicles as per the terms of the contract for transporting solid waste to the compost plant of the corporation at Pachchanady. The contractor is short of seven small vehicles against the requirement of 84 such vehicles to transport waste from the doorsteps of houses and other establishments. Mayor Diwakar had at a meeting here on Tuesday instructed the contractor to meet the shortage of vehicles within two days by outsourcing them. If the company failed to do it, the corporation should arrange for those vehicles and deduct the rental amount for hiring those vehicles from the account of the contractor, he had said. Dry waste Naveen R. Souza, a councillor from the Congress, urged the corporation to collect dry waste daily along with wet waste. As the civic body is now collecting dry waste once in a week, that is, on Fridays, dry waste is piling up in large apartments, he said. He suggested that the corporation opt for decentralised waste processing by installing organic waste converters in identified places for composting wet waste.  Smart City projects Referring to Smart City Mission projects, Whip in the council Premananda Shetty said that Mangaluru Smart City Project Ltd. should place the additional project proposals before the council for a discussion and approval before placing them before the company’s decision-making committees for approval. Mr. Diwakar said that a special meeting will be called to discuss the Smart City projects. Earlier, the ruling and the opposition party councillors had a heated exchange of words over matters relating to protocols for inviting elected representatives to various programmes organised by the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/51-apartments-3500-houses-in-city-start-converting-wet-waste-into-compost/article32968775.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Civic action committee members stage dharna||The Nagarika Horata Kriya Samiti staged a dharna in front of the Guthigar Gram Panchayat in Sullia taluk in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday seeking immediate repair and asphlating of the six kilometre Balpa-Guthigar link road which connected Kukke Subrahmanya-Puttur Road with Kukke Subrahmanya-Sullia Road. In a memorandum submitted to the Panchayat Development Officer of Guthigar Gram Panchayat, the samiti said that Balpa-Guthigar link road has not been asphalted for years now. People have been putting up with the poor condition of the road which has potholes, craters and worn-out stretches. People have been using this road with great difficulty. The samiti said that people in Mogra, Ballakka and Kamila areas have been deprived of infrastructure due to connectivity issues. A rivulet connecting Mogra with Kamila required a bridge. Though it is a long pending demand of the people, elected representatives and the government have not responded positively. About 150 families in Mogra and Kamila lose connectivity with the mainland, especially during the rainy season, due to the absence of a bridge on the Mogra rivulet. A water supply tank in Ballakka required repairs, the samiti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-action-committee-members-stage-dharna/article32968790.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gold seized at airport, passenger arrested||Customs officials at the international airport here have arrested a passenger and seized from him 634 grams of gold valued at Rs. 32.96 lakh. A communique from Mangaluru Customs said here on Wednesday that the passenger, Abubakar Siddique from Dakshina Kannada, was arrested on October 26. He had arrived from Dubai on a SpiceJet flight SG 146 earlier on the same day. The passenger had concealed gold in powder form in his body, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-seized-at-airport-passenger-arrested/article32968773.ece
29 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Painting exhibition||Art Kanara Trust in association with Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Mangaluru Chapter, has arranged an exhibition of paintings by Mangaluru-based artist Santhosh Andrade at Kodial Guthu Mane from October 31 to November 8. The former MLC Ganesh Karnik would inaugurate the exhibition at 5 p.m. on October 31 in the presence of Sabrina Hougaard, art patron, and Sharath Punja, architect. The exhibition will remain open to viewers between 11 a.m. and 7 p.m. till November 8, said a release. The exhibition will showcase a broad range of recent works painted on canvas, terracotta and wood by Mr. Andrade, a winner of this year’s ORA-Mojarto National Art Contest. The works draw inspiration from Indian folk and traditional arts, displaying the artist’s homage to small-town life and the inevitable growth of urbanisation. Born and raised in Mangaluru, Mr. Andrade completed his Bachelor of Fine Arts (Painting) in 2011 from Srujana College of Fine Arts, Dharwad, and has a diploma in Applied Arts from the Mahalasa School of Art, Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/painting-exhibition/article32968770.ece
29 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Marked decline in COVID-19 deaths in State during Oct.||As the number of daily new positive cases and Test Positivity Rate (TPR) witnessed a marked dip in the State, a perceptible decline has also been noticed in the number of COVID-19 deaths during October in comparison to August and September. While 3,388 and 3,162 people died of COVID-19 during August and September, respectively, the number had come down substantially during October. Till October 27, the total number of deaths during the month in the State was 2,127. “We are almost towards the end of October and the number of deaths due to COVID-19 suggests that they are a good one-third less than the numbers recorded during the preceding months of August and September,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Jeevan Raksha, an initiative by Proxima, a management consulting firm, with technical support and guidance of Public Health Foundation of India, which is studying COVID-19 trends in the country. The steep decline in rate of mortality, however, had been preceded by weeks of increased testing and high case load, he pointed out. The period between September 1 and October 27 witnessed Karnataka carrying out a massive 46,18,387 tests or about 61% of its total 75,14,194 tests. This also led to the State adding 57.5% of its total positive cases which went up by 4,67,215 from 3,42,423 cases on August 31 to 8,09,638 cases on October 27. The number of deaths due to COVID-19 in Karnataka, which stood at 2,314 on July 31, went up to 10,991 on October 27. Out of the 8,677 deaths since August 1, August and September accounted for 3,388 and 3,162 deaths, respectively, while the October (till 27) saw 2,083 deaths. Mr. Sanjeev said the substantial decline in number of deaths can be attributed to high testing, early detection, and early treatment. “This seems to be the result of ramping up testing from average 41,000 tests per day in September to 76,000 per day in October. This also reflects the improved quality of containment management,” he said. However, he cautioned against allowing the Moving Growth Rate (MGR) of testing to drop. Instead, it should propel the testing in November to at least an average 1.5 lakh tests per day, he suggested. “This will enable the State to identify the infected patients when the spread of virus is still mild, which will result in further reduction in monthly average number of deaths in coming months,” he said. The decline in mortality in the State comes as the number of daily new COVID-19 cases in India falls from a high of 97,860 on September 16 to 36,838 on October 26 while in Karnataka, which was recording about 10,000 to 11,000 cases per day earlier this month, reported only 3,691 on October 27. Munish Moudgil, who heads the State COVID-19 War Room, said that the number of new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka had come down due to high testing. He attributed the reduction in daily new cases and rate of positivity to be a natural consequence of high daily testing. High daily testing, particularly RT-PCR testing, holds the key to identify, control and reduce COVID-19, he said in a statement while contending that the approach towards high daily testing should continue even when the daily new cases and the rate of positivity fall to prevent a second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marked-decline-in-covid-19-deaths-in-state-during-oct/article32968114.ece
29 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Unbridled promotion of ecotourism fraught with danger to wildlife||The Forest Department’s volte-face on creating a new tourism zone with safari facilities at the Nugu Wildlife Sanctuary has brought into focus the negative fallout of unbridled promotion of ecotourism around Bandipur. The authorities wanted to create a tourism zone at Nugu but the proposal was “put on hold” as both legal and wildlife-related issues were raised. One of the ostensible objectives for the new zone was to reduce pressure on the Bandipur core area and get tourists towards Nugu, which is in the buffer zone. But it was argued that instead of reducing pressure the proposed move would open the floodgates and even Nugu would be saturated with tourists. Two national highways [NH 766 and NH 67] cut through the Bandipur tiger reserve and, hence, it is accessible from Mysuru, Ooty, and Wayanad, three popular tourist destinations. Dormitories and cottages, which can accommodate about 80 to 100 people, are always full. But the people for daily safaris [from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 3.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m.] tend to be more. During the peak season and weekends, hundreds of tourists drive down as walk-in customers preferring only a safari ride, and the footfall surpasses the carrying capacity of the tiger reserve. Wildlife activists have said it is not about the safari alone but the long-term consequences of such activities that have a bearing on the wildlife habitat, which is discomforting. Given Bandipur’s popularity, the vehicle density on the two highways cutting through the tiger reserve is already an area of concern. It has led to road kills forcing the district administration to notify a ban on night traffic through the forest. “This apart, there is a proliferation of private resorts and homestays – especially in and around Mangala, Elchetti, Chikka Elchetti, Hangala Hosahalli, Melukamanahalli, and Maguvinahalli villages and some of them are illegal,” according to the activists. It was only recently that the Chamarajanagar district administration ordered a crackdown on homestays around Bandipur. The department had identified 14 properties constructed in violation of eco-sensitive zone guidelines and wanted their closure. Some of the properties are in the wildlife corridor area and could impede their movement, according to activists keen to get the homestays shut down. But the matter is now before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unbridled-promotion-of-ecotourism-fraught-with-danger-to-wildlife/article32968140.ece
29 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Dasara brought no cheer to Mysuru zoo||The COVID-19 pandemic has left a lasting damage on the tourism industry and the footfall at the Mysuru zoo, the city’s most populardestination, during this year’s Dasara and during the festivities last year clearly illustrate it. In 10 Dasara days last year, the zoo had managed to attract a whopping 1.65 lakh visitors. This year, the number stood at just 20,000, reckoned to be lowest in its recent history. This number is less than what the zoo had drawn on Vijayadashami last year which was 28,386. Dasara is one of the biggest tourism seasons as far as Mysuru is concerned and the footfall continues even after the season is over. The tourists’ inflow continues almost till the end of the year after Dasara, bringing revenue to lakhs of people dependent on the industry. This year, the tourist sites are struggling to get visitors after the lockdown curbs were unlocked, threatening their survival, including that of Mysuru zoo whose revenue at one point of time turned zero. If the statistics of the last four years were noticed, the number of visitors during 10 days of Dasara had been on the rise every year, increasing the income. Footfall is key for the zoo’s maintenance since it does not get any grant from the government. The gate collection is the only source of income for looking after the well-being of animals, feeding costs and staff salaries. In 2017 Dasara, the zoo attracted 1.23 lakh visitors which increased to 1.53 lakh and further rose to 1.65 lakh in 2019 Dasara. Last year, Rs. 1.59 crore revenue was earned in a span of 10 days. It was Rs. 1.05 crore in 2018 and Rs. 69.17 lakh in 2017. But this year, the revenue earned was only Rs. 19.56 lakh in 10 days, considered the lowest in recent history. Post-COVID-19, the zoo had managed to get between 2,000 and 3000 visitors on weekends and around 1,500 visitors on weekdays since last month. The highest single-day visitors to the zoo since the pandemic this year was 7,264 which was achieved on Vijayadashami. On the day of Ayudha Puja this year, 3,534 people visited the zoo. The single-day revenue on Vijayadashami Day this year was Rs. 7.33 lakh and Rs. 3.05 lakh on the day of Ayudha Puja, said Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni. There were times when the zoo could earn Rs. 30 lakh in a single day in the form of gate collection. But, the pandemic devastated the tourism sector and the stakeholders continue to suffer losses, hoping for revival, if not this year, at least from next year, assuming the vaccine arrives early next year. The number of visitors on Ayudha Puja day in the last four years is: 15,499 in 2017; 22,398 in 2018; 30,273 in 2019; and 3,534 in 2020. On Vijayadashami day, the footfall was 31,722 in 2017, 32,301 in 2018, 28,386 in 2019 and 7,264 in 2020. Last year, the zoo earned Rs. 29.77 lakh from gate collection on the day of Ayudha Puja and Rs. 28.28 lakh on the day of Vijayadashami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dasara-brought-no-cheer-to-mysuru-zoo/article32968284.ece
29 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Polling peaceful in Yadgir, Raichur||Polling in the elections to the Karnataka North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council in Yadgir and Raichur districts was peaceful on Wednesday. The district administrations in the two districts had taken all precautions in conducting polling in view of the COVID-19 situation. According to information, a total of seven booths had been established in Yadgir district enabling voters to exercise franchise. As many as 1,600 (1,238 men and 362 women) voters of the total of 1,961 (1,446 men and 515 women) in Yadgir district cast their votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/polling-peaceful-in-yadgir-raichur/article32968106.ece
29 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Researcher Akki named for award||Senior artist, researcher and writer Devindrappa Nabhiraj Akki has been nominated for the Rajyotsva Award 2020 by the State government. Mr. Akki, born in a middle class family, completed his Diploma in Art and was initially appointed as art teacher in a government school. He started research on ancient, historical monuments five decades ago. He has written 25 books and has published many on his research. Expressing happiness, Mr. Akki said that the award should go to all Kannadigas who have supported his research and art works over five decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/researcher-akki-named-for-award/article32968108.ece
29 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Declare Gurmitkal as flood-hit taluk: JD(S) MLA||Nagangowda Kandkur, JD(S) MLA for Gurmitkal, has urged the State government to declare Gurmitkal as a flood-hit taluk. In a release here on Wednesday, he alleged that all five taluks of Yadgir, Shahpur, Shorapur, Wadagera, and Hunsagi have been declared as flood-hit taluks. Gurmitkal has received the highest rain and crops on several thousand acres have been destroyed. However, the State government has not considered the taluk and left it out of the list of other taluks from Yadgir district which have been declared as flood hit, he said. Heavy rainfall A total of 45,108 hectares have been sown during the kharif season. The taluk received 295 mm rainfall during the kariff which is 88% higher than the average of 157 mm. The government has neglected Gurmitkal taluk when it declared 130 taluks and 43 taluks as flood hit during August and September respectively. “I wrote to the Chief Minister and Revenue Minister highlighting the grievances of the people who suffered from continuous flooding. But, there was no response from both,” the MLA said. Mr. Kandkur said that he had spoken to the Deputy Commissioner to write to the State government on this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/declare-gurmitkal-as-flood-hit-taluk-jds-mla/article32968122.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Abhimanyu and team head back to their jungle camps||The 5 elephants including Abhimanyu that took part in Mysuru Dasara were accorded a warm send-off from the city to their respective jungle camps on Wednesday. Though 12 elephants take part in Dasara every year, their numbers were reduced as the festival itself was curtailed in view of the pandemic this year. A priest performed the customary puja for the collective welfare of the elephants and their safe return next year after which Abhimanyu and team were fed with sugarcane and jaggery. After the customary farewell, the elephants were herded to their designated truck which transported them to the jungle camps in Nagarahole. For Abhimanyu this was a special occasion as he carried the golden howdah with the idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari for the first time, the mantle having passed on to him from his predecessor Arjuna. The four elephants that accompanied Abhimanyu included Vikrama, Gopi, Vijaya and Kaveri. However, the usual crowd of tourists and the local people who would congregate to see off the elephants every year, was missing this year. The imperatives of maintaining social distancing, the restriction on entry to the palace – where the elephants had camped for nearly a fortnight in the run-up to Dasara – and the fear of the coronavirus, ensured that people stayed away from the event. The elephants were brought from Veeranahosahalli on the outskirts of Nagarahole to Mysuru on October 2. Senior Forest Department officials were present on the occasion. On Tuesday, the mahouts and their assistants were given a reception by the local authorities for their role in Dasara and presented with a cheque in appreciation of their services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abhimanyu-and-team-head-back-to-their-jungle-camps/article32968281.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Concern over growing sale of smuggled cigarettes in India||On the occasion of World Tobacco Growers’ Day, the Federation of All India Farmers Associations (FAIFA) has voiced concern over the rapidly rising sale of smuggled cigarettes in country. FAIFA organised gatherings of farmers in various tobacco growing locations of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday and appealed to the government to immediately impose strict regulations to curb the growing illicit cigarette market, which was hurting the interests of tobacco farmers in the country. In a statement here, FAIFA President Javare Gowda said India has now become the fourth largest and fastest growing illegal cigarette market in the world with sale of the illicit cigarettes more than doubling from 13.5 billion sticks in 2006 to 28 billion sticks in 2019. “As smuggled cigarettes do not use Indian tobacco, the offtake of tobacco in India for manufacture of legal cigarettes is declining”, he said. The Flue-Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco production in India has declined from 325 million kg in 2014-15 to 2010 million kg in 2019-20, which has forced the tobacco farmers to incur losses of over Rs. 6,000 crore in the last 7 years. The drop in FCV tobacco production in India has been attributed primarily to rising illicit cigarette trade on account of higher and punitive taxation on cigarettes, which has led to a significant drop in sale volumes of legal cigarettes, Mr. Gowda claimed. FAIFA, which is a non-profit organisation representing the cause of farmers and farm workers of commercial crops in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Gujarat, among others, has appealed to the government to include tobacco in the Remission of Duties or Taxes on Export Product (RoDTEP) scheme and encourage exports through aggressive promotion schemes. “The Indian government has removed tobacco export incentives, making India a lesser competitor in the global market, whereas other countries such as Zimbabwe and Malawi are encouraging their tobacco farmers by providing incentives and subsidies”, FAIFA claimed. FAIFA General Secretary Murali Babu regretted that anti-tobacco activists in India were pushing policy makers to take extreme decisions citing Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) without giving due regard to the recommended stance on calibrated approach to cultivation and needs of tobacco farmers. ICAR proposal National spokesperson of FAIFA Yashwanth Chidipothu expressed concern over a proposal by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to dilute the mandate of Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI) and broaden its scope to include other commercial crops. He urged the policy makers to advise the officials of ICAR to drop its proposal to change the nomenclature of CTRI and broaden its mandate to cover other commercial crops. FAIFA Vice-President Gadde Seshagiri Rao pointed out that tobacco provides direct and indirect employment to more than 45.7 million people in the country, 70 per cent of whom are in the agriculture sector. “Tobacco is a highly remunerative crop, providing economic and social benefits to farmers in the tobacco growing regions. Studies conducted by CTRI have shown that there is no other equally remunerative crop in the tobacco growing regions”, he pointed out while making out a case for government’s continued support to FCV tobacco growers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concern-over-growing-sale-of-smuggled-cigarettes-in-india/article32968283.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Honey trap gang of 7 arrested||The Mahadevapura police on Wednesday arrested a gang of seven people for allegedly carrying out honey trap scams and blackmailing their victims. The racket was busted after one of their victims approached the police. In his statement, he said the gang had assaulted him, stolen his valuables and cash, and later blackmailed him. Recommended by friend Among the accused is a couple — Anjali, 31 and her husband, Premnath, 32 — along with five of their associates — Deepak, 26, Tyson, 23, Vind, 43, Prakash and Ishwari, 40. “In his complaint, the victim, Praskah, said he had obtained Anjali’s contact details through a friend when he asked him about an escort service,” said a police officer. Gang barged in Prakash spoke to the woman over the phone, and she gave him an address of a house in Mahadevpura where they could meet on October 22. However, during the meeting, a group of men barged into the house. “One of them was Premnath, who after identifying himself as Anjali’s husband started physically assaulting Prakash,” the police officer added. The others, who had accompanied Prakash, identified themselves as relatives, barring Vinod who claimed he was a member of a human rights organisation and threatened to lodge a complaint against Prakash.  The gang blackmailed and tortured him before robbing his gold chain bracelet and Rs. 25,000 cash. They forced Prakash to confess that he was in a relationship with Anjali, which they recorded on a mobile phone. They finally released him late in the night, and warned him not to discuss the incident with anyone. However, Prakash after talking to his friend, approached the police for help. Acting on his complaint, the police tracked down the gang members to the house where they operate out of and arrested them. The police have seized their mobile phones and verifying whether the accused have cheated and robbed other people using the same modus operandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honey-trap-gang-of-7-arrested/article32968126.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Training for govt. doctors on managing stroke||The State Health Department in association with NIMHANS will start a training programme for government medical officers on managing stroke. The programme will be inaugurated by Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Thursday that marks World Stroke Day. According to a release, the online Continuing Medical Education (CME) will be followed by an interactive session where stroke specialists from NIMHANS will try to understand the challenges faced by government medical officers in recognising and treating stroke in their place of work. Based on this interaction, the department along with NIMHANS will chalk out a continuing training programme to equip doctors in the peripheral hospitals to recognise and treat stroke. “We plan to follow up the programme with an onsite assessment of issues in the peripheral secondary care hospitals. Based on these assessments, we plan to have a 2.5-year-long training programme that would help to develop stroke-care centres in 20 hospitals in Bengaluru and the neighbouring districts. A proposal has been submitted to National Health Mission,” the release said. “The infrastructure will be upgraded to develop these centres as part of a ‘Hub and Spoke’ network cluster in Bengaluru with NIMHANS as a central hub. This would be one of the first comprehensive pre-hospital and post-hospital care pathways for stroke care in India,” the release added.   The online Continuing Medical Education will be followed by an interactive session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-for-govt-doctors-on-managing-stroke/article32968115.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||62 had COVID-related stroke from June to August||“What is also unusual about this disease is the varied immunological manifestations like limp paralysis of arms and legs (Guillian Barre syndrome), facial paralysis with asymmetry, cranial nerve palsies causing double vision, drooping of the eye and muscle involvement (myositis). We have noted quite a few peripheral nerve palsies presenting with foot drop in patients recently affected or recovering from COVID (inability to extend the foot) where the other routine blood work is negative for any connective tissue disease and there is no spinal/peripheral cause of nerve compression,” he said. G.T. Subhas, former president of Bangalore Stroke Support Group and former director of Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute said the common symptoms of stroke can be remembered by Facial Drooping, Arm Weakness, Speech Difficulties and Time to reach a stroke ready hospital abbreviated as FAST. Do not ignore “Both during and post COVID-19, people should not ignore warning signs such as dizziness, sudden weakness in limbs and difficulty in speaking or understanding words. Patients should reach the hospital within three or four hours of the stroke. The earlier the patient is rushed to a hospital, the better the outcome,” he added. Hospitals that were part of the study included St. John’s, Bengaluru Medical College and Research Institute, Manipal Hospitals, Sakra, Apollo, M.S. Ramaiah, Satya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, and Narayana Health.  Both during and post COVID-19, people should not ignore warning signs such as dizziness, sudden weakness in limbs and difficulty in speaking or understanding words. Patients should reach the hospital within three or four hours of the stroke. The earlier the patient is rushed to a hospital, the better the outcome.G.T. SubhasFormer president of Bangalore Stroke Support Group||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/62-had-covid-related-stroke-from-june-to-august/article32968123.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Smart booking||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-booking/article32968534.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Extending support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/extending-support/article32968118.ece
29 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha’s tally up by 790||The district logged 790 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The new cases include 717 patients who contracted the virus through local transmission, 57 who came from other States and four from abroad. The source of infection of another 12 people remains unknown. The district recorded two COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official death toll to 92. Of the 790 cases, 142 were reported from Alappuzha, 73 from Mararikulam South, 54 from Cherthala South and 53 from Cherthala. Meanwhile, 366 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 8,264.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzhas-tally-up-by-790/article32968236.ece
29 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||A bid to keep the verdant hills intact||As you pass through the hill station of Wagamon, you are stopped at a green check-post and women clad in green collect plastic from your vehicle. There are five such green check-posts manned by members of the green army (Haritha Karma Sena) under the Elappara grama panchayat with the aim of making Wagamon plastic-free. Dumping plastic in the area is banned and those violating it is fined. Sindhu, a member of the green army manning the check-post on the main road connecting Upputhara and Wagamon, said that the check-post was manned 24 hours and 30 members took turns for it. “The green check-posts were erected two months ago as part of the efforts launched over a year ago to make Wagamon free of plastic waste,” she said. According to Haritha Keralam Mission district coordinator G.S. Madhu, the project was being implemented in Wagamon in view of its importance as a hill station and the need for protecting its ecological sensitivity. “A campaign was launched against plastic littering initially and then waste bins were set up at main junctions. Finally, the green check-posts were set up,” he said adding that this could be emulated in other tourism destinations in the State. The user fee charged from the travellers is used for maintaining the check-posts and providing salary to the green army members. Sindhu said that since the COVID-19 pandemic, there was a considerable drop in the number of travellers. However, for the past few days, it was picking up. Five in all The five green-check posts are at Elappara town, Vattappathal, Pullikkanam, Vazhikkadavu and Chemmannu. Mr. Madhu said the project, named Vazhikatan Wagamon, aimed at making the hill destination a green corridor. During a visit, Haritha Keralam Mission executive vice chairperson T.N. Seema and team found that most parts of Wagamon were littered with waste, including plastic. Then a meeting was convened with the support of the District Collector and it was decided to erect green check-posts there. Bottle booths In addition, there were bottle booths at Upputhara, Elappara, Wagamon town, Wagamon Tea Junction, Pullikkanam, Mottakkunnu, Parking Ground and Kochu Karuntharuvi. Tourists could deposit their plastic waste in these bottle booths, he added. It was now a new experience for those visiting Wagamon as the verdant hills are retaining their beauty. The famous Pine Valley and Mottakunnu are literally litter-free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-bid-to-keep-the-verdant-hills-intact/article32968224.ece
29 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||KSRTC to lease land to build holiday home||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will lease out 17.5 cents of land at Devikulam for constructing a holiday home. The project will be implemented in public-private partnership (PPP) mode. After 30 years, the building will be completely under the ownership of the KSRTC. Five rooms will be given to KSRTC staff every month at Rs. 100 each. The land which had been encroached upon by a club nearby was returned to the KSRTC recently. The land was used as a depot prior to the formation of the KSRTC and long-haul buses used to be parked there. Later the land was given to the KSRTC. After a new depot was set up at Munnar in 1980, the land remained unutilised. Prior to Munnar becoming the main town, Devikulam was the taluk headquarters and main town. The decision to give the land on lease was taken to provide facilities for tourists visiting Munnar and the KSRTC staff, said a release here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-lease-land-to-build-holiday-home/article32968226.ece
29 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||LSD outbreak puts Wayanad dairy farmers in a fix||An outbreak of lumpy skin disease (LSD), a viral disease causing chronic debility, reduced milk production, poor growth, lack of appetite, infertility, and abortion among cattle is a major concern among dairy farmers in Wayanad, one of the largest milk producing districts in the State. Dairy farming was the sole income for Janaki of Idichil, a tribal farmer at Cherukara in Vellamunda in the district. Ms. Janaki had been selling an average of 48 litres of milk a day to a milk cooperative at Vellamunda. When symptoms of the skin disease appeared on a cow on October 11, she informed the veterinary surgeon. Though a team of veterinarians collected samples from the animal and send them to the State Institute of Animal Disease, Thiruvananthapuram, for further studies, the disease is yet to be brought under control, Ms. Janaki said. Now, the disease has spread to six of her cows, and the sole income for the seven-member family from dairy business has stopped abruptly. “I have no idea how to feed my cattle,” Ms. Janaki said. This is the condition of several farmers in the district who have been engaged in dairy farming after the massive destruction of cash crops like pepper, ginger, and arecanut. LSD has been fast spreading in the district, and the disease has affected around 120 cows in 10 grama panchayats in the district so far. When the disease was first reported at Ambalavayal and Kaniyampetta grama panchayats in August, the outbreak was contained temporarily after a vaccination drive, P.R. Sudheer Kumar, District Chief Veterinary Officer, told The Hindu . The poor availability of the vaccine is the major concern of veterinarians. “Though we had ordered for 5,000 doses of the vaccine recently, we got only 3,000 doses three days ago,” Dr. Sudheer Kumar, who is also the coordinator of the district animal disease control project, said. As many as 2,500 doses of the vaccine were disbursed to veterinary clinics in major affected areas including Vellamunda, Thavinhal, Edavaka, Thirunelly, and Mananthavady on Tuesday itself, Dr. Sudheer Kumar said, adding that the remaining quantity would be supplied to other affected areas soon. Farmers are advised to keep animals suffering from LSD in isolation, as the virus may by spread by flies and mosquitoes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lsd-outbreak-puts-wayanad-dairy-farmers-in-a-fix/article32968150.ece
29 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||LDF completes seat-sharing||As part of preparations for the upcoming local body polls, the LDF has completed its seat-sharing process for the Kannur district panchayat. Of the 24 constituencies, the CPI(M) will contest in 15, while the CPI will contest in three, and rest, including Kerala Congress (M), Loktantrik Janata Dal, Nationalist Congress Party, Indian National League, Janata Dal (S), and Congress (S), will contest in one seat each. CPI(M) candidates will contest in Karivellur, Thillankeri, Patyam, Panniyannur, Kathirur, Pinarayi, Vengadu, Chembilode, Mayyil, Azhikode, Kalyassery, Cherukunnu, Kunhimangalam, Pariyaram, and Kadannappally, whereas the CPI will contest in Kolayad, Koodali, and Ulikkal. The Kerala Congress (M) will contest from Alakode, Loktantrik Janata Dal from Kolavallur, NCP from Peravoor, INL from Kolachery, Janata Dal (S) from Payyavoor, and the Congress (S) from Naduvil. Election committees will be formed by November 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-completes-seat-sharing/article32968160.ece
29 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||When overbridges in Kochi tell a sorry tale||The shoddy condition of the Harbour Bridge that links Thoppumpady and Willingdon Island, and the Venduruthy Bridge that links Thevara with the island are causing much inconvenience to motorists, especially residents of West Kochi who commute to the city and back. Personnel attached to the Southern Naval Command, Cochin Port Trust employees and tourists visiting heritage zones in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry too are similarly inconvenienced since the PWD Bridges Wing has not initiated damage-control measures over Venduruthy Bridge which was commissioned in 2011. This has resulted in concrete chunks wearing off from the surface of the bridge. The structure was not tar-coated, purportedly to prevent potholes developing on the tarred surface. Inadequate lighting over the bridge makes matters worse, posing considerable risk, especially to two-wheeler riders. Interestingly, the old Venduruthy Bridge built by the British in 1938 remained intact and was used by all types of vehicles till 2011 although a dredger deployed by the Cochin Port Trust lost control and rammed it in two separate incidents that took place a decade and a half ago. The Harbour Bridge, considered an engineering marvel, was built during the British era in the 1930s, and was used by even buses and lorries till 2001 when the Mattancherry BOT Bridge was commissioned. PWD sources said that efforts were on to repair gaping potholes that dotted the bridge surface, especially in and around the central span. The bridge developed potholes although it was being used only by light vehicles, proving that repair and reinforcement works done by PWD a couple of years ago was of little use. The BOT Bridge, now being used by heavy and even smaller vehicles, too is crying for upkeep and resurfacing. ‘Worst of times’ The deteriorating condition of the two bridges that link the city with West Kochi prompted former Mayor K.J. Sohan to recite Charles Dickens, who inA Tale of Two Citiessaid: “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times.” “It is the worst of times for bridges in Kochi, as has been proven by the plight of Palarivattom flyover which is being dismantled for reconstruction. Commuters are having a harrowing time over almost all bridges in Kochi due to potholes and undulations. This shows that the PWD and other agencies did a shoddy job while constructing them. Officials of these agencies must take a cue from bridges built during the British era, which braved the elements and intense traffic for about a century. The condition of the Venduruthy Bridge needs special attention since it is only nine years old. Commuters do not have an alternative since the old bridge is closed for traffic.” Pedestrian zone mooted A heritage enthusiast, Mr. Sohan said that the old bridge must be put to good use, by renovating it as a pedestrian zone. It is also a vantage point for angling. “The CSR funds of corporate firms can well be used for this. I had sent a letter to the British Council a few years ago, suggesting that expert help be made available to conserve the structure. The Harbour Bridge can become yet another heritage attraction, if a lift or spiral stairway is constructed on its steel vertical frame at the centre, for people to have a bird’s eye view of landmarks in the area using a pair of binoculars. It will especially be of interest for children and youth.” PWD sources said instructions had been given to regional officials to carry out repair works. Kundannoor bridge Yet another bridge that links the city with Willingdon Island, the two-km-long Kundannoor Bridge, too offers a gruelling ride to motorists due to severe undulations that dot its surface. The PWD (NH wing) is under fire for slack upkeep of the structure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-overbridges-in-kochi-tell-a-sorry-tale/article32968699.ece
29 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police await permission to conduct polygraph test on murder suspects||More than five months after a highly decomposed body was found in the chimney of a plywood company at Pattimattom near Perumbavoor, the Ernakulam Rural police have zeroed in on two suspects. The body was found on May 23 when workers mounted the chimney to clean it, prior to reopening the firm after the lockdown. As soon as they opened the chimney, a hand protruded out, startling the workers, who informed the supervisor, who, in turn, alerted the Kunnathunadu police. Going by the state of decomposition, the police suspected that the body had been up there for more than a month. Since then, the police have reached the conclusion that the victim was probably a 22-year-old man from Assam who was employed at the plywood company. Two of his colleagues have been identified as suspects. DNA samples “We are awaiting court permission for conducting a polygraph test on the suspects. We had also summoned the victim’s brother from Assam and collected his DNA samples to confirm the identity conclusively,” said Inspector V.T. Shajan. The police have since changed the case from unnatural death to murder, considering circumstantial evidences. About 80 migrant workers of the firm were stopped from returning home, and the suspects were identified based on the contradictions in their statements. The victim had joined the firm only three months before his death. The body was cremated after collecting samples, which were sent to the forensic lab in Thiruvananthapuram for DNA profiling. The police had been groping in the dark for prolonged periods with no conclusive leads in the case. There was no CCTV installed at the plywood company and no man missing complaints matching the profile of the victim were reported from the rural police limits before or after the body was found.  Case diary Body found at plywood company on May 23 when workers mounted chimney to clean it Police have concluded that victim was a 22-year-old man from Assam employed at the firm His colleagues were identified as suspects based on contradictions in their statements||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-await-permission-to-conduct-polygraph-test-on-murder-suspects/article32968697.ece
29 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||COVID positive pregnant women at high risk, say health officials||While over 380 pregnant women have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district so far, most of them were asymptomatic, though they remain at high risk, according to health officials. So far, 387 pregnant women have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. Of them, around 180 cases are still active, and the others have recovered, said Dr. Sivadas M. G., Reproductive and Child Health Officer. Most pregnant women have been asymptomatic, he pointed out. Two deaths of COVID-19 positive pregnant women were reported in the district and both were attributed to pneumonia, he said. “Since their immunity is low, chances are high that the virus might replicate more vociferously, and lead to a more severe form of the infection in some cases,” he said. A 29-year-old from Thiruvananthapuram was in the fifth month of her pregnancy when she tested positive for the virus in Ernakulam in July. She was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital and spent 23 days, including a few in the ICU, recovering. “Her oxygen saturation levels were low and her condition was complicated by an existing heart condition. She delivered a healthy baby a few days ago,” her husband said. They suspect that both of them had contracted the infection from another hospital in Thiruvananthapuram that they had visited for a check-up, he said. Susceptible to infections Immunologically, pregnant women are susceptible to infections, not just from the coronavirus, placing them at high risk, said Dr. Prathibha Chandrasekharan, gynaecologist at the Ernakulam General Hospital. The number of women seeking antenatal check-ups at the hospital had fallen to about one-third of pre-COVID-19 figures, she said. But that does not mean that they were not getting their check-ups, she added. “It is possible that they chose to visit smaller clinics or health centres closer to their homes, rather than visit a crowded hospital. ASHA workers have also consistently been monitoring the health of pregnant women in their areas,” she said. Women who visit the hospital have been asked to wear masks inside their homes and strictly follow physical distancing and hand hygiene protocol, she said. A first-line treatment centre for pregnant women was set up on the SCMS College premises at Muttom. Most women choose to remain at home now, but the 80-bed FLTC is available for women who might not have the facilities to remain in isolation at home, Dr. Sivadas said. Around 45 beds at the FLTC are occupied. If they develop symptoms, they are immediately transferred to the MCH, he added. In the early phase of the pandemic, complications in pregnant women were few, but now more women were reporting complications including pneumonia, said Dr. Shobha Pillai, gynaecologist and associate professor at the MCH.  A challenge Dr. A. Fathahudeen, nodal officer for COVID-19 treatment at the MCH, said that they had seen about three severe cases of the infection in pregnant women. The impact of antivirals like remdesivir on the foetus was not yet clear and such medication, which is given to seriously ill COVID patients, is usually avoided while treating pregnant women, he said. In a more recent case at the hospital, a woman in an advanced stage of pregnancy and with very low oxygen saturation was delivered of a healthy baby via C-section to give her a better shot at fighting the disease with the antivirals, he said. In women who are in the early stages of pregnancy, CT-scans and X-ray imaging are usually avoided, which is another challenge while treating pregnant women with COVID, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-positive-pregnant-women-at-high-risk-say-health-officials/article32968700.ece
29 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval Ship Repair Yard inks deal with CDIIC||A memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the Naval Ship Repair Yard (NSRY), Kochi, and Codissia (Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association) Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre (CDIIC) was signed in Coimbatore on Wednesday. The MoU will foster cohesive involvement of both parties and help in solving problems projected by NSRY, harnessing the Union government’s Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) to encourage innovation and technology development, according to a press release from the Navy. Rear Admiral Deepak Bansal, Admiral Superintendent NSRY (Kochi), and CDIIC Director V. Sundaram signed the MoU on Wednesday. The MoU allows NSRY to use world-class facilities of MSMEs based in Coimbatore for hardware development, material testing and analysis and obsolescence mitigation programmes in respect of legacy equipment. The yard would be exposed to new manufacturing techniques, industrial safety and quality assurance which are being pursued by modern MSMEs, according to the release. Codissia comprises more than 2,000 MSMEs and was established with an aim to promote small scale industries in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-ship-repair-yard-inks-deal-with-cdiic/article32968694.ece
29 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rehabilitation of Konthuruthy residents remains unclear||While Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has been tasked with restoration of the Konthuruthy river as part of its Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) Project, the rehabilitation of the people in the area remains unclear, according to local residents. The rehabilitation of people likely to be displaced by KMRL’s restoration of five other canals, the Perandoor, Edappally, Chilavannoor, Thevara and Market canals, will be done at Kakkanad, where a 225-unit housing facility is being planned. But there was no clarity yet about the rehabilitation of residents around the Konthuruthy river, which was recently added to KMRL’s project, said Siju P.B., a resident. “People here have been requesting rehabilitation in the area around Thevara, and are anxious about a rehabilitation project in Kakkanad, far from their sources of livelihood,” he said. “As per a High Court order, the river is to be restored to its original width of 48 m, which will displace about 129 families in the area. Rehabilitation in Kakkanad will not be feasible considering most residents work in the area around the Thevara market,” said Mr. Siju. In March, COVID-19-related restrictions had put an abrupt stop to the protest of the people in the area against eviction without proper rehabilitation. While inaugurating the Champakkara bridge, the Chief Minister had said that the Konthuruthy river would also be restored by KMRL, in addition to the other five canals that were initially part of their project, said MLA T. J. Vinod. At a meeting held last week with the Sub Collector, local councillors, the tahsildar, the Mayor, Survey Department officials and Ernakulam MP, it was suggested that rehabilitation should be sought nearby, he said.  As per a High Court order, the river is to be restored to its original width of 48 m, which will displace about 129 families in the area Siju P.B. Resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-clarity-yet-on-rehabilitation-of-konthuruthy-residents/article32968691.ece
29 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Corpn. e-governance project fails to take off||Nearly ten years after it was conceived, the Kochi Corporation’s e-governance project has fallen flat, despite steps taken to pull it back onto its feet a few months ago. In June, the corporation had passed an agenda to hand the entire project over to the Information Kerala Mission (IKM). “But nearly four months later, a status report on the existing system and the work that is left to be done has not yet been submitted to IKM,” said Mayor Soumini Jain. The report was to have been submitted by the Corporation Secretary, she said. After the then Secretary went into quarantine, another official was given additional charge. The corporation’s Deputy Secretary has recently taken charge as the secretary. Since a lot of data that was stored on a rudimentary e-governance system set up by TCS earlier would have to be transferred to the IKM software, existing work would have to be quantified first, the Mayor said. The few modules that TCS had made functional were operational now. Opposition councillors had merely raised a hue and cry a few months ago asking for a shift to IKM without any real substance to their argument, she said. Councillor’s take “Tax payments and submission of applications, however, are still to be done at the corporation office itself,” said K.V.P. Krishnakumar, councillor representing Ernakulam South. Last month saw crowds at the office counters to complete payments before September 30, he said. In the wake of COVID-19 restrictions, the Janasevana Kendram was shifted from the office premises to the nearby Yathra auditorium. “The council’s term has nearly come to an end, but it has failed to ensure completion of a project that makes services easily available even in panchayats,” said K. J. Antony, Opposition leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-e-governance-project-fails-to-take-off/article32968701.ece
29 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Kuttanad style’ paddy farming in Perumbavoor||The Perumbavoor municipality has brought 20 hectares of fallow land under paddy cultivation, thanks to a 52-year-old roving farmer from Kuttanad. Samuel Mathew, who hails from an agricultural family and owns nearly 40 acres of paddy farms in his native Kuttanad region, has been hopping around local bodies for the last 12 years, undertaking what he describes as the “Kuttanad style” of paddy farming on fallow land. Before launching his initiative in Perumbavoor, he has been to Kattanam, Mavelikkara, and Pathiyoor, all in Alappuzha district. “We have so far arranged 20 hectares of land from owners on a five-year lease for the project being undertaken as part of the fallow land farming scheme being promoted by the State government under the Subiksha Keralam project. The land has been remaining fallow for over two decades,” said Sathi Jayakrishnan, chairperson of Perumbavoor municipality, which has been largely devoid of paddy farming. It is a win-win situation both for the farmer and the landowners. The landowners will get paddy royalty of Rs. 2,000 per hectare and another Rs. 5,000 per hectare for facilitating fallow land farming, both one-time payments. “The farmer will get Rs. 17,000 towards labour charges for each farming season and free seeds of 80 kg per hectare, using the Rs. 10 lakh set apart by the municipality for promoting agriculture. We are planning to increase the extent of land under farming to 50 hectares gradually,” said Valsamma K.P., agriculture field officer, Krishi Bhavan, Perumbavoor. Starting from the third year, the lessee will pay the landowners Rs. 1,500, Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 2,500 per acre annually. Five-year lease “We will deploy the machines and manpower for sowing and harvesting with our takeaway solely being the paddy produced. Often enthused by the output during our five-year term, the landowners take back the land to undertake farming on their own, ignorant about the many challenges involved. Soon they run out of steam and the land ends up fallow again,” said Mr. Mathew. However, there have been instances where the lease period was extended beyond five years. Mr. Mathew is keeping his fingers crossed about the output from Perumbavoor municipality during the harvest season scheduled for early next year, citing how the soil is not as fertile as in Kuttanad and has greater sand content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-roving-farmer-brings-paddy-farming-to-perumbavoor/article32968696.ece
29 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Androth islanders on the warpath||People of Androth, an island having the maximum number of residents in Lakshadweep, have warned of intensifying their agitation demanding berthing of Kochi-Lakshadweep ships at the terminal there. Residents and representatives of different political parties have jointly launched a dharna under the banner of Androth Ship Berthing Action Council raising the demand. Komalam Koya, a member of the council, said that the island was home to around 17,000 native people, while there was a floating population of around 3,000 people. “This makes it the most populated of the 10 islands that constitute Lakshadweep, accommodating around 25% of the population of the isles put together. Ships from the mainland are not berthing at the terminal here for the past one year, citing inadequate depth. This is contrary to facts,” he said. “There were also efforts to make Androth a transportation hub, since the terminal has well over the minimum 4.90-m depth needed to berth ships. Some places have up to 11-m depth. But ships are avoiding the locale. This results in passengers from the isle being forced to board fishing vessels to embark and alight ships. The ongoing agitation is aimed at prevailing on Lakshadweep Development Corporation Ltd. (LDCL) and other agencies concerned to pro-actively intervene in the issue,” Mr. Koya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/androth-islanders-on-the-warpath/article32968692.ece
29 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Various organisations oppose reservation||A meeting of various organisations, inaugurated by Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty here on Tuesday, said political fronts in the State should express their opinion clearly on the 10% reservation for economically backward groups within the general category. It was said at the meeting that there were litigations against the proposed Constitutional amendment to provide reservation for economically disadvantaged persons and a decision on reservations should not be brought into effect until the court verdict was issued. Akhila Kerala Dheevara Sabha general secretary V. Dinakaran, Communist Marxist Party (CMP) leader C.P. John, social activist Sunny M. Kapikkad, Kerala Latin Catholic Association (KLCA) leader Sherry Thomas and Shaji George of Kerala Regional Latin Catholic Council (KRLCC) were among those who participated. Stance decried The stand taken by Muslim organisations on the proposed reservation for the economically backward among the forward communities is unacceptable, said a meeting of various organisations under the aegis of United Christian Organisation. President of the organisation Jacob Thomas said in a statement here on Wednesday that all communities in the country had worked in harmony. He highlighted the contributions made by Christian community in the social and educational renaissance in the State. He said that various communities had supported the move to provide reservation for those who are economically backward among the communities that did not enjoy reservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/various-organisations-oppose-reservation/article32968703.ece
29 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Youth Congress, Yuva Morcha activists arrested||The city police arrested Youth Congress and Yuva Morcha activists who attempted to barge into the Enforcement Directorate office here where former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, M. Sivasankar, was brought for interrogation in connection with the gold smuggling case on Wednesday evening. Though a heavy police posse was deployed around the office, which was barricaded, protesting Youth Congress activists managed to enter the office compound by scaling the wall on the backside. However, they were stopped from entering the office. The police arrested and removed seven Youth Congress and six Yuva Morcha activists from the scene. Later, the Congress took out a protest march from the District Congress Committee office to the Kochi Commissionerate. T.J. Vinod, MLA, inaugurated the march.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-congress-yuva-morcha-activists-arrested/article32968705.ece
29 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||District records highest number of cases in State||With 1,250 people testing positive, Ernakulam recorded the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State on Wednesday. Of them, 994 people contracted the infection through local transmission, 14 people had arrived from outside the State and the source of infection of 235 people could not be traced. Seven health workers were among the infected. Cases of the infection were reported from areas including Thrikkakara, Rayamangalam, Maradu, Kizhakkambalam, Vengola, Nedumbassery, Thripunithura, Kumbalangi, Payipra and Kadamakudy. As many as 633 people tested negative and 30,209 people remain in quarantine. The district’s active case load stands at 12,192. At private hospitals, 693 patients are being treated, and 8,835 people remain in isolation at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-records-highest-number-of-cases-in-state/article32968702.ece
29 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||One arrested on charge of admission fraud||The North police on Wednesday arrested the key accused in a case in which a gang allegedly cheated job aspirants of Rs. 2 lakh by promising them admission to a course in a prominent nursing institution in the city. The arrested was identified as Akhil, 26, of Kottayam. He was employed with a medical transcription firm at Palarivattom. The police said that he masqueraded as a middleman and cheated job aspirants. The nursing institution concerned got wind of the cheating being done using its name and lodged a petition with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested-on-charge-of-admission-fraud/article32968706.ece
29 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||300 acres of fallow land to be cultivated||A newly formed ‘Farmers’ Club’ will help bring about 300 acres of land in Panayikkulam, near Aluva, which has been lying fallow for more than 30 years, under cultivation. The Karichal paddy collective ( paada sekharam ) is under the ownership of more than 50 farmers, who have not been able to raise crops in the field for the last several decades. Paddy was not cultivated because it was not profitable to do so for various reasons, ranging from high labour cost to lack of availability of workers. However, a group of farmers with the help of the Cooperative Farmers Bank at Kongorpilly and the Krishi Bhavan has decided to bring around 100 acres under paddy cultivation in the initial stage. Work on planting paddy in the remaining 200 acres is also being taken up. The area was known as the source of rice and centre of paddy cultivation in the past. With the migration of people to other places, paddy cultivation was abandoned to a large extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/300-acres-of-fallow-land-to-be-brought-under-farming/article32968149.ece
29 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||At 935, another surge in Kollam||The district reported another surge in caseload on Wednesday with 935 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the patients are 923 contact cases, four persons with no known source, five health workers, one NRI and two persons who had travelled from other States. While the number of recoveries is 459, cases with no known source have been reported from Chathannur, Kadappakada, Edamulakkal and Kulakkada. The Health Department also confirmed that the death a 75-year-old Kollam resident is due to COVID-19. The district has 17,946 persons under observation and the number of samples collected is 3,30,480. While 1,497 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 77,917 primary and 7,453 secondary contacts of positive cases. Since more than 85% of the COVID-19 patients in the district are asymptomatic, the Health Department has decided to strengthen sentinel surveillance. “Intensive testing will be done among migrant labourers, truck drivers, bus employees, salespersons and social workers. For this two mobile labs and teams that include trained dental surgeons and nurses will be deployed,” said District Medical Officer. The mobile units will be conducting antigen tests and collecting swabs for RT-PCR and the units can be contacted by dialling 0474-27976009, 8589015556. The department has also urged the public to strictly follow the protocols during the funerals of COVID-19 victims. The family should get in touch with the local body concerned and produce a letter from the medical officer concerned to release the body from the hospital. “Very few persons will be allowed to attend the funeral and arrangements will be made for close relatives to see the face. The body bag should not be opened for any religious ritual and the last rites can be observed maintaining a 2-m distance from the body. All the related rituals should be completed within 20 minutes,” said the DMO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-935-another-surge-in-kollam/article32968239.ece
29 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||KSID starts degree programme in design||The Kerala State Institute of Design (KSID), Chandanathope, a unit of Kerala Academy for Skills Excellence (KASE), has started undergraduate degree programme in design BDes. The total strength of the programme will be 30 students a batch and the duration is four years, comprising eight semesters. After the first two years of mandatory generic foundation programme, the students will have to choose the design discipline. At present, the KSID is offering electives in Product Design, Communication Design, Textile Design and Apparel Design. Out of the 30 seats, 50% is reserved for candidates from Kerala and admissions will be based on reservation as per Kerala State government rules. The KSID has PGDPD programmes in three streams of design, including Integrated Communication Design, Integrated Lifestyle Product Design and Integrated Textile and Apparel Design.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksid-starts-degree-programme-in-design/article32968242.ece
29 October 2020||KOLLAM:,KERALA||Collector’s online adalat||The District Collector’s online public grievances redressal adalat for the residents of Karunagappally taluk will be held on November 9 from 11 a.m. Residents can register their complaints through Akshaya centres at Karunagappally High School Junction, Alappad Cheriyazheekkal, Klappana, Edayanambalam, Kulasekharapuram, Vallikavu, Pamana, Edappallikotta and Chavara till 5 p.m. on November 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collectors-online-adalat/article32968240.ece
29 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Interview for PHC medical officer||The interview for appointing temporary medical officer at the Primary Health Centre (PHC), Kottankara, will be held on October 31. An MBBS degree and Travancore-Cochin Medical Council registration are the qualifications required. Monthly remuneration will be Rs. 40,000. Interested candidates can appear for the interview with original certificates. For more details contact 0474-2710545 or 9497849253.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interview-for-phc-medical-officer/article32968241.ece
29 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Church hits out at UDF’s position||The Syro-Malabar Church on Wednesday launched a scathing attack on the United Democratic Front (UDF) for its ‘ambiguous’ position on the State government’s move to provide reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) among forward communities. In an article titled ‘Why intolerance over economic reservation’, published in Deepika, Archbishop of Changanassery Mar Joseph Perumthottam sought to know whether the UDF system had become so ‘anaemic’ to even register its opinion on the matter. It accused the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) of being communal in opposing economic reservation. Equal justice “Aout 27% of the population in the State belong to non-reservation categories. The move to ensure equal justice to this category has not come too soon and it is so unfortunate to see that a few community organisations are opposing this. There are no reasons whatsoever to think that they have adopted a principled stance on the matter,” it read. UDF’s WPI plans Accusing the UDF of losing control over its legislators, the archbishop also criticised the coalition’s proposed association with the Welfare Party of India (WPI). “It seems this alliance will not be even able to come out with an election manifesto,” he said. The article warned against the tendency among some political organisations of taking some communities for granted. “This land embraces a cross-section of people and the alliances should be able to consider all reasonable demands by different sections. However, the attempts by the coalitions to align with communal forces for votes will only help raise concerns among the other sections,” it noted. The article lauded Left parties and the Bharatiya Janata Party for coming clean on the issue.  Christian bodies Meanwhile, a meeting of various organisations under the aegis of the United Christian Organisation in Kochi on Wednesday said the stand taken by Mulsim organisations on the proposed reservation was unacceptable. Its president Jacob Thoms alleged that the Muslim community had cornered about 80% of the welfare measures for the minorities in the State. The IUML should refrain from activities that appear to provide shelter to religious intolerance. He highlighted the contributions made by the Christian community in the renaissance in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-hits-out-at-udfs-position/article32968254.ece
29 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||594 fresh cases in Kottayam||The district on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day spike in cases with 594 persons testing positive for SARS- CoV-2 here . Of these, all but four persons contracted the virus through local contact . The cases include 83 persons aged above 60 years and 80 children. Local body-wise Among the local bodies, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases — 41, closely followed by Erattupetta (40) and Kanjirappilly (33) cases. At the same time, 1,020 persons recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active cases to 6,964.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/594-fresh-cases-in-kottayam/article32968243.ece
29 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Surge in fresh cases again in Kozhikode||After a lull for a couple of days, fresh COVID-19 cases surged again in Kozhikode district when 1,149 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here. This is the second highest number of newly infected persons in the State on the day. A release from the District Medical Officer said 8,711 samples were sent for tests, and that the test positivity rate jumped to 13.19%. As many as 1,106 people acquired the infection through local transmission, and the source was unknown in 22 persons. A total of 720 persons recovered from the infection, and the number of active cases in the district now stands at 9,995. Nineteen health workers are among the newly infected persons. There were 287 locally acquired infections within the Kozhikode Corporation limits, 46 in Nadapuram, 33 each in Koduvally and Kunnamangalam, and 31 each in Unnikulam and Thiruvalloor, and 30 in Onchiyam. A medical bulletin from the Government Medical College Hospital said four more persons died due to the infection there on Tuesday. In Wayanad A total of 188 people tested positive for the virus in Wayanad district on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 882. Of the new cases, 185 patients, including three health workers, acquired infection through local transmission, while one person arrived from abroad, and two came from other States. As many as 137 people recovered on Wednesday. The district has so far reported 6,747 cases, while 5,819 have recovered. In Malappuram While 548 people tested positive for the virus in Malappuram district on Wednesday, 1,028 recovered from the disease. As many as 502 of the new cases were found to have been infected through direct contact. The source of infection could not be traced in 41 cases. Among the new cases were three health workers. The caseload in Malappuram came down to 10,790 on Wednesday. However, the number of people quarantined across the district went up to 59,378.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-in-fresh-cases-again-in-kozhikode/article32968156.ece
29 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||All Muslim groups on the same page||The proposal of the Cabinet to implement 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the State has triggered political and communal debates with Muslim organisations, irrespective of their ideological moorings, opposing the new quota policy. Almost all Muslim denominations, including the two rivals Sunni groups led by Syed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal and Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobaker Musliyar, are on the same page. Incidentally, the organisations are traditionally either backed or favoured by the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front. Also the Welfare Party of India affiliated to the Jamaat-e-Islami and the Social Democratic Party of India, the political outfit of the Popular Front of India, are fiercely opposed to earmarking reservation for the EWS belonging to the forward Hindu and the Christian communities. Assembly elections How the political developments over the reservation proposal echo in the Assembly polls next year is now in the realm of speculation. Interestingly, even partners within the two coalitions have different opinions on the issue. At the same time, the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam says it will move the Supreme Court against the 10% reservation in education and employment for the EWS among forward communities. Its general secretary Vellappally Natesan, while terming the proposal as a move with an eye on the Assembly elections, however, declared that his organisation will not join hands with the Muslim organisations for any protest for their communal stances on various issues. However, the Nair Service Society (NSS) called for rectifying the anomalies in the new reservation policy of the State government. The reservation norms for the EWS candidates should be at par with the norms provided for other backward classes and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and also implement them with retrospective effect from January 2019, it said. At the Centre Interestingly, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre, which introduced 10% reservation for EWS, did not make such reservations mandatory in State-run educational institutions or government jobs. But some States have decided to implement the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-muslim-groups-on-the-same-page/article32968249.ece
29 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSRTC on the road to recovery, says Minister||Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran has said a comprehensive action plan for the revival and modernisation of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be implemented within six months. At a news conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Saseendran said the plan, which would be implemented under the recently announced financial package of the State government, would focus on the recommendations of the Sushil Khanna committee for reducing expenses and enhancing non-ticket revenue. KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar was present. New buses The Minister said the KSRTC had chalked out plans to lease its land on a long-term basis so as to generate revenue. Also, it would purchase 100 new buses using the Rs. 50-crore plan grant. The new buses, including eight sleeper buses, 20 semi-sleeper buses and 72 express buses, are expected to begin services by January 2021. The KSRTC had also plans to purchase 310 CNG buses with funds sourced from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). A new subsidiary company, KSRTC-SWIFT, would be formed for operating buses funded by the KIIFB by January 1. Besides, the KSRTC will undertake conversion of existing buses from diesel to CNG and LNG in a phased manner. Discussions to procure loans from KIIFB and other agencies for converting all existing ordinary buses into LNG were in process. The conversion would reduce the operating expenses by Rs. 25 crore, he said. Mr. Saseendran said the computerisation of the KSRTC for Rs. 16.98 crore would be implemented this fiscal. The KSRTC had sought legal opinion for granting permanent appointment to empanelled employees with over 10 years of experience. Besides, the empanelled employees who have less than 10 years of experience would be considered for appointment in KSRTC-SWIFT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-on-the-road-to-recovery-says-minister/article32968250.ece
29 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||INTACH team visits Tipu’s fort at Feroke||A team of experts from the Indian National Trust for Art and Heritage (INTACH) and well-known archaeologist K.K. Mohammed on Wednesday visited the remnants of Tipu’s fort at Feroke, where archaeological excavation is in progress. Mr. Mohammed told The Hindu that the area had three layers of history around it — from the Megalithic age, Tipu era, and the British period. Most stones found there were out of place, and they need to be reinforced using lime plaster. Also, efforts should be made to conserve the place utilising the help of students from colleges in the vicinity, such as Farook College. Besides, different sections within the fort need to be marked for easy understanding of its historical significance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/intach-team-visits-tipus-fort/article32968158.ece
29 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||UGC norm violation alleged in LLM course||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has sought comments from the Vice Chancellor, Calicut University, and the State Higher Education Council over the alleged violation of guidelines in the running of a one-year LLM course. This follows a representation filed by K. Sasikala, a lawyer from Mavoor in Kozhikode district, who alleged that the Department of Law at the university had violated the mandatory provisions of the UGC’s directives issued in 2012 for the introduction of the programme. Two-year duration Ms. Sasikala, who had enrolled for the course, pointed out that earlier the LLM course was of two-year duration, and the one-year course was launched in the self-financing stream last year. Students were upset about the quality of teaching, unavailability of sufficient infrastructure, and insufficient classroom teaching hours in the first semester itself, she said. Ms. Sasikala also claimed that only some students were barred from appearing for the internal exams for want of attendance without holding the mandatory hours of classroom sessions. She said this step had been questioned in the Kerala High Court through a petition. She also pointed out that the rules framed by the university in 2017 for the running of the course too had violated UGC guidelines. The court is learnt to have sought a reply from the Vice Chancellor, Registrar, head of the Department of Law, and the UGC. Meanwhile, the university scrapped the one-year programme from this academic year and reverted to the two-year programme. M.K. Jayaraj, Vice Chancellor, told The Hindu on Wednesday that he was yet to see the mail from the UGC. He said he would examine the issue and act accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ugc-norm-violation-alleged-in-one-year-llm-course/article32968159.ece
29 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||e-governance award||The Educational Multimedia Research Centre attached to Calicut University has been chosen for the e-governance award of the Kerala government’s IT Mission for the year 2018 in the e-learning platform category. It was chosen by a jury led by Aruna Sundararajan, former Union Telecom Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-governance-award/article32968154.ece
29 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Quit, Mullappally tells Pinarayi||KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran has demanded that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan step down from his post following the arrest of his former principal secretary M. Sivasankar. “He [Chief Minister] should quit if has any dignity, pride and morality. The arrest of Mr. Sivasankar is tantamount to arrest of Mr. Pinarayi Vijayan,” he said here on Wednesday. The Congress leader added that all good Communists in Kerala would appreciate Mr. Vijayan’s resignation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/step-down-mullappally-tells-pinarayi/article32968166.ece
29 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar case: CBI probe sought||The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) staged a march to Minister for SC, ST and Backward Classes Welfare A.K. Balan’s house here on Wednesday, demanding a CBI investigation into the Walayar case involving the alleged rape and death of two minor sisters. The protesters also demanded punitive action against the police officers responsible for scuttling the case. A POCSO court here had exonerated all the accused in the case in October last year after the prosecution failed to prove that the accused were guilty. BJYM State president C.R. Praful Krishnan inaugurated the march. District president Prasanth Sivan presided. Mr. Krishnan alleged that Minister A.K. Balan was responsible for scuttling the case. He said Punnala Sreekumar was introduced in the case “with the objective of saving the CPI(M) leaders responsible for the rape and murder of the minor girls.” “Mr. Balan, who denounced the agitation by the victims’ parents, has no moral right to continue in the Minister’s chair. Police and Punnala Sreekumar acted in accordance with the script prepared by Mr. Balan,” he said. The BJYM criticized the CPI(M) for promoting Dy.SP. M.J. Sojan and Sub Inspector P.C. Chacko, who allegedly scuttled the case by building it weak and thin. LDF criticised Meanwhile, Kodikkunnil Suresh, MP, who visited the protesting parents of the Walayar victims at their house on Tuesday, said that the LDF government was behaving like the Sangh Parivar in their attitude to the Dalits. “The tears flowing from the eyes of the Walayar victims’ parents will not be good for Kerala,” he said. Gandhian and former Minister V.C. Kabeer too met the protesting parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yuva-morcha-seeks-cbi-probe-into-walayar-case/article32968153.ece
29 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||KMC flays Syro-Malabar Church||The Kerala Muslim Conference (KMC) said here on Wednesday that the Syro Malabar Church had been misled by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s new decision to implement reservation for forward communities. Fascist agenda KMC general convener A.K. Sultan said that the new reservation for the forward communities threw light on a fascist agenda meant to appease the forward communities. He also called upon Christian leaders to understand the reality and to evaluate as to how the balance of social fabric was being destroyed by the implementation of the new reservation quota policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmc-comes-down-on-syro-malabar-church/article32968151.ece
29 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||449 cases in Palakkad||As many as 449 people tested positive for COVID in Palakkad district on Wednesday. However, there were 735 recoveries in the district. Officials said that 218 of the new cases were found to have got the infection through direct local contacts when the source of infection could not be established in 230 cases. The active caseload in Palakkad stood at 7,372 on Wednesday. Besides, 160 people from Palakkad are currently under treatment in other districts in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/449-cases-in-palakkad/article32968860.ece
29 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man killed at old age home||An 87-year-old resident at an old age home at Varode, near Ottappalam, was found murdered on Wednesday morning. Chandradas from Kochi was found dead with his head battered at Ashrayam Old Age Home, Varode. The police said Chandradas was living at the old age home for over a year. The police arrested fellow resident Balakrishnan Nair, 81, in connection with the death. The police suspected that a quarrel between the two men led to the murder. Balakrishnan Nair was living at the old age home for six years. There were only six residents, including a woman, at the old age home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-found-dead-at-old-age-home/article32968167.ece
29 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||260 positive in Pathanamthitta||As many as 260 persons tested positive for SARS- CoV- 2 in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 227 contracted the virus while six patients are foreign returnees. The contact source of 38 persons is yet to be traced. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 20 cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 19 fresh COVID-19 cases. Three more deaths Meanwhile, the disease claimed three more lives in the district, taking the total number of deaths to 85. The deceased were identified as an 86-year-old woman from Nariyapuram and a 66-year-old woman from Eraviperoor who died at the Kozhencherry District Hospital. Another is a 43-year-old man from Thiruvalla, who died at the the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. These deaths, however, have not been included on the official list of deaths released by the State government. With 203 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,453 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/260-positive-in-pathanamthitta/article32968244.ece
29 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Ban on use of plastic bottles, carry bags at Sabarimala||In view of the upcoming annual pilgrimage season in Sabarimala, Pathanamthitta District Collector P.B. Noohu has issued a ban on the use of bottles and carry bags made of plastic and dumping them in public places from Laha to Sannidhanam. Garbage-free area The order, issued under section 80 of the Kerala Police Act, seeks to make the region that comes under the Punyam Poonkavanam project, a garbage-free area. The project was first launched during the 2011 pilgrim season in order to inculcate a new culture of cleanliness and hygiene among the devotees while preserving the forest area from depletion. Price list at eateries In a separate order, the Collector has also directed all restaurants to display price lists in different languages throughout the season in order to avoid traders charging exorbitant prices. The authorities have also made it compulsory for employees of all shops along the Vadasserykara-Pampa route to obtain health cards, COVID-19 negative certificates and identity cards. Curbs on cooking Further, a ban under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 has been imposed on cooking on the roadside from Pathanamthitta to Pampa and in the parking ground at Nilakkal base camp using gas cylinders near vehicles. Warning boards The local bodies along the route, the Forest Department and the Travancore Devaswom Board too have been directed to erect warning boards in different languages in this regard. Meanwhile, the number of gas cylinders that can be stored in shops from Laha to Sannidhanam has been fixed at five. A complete ban on cooking, distribution and consumption of meat in shops from the Nilakkal base camp to Sannidhanam too has been imposed under Section 80 of the Kerala Police Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ban-on-plastic-bottles-bags-at-sabarimala/article32968148.ece
29 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Mar Theodosius to be new Mar Thoma Metropolitan||Suffragan Metropolitan Geevarghese Mar Theodosius will take charge as the 22nd Mar Thoma Metropolitan of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church on November 14. A decision to install the Suffragan Metropolitan, who currently holds charge of the Church, as Mar Thoma Metropolitan was made during a meeting of the episcopal synod on Tuesday evening. The meeting also decided to conduct the installation ceremony at the church headquarters in Thiruvalla at 8 a.m. It will be followed by a meeting to felicitate the newly appointed Metropolitan, to be attended by eminent personalities including community and political leaders. An official statement said the entire programme would be organised in strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. The Suffragan Metropolitan succeeds Joseph Mar Thoma, who passed away on October 18. Mar Theodosius is currently the diocesan bishop of Ranni-Nilackal and Mumbai Having ordained as priest in February 1973, he was consecrated as episcopa on December 9, 1989. He was given the tittle Suffragan Metropolitan during a service officiated by the previous Metropolitan Joseph Mar Thoma on July 12 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mar-theodosius-to-be-new-mar-thoma-metropolitan/article32968270.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RO plant at Vayambachira||With an aim at making available drinking water at nominal rates to residents, the city Corporation has set up a reverse osmosis (RO) plant at the Vayambachira pond in Mannanthala. The plant has been set up under the poverty alleviation mission programmes of the Kudumbashree, funded by the civic body.  Rs. 75-lakh project The plant, set up at a cost of Rs. 75 lakh, has a capacity to purify 5,000 litres of water per hour. According to Corporation officials, they have been planning such RO plants in waterbodies located near areas experiencing high water scarcity. Rates yet to be fixed “But the plant cannot be set up in ponds or other waterbodies that go dry or in which the water level falls drastically during summers. The Mannanthala pond was thought to be ideal as it has ample capacity all through the year. Some of the areas near here also face water scarcity. So, this will become a step towards addressing that too. Ideally, anyone can buy water from here. The rates are yet to be fixed, which will be done by the Corporation council,” said an official of the Corporation’s engineering wing. The project is also aimed at generating revenue for the local Kudumbashree unit, which has the responsibility of running the plant. The water extraction will be regulated in such a way as to not to affect the health of the waterbody. The Vayambachira pond, spread over 1.55 acres, was under the Ulloor grama panchayat until the local body’s merger with the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation in 2000. In addition to natural replenishment by groundwater, small streams from nearby flows into it. But with houses coming up in recent decades, some of these streams were blocked. The pond, which had fallen into disuse some years ago, was revived in recent years under various projects of the Corporation. Desilting was carried out and boundary walls were constructed to prevent encroachment. City Corporation Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the RO plant on Wednesday. C. Sudarshanan, chairman of the Education standing committee, presided over the function.  Project is also aimed at generating revenue for local Kudumbashree unit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ro-plant-at-vayambachira/article32968899.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||785 new cases, 594 recoveries in capital||The district reported 785 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday even as 594 persons more recovered from the illness. During the past 24 hours, 5,957 tests were carried out in the district which has witnessed a drop in COVID-19 cases over the past several weeks. The death toll has risen further with five more recent deaths confirmed as owing to the infection, health officials said. The deceased include an 80-year-old man from Peroorkada, a 67-year-old man from Nemom, a 79-year-old man from Nettayam, a 90-year-old woman from Malayinkeezhu, and a 90-year-old man from Manacaud. Wednesday’s caseload included 582 cases that were attributed to local transmission, and 179 cases where the source of infection was not immediately known. The list included 22 health workers and two persons who had arrived from outside the State. As on Wednesday, 8,778 persons are under treatment for COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram district, health officials said.  2,013 in quarantine As many as 2,013 persons who appeared to have developed symptoms were quarantined on Wednesday. With this, 25,499 persons are in home isolation and 171 others in institutional quarantine. On the other hand, 1,556 persons completed the surveillance period without developing any symptoms. Meanwhile, inspections by teams led by the sector magistrates are continuing in the district for ensuring that the prohibitory measures imposed under Section 144 of the Cr.PC are strictly enforced. Since October 4, the teams have pulled up more than 13,500 persons on charges of violating the COVID-19-related restrictions, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. On Wednesday alone, action was initiated against 430 people, Ms. Khosa said. Cases were registered against 14 persons on charges of breaching the COVID-19 protocol while 57 others were fined. Fines were imposed on 40 people during inspections carried out by the police. The District Collector said that 315 people were let off with a warning. After the sector magistrates began their inspections on October 4, action was taken against 84 people for spitting in public, while 169 people were booked for violating Section 144.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/785-new-cases-594-recoveries-in-capital/article32968912.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF takes on IUML over quota issue||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Wednesday seemed to scramble to prevent a mustering of backward class organisations under the aegis of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) against the government on the issue of providing 10% reservation in government jobs for economically disadvantaged persons from forward communities. The CPI(M) State secretariat pointed out the IUML had backed the policy in its 2011 Assembly election manifesto. However, the party had backtracked on its stance to foment communal polarisation ahead of the elections in 2021. The IUML premise that the government had stacked the decks in favour of forward castes in admission to professional colleges and employment in administration and public sector units was built on a set of tottering lies, it said. Bill passed in LS The Lok Sabha passed the Constitution (124th Amendment) Bill, 2019 to succour the poor among forward castes without diminishing the existing 50% quota for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and backward classes. It raised reservation from 50% to 60% to ensure that the allocation for historically marginalised sections of society remained intact, the CPI(M) said. The LDF government, it said, would ensure that nobody misused the new reservation policy to rob the backward classes and SC/STs of their due. The LDF manifesto had promised social justice for all. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran said the backward classes and SC/STs would abandon the IUML when they realised that the 10% reservation did not infringe on their 50% quota. The State government had implemented the reservation policy carefully and under the supervision of a retired judge. It had taken special care that the amended norms did not harm the interests of the backward classes, he said. ‘False campaign’ The front was reportedly apprehensive that the “false campaign” on the reservation issue would render its traditional base among the numerously superior backward class voters hostile to the government ahead of the local body and Assembly elections.  The CPI(M) State secretariat says the IUML had backed the policy in its 2011 Assembly election manifesto||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-takes-on-iuml-over-quota-issue/article32968260.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Opposition turns the heat on Pinarayi||A paroxysm of street protests demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan swept across the State on Wednesday following the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) detention of his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar for questioning on money laundering charges related to the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers spearheaded the protests primarily in front of the ED’s office in Kochi and the Secretariat here. However, its ripples were felt across the State in the form of local-level protests to spotlight Mr. Vijayan's alleged ‘proximity’ to Mr. Sivasankar. Mr Sivasankar's detention has catalysed the Opposition's demand for Mr Vijayan's resignation. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the arrest of Mr. Sivasankar had done Mr. Vijayan’s bidding. The Chief Minister functioned behind an iron curtain. Even lawmakers and Ministers had no access to him. However, his office was open at all times for economic offenders, smugglers and traitors. Mr Vijayan had betrayed the public trust. Mr Vijayan should resign and face an enquiry, he said. BJP leader N. Krishnadas said Mr. Vijayan had lost the moral right to continue in office. The Left Democratic Front has rallied behind the Chief Minister. Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran said the government had removed Mr. Sivasankar from service on the charge of official misconduct. The government was not responsible for the private conduct of the officer. Law Minister A. K. Balan said there was no ground or precedent for the Chief Minister to resign because a former bureaucrat attached to his office was under suspicion for ‘wayward’ behaviour. The Opposition’s allegations had no merit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-turns-the-heat-on-pinarayi/article32968272.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA commissions solar plants atop water tanks||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) on Wednesday commissioned two new solar power plants in the capital city in accordance with its policy of looking sunward to slash hefty electricity bills. Solar power plants of 100 kilowatts each have been installed atop the water tanks at Attukal and Thirumala, KWA officials said. Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty inaugurated the plants via videoconference. Installed at a total cost of Rs. 2.12 crore, each of the facilities will be able to generate 350 to 400 units daily. This will serve to meet the power requirements of the water treatment plant at PTP Nagar and the pump house at Attukal. Both facilities have recorded a per-day power consumption of 250 units. Since the plants are grid-connected, the surplus power would be fed into the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) system. The new plants will help the KWA bring down its electricity bills, Mr. Krishnankutty said. Similar plants would be established at other locations also, he added. The cash-strapped KWA had announced a major programme two years ago to install solar power plants atop its facilities and vacant land in a bid to reduce its power bills. The monthly electricity charges of the State-run water utility comes to around Rs. 23 crore, which eats into a major chunk of its revenue. In fact, its inability to pay the bills on time had transformed the KWA into one of the biggest defaulters listed by the KSEB. New 60-kW plant The two new facilities are part of a programme to install four solar plants of a combined capacity of 285 kW under the KWA PH Division (South). MLAs O. Rajagopal and V.K. Prasanth attended the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-plants-on-kwa-water-tanks/article32968230.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chandrabhas Narayana is new RGCB Director||The Central government has appointed Chandrabhas Narayana, currently Dean (Research and Development) at the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), Bengaluru, as Director of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) here. An accomplished scientist and interdisciplinary research leader, Prof. Narayana succeeds M. Radhakishna Pillai who retired as RGCB Director in August after a stint of over 15 years. The appointment is for a period of five years. Holds three patents Prof. Narayana, who specialises in Raman Spectroscopy, has served as Professor of Chemistry and Physics of Materials Unit and Dean, Fellowships and Extension Programmes, JNCASR. He holds three international patents, a couple of which are on the verge of commercialisation. Born in Bengaluru to Keralite parents, Prof. Narayana earned his PhD from the Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Science, after completion of his bachelor’s and master’s in science from the Regional Institute of Education, Mysuru. Before joining as a faculty member at JNCASR, he did his post-doctoral research at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. Though a trained condensed matter physicist, Prof. Narayana, developed a keen interest in biology soon after joining the JNCASR. Subsequently, his group pioneered the use of Raman Spectroscopy in drug-protein interaction for drug screening applications and diagnostic applications. His projects proved to be trendsetters in inter-disciplinary research. He is the coordinator of two major Synchrotron projects — the Indian beamline at the Photon Factory, KEK, Tsukuba, Japan, and the PETRA III, Hamburg, Germany. Honours Prof. Narayana is the recipient of several honours, including the Material Research Society of India bronze medal, Sir C.V. Raman Young Scientist Award (Karnataka government), and the C.N.R. Rao Oration award. Research papers A Fellow of the National Academy of Science, India; Royal Society of Chemistry; and of the Indian Academy of Sciences, Prof. Narayana has published over 175 research papers in international journals. Prof. Narayana has also been visiting professor to leading institutions around the world and is member of several governing and advisory bodies and board of studies of leading universities and higher education institutions in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chandrabhas-narayana-is-new-rgcb-director/article32968147.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Now, go retro on a double-decker||The cash-strapped Kerala Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is renting out its famed doubled-decker buses for photo shoots and parties to boost its revenue. The scheme has already found takers in Thiruvananthapuram, in fact. Ganesh of Vamanapuram and Lakshmi from Eenchakkal, who are set to tie the knot on January 18, 2021, rented a double-decker for holding a pre-wedding photo shoot. They were also the first customers for the new scheme, the KSRTC said on Wednesday. The KSRTC has lifted the idea from the popular Afternoon Tea Bus tours of London. The KSRTC double-deckers can be rented for Rs. 4,000 for eight hours. For this price, the bus can be used for a distance of 50 km. Additional rent has to be paid for distances beyond that. In fact, this is a discount rate which will be available till December. According to KSRTC officials, the scheme was designed to augment the revenue of the KSRTC. The buses can be rented for pre-wedding and post-wedding photo shoots and celebrations such as birthday parties. Many agencies have already booked the KSRTC double-deckers for photo shoots. If it is found successful in Thiruvananthapuram, the scheme will be extended to Kochi and Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-go-retro-on-a-double-decker/article32968903.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rangakalakendram to come up at Varkala||The Tourism Department is setting up the Rangakalakendram centre for performing arts at Varkala, aimed at promoting and marketing Kerala’s traditional art and martial art forms. The centre, spread over an area of 13,000 sq ft, is being set up on a two-acre plot on the Varkala guest house premises at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. Adoor is adviser Filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan is the adviser of the Rangakalakendram. The centre will have a performance hall modelled like a Koothambalam, Kalarithara, amphitheatre, and other facilities. In addition to performances of traditional art forms, the centre will facilitate research and comparative studies between traditional and modern art forms. In future, the aim is to raise it to the status of a deemed university. The department also plans to collaborate with the Association of Asia Pacific Performance Arts Centre in Singapore for the promotion of the State’s traditional art forms abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rangakalakendram-to-come-up-at-varkala/article32968228.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s case graph plateauing||The State’s COVID-19 case graph which had dipped following a slump in testing during the long weekend assumed its normal course on Wednesday, registering 8,790 new cases when 66,980 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. If the official figures released by the Health Department are reliable, the graph is indeed plateauing now, even though the possibility of it taking on another trajectory and spiking again cannot be ruled out. Epidemiologists pointed out that the State’s weekly growth rate which used to be 10-15% two weeks ago has come down to less than 5% in the week from October 18- 25 and the active case pool has also stabilised around 95,000. At the current growth rate, in all likelihood, it would take weeks before the active case load crossed a lakh, they said. On Wednesday, the State recorded 7,660 recoveries, taking the total recoveries to 3,16,692. While the cumulative case burden reached 4,11,464, the active cases is 93,264. The test positivity rate was 13.12%. With the addition of 27 new deaths, which occurred between October 16 and 26, to the official list, the toll now stands at 1,403. Thrissur accounted for 10 of these deaths, Thiruvananthapuram five, Ernakulam four, Palakkad and Alappuzha two each, and Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kollam one each. Of the new cases, 8,612 cases (98%) are locally acquired infections, with 872 cases remaining untraced to a known source of infection. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 94. Among districts, Ernakulam reported most cases at 1,250, Kozhikode 1,149, Thrissur 1,018, Kollam 935, Alappuzha 790, Thiruvananthapuram 785, Kottayam 594, Malappuram 548, Kannur 506, Palakkad 449, Pathanamthitta 260, Kasaragod 203, Wayanad 188 and Idukki 115.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-case-graph-plateauing/article32968259.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stick to eco-friendly materials for poll campaigns: SEC||Hoardings, banners, boards, and posters made of plastic or other non-biodegradable materials are prohibited in the election campaigns for the upcoming local body polls, the State Election Commission has said. Campaign materials should be made either from eco-friendly materials such as cotton cloth or materials that can be recycled, the commission said in a set of guidelines issued on Wednesday on the strength of State government circulars issued on the basis of High Court rulings. For erecting campaign materials such as hoardings, paper, cord, or ribbons made of plastic are not allowed. Without the prior permission of the authorities concerned, no campaign ads should be displayed on public buildings, electric posts, mobile phone towers, and telephone poles. Hoardings should not be placed in a manner causing inconvenience or danger to motorists and pedestrians. They should also not be placed in turns on the roads and footpaths, or on bridges. The guidelines also ban election campaign materials that are offensive, vulgar, provocative, or defamatory. The candidates and political parties should remove the posters and hoardings once the voting is over.  Hoardings should not inconvenience motorists and pedestrians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sec-directive-on-poll-campaigns/article32968232.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree taking the online route to tap local market||The Kudumbashree mission is launching Utsav, an online shopping campaign, from November 4 to 19 to make the most of the accelerated shift to online shopping in recent times. Timed to coincide with the Deepavali festivities, the Kudumbashree Utsav aims at promotion of the Kudumbashree’s online portalwww.kudumbashreebazaar .comand increasing its visibility. The festival will help Kudumbashree products reach maximum number of people, on the strength of attractive discounts. Shipment across the country will be free during the festival, courtesy a tie-up with India Post. There will be no increase in product cost to adjust the shipment expenses nor will consumers have to bear any shipment cost, say Kudumbashree officials. There will be 20% reduction on 600 products, though the Kudumbashree’s product line-up extends to 1,020, from 350 producers. Additional 10% discount will be offered through promotional codes to attract more customers. Some entrepreneurs are offering additional discounts too. This will bring the discount on products to up to 50%, officials point out. The festival is also an attempt by the Kudumbashree to go local. There will be specific festivals as part of Utsav such as pickle festival, ethnic snacks, homemade handicrafts, household kitchen equipment such as ‘tawas’ and ‘chattis,’ besides promotion of Kudumbashree’s branded products from Attappady and Kasaragod. Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen will inaugurate the Utsav on November 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-taking-the-online-route-to-tap-local-market/article32968262.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training programme||The Thiruvananthapuram Dairy Training Centre is providing training to secretaries of dairy cooperatives on ‘The importance of maintaining service books’. It will be held via Google Meet on November 6. Call 0471-2440911 before 5 p.m. on November 4, or e-mail address and phone number todtctvm99@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-programme/article32968231.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Travancore Titanium to make sanitisers, handwash||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan on Wednesday inaugurated Travancore Titanium Products Limited’s new manufacturing plant for hand sanitisers, washroom cleaner, and hand wash. The Titanium is launching these products, manufactured as per WHO standards, under the brand of Ti-Secure. The products, to be made available at subsidised rates, is also aimed at regulating the high prices in the market. The plant was set up in 36 days at Rs. 40 lakh as part of the Left Democratic Front government’s 100-day action plan. It can manufacture 5,000 litres of sanitiser daily. The technology was developed by the company itself, and conforms to the World Health Organisation guidelines. It will be marketed in 100ml, 200 ml, 500 ml, and five-litre bottles. Private hospitals and Kinfra Park are among those who have already placed orders. Travancore Titanium chairman A.A. Rashid and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/titanium-to-make-sanitisers-handwash/article32968227.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister asks Centre to reopen NTC mills in State||Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan has written to Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani demanding the reopening of the National Textile Corporation (NTC)’s units in the State. The 23 mills of the Corporation, including four in the State, have remained closed since March. Around 2,300 workers and 150 other employees depend on the mills for their livelihood. However, recent moves of the Corporation, including an order to use up all pending stock of raw materials and the plans to surrender the bank guarantee provided to the Kerala State Electricity Board, have raised fears among employees of a planned shutdown of the mills, said the Minister in the letter. Though the Corporation is economically sound, it has not taken any steps to pay the arrears to the employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-asks-centre-to-reopen-ntc-mills-in-state/article32968900.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NSS unit gives dialysis aid, sets up kitchen gardens||The National Service Scheme (NSS) unit of the College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram (CET) provided financial aid for dialysis to 80 patients facing financial difficulties, as part of the 80th anniversary celebrations of CET. As part of the initiative named ‘Prathyasha’, each class contributed an amount, for one dialysis per semester. The NSS unit also organised a blood donation camp in association with Terumo Penpol, in which 254 donations were carried out by students from various engineering colleges. In another initiative as part of the 80th anniversary, the NSS unit organised a kitchen garden programme named ‘KISAN’ to promote agricultural activities among students. Under the programme, 80 kitchen gardens were set up by NSS volunteers and other students at their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-unit-gives-dialysis-aid-sets-up-kitchen-gardens/article32968901.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minimum wages in marble sector revised||The State government has issued an order revising the minimum wages in the marble and granite industries sector. The minimum monthly salary for the manager post is Rs. 15,090, for sales/marketing executive/crane operator Rs. 14,370, for the clerk/driver/computer operator Rs. 13,690 and for cleaner/ helper/ watchman/ sweeper post Rs. 13,040. The minimum daily wages for polisher/cutter post is Rs. 600 and for loading/unloading worker it is Rs. 640. In addition, the Dearness Allowances have also been fixed for each category. Service weightage will also have to be added to the basic salaries of employees who have completed 10 and 15 years of service. Right Those employees who are getting more than the minimum wages in the new order have the right to continue to draw the existing wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minimum-wages-in-marble-sector-revised/article32968229.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Northeast monsoon sets in over Kerala||The northeast monsoon has commenced over Kerala, said the India Meteorological Department’s centre here on Wednesday. The southwest monsoon has fully withdrawn from the country and the northeast monsoon has officially arrived over the southern peninsula. Thunderstorms accompanied by lightning are likely at one or two places in Kerala till November 1, the IMD said in a weather update. Meanwhile, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has urged the public to be on guard against lightning strikes during the monsoon season. In an advisory, the KSDMA asked the people to avoid open spaces, including rooftops and grounds and high locations, during lightning. The chances of lightning strikes are higher between 2 p.m. and 10 p.m. The warning especially applies to hilly regions where they can prove more dangerous. KSDMA directive In preparation for the northeast monsoon season, the KSDMA had directed local bodies and government departments to follow the guidelines given in the ‘Monsoon preparedness and emergency response plan’ for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/northeast-monsoon-sets-in-over-kerala/article32968273.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel seeks opinion on NEP||The Prof. Prabhat Patnaik committee constituted by the Kerala State Higher Education Council to study the New Education Policy (NEP), 2020 is seeking opinion from stakeholders. that can be emailed tomskshec@gmail.comtill Nov.9. The committee’s draft report is posted onwww.kshec.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-seeks-opinion-on-nep/article32968265.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJYM burns Chief Minister in effigy||The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) burned Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in effigy here on Wednesday demanding his resignation over the alleged involvement of his office in the gold smuggling case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjym-burns-chief-minister-in-effigy/article32968910.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Discussion on First Bell digital classes||The Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, has started teacher-parent trainings to discuss the First Bell digital classes being organised by the General Education Department for students and the academic support activities conducted by teachers and prepare action plans on how to make these more effective against the backdrop of the pandemic. They will also discuss the possibilities of online education, besides making students and the parents more confident about their studies at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discussion-on-first-bell-digital-classes/article32968263.ece
29 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Malayalam elocution to select children’s leaders||The Kerala State Council for Child Welfare will organise a Malayalam elocution for lower and upper primary students for selecting children’s leaders for the function in connection with the online Children’s Day celebrations being organised here on November 14. The contest is open to students from the capital district. For details, call 0471 2324932, 2324939, 9847464613.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malayalam-elocution-to-select-childrens-leaders/article32968264.ece
29 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Green ITI campuses||Minister for Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan will make on Thursday an online announcement on the first-phase greening of ITI campuses in the State. Eleven ITIs in the State have been made green as part of a project.spearheaded by the Industrial Training Department and the Haritha Keralam Mission. More ITIs will become green campuses in the next phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-phase-greening-of-iti-campuses-complete/article32968162.ece
29 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||No let-up in Thrissur with 1,018 new cases||There is no let-up in COVID-19 spread in Thrissur district. As many as 1,018 positive cases were reported on Wednesday while 916 people recovered from the disease. There are 9,658 active cases in the district and 91 people are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 36,580 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district while 26,609 people recovered. According to official statistics, 1,005 people contracted the disease through local contact on Wednesday. As many as 18 inmates at Viyyur Central Prison were tested positive on Wednesday. Among the patients reported on Wednesday, 134 are above the age of 60 and 63 children are below the age of 10. As many as 6,937 samples were collected for testing on Wednesday in the district. The police intensified vigil against COVID-19 guideline violations in Kunnamkulam, which is continuing as a critical containment zone. Meanwhile the district administration has announced Whatsapp numbers for the public to inform the authorities about COVID-19 guideline violations. Various numbers are Kodungallur – 9400063426; Thalappilly – 9400063427; Kunnamkulam - 9400063428; Chavakkad – 9400063429; Mukundapuram – 8078296108; Thrissur - 8078316108; and Chalakkudy – 8078966108.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-thrissur-with-1018-new-cases/article32968859.ece
29 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Kerala Kalamandalam awards announced||Kerala Kalamandlam fellowships, awards, and endowments for 2019 were declared on Wednesday. Kathakali maestro Injakkad Ramachandran and Maddalam expert Kalamandalam Narayanan Nair won the fellowships. Fellowships carry a cash award of Rs. 50,000, citation. The award winners are: Kalamandalam B. Sreekumar (Kathakali vesham), Palanad Divakaran (Kathakali music), Kalamandalam Vijayakrishnan (chenda), Kalamandalam Haridas and Unnayi Warrier Kalanilayam (maddalam), Kalamandalam Kunjikrishnan (chutti), Kalamandalam Gopinadhan Nambiar (mizhavu), Kalamandalam Sujatha (Mohiniyattam), P.K. Krishnan (Thullal), K.S. Vayala Rajendran (dance music), Kakkayur Appukkuttan Marar (panchavadyam-edakka), Kottakkal Sasidharan (best art literature), Jishnu Krishnan (documentary), and Chalakudy Murali (overall contribution). Drishya Gopinadh won the Young talent award-Thullal. Winners of endowments are: Kalamandalam M.P.S. Namboodiri (Mukundaraja Smrithi Puraskaram), Kalanilayam Appu Marar (Kalaratnam Puraskaram), Ratheesh Bhas (Painkulam Ramachakyar Samraka Puraskaram), Kurichithanam Jayakumar (Vadakkan Kannan Nair Asan Smruthi Puraskaram), Thazhath Chakkalayil Kunjanpillai (K.S. Divakaran Nair Smaraka Sougandikam Puraskaram), A.V. Aswathi and Kapila Venu (Dr. V.S. Sharma Endowment), Kalamandalam Rajeev (Bhagavathar Kunjunni Thampuran Endowment), K.P. Chandrika (Killimangalam Vasudevan Namboodirippad Smaraka Award), and P.T. Krishnapriya (Brahmasree Pakaravur Chithran Namboodirippad Birth Centenary Memorial Endowment). The endowments will be presentedon November 8. The awards and fellowships will presented on November 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-kalamandalam-awards-announced/article32968257.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||State’s first mussel and sea fish hatchery to come up at Puthiyangadi||Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has said construction work on the fish landing centre at Puthiyangadi will begin by December. The Minister was inaugurating the construction of Kerala’s first mussel and sea fish hatchery at Puthiyangadi through videoconferencing. She said that with the help of technology, a direct hatchery for production of mussel and seafood was becoming a reality in Kannur. Ms. Mercykutty Amma said the government was giving due consideration to the Malabar region when it came to coastal development activities. The opening of the hatchery in the Malabar region where mussle farming is most prevalent will be a great leap in the sector. She said quality seeds were being produced through research with the help of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). The hatchery aims to produce 50 lakh sea fish and 50 lakh mussle seeds a year, the Minister said, adding that it would be raised to one crore. In view of the declining availability of fish in the State, several schemes are being implemented under the Department of Fisheries to enhance fish production. A major issue facing fish farmers is poor availability of quality fish seed. It is mostly supplied to farmers from other States or drawn directly from waterbodies, she observed. The marine fish seed production centre will be set up at Puthiyangadi to ensure availability of quality fish seed to farmers. The construction will be carried out by the Kerala Coastal Development Corporation. The aim is to make the project a reality within 10 months. The fish seed centre will be set up at a cost of Rs. 5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-first-mussel-and-sea-fish-hatchery-to-come-up-at-puthiyangadi/article32968161.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fruit of labour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fruit-of-labour/article32968234.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/up-in-arms/article32968165.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Chug and whistle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chug-and-whistle/article32968905.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Squishy waste||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/squishy-waste/article32968915.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In survival mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-survival-mode/article32968267.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article32968864.ece
29 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Groundnut farmers left high and dry’||The State government has left groundnut farmers of Anantapur district high and dry, even after they suffered enormous crop loss due to incessant rains and drastic fall in yield in the remaining area (more than 50%), alleged the CPI(M). Party district secretary V. Rambhupal said groundnut crop in 4.1 lakh of the 5 lakh hectares sown in the distinct was damaged; cotton in 20,000 of the 44,000 hectares sown; maize in 2,800 of the 14,000 hectares; and chilli in 4,000 of the 5,150 hectares was damaged, all amounting to a loss of Rs. 1,749 crore. The administration had not done a proper survey and enumeration of damage to various crops leading to very few farmers getting compensation on Tuesday, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/groundnut-farmers-left-high-and-dry/article32968821.ece
29 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension continues in Kuppam||The four mandals of Kuppam, Ramakuppam, Gudupalle, and Shantipuram in the Kuppam Assembly constituency, represented by Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, continues to be tense for the third consecutive day, following promulgation of Section-144 after the TDP and YSR Congress Party cadres resorted to ‘maha padayatras’ and courter agitations over local issues. The TDP cadres earlier planned a five-day ‘maha padayatra’ from Ramakuppam to Kuppam on October 26, demanding completion of the Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanti (HNSS) Kuppam branch canal works. As a counter, the YSRCP cadres planned counter walkathon from the same venue and at the same time, alleging that the TDP leadership had scuttled the housing scheme programme of the State government by taking the matter to the court. A police officer said that in order to prevent clashes between the two sides, the promulgation of Section 144 was necessitated in the constituency. He said that the cadres of the ruling party were also asked to withdraw their move of counter agitations. “At present, both sides are not ready to give up their proposed protests. We are all prepared to protect law and order here,” he said. Demoralised cadre It was observed that after the TDP chief won the Kuppam Assembly seat with a highly reduced majority at 30,000 votes, about 40% less than the 2014 election, it had demoralised cadres. A senior Telugu Desam leader in Kuppam said that the HNSS Kuppam branch canal should have been completed during the five-year regime of the TDP post bifurcation. Meanwhile, YSRCP strongman and Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy is said to be keen on strengthening the party cadres in Mr. Naidu’s bastion and to further weaken by the next elections. The prolonged absence of Mr. Naidu in Kuppam during the last one year also came as a setback to the party. A general feeling that at a time when COVID-19 was raging in the State, the people of Kuppam would naturally expect the local MLA to stand by them by paying a visit or two to the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-continues-in-kuppam/article32968847.ece
29 October 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||375 children rescued in West Godavari district||As many as 375 children were rescued during ‘Operation Muskaan’ in West Godavari district on Wednesday. The drive was taken up at dawn at several places across the district. Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao, Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik and other officers monitored the drive, which was conducted in coordination with Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW), Labour and Juvenile Welfare departments and some NGOs. “Special teams have been constituted to conduct raids on shops, garages, hotels, bus and railway stations and other places to rescue the children,” said Mr. Mohan Rao. COVID-19 tests will be conducted for the children who were rescued in the drive, Mr. Naik said, adding that a few children from other States were also rescued in the operation, and they will be reunited with their parents after completion of all legal formalities. At a programme held on the occasion, the police, WD&CW, Child Welfare Committee, Juvenile Welfare and Labour department personnel interacted with the children and enquired about their family members. The drive was conducted in Jangareddygudem, Kovvur, Eluru, Polavaram and Narsapuram divisions, the SP said. CWC Chairperson Madhavi Latha, District Child Protection Officer Ch. Surya Chakraveni, Labour Officer Satish, ASP (Administration) A.V. Subba Rao and other officers participated in the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/375-children-rescued-in-west-godavari-district/article32967966.ece
29 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu demands lifting of cases against ryots||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has demanded immediate lifting of the cases filed against farmers in Amaravati region. In a press note released late on Wednesday night, Mr. Naidu said that it was inhuman on the part of the State police to shackle the remand prisoners while moving them from Sattenapalli to Guntur jail. He said that the TDP would support the agitation by the farmers in the Capital region and would stand by them. He further said that the party would lay siege to RDO offices and submit representations to Collectors demanding immediate payment of input subsidy to the farmers in flood-affected areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-demands-lifting-of-cases-against-ryots/article32968952.ece
29 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mopidevi takes a dig at SEC||Rajya Sabha member Mopidevi Venkataramana has faulted the office of the State Election Commission stating that it has been taking unilateral decisions without consulting the State government. “How can the SEC take a decision on holding local body elections without consulting major parties? Do parties that do not have a single MLA make suggestions to SEC? We believe that the SEC is conniving with the TDP and suggest that the SEC change its stand,” the MP said. “The SEC earlier put off elections citing COVID-19, but now wants to hold elections even as positive cases are rising. The YSRCP is boycotting the meeting as there is no meaning in the decision to invite parties that do not have even a single MLA,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mopidevi-takes-a-dig-at-sec/article32968951.ece
29 October 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several hospitals denotified after fall in coronavirus cases||With the decrease in coronavirus cases since September, the district administration has denotified several A category hospitals, which were treating only COVID-19 patients, as B category hospitals. These hospital managements are given permission to treat regular patients along with the coronavirus patients in separate blocks. The step was taken to ensure that people with other health issues receive proper medicare. Hospitals treating COVID-19 patients are getting a slight relief with the decrease in cases since the last couple of weeks in the district. Even the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), the designated State COVID-19 hospital, is witnessing several empty beds. Since the last couple of months, the coronavirus cases have been gradually declining in the district. July saw 10,277 cases and 86 deaths. In August, the total number of cases reported in the district was 25,929 and 167 persons died due to the virus. In September, 13,434 cases were reported and 143 persons died. Till October 27, as many as 5,284 COVID-19 cases and 71 deaths were reported. According to the officials, out of around 2,100 active cases, 70% are being treated in home isolation. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar said that several hospitals, including Government Hospital for Chest & Communicable Diseases (GHCCD), Gayathri, NRI hospital and GITAM hospital, were changed from A to B category. Prof. Sudhakar said that after the issue was brought to the notice of the District Collector, a decision was taken to denotify such hospitals. “In case if we see a second wave or increase in COVID-19 cases, all these hospitals will be brought back under A category,” he added. Meanwhile, eight hospitals, including CSR Block (KGH), Pradhama hospital, VIMS, Rani Chandramani Devi Government Hospital, Araku area hospital and Paderu area hospital, are in A category dedicated for COVID-19 treatment. Similarly a couple of hospitals, including ENT hospital, were denotified as C category hospitals which would take care of only normal cases. It was learnt that officials from VIMS sought permission to treat regular patients. However officials did not take any decision since it is a State COVID-19 hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/several-hospitals-denotified-after-fall-in-coronavirus-cases/article32968964.ece
29 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents oppose scrapping of ‘Best Available Schools’ scheme||Parents of several students staged dharna in front of the Balayogi Gurukul school on the outskirts of Kadapa on Wednesday, denouncing the State government’s decision to scrap the Best Available Schools scheme. Launched in the 1980s, the scheme that entailed provision of free seats to eligible SC/ST students in private schools was touted to be among the top welfare schemes meant for SC/ST students. The State government’s announcement to do away with the scheme, in view of the enhanced focus given to school education amid the launch of ‘Amma Vodi’, ‘Nadu Nedu’, has not gone well with the two communities, who demanded that the G.O. on repealing the scheme be withdrawn immediately. “Instead of rectifying anomalies, if any, it is not right to strike down a scheme that benefits the poorer social sections,” an affected parent said. Another parent was worried if he would have to pay a hefty fee for admitting his ward in a corporate school or leave him in the social welfare school. On the flip side, the scheme came under fire for remaining unnoticed for long, with neither the Education department, nor the Social Welfare department monitoring its implementation. Contacted by The Hindu , Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission member and a retired professor V. Narayana Reddy said the scheme had been thoroughly misused over the last decade by certain private schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-oppose-scrapping-of-best-available-schools/article32968826.ece
29 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada to get floating solar power plant||The Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) Council on Wednesday passed a resolution to set up a floating off-grid solar power plant on a 15-acre surface of the Aratlakatta summer storage pond in the city. “The 7 MW capacity floating solar power plant is proposed to be set up on the surface of the 95-acre summer storage pond. A surface area of 15 acres will be utilised for the power project, which is expected to return savings of 40-50% on electricity bills,” KMC Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar said during the council meeting. “The project has been proposed to set up under the Ministry of New and Renewal Energy’s (MNRE) Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) model being encouraged by the Ministry,” Mr. Dinakar said. Under the RESCO model, the Ministry offers financial aid of 90% of the benchmark cost of the project to set up on a BOOT basis (Build--Own-Operate-Transfer), according to the Ministry’s initiative that came into force in May. Inundation “The encroachments on the drainage space in the city need to be removed to address the water-logging problems that were witnessed in October. Encroachments on drains are the main reason for the inundation of the city,” Kakinada City MLA D. Chandrasekhara Reddy said during the meeting that was presided over by KMC Mayor Sunkara Pavani. The council members also welcomed the proposal of developing a G+2 commercial complex comprising space for the 16 commercial establishments on the ground floor and the Secretariat in the rest of the building in Ward 35 in the city. “The commercial complex will be built at a cost of Rs. 4.5 crore,” said Mr. Dinakar. The council has also accepted the proposal to allocate Rs. 37.40 lakh to purchase five vehicles for collection of solid waste in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kakinada-to-get-floating-solar-power-plant/article32968880.ece
29 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RBKs to register details on crop damage||Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagireddy on Wednesday said that the YSR Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK) would register the crop damage details for compensation in case the data on the damaged crops goes missing during the enumeration carried out by the officials of the Revenue and Agriculture departments. Mr. Nagireddy on Wednesday inspected the paddy fields inundated due to recent rains at Munagala and Kunavaram areas in Korukonda mandal, where he interacted with the farmers and ascertained the level of crop damage and its causes. “Financial aid has been paid to the farmers, compensating them for various crops damaged during the rains reported since July in East Godavari district. The government is prepared to include the details of damaged crops at the RBKs if anything is missing from the enumeration exercise,” Mr. Nagireddy told reporters during the field inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rbks-to-register-details-on-crop-damage/article32968878.ece
29 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Open House’ organised||Students and people from all walks of life got an opportunity to check out weapons and other investigative and communication technology devices of the police during the one-day ‘Open House’ exhibition at Bhanugudi centre in Kakinada city on Wednesday. SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi interacted with the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/open-house-organised/article32968881.ece
29 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang creating fake Aadhaar cards busted||A 30-member gang creating fake Aadhaar cards was busted by the Kurnool district police on Wednesday. The members, taking advantage of the data changing provisions in UIDAI, allegedly registered thousands of people under various government welfare schemes like Jagananna Cheyutha, YSR Pension Scheme, Nethanna Nestam and Aasara, earning easy money. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said at a press conference here the modus operandi followed by the gang was to create a fake PAN card for a person first by photoshopping data in it and use the fake card as a genuine document for altering the data in the Aadhaar card. Following complaints about fraudulent withdrawal of money through such dubious means of obtaining fake proofs, the police raided four places in the district and busted the gang. The gang used to collect Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000 per fake document and get customers through agents. A similar fraud had come to light in other districts too. Raids conducted Raids were conducted on 10 Village Secretariats and 200 applications were found to be from fraudulent beneficiaries. Some persons, aged 45 years, got Aadhaar cards showing the age of 60 years and had applied for pension. The investigation was in the preliminary stage, said the SP. In Pathikonda, 14 persons were arrested. Eight persons were arrested in the past in a similar case. Two persons were taken into custody in Nandavaram, 10 from Adoni, six from Banaganapalli. Trainee IPS officer Kommi Pratap Shiva Kishore was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gang-creating-fake-aadhaar-cards-busted/article32968849.ece
29 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t stay at home, patients of stroke cautioned||““Don't stay at home” is the message for patients by the World Stroke Organization which monitors the impact of the COVID-19 on patients of stroke. The fear of contracting coronavirus is a major reason for people to avoid or delay going to the hospital in case of a stroke, says noted neurologist Bindu Menon on the eve of World Stroke Day. Stroke can be a presenting symptom of COVID-19 among young people (less than 45 years) without traditional stroke risk factors. Hence, it is all the more important that one recognises the risk factors and rush to hospital fast as any delay can devastate the brain, increasing the risk of death and the likelihood of severe long-term disability, she said. Up to 90% of strokes can be prevented by keeping under control hypertension and diabetes, taking a healthy diet and eschewing smoking, alcohol and sedentary lifestyle, she says. Other risk factors include rapid heart rate, raised blood lipid levels, snoring, and psychological factors in some. Evidence is also increasing that COVID infection can increase stroke risk, she explains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-stay-at-home-patients-of-stroke-cautioned/article32968820.ece
29 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily tally touches new low in Nellore||Incidence of coronavirus continued to show signs of abating in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as fresh cases dipped to less than a few hundreds, while more number of persons returned home on recovery in the districts of Nellore and Prakasam in the last 24 hours. Nellore district recorded zero deaths during the period. With one death, the toll rose to 570 in Prakasam district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Wednesday night. Fresh cases touched a new low in the recent times as only 175 persons contracted the disease in the two districts. Relentless efforts of health professionals paid dividends as 434 more patients were cured of the disease during the period. With this, the caseload came down further to 3,193. From a high of 1,500-plus cases every day in each district during last month, the number of new cases came down to 76 in Nellore district and 99 in Prakasam in the last 24 hours. About 1.16 lakh persons have recovered from the infection so far, with Nellore district accounting for 59,312 recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-tally-touches-new-low-in-south-coastal-ap/article32968824.ece
29 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco regulations: farmers urge Centre to seek their views||Tobacco farmers have urged the Centre to hold consultations with them, being the main stakeholders, while framing any regulations pertaining to the cultivation of the crop. On the World Tobacco Growers’ Day on Wednesday, the representatives of the farmers from the Southern Light Soil and Southern Black Soil regions urged the Union Government to help them produce tobacco leaf on par with international standards. Tobacco Board Vice-Chairman Konda Reddy said the proliferation of illegal cigarette trade in the country has undermined the tobacco control policies of the government. The illicit trade is also impacting the growers’ earnings adversely following the reduction in demand for the domestically grown crop. Federation of All India Farmers Association (FAIFA) general secretary P.S. Murali Babu said the demand for FCV tobacco had reduced considerably post 2013-14 owing to the sharp decline in legal cigarette volumes on account of high taxes and expansion of illegal cigarette trade. Production declines “The trade remains a threat to the livelihoods of farmers. Reports suggest that India is the fourth largest illegal cigarette market in the world,” he lamented. Farmers who cultivated FCV tobacco in the drought-prone region have incurred a loss of at least Rs. 4,000 crore following the reduction in production from 325 million kg in 2014-15 fiscal to 210 million kg in last financial year, pointed out Vaddela Vara Prasad, president of Service and Welfare Organisation for Rythu Development. SBS Farmers Welfare Organisation president P. Bhadri Reddy said the tobacco sector provides employment to more than 45 million people. There is no alternative to tobacco in view of the persistent drought condition, he said while referring to studies conducted by the CTRI, Rajamahendravaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-regulations-farmers-urge-centre-to-seek-their-views/article32968835.ece
29 October 2020||ONGOLE/Chittoor/Kadapa/Anantapur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Operation Muskaan leads to rescue of 2,278 children||Operation Muskaan, a two-day programme undertaken in the State, brought smile to 2,278 rescued orphans/child labourers in five districts of Prakasam, Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur and Kurnool on the first day. The highest number of children rescued was in Prakasam district with 790, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal told the media at the railway station here. This was followed by Kurnool with 640 children(532 boys and 108 girls) rescued, Anantapur-502(including 55 girls), Chittoor-290(including 16 in Puttur and six in Satyavedu), Kadapa(30). Tirupati’s number of rescued children stood at 77. An intensive search was carried out all the public places, hotels, industrial areas, railway stations, bus stations, footpaths, hotels, automobile garages and dhabas in the districts. Superintendent of Police(Chittoor district) S. Senthil Kumar observed that as pandemic had hit hard the poor, some of them were found to be encouraging child labour and sending their children to work stations such as roadside hotels, mechanic workshops and agriculture labour. “We informed the parents of such identified children about their care and responsibilities. The children without any guardianship are being handed over to orphanages run by the Government and non-governmental organisations”', the SP said. In Tirupati Urban police district, Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy invited public to participate in the well-intended programme by alerting the department about the presence of minors employed in workplaces by dialling 100 or sending WhatsApp messages to 80999 99977. As part of COVID-19 protocol, the rescued children were provided masks and sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/operation-muskaan-leads-to-rescue-of-2278-children/article32968823.ece
29 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire Dept. building to be inaugurated in Srikakulam||Minister for Home Affairs M. Sucharita will inaugurate new buildings constructed for Fire and Safety Department in Srikakulam at 10 a.m. on Thursday, said Srikakulam District Fire Officer Ch. Kripavaram. He said that the new building with latest fire safety equipment would ensure more quality service to the people. According to him, Deputy Chief Minister P. Krishnadas, Srikakulam Collector J.Nivas and others would also participate. Later, the Home Minister would proceed to Kothavalasa of Vizianagaram district to inaugurate new building for fire station, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-dept-building-to-be-inaugurated-in-srikakulam/article32967960.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Get refund for tickets booked during lockdown by Dec. 31: TTD||The devotees, who have booked arjitha sevas, darshan tickets and accommodation during the lockdown period between March 13 to June 30 can seek the refund of their ticket amount by December 31, according to the TTD. The devotees, who have booked their tickets through post offices, e-darshan and AP Online counters can seek the refund of their amount by submitting the details of their tickets vis-a-vis bank name, IFSC code in excel text format and mail them to refunddesk_@tirumala.org while those who have booked the tickets online can cancel them on their own. After verification of the details submitted, the amount will be deposited straight in the devotees accounts. Likewise those who are averse to the idea of seeking refund can have the darshan of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala by producing relevant tickets on any day of their convenience before December 31. Devotees can also book diaries and calendars on TTD website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/get-refund-by-dec-31-ttd/article32968096.ece
29 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State should seek Centre’s help to protect red sanders’||BJP national secretary Sunil Deodhar has said that his party would soon appeal to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to seek the help of the Central forces to safeguard the precious red sanders and check the smuggling activities in the Seshachalam forest region. Speaking to media here on Wednesday, Mr. Deodhar expressed his concerns over the ‘unbridled smuggling’ of the precious wood in this area since several decades. Terming the red sanders as the ‘property of Lord Venkateswara’, the BJP leader said that smugglers from the neighboring States of Andhra Pradesh were also involved in the act of plundering the forest wealth. “We will also request Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention in protection of the precious red sanders tree and other forest wealth in the region,” he said. adding that he had prayed to Lord Venkateswara for the early discovery of the vaccine for the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-should-seek-centres-help-to-protect-red-sanders/article32968828.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Service delivery made easy through e-bikes||Thanks to the intervention of the New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP), discharging their duties has become easier for the ward secretariat staff of Pulivendula municipality and constables at the Disha police station with the introduction of eco-friendly bikes. Each village and ward secretariat staff (volunteer) covers fifty household services like pension to senior citizens, widows and the disabled, ‘Rythu Bharosa’ to farmers, ‘Asara’ to SHG women, besides reaching out to fishermen, handloom workers. To make service delivery hassle-free, NREDCAP has distributed four e-bikes each to the police station and the municipality in Pulivendula. The plan has achieved the twin benefits of reaching faster and reliable services to the doorstep of the people under the ‘Navaratnalu’, apart from popularising the green bikes among the semi-urban and rural youth. “We have plans to procure at least 5,000 such vehicles to be provided to ward secretariat members to help them in discharging their duties,” says NREDCAP Vice-Chairman and Managing Director S. Ramana Reddy. In an informal chat with The Hindu on Wednesday, he said the corporation was in touch with manufacturers of electric vehicles and the same would be procured either through government support or corporate sponsorship under CSR activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/service-delivery-made-easy-through-e-bikes/article32968850.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||NSU conducts entrance test||National Sanskrit University (NSU), Tirupati, conducted an entrance test on Wednesday at 16 centres across India for admission in its B.Ed (Siksha Shastri) and Ph.D. (Vidyavaridhi) programmes. NSU was the first among the 17 Sanskrit universities in India to initiate the admission procedure online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nsu-conducts-entrance-test/article32968957.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop in cases continues for fourth consecutive day in State||The State has for the fourth consecutive day reported less than 3,000 new cases in 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The infection tally has gone up to  8,14,774  with 2,949 new cases. During the same period, 18 new deaths were reported and the toll has increased to 6,643. As many as 3,609 patients have recovered in the past day, taking the number of recoveries so far to 7,81,509 which is 95.92% of the total infections. While the death rate remains at 0.82% there were only 3.26% active cases. At present, 26,622 patients are undergoing treatment and 75% of them were in six districts of East Godavari, West Godavari, Guntur, Krishna, Chittoor and Visakhapatnam, while the rest of the seven districts have altogether only 25% active cases. Testing In the past day, 77,028 samples were tested with positivity rate of 3.83% ,while the overall positivity rate of 77.77 lakh samples tested so far remains at 10.48%. Meanwhile, five districts reported not more than 100 new cases and five districts reported no new deaths. West Godavari reported highest single-day tally. The district-wise new cases and tallies are as follows: West Godavari (492 and 3), Krishna (457 and 3), Guntur (421 and 3), East Godavari (417 and 2), Chittoor (315 and 2), Kadapa (193 and 0), Anantapur (192 and 3), Visakhapatnam (114 and 1), Prakasam (99 and 1), Nellore (76 and 0), Srikakulam (74 and 0), Vizianagaram (67 and 0) and Kurnool (32 and 0). The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,14,554), West Godavari (84,271), Chittoor (77,436), Guntur (66,152), Anantapur (64,064), Kurnool (59,373), Nellore (59,234), Prakasam (58,915), Visakhapatnam (55,429), Kadapa (51,572), Srikakulam (43,698), Vizianagaram (39,091) and Krishna (38,090).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-in-cases-continues-for-fourth-consecutive-day-in-state/article32968831.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4,147 children rescued in ‘Operation Muskaan’ in State||The police, in association with other line departments and some NGOs, conducted the seventh phase of ‘Operation Muskaan’ in the State and rescued 4,147 children on Wednesday. Of them, 3,503 were boys and 644 were girls. Some children belonging to Telangana, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and other States were also rescued. The children would be handed over to their parents after giving counselling, said Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang. Prakasam district police rescued 739 children, including 145 girls, the highest in the State, followed by 640 in Kurnool and 417 in Anantapur. The special drive was directly monitored by the Police Commissioners and Superintendents of Police of the districts concerned. “Police provided food, clothes and necessary medical aid to the rescued children. COVID-19 tests were conducted for all the kids,” Mr. Sawang said.  Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said 246 children, including 68 girls, had been rescued in ‘Operation Muskaan’. The children were aged between seven and 15 years.    Raids in Krishna Raids were conducted on garages, hotels, bus and railway stations, parks, hotels and other establishments, the SP said. District Probation Officer Bhaskar Rao, District Child Protection Officer Ch. Vijay Kumar and other officers were present.  Child labourers rescued The police rescued 60 children in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits. Special teams had been constituted to rescue the child labourers engaged in shops and other establishments, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Later, Mr. Srinivasulu handed over the rescued children to their parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4147-children-rescued-in-operation-muskaan-in-state/article32968956.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM wants betting apps, websites blocked by ISPs||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday wrote a letter to Union Minister for Communications, Electronics and Information Technology and Law & Justice Ravi Shankar Prasad, requesting him to direct the Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to block the applications and websites associated with online gaming, gambling and betting in the State. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy attached a list of 132 such websites and apps with this letter on which he wanted the Centre to act. He said that online gaming, gambling and betting websites had become a social evil as the youth were indulging in them from the comforts of their homes through cellphones and computers. Even as gambling and betting in their usual form can be easily identified, their online operations are difficult to trace, he said. The State government has recently declared online gaming, gambling and betting as illegal by under the A.P. Gaming Act, 1974, by promulgating an ordinance, which was notified on September 25. One of the key features of the Act is making those assisting in the operation of the online gaming, gambling and betting liable for punishment. “This is where the role of ISPs can be termed as the assisting factor as the websites are not blocked. Stopping illegal gaming and betting is not possible without cooperation of ISPs. They should be instructed to block the websites to help the government curb the menace,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-wants-betting-apps-sites-blocked-by-isps/article32968954.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC wants to monitor pandemic situation in State||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar who elicited views of political parties on the conduct of local body polls in the State on Wednesday said the commission wants to maintain a close and regular interface with the Health Department to keep a track of the COVID-19 scenario.  In the Wednesday’s meeting, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said that invitations were sent to 19 political parties, of which 11 sent their representatives to the meeting while two parties conveyed their views in writing. Six parties neither deputed their leaders nor let their opinions known. The invitees includes six recognised national parties, three recognised State parties in Andhra Pradesh, nine recognised parties in other States registered with the SEC and one recognised party with reserved symbol. Deliberations were held with Principal Secretary (health, medical and family welfare) A.K. Singhal and Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar on October 27, he said.  “The SEC is a constitutional body and casting aspersions on it is best avoided as per the best democratic traditions. The commission wishes to honour and respect the consensus arising out of the process,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-wants-to-monitor-pandemic-situation-in-state/article32968839.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. has no plans to privatise power sector: Energy Minister||The government has no intention to privatise the power sector, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has said. Describing the reports that the government is planning to sell away the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (RTPP) to those keen on taking it over as mere speculations, the Minister appealed to the employees not to believe in the falsehoods being spread by vested interests. “The government is committed to solving all the issues pertaining to the sector, which has been brought to its notice,” he told the media at the Secretariat on Wednesday, while pointing out that the State government has conveyed in writing about its opposition to the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020. Smart meter Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said the smart meters were being fixed to agriculture pumpset connections with the consent of farmers and that the government would not renege on its promise of free nine-hour power supply to the farm sector during the daytime. “The government is working to achieve the capacity addition of 10,000 megawatt solar energy to exclusively cater to the needs of the farm sector. The agriculture feeder network is also being strengthened with an investment of Rs. 1,700 crore,” he said. Outsourced workers The Minister said that 7,000 linemen and 172 assistant engineers had been recruited in a short span of time to overcome the shortage of manpower. “The government is sympathetic to the problems being faced by the outsourced workers. However, the matter of regularisation of their services is under the consideration of a Cabinet sub-committee and the recommendations are awaited,” he said. The EPF and GPF, compassionate appointments and many such issues related to the human resources would be sorted out at the earliest, the Minister said, adding that the government would leave no stone unturned to improve the operational efficiencies. Energy secretary N. Srikant, APGenco MD B. Sreedhar and DISCOMs’ CMDs Nagalakshmi Selvarajan, H. Haranatha Rao and J. Padma Janardhan Reddy were present on the occasion. Meeting with JAC Earlier in the day, the Minister held deliberations with a delegation of the Andhra Pradesh State Power Employees’ Joint Action Committee which has demanded that the government sort out certain critical issues being faced by the power sector immediately, if it wants them not to go for a state-wide agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-has-no-plans-to-privatise-power-sector-energy-minister/article32968841.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State police bags 48 Skoch Awards for better services||The Andhra Pradesh police added another feather in its cap by bagging 48 Skoch Awards for change in digital transformation and for offering better services to citizens. The awards were announced in the 67th Skoch Summit on Wednesday. Of the 83 awards announced, Andhra Pradesh Police won 48, followed Kerala with nine awards, West Bengal and Maharashtra 4, Himachal Pradesh 3 and Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh two each. Remaining States won one award each. In AP Police Headquarters, Technical Services wing bagged 16 awards, Communications department three, Police Welfare three and Law and Order wing won two awards. The Crime Investigation Department (CID) won four Skoch awards. In police commissionerates and districts, Kurnool district police won three awards, Vijayawada Police Commissionerate three, Anantapur, Vizianagaram, Kadapa and Prakasam district police bagged two awards each. Chittoor, Tirupati (Urban), Nellore, Guntur (Rural) and Guntur (Urban) and Krishna district police won one award each. Anantapur police got the silver award for house quarantine monitoring, Vijayawada City Police won an award for Integrated Crime Prevention and Monitoring, Krishna district police was presented silver award for ‘Parivarthana’ programme, Nellore police was awarded for dynamic e-beat system, Chittoor police got the award for ‘Response to COVID-19’, Kurnool police won the award for ‘Court Monitoring System’, Guntur (Rural) Police received the award for ‘Renovate, Retrain and Reassure (RRR), Vizianagaram district police got silver award for ‘Assurance with Endurance – Service with Sacrifice’. The AP Police Headquarters won three gold Skoch awards for ‘AP Police Seva Mobile App’, ‘Disha Mobile App’ and ‘Disha Integrated Crime Scene Management’. “It’s proud and inspiring for the AP Police to be top in the country in Skoch Awards. Winning the highest number of awards is the benchmark of the best practices being followed by the police with accountability and transparency,” said DGP D. Gautam Sawang. The DGP thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the constant guidance and support being extended to the Police department in providing better services to the public. DIG (Technical Services) G. Pala Raju said the Skoch Awards showed the best use of technology and innovation in the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-police-bags-48-skoch-awards-for-better-services/article32968842.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM asks officials to ensure MSP for all crops||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to ensure that no crop is purchased at less than the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the payments should be done in ten days of the purchase. In a review meeting on the Comprehensive Monitoring of Agriculture Prices and Procurement (CMAPP) and e-marketing on Wednesday, the Chief Minister insisted that no farmer should incur losses and instructed the officials to take immediate action on receiving alerts of farmers selling away their produce below the MSP. He insisted that information about the MSP for crops should be made available at all the 10,641 Rythu Bharosa Kendras in the State on a daily basis. The Chief Minister asked the officials to take necessary measures for the procurement of paddy, groundnut and cotton damaged in the recent rains at remunerative prices. The officials informed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that 5,812 crop purchase centres had been set up across the State as it was estimated that 1,09,24,524 metric tonnes of crops were expected to be harvested this kharif season. Payment gateways The Chief Minister also stressed on strengthening the security and payment gateways, along with delivery logistics and ensuring smooth transactions between the buyers and sellers. After placing an order, the crop should reach the buyer within four days without any hassles. The government has signed an MoU with the Amul and other companies to provide employment opportunities to women, the Chief Minister said. Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Special Commissioners Pradyumna (marketing) and H. Arun Kumar (agriculture), Special Secretary (marketing) Y. Madhusudan Reddy, Civil Supplies Commissioner K. Sasidhar and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-asks-officials-to-ensure-msp-for-all-crops/article32968837.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Spotting warning signs of stroke is crucial’||Manipal Hospitals consultant neurologist Murali Cherukuri said that COVID-19 has the potential to cause various health issues in the long run, including stroke. He added that stroke is also the top-most ailment among various neurological complications that occur after being infected by COVID-19. In view of World Stroke Day observed on October 29, Dr. Murali, in a release, emphasised the need for spotting warning signs of stroke and approaching doctors at the earliest. He said that according to the World Stroke Organisation, 14.5 million people could face a stroke by end of 2020 and 5.5 million people could die as a result. A stroke occurs when blood vessels in the brain are blocked, and one should reach for medical help when symptoms like sudden numbness or weakness of a leg, trouble seeing, loss of balance or coordination and severe headache with no known cause occur. Time is of essence He said the transient ischemic attacks (TIA) are ‘warning strokes’ that can happen before a major stroke. Dr. Murali said tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) drug administered within three hours after a stroke can prevent long-term disability in the patient and it is most important to get to a hospital in time as time is of essence. Dr. Murali said 80% strokes are preventable if a person manages blood pressure, eats healthy, exercises and avoids smoking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spotting-warning-signs-of-stroke-is-crucial/article32967959.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to withdraw decision on model schools||Representatives of United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) and Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) on Wednesday urged the government to roll back its decision to do away with the model primary school system. UTF State president Shaik Sabji, honorary president K.S.S. Prasad, assistant president S. Venkateswarlu and treasurer K. Srinivasa Rao and PDF MLCs K.S. Lakshman Rao, R. Surya Rao and I. Venkateswara Rao met Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh and made a representation to him in this regard on Wednesday. Counselling process The union representatives told the Minister that model primary schools with a strength of more than 80 students should be given one teacher for a class, likewise five teachers should be appointed to five classes and the authorities should also make attempt to conduct 'physical' counselling instead of opting for web counselling. They said transfers of headmasters, school assistants and secondary grade teachers should be followed up by promotions of the respective cadre. The leaders said that the Education Minister had responded favourably to their demands and assured them that he would apprise the government of the issues faced by them and strive for an early solution. Plea to official The leaders later met the Director of Municipal Administration and urged him to look into the issues faced by teachers working in municipal schools. The official informed the union leaders that issues such as teacher transfers, approval of school assistant posts in the newly-upgraded municipal schools and promotions to the secondary grade teachers were being looked into. They were also informed that the proposals pertaining to other facilities for teachers had been sent to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-withdraw-decision-on-model-schools/article32967962.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||D.El.Ed first year exams from Nov. 5||The Diploma in Elementary Education (D. El. Ed) first year (2018-20 batch) examinations are scheduled to be held from November 5 to 11. In a statement on Tuesday, Director of Government Examinations A. Subba Reddy said the exams would be held from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and that the candidates can download the hall tickets from the websitewww.bseap.organd attend the exam directly. The hall ticket can be dowloaded by logging into the website and selecting the district, college name, candidate’s name and the stream respectively. On November 5, the candidates will write Paper-I on ‘Çhildhood, Child Development and Learning’, Paper-II on November 6 (Society, Education and Curriculum), Paper-III on on November 7 (Early Childhood Care and Education or ECCE), Paper-IV on November 9 (Pedagogy of Mother Tongue, Telugu/Urdu/Tamil at primary level), Paper-V on November 10 (Pedagogy of Mathematics at Primary Level), and Paper-VI on November 11 (Pedagogy Across Curriculum and ICT Integration).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deled-first-year-exams-from-nov-5/article32967961.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVBC gets new chairman||V.B. Sai Krishna Yachendra of Nellore district has been appointed as chairman of Sri Venkateswara Bhakthi Channel (SVBC) of Tirumala Tirupati Devastanams (TTD). Mr. Sai Krishna will continue in the post for two years. Government issued to this effect on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svbc-gets-new-chairman/article32968827.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP gave Rs. 12,000 crore to farmers in one year’||Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu has said that the YSR Congress Party government has extended a record amount of about Rs. 12,000 crore to farmers in the form of investment aid under Rythu Bharosa scheme in just one year, while the previous government could only waive Rs. 12,731 crore worth loans between 2014 and 2019. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Kannababu criticised the allegations of Telugu Desam Party that the YSRCP government was not going to give Rs. 77,500 to each farmer. It was ridiculous on part of the TDP to say that a farmer would have received Rs. 77,500 had TDP been voted to power, he said. The TDP was only confusing farmers by making allegations that farmers were going to lose such an amount just because TDP promised it during elections, Mr. Kannababu said. He said the YSRCP was keeping its promise and even increased the amount by a thousand making it Rs. 13,500 per year and Rs. 67,5000 for five years. The government was going all out to help farmers and public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-gave-rs-12000-crore-to-farmers-in-one-year/article32967958.ece
29 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health Dept. gets award for COVID handling||The Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare of the State was conferred with the SKOCH Award (Silver) in the ‘COVID digital handling’ category for its effective response to the pandemic. In a release, Health Department Commissioner Katmneni Bhaskar said that the SKOCH Group, a think tank dealing with socio-economic issues, announced the awards for year 2020 on Wednesday. Use of technology “The State’s impeccable response with technological advancements during the coronavirus pandemic was recognised. The government is using digital modes including apps, web portals, social media, ‘104’ call centre and others to reach out to the people to address their grievances, respond to the requests for COVID-9 tests, sample status, results, nearest hospital details, bed availability and others in stipulated time,” said Mr. Bhaskar.  Special apps Mr. Bhaskar further said that many special mobile applications for citizens, pharmacy stores, medical officers, volunteers had been made available to ensure seamless process flow in the entire eco-system to check the spread of the coronavirus. All the digital system have reduced the response time when it comes to providing healthcare services to those in need and helped in early detection of positive cases, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-dept-gets-award-for-covid-handling/article32968832.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hit by setbacks, Maoists trying to regain hold||Since May 2016, the CPI (Maoist) has been facing a series of setbacks in the Visakha Agency and it appears that the banned outfit is losing its grip slowly. To consolidate its presence, the organisation, it is learnt, is restructuring its set-up and strengthening the cadre base by infusing armed cadres from their PLGA wing in Chhattisgarh. Recently, according to sources, movement of about 20 PLGA cadres from Chhattisgarh were noticed in the Galikonda region. The PLGA (People’s Liberation Guerilla Army) is the armed fighting machine of the CPI (Maoist) and is directly under the control of Nambala Keshava Rao, general secretary of the party. Setbacks to the outfit in AOB, particularly in the Galikonda region, began with the killing of Gopal alias Azad, DCM (Divisional Committee Member of Galikonda area committee), in an alleged exchange of fire with the security forces in May 2016 in Marripakala of Koyyuru mandal. This was followed by the Ramaguda or Ramgarh exchange of fire in which 30 Maoists, including senior leaders such as Bakkuri Venkata Ramana, were killed in October 2016. In February 2017, Gemmeli Narayan Rao alias Jambri, who was then heading the Galikonda area committee, was killed. This was followed by the surrender of Boda Anjayya alias Bhaskar alias Naveen in 2019. Naveen had succeeded Jambri. Later, over 14 cadres and militia members had surrendered from Galikonda area. Recently, Gemmeli Kamesh alias Hari, the present ACM of GAC and another senior militia member Krishna from Korukonda area were arrested and this created a void. As part of the restructuring process, the Galikonda and Gurtedu areas have been merged under one area committee and the responsibility has been given to Kakuri Pandanna alias Jagan, to revive the movement. To strengthen the cadre base, as local recruits have dried down, armed cadres from Chhattisgarh have been pumped in. Similarly, it is learnt that Korukonda and Pedabayalu have been merged and Sudheer has been told to head it. Nandapur and Kalimela area committees have been made defunct and the cadres have been diverted towards Pedabayalu to strengthen the AOB region. Strategic location Sources in the intelligence wing say that leader Ranadev, who was heading Kalimela dalam, has been moved to Boipariguda area, north of Sileru. This is a strategic logistic location, as it connects Odisha with Andhra border, according to Inspector-General of Police Ch. Srikanth. Senior leader Krishna has been told to head the cut-off region and the entire East Division is now being headed by Aruna. Aruna, who was earlier heading the Nandpur dalam, gained prominence after successfully leading the assault and killing of Araku MLA K. Sarveswara Rao and former MLA S. Soma in September 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hit-by-setbacks-maoists-trying-to-regain-hold/article32968846.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New butterfly species seen in Vizag||When a team of three nature enthusiasts embarked upon a study to document butterflies of Visakhapatnam district, little did they realise that they would chance upon butterfly species never before recorded in the region. A study done by Appanna Saragada, E. Ramakrishna and Ramana Bhusala has brought to light a number of species that made their presence felt for the first time in the Eastern Ghats bordering Visakhapatnam and its urban ecological hotspots. The research was done over a period of time in Araku, Sileru, Chintapalli, Devarapalli Hills, Anantagiri, Kailasagiri and Simhachalam Hills. The newly recorded species from Visakhapatnam region include African marbled skipper, tree flitter, chestnut angle, chestnut bob, fluffy tit, colour sergeant and double banded crow. Among the recent finds, three species fall under the protected (Schedule) category of Wildlife Protection Act (1972). These are the marbled map, orange tail awl and tree flitter. “When we put together all our records and collated with past findings, we knew that we had discovered something very special this time,” said Ramana, Forest Section Officer, Visakhapatnam Division. He along with his two teammates had been touring the interior parts of Visakhapatnam’s Eastern Ghats and forest range for the past six years to collect data on butterflies. The pictorial evidences of all newly recorded species were captured with a Nikon DSLR 5300 camera and 300 mm and 105 macro lenses. Protected under Schedule II of Wildlife Protection Act, the marbled map or Cyrestis cocles, for instance, is listed as a ‘rare’ butterfly species confined to the hilly forests in Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bhutan and Myanmar. Four years ago, it made a chance entry into the thick forests of the Eastern Ghats near Maredumilli mandal in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. ‘Little research’ Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Rahul Pandey welcomed the news and said that while the Eastern Ghats is not known to be very high in density for butterflies, little research is being done in this zone. “Such studies will bring focus on this region’s flora and fauna,” he said. Dolphin Nature Conservation Society (DNCS) founder and president M. Rama Murthy said that butterflies are a very good indicator to judge how sound the biodiversity and ecology of the area is. “The Eastern Ghats has been drawing a good number of researchers in the recent past. More such collaborative efforts need to be done for better understanding of butterfly species of the region,” he said. DNCS has been undertaking periodical survey of the region and in 2018 had presented a study recording new butterfly species visiting Visakhapatnam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-butterfly-species-seen-in-vizag/article32967957.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) opposes allotment of AU land to IT startups||The CPI(M) has opposed the decision of Andhra University to allot 50 acres of land for IT startup companies in the university campus. Party Greater Visakha City committee secretary B. Ganga Rao demanded that the MoU, which was reached between AU and the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), should be cancelled. The original plan was to allocate the vacant land, opposite the VMRDA building, to the IT startups and agreements were also made in this regard. He alleged that the companies were now having their sights on AU lands. There was huge government land in Visakhapatnam for setting up of startups apart from land, which was already allocated to IT companies remaining vacant, and it could be recovered, he said. AU lands should be utilised only for construction of new buildings for introduction of new courses and for research purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-opposes-allotment-of-au-land-to-it-startups/article32968960.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||The going gets tough for NGOs in pandemic times||The dreaded pandemic of COVID-19 has impacted almost every sector and one among the worst hit are NGOs. They not only have issues with funding and donations, but also face operational problems with regard to field and staff shortage. Speaking to The Hindu , Pragada Vasu of AUTD (Association of Urban and Tribal Development) that runs shelter homes for the aged and destitute, said that since last six months, the organisation has not received any fund from the government. “We have grants from the government and nothing received ever since the outbreak of COVID-19. But at the same time we cannot shut our operations as hundreds of homeless people are dependent on us,” he said. At the same time local contribution from people have also died down. “Earlier, we used to receive at least Rs. 10,000 per month from three to four donors. However, since the last few months we have rarely got one donor per week,” he said. Not only funds, the NGOs are also facing staff crunch, which is leading to operational problems. Naresh, who runs Yuva, a home for orphans and rehabilitates children, who are forced into begging by their parents, said: “After the pandemic broke out, we sent many such children to their homes as per the government order. But now we are facing difficulty in tracking them and bringing them back. Owing to which, child beggars have increased in the city.” Manpower shortage “Many of our volunteers and staff members have not resumed to work and we are facing huge shortage of manpower and it has an impact on our goal of eradicating child begging,” said Mr. Naresh. Uma Raju of Green Valley Foundation that deals with rehabilitating people who are addicted to substance abuse, shares a similar concern. “Funding has stopped, and many field workers, especially from the rural areas have not returned to work due to fear and stigma. Most importantly, even the family members of the patients or addicts are not forthcoming during this period, due to the stigma attached to the pandemic,” she said. The government and funding agencies should address the issues, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-going-gets-tough-for-ngos-in-pandemic-times/article32968853.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Observe COVID precautions, train commuters told||The festival special trains being operated by the railways are fully reserved and no passengers can board them without a confirmed ticket. Reservation counters and Yatri Ticket Suvidha Kendras have been opened to cater to the requirement of passengers for regular as well as last minute bookings. The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway is operating festival special trains for Deepavali and other festivals apart from COVID special trains. With the increase in frequency of train services, safety measures have been enhanced at all the railway stations over the division. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava has appealed to passengers to follow the guidelines given by the railway administration for a safe and secure travel during the season. The DRM is reviewing the safety measures on a regular basis in view of the increase of passengers flow. Manning of the gates at railway stations and also in the trains is being done to keep a check on the passengers without ticket or unauthorised travelling. Regular announcements are being made at railway stations to inform passengers that all these trains are fully reserved, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. The railways have advised all the passengers to observe the precautions like wearing a mask properly and to maintain social distance to stop the spread of COVID-19 and for a safe journey. COVID-19 positive persons are not allowed into railway areas or to board a train. Boarding a train after having been denied to undertake travel by the health check-up team at the railway station is an offence and violators would be punished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/observe-covid-precautions-train-commuters-told/article32968958.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU slams Centre||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State president Ch. Narasinga Rao has urged the working class to oppose the ‘anti-labour, anti-farmer and anti-people policies’ of the Centre. At a meeting of the CITU workers here on Wednesday, he alleged that the Centre instead of going to the rescue of workers in the pandemic situation was taxing them further by amending labour laws to promote corporate companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-slams-centre/article32968961.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land grabbers will not be spared: Muttamsetti||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao laid the foundation stone for Rythu Bharosa Kendram (RBK), to be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 36.75 lakh, at Kanamama village of Bheemunipatnam mandal in the district on Wednesday. The Minister rode a bullock cart for 2 km to participate in the programme, organised as part of the second phase of Rythu Bharosa. He distributed cheques for Rs. 4.18 crore to 20,509 farmer families. Speaking on the occasion, he said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was according top priority to the welfare of farmers. As against the poll promise of Rs. 12,500 a year to each farmer, an additional Rs. 1,000 was being given to them. The amounts were being transferred to their accounts. He said that the input subsidy for the crop losses suffered by the farmers, due to heavy rains in September was disbursed in a month. The scheme was a boon to small and marginal farmers, he said. Warning of stringent action against land grabbers, he reiterated that the State government would not allow even a cent of land to be encroached in Visakhapatnam. Those indulging in land grabbing would not be spared, irrespective of their power or position in society, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-grabbers-will-not-be-spared-muttamsetti/article32968962.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 114 COVID cases, one death||The district reported 114 new COVID-19 cases and one death in the last 24 hours, according to the district COVID-19 bulletin released on Wednesday evening. With the new cases, the cumulative tally increased to 55,941 and the death toll to 473.As many as 141 persons, undergoing treatment for the coronavirus, recovered in the last 24 hours. With the new cases and discharges, the total number of active and recoveries is 2,148 and 53,320 respectively. As on date, the district has 319 clusters. Out of them, six are very active, 19 active and 294 are dormant. As many as 627 clusters were de-notified by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-114-covid-cases-one-death/article32968966.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Operation Muskaan: 179 children rescued on the first day in Vizag||Following instructions from Director General of Police Gautam Sawang, the district and the city police along with Integrated Child Development Society (ICDS) and Child Welfare Committee (CWC) rescued 179 children by conducting raids at several places as part Operation Muskaan. The rescued children, include 60 girls. In the view of COVID-19, the police distributed masks and sanitisers to the children who were found begging or engaged in daily labour. Under the supervision of Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, about 200 police personnel from all the police stations were formed in to 66 teams and took part in the operation. The teams have rescued 101 children, including 32 girls. The rescued children were provided breakfast, masks, sanitisers and produced before CWC. The children were handed over to parents after counselling. Child Linea and Society for Education for Environmental Development Society (SEEDS) teams assisted the police teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/operation-muskaan-179-children-rescued-on-the-first-day-in-vizag/article32968851.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw ‘anti-labour’ policies: BMS||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has demanded withdrawal of the ‘anti-labour’ policies framed in the four labour codes by the Centre. A protest was organised by employees, owing allegiance to the Rashtriya Ispat Mazdoor Sangh, an affiliate of BMS, at the Steel Plant Gate near Kurmannapalem on Wednesday. BMS national vice president M. Jagadiswara Rao, Rashtriya Ispat Mazdoor Sangh general secretary S. Radha Krishnan and president Kommineni Srinivasa Rao deplored the policies. They recalled that the triennial national virtual conference of BMS held earlier this month had passed resolutions for the betterment of the labour class. They said that labour reform does not mean scrapping labour rights. Increasing the duty hours from 8 to 12 hours was exploitation of labour apart from violation of the international standards, set by the ILO, they said. Pension scheme should be treated as a fundamental right of an employee, who has served an organisation for a long period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-anti-labour-policies-bms/article32968959.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Botcha inspects floating solar power project||Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development (MAUD) Botcha Satyanarayana inspected floating solar power project and Mudasarlova park at Mudasarlova along with the other officials on Wednesday. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana explained about the project. The Minister asked the GVMC officials to prepare DPR for the development of the park. Later in a meet with the officials from GVMC, the Minister reviewed the Beach Front development project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/botcha-inspects-floating-solar-power-project/article32968968.ece
29 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘impregnating’ daughter||A 33-year-old man was taken into custody by the police on Wednesday for allegedly repeatedly raping his minor daughter under Malkapuram police station limits here. The incident came to light after family members of the girl lodged a complaint with the police on Wednesday, after the girl became pregnant. According to reports, a mason has two daughters. Under the influence of alcohol, he has been allegedly raping his elder daughter over a period of time. Recently, the girl’s maternal aunt who came to know about the incident took the girl to a local doctor after she complained of abdomen pain. The doctor informed that she was pregnant. Later, the family members lodged a complaint with the Malkapuram police station on Wednesday. The girl has been sent to King George Hospital for medical examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-impregnating-daughter/article32968967.ece
29 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||People burdened with taxes, says TDP||Vizianagaram district TDP president Kimidi Nagarjuna on Wednesday alleged that people were being overburdened by huge direct and indirect taxes in the State. He alleged that the YSR Congress Party was putting heavy financial burden by imposing additional taxes on petroleum products. Mr. Nagarjuna, who formally took charge as district president of the party, offered floral tributes to TDP founder N.T. Rama Rao in Cheepurupalli constituency from where his mother Kimidi Mrinalini won in the 2014 elections. “The YSR Congress Party has failed to attract industries,” said Mr. Nagarjuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-burdened-with-taxes-says-tdp/article32968882.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tax remission sought on FCV tobacco exports||The Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) has appealed to the Centre to include FCV tobacco in the Remission of Duties or Taxes on Export Product (RoDTEP) scheme and encourage exports through aggressive promotion schemes. The Centre has removed incentives for tobacco export, making the country a weak competitor in the global market, whereas other countries such as Zimbabwe, Malawi and etc. are encouraging their tobacco farmers by doling out incentives and subsidies, said Javare Gowda, president of FAIFA. The FAIFA organised a gathering of farmers in various tobacco growing locations of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka in strict comliance with the COVID-19 protocols on Wednesday, marking the World Tobacco Growers’ Day.    FAIFA vice-president Gadde Seshagiri Rao said tobacco is a highly remunerative crop providing economic benefits to farmers .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tax-remission-sought-on-fcv-tobacco-exports/article32968833.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Play time!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/play-time/article32968855.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stunning view!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stunning-view/article32968971.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hard at work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hard-at-work/article32967964.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All for a living||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-for-a-living/article32968844.ece
29 October 2020||DUBBAK,TELANGANA||‘Every family gained from our schemes’||One of the key figures in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the government, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao is no stranger to elections, be it his own polls or for the party. The same is the case now as he spearheads the campaign in Dubbak Assembly constituency, which is going to bypolls next week ,following the death of sitting member Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy. In his inimitable style, Mr. Rao has been attracting voters, addressing large gatherings, meeting voters and earning the goodwill of people. Taking time off his busy campaign schedule, the Finance Minister spoke to The Hindu at length on the prospects of the party in the by-elections and explains how the opposition Congress and the BJP are way behind the ruling party and exuded the confidence that the party would retain the Dubbak seat.  On what basis you are seeking votes in the byelections? During the past six years we have taken up various development activities and at least one from every family benefited from our schemes - be it Aasara pensions, Kalyana Lakshmi, KCR kit, Rythu Bandhu or Rythu Bima. Dubbak, with 1.98 lakh voters, is an agriculture-dominated constituency with 78,000 farmers benefiting with Rs. 5,000 per acre each season. There are about 20,000 beedi farmers and 60,000 Aasara pensioners. Our schemes are self-explanatory of our performance. Is the ‘sympathy wave’ working in the party’s favour? We have won three byelections – Narayankhed (Sangareddy dt.), Palair (Khammam dt.) and Huzurnagar (Nalgonda dt). We won Narayankhed and Palair, where the deceased Congress MLAs’ families contested. We won at the height of sympathy wave and in Dubbak the sympathy is for our candidate. It will be a smooth sail and our candidate has already covered 130 villages out of the 148 in addition to the wards in the constituency headquarters. How is the competition from Congress and BJP? We are exposing the misdeeds of both parties. For instance we have been offering Rs. 2,016 pension for beedi workers whereas Congress introduced skull symbol on the beedi packet while BJP gifted them GST. The BJP has promised one crore jobs per annum and what happened to six crore jobs in the past six years? The competition is between Congress and BJP to get deposits and for second place, not for first place. They can continue their politics and retain party workers in the State only if they secure the second position. We are telling people that the demonetisation introduced by BJP had shattered the economy. Are the voters convinced of the government programmes, performance and deliverables? The public response is overwhelming. We are telling people what we are offering and exposing both national parties. For instance, when BJP leaders are claiming that Centre’s share is Rs. 1,600 in beedi workers pension. Likewise, in the case of KCR kit. They do not know even the complete details of the scheme and each leader is telling something different. So far they have not responded. BJP is resorting to false campaign and banking heavily on social media. I have challenged them to an open debate but they have not responded. In the case of power, BJP wants to establish meters for borewell motors while during Congress regime it was motors which burnt due to erratic power supply. We are offering round-the-clock power with quality. We are asking farmers to chose their choice among the three. What will be the impact of late Cheruku Muthyam Reddy on the elections? Will it be advantage Congress? Actually it was advantage TRS! This constituency has severe drought and power problem. We have brought Kaleshwaram water here from 300 km and addressed the water problem. Similarly, we have addressed power problem by establishing a number of transformers and substations. Muthyam Reddy had failed to address these problems while in power. Congress candidate Srinivas Reddy, while in TRS, said his father’s soul would weep if he contested on Congress ticket. Now how is he contesting? Your reaction on the recent episode at Siddipet where money was seized from BJP candidate’s relative’s house? BJP leaders are acting out of frustration. The videos released by police have exposed how the Bharatiya Janata Party eaders behave like goondas and snatched money from police. If the money did not belong to him, why did BJP candidate Raghunandan Rao rush to Siddipet, abandoning the campaign?  In the Dubbak byelection, sympathy wave is in our favour. T. Harish Rao Finance Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/every-family-gained-from-our-schemes/article32968663.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chintalkunta flooding saved the day for Mansurabad lake||A few days ago, when several localities of the city were flooded during incessant downpour, a video went viral of one person trying his swimming skills on the highway at Chintalkunta area of L.B. Nagar. Widely shared and spoofed, the video clip represented the severity of the flooding on the Vijayawada highway between Vanasthalipuram and Chintalkunta checkpost, where even parked cars had floated away. Very few knew that if not on the road, flooding would have happened elsewhere — in Saraswathi Nagar and Hakeemabad colonies. All the water that streamed on to the road from colonies upstream actually belonged to the Pedda Cheruvu at Mansurabad, which was but 500 metres away on the other side of the main road. Rain water streaming from the colonies surrounding Vanasthalipuram was to enter the storm water drain near Sushma Theatre across the road and empty into the lake. However, the drain was too narrow to hold the flood water which flowed down the road and resulted in inundation. Another culvert across the road near Abhyudaya Nagar which would have joined the drain on the other side choked, leading to more flooding, officials from GHMC informed. The situation was made worse by the raised median near the Chintalkunta underpass, leading to formation of a virtual swimming pool there. Attempts are on to widen the storm water drain, by construction of another box drain alongside the existing one. Earth moving machines could be seen working near the drain which was half dug, on Wednesday. Had the drain works been complete, the water would have entered the Pedda Cheruvu, resulting in overflow of the lake, and inundation of surrounding colonies. Unbearable sewage stench greets any visitor to the lake, who ventures beyond the iron gate enclosing the lake bund within. The gate is installed as entry to a temple inside, which was constructed bang inside the FTL area, in violation of rules. Just a little further away is a mosque, also located in the FTL zone. Two industries, one defunct, apart from several other buildings were clustered inside the lake area, while more than a couple of roads are laid right through the FTL and buffer zones. On the opposite side, a graveyard juts into the buffer zone, partially encroaching into the FTL too, while an immersion pond constructed inside the lake by GHMC for festival dumping too can be termed as a violation. Surplus channel of the lake which empties into the Chinna Cheruvu behind Kamineni Hospitals towards Nagole is heavily encroached by colonies such as Saraswathi Nagar, Chandrapuri and others. Officials vouch that there is virtually no surplus course any more. Pedda Cheruvu is one among the 19 lakes scheduled for beautification and development under the Urban Mission Kakatiya programme. However, no attempt can be seen to divert sewage entering the lake, though a walking track has been laid around it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chintalkunta-flooding-saved-the-day-for-mansurabad-lake/article32968647.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TS tops in ryots’ loan waiver’||Waiving crop loans to the tune of Rs. 27,718 crore apart from Rs. 28,000 crore extended to farmers under Rythu Bandhu scheme, Telangana is the numero uno in the country in serving the interests of farmers, TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao said. These are the figures revealed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in its report and its a great honour for the youngest state in the country, KTR said, adding it was a befitting answer to those who criticised the government with false accusations. He said the RBI report had clearly stated that the Telangana government was on the top in waiving crop loans in the country. Apart from this, the Rythu Bandhu scheme had put an additional Rs. 28,000 crore so far in the farmers’ hands. These were above the money spent on Rythu Bheema and free power supply to the agriculture sector. KTR said the RBI report also made it clear that the beneficiaries under Rythu Bandhu were 95% small and marginal farmers, thus negating the claim that the scheme was benefiting rich farmers. Overall, six lakh farmers’ families had benefited scheme and this was an extraordinary achievement. Stating that Telangana was the most progressive state in the country, he said contribution of agriculture had increased by 300% in the State’s Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and it meant agriculture policies of Telangana government had paid off. Moreover, the per capita income in Telangana had more than doubled, the Minister said. Dubbak poll KTR claimed that it would be a cake walk for the TRS in Dubbak bypoll and Congress and BJP would struggle to retain their deposits. TRS would better its majority this time, he said stating Congress was nowhere in the picture. Taking a dig at the BJP leaders and the money confiscated from them by the police, he said BJP leaders claim all the money spent on welfare schemes was theirs but the money caught by the police was not theirs. He declined to reveal if the Chief Minister would campaign and asked if there was any such need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-tops-in-ryots-loan-waiver/article32968667.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Don’t assume COVID-19 has vanished, warn Health dept.||The State government is turning its focus on precautionary measures that need to be continued to avoid a second wave of COVID-19 in Telangana. Urging people not to assume that the coronavirus threat no longer exists, Health department officials have cautioned that any negligence in observing precautions will lead to a surge in cases. Testing rise and fall At this point, it cannot be said that fewer positive cases are being recorded in Telangana. The number of cases detected in a day is directly related to the number of tests performed. The highest of 2,500 to 3,000 cases per day were detected towards August-end to September second week when 55,000 to 60,000 people were being examined for coronavirus every day. Gradually, the number of samples tested has come down. From the past week, around 40,000 samples were tested in a day, leading to detection of 1,200 to 1,500 cases. Testing dropped to nearly 15,000 and 21,000 on Sunday and Monday, respectively. Sunday being a holiday, and festival season, was cited as reason for the drop. When the tests increased, the number of cases also rose which proved the assumption that fewer cases are being detected as being wrong. The second wave of COVID-19 cases in European nations is weighing heavily on State government officials. On Tuesday, officials of Health department, Panchayat Raj department, Women and Child Welfare department held a meeting on the pandemic measures. The officials said that the cases surged in European nations when people there dropped taking precautions. They said if people participate in large gatherings, the cases will surge again in the State. People are urged to wear mask whenever they step out, wash hands or sanitise whenever they touch a thing or someone, maintain distance of six feet, and avoid crowd and mass gatherings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-assume-covid-19-has-vanished-warns-health-dept/article32968624.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR reviews flood relief and restoration works||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao instructed officials to take up repair and restoration works for roads that have been damaged due to flooding during the incessant downpour about two weeks ago. Repairs should be taken up circle wise on all main roads, he directed officials during a review meeting on Wednesday to discuss the ongoing relief and restoration works in rain-affected areas. Mr. KTR asked GHMC officials to share a helpline number with the public to give information about flood related debris and garbage piling up in any locality. He advised them to rope in resident welfare associations and NGOs for more assistance in providing relief. He also instructed the officials to install retro fittings to old flyovers for easy drainage of the rainwater. GHMC officials informed the Minister that distribution of financial assistance to all the flood affected families could be completed within one more day. During the special sanitation drive taken up after floods, a total of 18,000 metric tonnes of trash have been collected by the Sanitation teams of GHMC. Every day, 3,500 MT additional garbage is being collected, apart from clearance of sludge, they informed. The affected localities are being sprayed with disinfectants to control spread of disease. The Minister asked the officials to also clear garbage from the nalas. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, Director, Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management Vishwajit Kampati apart from officials of Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board and Municipal Administration departments participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-reviews-flood-relief-restoration-works/article32968648.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Helping the flood-hit restart their lives||There is an infectious energy as dozens of young men and women stand, sit, sort and bag relief material to be despatched to the flood-affected areas of Hyderabad. The relief material includes clothes, inner wear, bedsheets, mattresses, dry rations, hygiene kits, toiletries, citronella incense sticks and almost everything else that a family may need. “We did a survey and found that nearly 6,000 families have lost everything. The current requirement is clothes, bedsheets, mattresses and other things of daily use,” says Sara, one of the coordinators at the relief centre, where 10 NGOs and social organisations have teamed up. Power of social media Social media and word-of-mouth publicity played a key role in getting relief material and volunteers. The stock of relief material was enough to damage the glass pane of the re-purposed car showroom. The relief material is brought from dozens of collection centres set up across the city. “We managed to bring in many NGOs to work with us. We have created a system where the material that is brought in is sorted, catalogued and despatched to different areas,” says Azam Khan, who has helped put together the relief war-room. The most affected areas are pinned to a map on the wall. While initially food was the major requirement, now the demand is more for bedsheets, mattresses and utensils. In a different part of the city, Khaleeda Parveen has created a different model for distributing relief material. “The flood-affected people come here, show their identity and locality where they are from and then they pick up clothes of their choice and leave. We also give each family a blanket, bedsheets, a bucket and a mug,” says Ms Parveen of Amoomat Society. People from Talabkatta, Falaknuma and other areas are travelling to the houses near Salar Jung Colony to collect relief material. Another NGO is focussing on the flood-affected in Saroornagar, Uppal and Nagaram areas. “We distributed food packets in those areas in the initial days. But now the needs have changed. One of our partnering NGOs has brought in relief material from other cities and we are distributing kits now,” says a volunteer associated with the relief effort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/helping-the-flood-hit-restart-their-lives/article32968635.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP pushed economy from slowdown to lockdown: KTR||TRS working president and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre, stating that it had successfully brought down the Indian economy from slowdown to lockdown mode. In an informal interaction with reporters here, he said the projected zero percent growth rate was entirely due to the BJP’s failure to manage the economy. For the last eight quarters Indian economy had seen the slowdown and this was much before coronavirus came into the picture. “You have hit the growing economy of India with your inability and also let down people of India,” KTR said. Taking a dig at the Finance Minister Nirmala Seetharaman’s statement on coronavirus as an “act of God”, he said BJP maked promises, mismanaged and then shifted the blame to others through their “WhatsApp’ university. KTR asked where the two crore jobs promised by the Prime Minister, the Rs. 15 lakh to be deposited in each account and the assurance of houses to all by 2020 were . Referring to the claims of BJP State unit that Centre’s contribution to all schemes of the State was huge, he said the party would give even Goebbels a run for his money through fake narratives and propaganda. “They are seen more on social media than in society,” he said challenging the BJP to release a white paper on Central government’s contribution to Telangana. Mr Rama Rao’s strong reaction came in the backdrop of the money seizure controversy in Dubbak constituency where police confiscated more than Rs. 18 lakh from the BJP candidate Raghunandan Rao’s relative and the subsequent allegations and counter-allegations by both parties. “BJP believes in creating confusion when it cannot convince.” The BJP leaders had alleged that police was caught while placing the cash in the BJP supporter’s residence to blame them.  ‘Will attack PM’ The Minister strong objection to the abusive language used by the BJP cadre on Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao and said TRS was losing patience and it would be forced to use similar language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the Union Ministers. “We can use abusive language as well,” he said reminding how the Chief Minister prevented people ridiculing the Prime Minister during the lockdown. “We respect institutions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-pushed-economy-from-slowdown-to-lockdown-ktr/article32968666.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mastermind in dentist kidnap was bankrupt in Australia||A former cryptocurrency investor and financial adviser, who fled from Australia following bankruptcy, was the mastermind behind the kidnapping of a dentist from Kismatpur in Rajendranagar on Tuesday afternoon. Musthafa, a close relative of the victim Dr. Behjath Hussain (56), hatched a conspiracy with his associate Khalid and their employees to abduct the latter to settle his debts and lead a ‘luxurious life’. He is currently into hospitality industry in Hyderabad and Pune. A resident of Kismatpur, Dr. Hussain was kidnapped by four persons clad in burqas from his yet-to-be inaugurated clinic at around 1.15 p.m. on Tuesday. He was taken to a house at Yellammabanda of Kukatpally in his own SUV and was later handed over to another ‘team’, who planned to take him to Udupi in Karnataka. Meanwhile, the Cyberabad police nabbed the first team of kidnappers — Sumit, Akshay, Salman and Vicky — who spilled the beans about the other team. “Soon, we alerted our counterparts in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra, and at 6.30 a.m. on Wednesday, Dr. Hussain was rescued by the Anantapur police, who also nabbed the accused,” Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar said. While trailing the kidnappers, police lost track of them at Kurnool and later near Anantapur. He said that Musthafa demanded the family to pay a ransom of Rs. 10 crore in bitcoins within 48 hours to release the doctor safely and threatened to not approach police. The Australian government has initiated action against Musthafa for his illegal dealings in cryptocurrency. Mubashir Ahmed alias Khalid was his business partner there. “Because of their unstable financial position and as they got addicted to a lavish life, the duo decided to kidnap the victim and demand money as they knew his financial position,” Mr. Sajjanar said. Dr. Hussain was also into real estate and owns huge property in Hyderabad. Dr. Hussain said that Musthafa’s involvement came as a shock to him as he considered the latter as his close family member. “I trusted him and never expected him to go to such extent for money,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/culprit-was-broke-in-australia-had-to-flee/article32968639.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. plans to increase cultivation of onion, tomato||The State government has asked the Horticulture and Marketing departments to stabilise the extent of cultivation of onion and tomato crops in the State in tune with the demand for the two perishable crops in the State and also keeping in mind the crisis faced every year due to demand-supply variation. Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy, at a review meeting held here on Wednesday with the officials of Agriculture, Marketing and Horticulture departments as also officials of Seed Corporation of Markfed, Warehousing corporation and Agros, wanted the officials to submit a report on the demand-supply-cultivation position of onion and tomato crops. He asked the officials to examine what kind of incentives and subsidies could be extended to farmers to cultivate the two crops in extents proportionate to the demand within the State after looking into the reasons leading to spiralling of price of the two vegetable crops two-three times every year. He also instructed the officials of the Horticulture department to examine the possibilities of increasing onion cultivation extent and production during the Yasangi season. The Minister told the marketing department officials to continue the sale of onion at subsidised rate of Rs. 35 per kg in Rythu Bazaars till the retail sale prices in the market came down. According to officials, both onion and tomato are consumed about 5 lakh tonnes each every year in the State. On the cultivation of oilpalm, the minister asked the horticulture officials to prepare an action plan on procurement of plants and coverage of planned extent next year. For the current year, plantation of the crop should be completed by November 15. On the vegetable waste generated in Rythu Bazaars and other vegetable markets, the minister wanted the officials to prepare plans on making it into compost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-to-increase-cultivation-of-onion-tomato/article32968606.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases spike again in TS||COVID-19 cases in Telangana jumped back to the usual range with 1,481 people testing positive on Tuesday. The cases had dropped over the last two days due to reduced testing. On Sunday, which coincided with Dasara festivities, only 14,729 samples were tested and 582 were found positive for the novel coronavirus. On Monday, 21,099 people were examined and 837 were detected to have the virus. On Tuesday, however, 40,081 people were tested and 1,481 turned COVID-positive. The results of 664 persons are awaited. The new cases include 279 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 138 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 111 from Rangareddy, 82 each from Khammam and Nalgonda, and 79 each from Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Karimnagar. No case was registered in Wanaparthy and just four were recorded in Narayanpet. Four more COVID-19 patients died. Of the 40,081 people who were examined, 37,237 opted for government health facilities and 2,844 got tested at private labs. Death toll at 1,319 So far, 41,55,597 samples have been put to test in the State and 2,34,152 detected with the novel coronavirus. Currently, there are 17,916 active cases while 2,14,917 have recovered, and 1,319 have died. In the 61 government hospitals, there were 4,758 oxygen beds and 1,187 ICU beds available on Tuesday. At the 227 private hospitals, 2,998 oxygen beds and 2,245 ICU beds were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cases-spike-again-in-ts/article32968621.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Voluntary agency to relocate trees on old secretariat premises||After having spent a good part of Wednesday in trimming and replanting four 15-year old trees on the roadside which had fallen during the recent rains at the Malaysian Township in Kukatpally, a satisfied Uday Krishna Peddireddi wipes the sweat off his brow as he heads home. While these were planted at the same location, a bigger task awaits him and the Vata Foundation of which he’s a founder-trustee. The government has decided to allow the voluntary body to relocate 80 fully grown trees from inside the secretariat complex bowing to vociferous demands from green activists. “We have received permission from the Tree Protection Committee (TPC). I reckon it could take about two weeks to dig the trees, trim them and transport them to a private land in Shamshabad. We will need a 80-tonne crane and make at least 60 trips including by a trailer for the 40-km journey,” says 50-year-old Mr. Uday Krishna. Interestingly, the foundation (vatafoundation@gmail.com) is doing the work free of cost and has only sought government help in uprooting and loading them onto the trucks while the rest of the expenditure like cost of transport and re-plantation will be borne by the private party which is taking them. “Many people are interested in sponsoring translocation of trees and are even ready to plant them in their own respective plots/properties. We have been repeatedly requesting GHMC, R&B and other departments to permit us to relocate fallen trees or trees likely to be cut down for road widening. Hundreds of trees fell during the recent rain in the twin cities,” he points out. In fact, he and fellow volunteers of the foundation are keen to ‘save’ trees reportedly permitted to be felled by the TPC inside the secretariat. “Every tree can be saved, irrespective of its age and species. We are trying to get details on the precise number of trees,” says Mr. Uday Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/voluntary-agency-to-relocate-trees-on-old-secretariat-premises/article32968628.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘People determined to vote Cong.’||The Telangana Congress has alleged that though the BJP and TRS are trying to put up a show of competing with each other, people believe that they are two faces of the same coin, and they are determined to vote for Congress. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee Treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said in a statement that voters of Dubbak were ready to teach a lesson to the ruling party by electing Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy given his credentials. He said people were clear on their resentment against the TRS government and realised the development done by late MLA Cheruku Muthyam Reddy. Mr. Reddy said the party was rejuvenated under the leadership of Telangana Congress incharge Manickam Tagore and TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and their efforts would not go in vain. He reminded how Mr. T. Jeevan Reddy won the Graduate Constituency elections in 2019 just after TRS came to power. It showed people were fed up with the ruling party and it reflected in the Lok Sabha elections as well. Narayana Reddy said that the government had failed in providing the infrastructure to face the situation arising out of frontline warriors contracting COVID-19. The disease was not brought under Arogya Sri Scheme and due to this lakhs of people had faced financial problems. Moreover, farmers were angry that the government also did not provide any help to those who suffered losses due to the recent incessant rains. He said that enumeration of crop loss was not taken up and no aid had been provided to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/people-are-determined-to-vote-for-congress-says-gudur/article32968669.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR cautions against letting guard down||“The only proven way to control the pandemic across the world is following some simple precautions of wearing face masks, personal hygiene and social distancing particularly during these festival times. A lot of ground has been covered in the last 10 months and understanding has begun to emerge leading to new therapies, diagnostics and vaccines about COVID-19 yet, there is still far more to uncover,” said Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) Director General Shekhar C. Mande on Wednesday. In a communication to all CISR labs across the country, the DG cautioned against people congregating in one place and ensure the homes are as ventilated as possible. “During these festive times we usually witness large gatherings, family reunions, and celebrations. However, this virus has continued to ravage the world, spread wilder than wild fire, and has disrupted every sphere of human activity. With ‘unlock’ and more activities resuming, it is easy to forget the virus and jump into the festivities and celebrate which we all love to do,” he said. Burden on medical staff However, people should consider the workload on doctors and healthcare workers working relentlessly to ensure that affected individuals get the best care. “Festival is the time to pay respect to them by making sure that we don’t enhance the burden on them by overlooking the safety measures of containing the spread of the virus,” said Dr. Mande. Indian scientists have been involved in “exciting developments” like the new diagnostic kit FELUDA developed at CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology; launch of Favipiravir by Cipla with CSIR technology; while findings about treating diseases from the age-old traditional knowledge of the Indian system are expected soon as also in vaccine development. New lessons every day “But, there is a still more to learn as there are many perplexing observations about the pandemic,” said the DG. “Why are some asymptomatic and recover on their own? It is not that people below 65 are not affected and people without diabetes are safe as even those without co-morbidities have the possibility of developing severe form of the disease. It clearly establishes the fact that we know little about the virus and the severity that it will hit with any one who comes in contact with the virus,” he warned. Thus, “it will only be befitting tribute to countless COVID Warriors if we truly observe discipline during the festival season and not lead to explosion of the pandemic because of our complacence,” added the DG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-cautions-against-letting-guard-down/article32968630.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man with Rs. 50 lakh hawala money held||With the arrest of a 36-year-old MBA graduate, Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (north zone) busted a hawala racket and found unaccountable cash of Rs. 50 lakh from his possession on Wednesday. A team led by inspector K. Nageswar Rao intercepted Abbagonolla Avinash Goud’s car near Fathemaidan Club out gate and apprehended him. He is a realtor from Nallakunta. “To develop his business he borrowed Rs. 50 lakh from one Ramesh of Srikalahasti in Chittoor district, who sent the money through a hawala agent,” Mr. Rao said. He said that Avinash received the cash near MJ Market with an intention to transport the same to Tamil Nadu to invest in real estate business and he failed to produce relevant documents pertaining to the cash transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-with-rs-50-lakh-hawala-money-held/article32968676.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||EAMCET counselling postponed||Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the State government and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU) to permit Intermediate students, who could not appear for exams due to COVID-19 and were declared as passed with 35% of marks, to participate in the ongoing EAMCET counselling session. Passing this direction, Justice P. Naveen Rao of the High Court directed that the second phase of EAMCET counselling be stopped to facilitate this. The EAMCET authorities made it mandatory for candidates to secure 45% of marks in Intermediate examinations to be eligible to participate in EAMCET counselling. This made several students ineligible for participation in EAMCET counselling. Some of them approached the HC challenging the decision. With the HC intervention, authorities decided to postpone the second phase of EAMCET counselling. Advocate General B.S. Prasad, appearing for the government, told the court that the government decided to relax the rule of 45% of marks for eligibility to participate in EAMCET counselling. A new Government Order would be passed in a couple of days to this effect, he informed the court. Justice P. Naveen Rao directed the authorities to stop the second phase of EAMCET counselling till the GO was issued to facilitate the petitioners and others to appear for the counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eamcet-counselling-postponed/article32968664.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Applications for medical officer posts in Basthi Dawakhanas||Applications for 41 ‘medical officer’ posts in Basthi Dawakhanas were invited by Hyderabad District Medical and Health Officer’s (DMHO) office. The qualification for the post is MBBS and the monthly salary offered is Rs. 42,000. Currently, around 116 Basthi Dawakhanas are operational in Hyderabad, and 24 more would be opened. DMHO J. Venkati said the medical officer posts are contractual jobs under National Health Mission. Those interested can download application forms from www.hyderabad.telangana.gov.in. Applicants have to attend walk-in interviews at the DMHO office located beside Hari Hara Kala Bhavan, Patny Centre, Secunderabad, from 10.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on working days from October 29 to November 13. Original certificates and filled in application form must be furnished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-for-medical-officer-posts-in-basthi-dawakhanas/article32968626.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||T-SAT channels cross 1 mn. downloads||T-SAT Network channels Vidya and Nipuna, which air educational content for school and college students, have reached a new milestone of 1 million downloads. The channels that were providing coaching to various competitive exams and teacher training programmes started digital classes for school and Intermediate students during the pandemic. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao appreciated the efforts put in by the T-SAT team led by CEO R. Shailesh Reddy for reaching the milestone. Mr. Reddy, along with IT Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and digital media director Dileep Konatham, met Mr. Rama Rao and explained how the channels were making a difference to learning. The Minister said that by reaching out to the students through digital classes during the pandemic, the T-SAT network has created a space for itself as an alternative mode of learning. He felt that the T-SAT platform should not be limited to education and all departments can use its services. He asked the officials to suggest ideas for expanding the scope and services of the T-SAT. Mr. Reddy said the channels were now available on Sun Direct DTH as well. The channels are already on air on Airtel and Tata Sky DTH apart from 43 cable networks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/t-sat-channels-cross-1-mn-downloads/article32968633.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hussainsagar nala retaining wall to be strengthened||Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan said on Wednesday that the State government has sanctioned Rs. 68.4 crore for strengthening the retaining wall along the Hussainsagar surplus nala up to Musi river. On Wednesday, during his tour of Ratna Nagar in Nallakunta area along with the MLA Kaleru Venkatesh, Mr. Ram Mohan said that the retaining wall would be strengthened on the eight kilometre stretch from the Hussainsagar up to Golnaka, while a new retaining wall would be built for the one kilometre stretch from Golnaka up to the Musi river, to prevent inundation of low lying areas along the nala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hussainsagar-surplus-nala-retaining-wall-to-be-strengthened/article32968649.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gandhi Nagar SI, constable in ACB net||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Wednesday nabbed a sub-inspector and constable working at the Gandhi Nagar police station while they were accepting a bribe of Rs. 30,000 from an accused in return for an official favour. Sub-Inspector Mellacheruvu Laxminarayana and constable Nimmala Naresh were trapped by the ACB officials following a complaint lodged by M. Santhosh Reddy of Habsiguda. They were caught red-handed near the police station. Officials said that Laxminarayana demanded money from Santhosh Reddy to abstain from registering a cheating case against him and to do a favour in the investigation of a similar cheating case registered against him at Gandhi Nagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gandhi-nagar-si-constable-in-acb-net/article32968675.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vijayashanti will stay in the party: Congress||In the wake of reports that Congress leader Vijayashanti might leave the party, the TPCC working president J. Kusum Kumar met her on Wednesday apparently to convince her not to leave. Later, Mr. Kusum Kumar said she will stay in the party as she had joined it after Congress promised a separate Telangana. He said she was not active in the party activities because of COVID issues and has been critical of the government’s policies. A few days ago, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy visited her at her home fuelling speculations that she might join the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vijayashanti-will-stay-in-the-party-congress/article32968895.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Metro service extended till 9.30 p.m.||Hyderabad Metro Rail and L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad have announced the last service of metro rail across the three corridors is extended by half hour till 9.30 p.m. Trains on Red Line (L.B. Nagar to Miyapur), Blue Line (Nagole to Raidurg) and Green Line (MGBS to JBS) will continue to start from 7 a.m. onwards and will run non-stop till the last service from terminal stations, said HMR MD N.V.S. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-service-extended-till-930-pm/article32968631.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cancer run organisers bag two records||Organisers of Grace Cancer Run, held recently to generate awareness on breast cancer, bagged two Guinness World Records. The records announced on Wednesday are for accruing ‘Most live viewers for a female health awareness lesson on YouTube as part of Cancer Awareness Drive’, and for ‘Most videos of people running or jogging uploaded to Facebook in one hour as part of Cancer Awareness Drive’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cancer-run-organisers-bag-two-records/article32968889.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No water supply for a day in several areas||Due to junction works for Krishna Phase-II pipelines, there won’t be water supply to many areas from 6 a.m. on October 31 for 24 hours. The areas to be affected include Mehdipatnam, Karwan, Langar Houz, Kakatiya Nagar, Humayun Nagar, Tallagadda, Asif Nagar, MES, Saikpet, O.U. Colony, Toli Chowki, Mallepally, Vijay Nagar Colony, Boja Gutta, Jiyaguda, Red Hills, Secretariat, Old MLA Quarters, Allah Banda, Gaganmahal, Himayatnagar, Budwel, Hyderguda, Rajendranagar, Upparpally, Suleman Nagar, MM Pahadi, Attapur, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-water-supply-for-a-day-in-several-areas/article32968636.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EAMCET last date extended||The government has extended the last date for payment of tuition fee and self reporting for candidates who were allotted seats in the EAMCET counselling to October 29. So far, 36,659 candidates self reported to their allotted colleges through the website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eamcet-last-date-extended/article32968678.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Bank locker opened (with photo)||Continuing their probe into the bribe case of former Municipal Commissioner of Mahabubnagar Vadde Surender, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Tuesday opened a bank locker in Hyderabad and found cash and gold ornaments. The locker was in the name of Surender and his wife at Indian Overseas Bank, Hayathnagar branch. The officials found Rs. 27.44 lakh cash, 808 grams of gold ornaments worth Rs. 17.24 lakh and 71 grams of silver articles worth Rs. 1,280 in the locker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-bank-locker-opened-with-photo/article32968644.ece
29 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Notification issued for Masters in Public Health course||The Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) has issued notification seeking applications for admission into Masters in Public Health (MPH) 20-21 through an online entrance exam scheduled to be held on November 10 in Hyderabad. Log on to http://knruhs.telangana.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notification-issued-for-masters-in-public-health-course/article32968638.ece
29 October 2020||M. RajeevHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre allocates Home posts between TS, AP||The allocation of officials of the Home department in some categories pending between the two Telugu States has finally been completed. The Central government released orders on Wednesday allocating officials of the cadre of non-cadre Superintendents of Police, Additional Superintendents of Police (Civil) and Deputy Superintendents of Police (Civil) between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Accordingly, nine non-cadre SPs, 49 additional SPs and 192 DSPs are allotted to Telangana while 16 non-cadre SPs, 64 additional SPs and 302 DSPs were allotted to Andhra Pradesh under Section 77 (2) of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. The Centre, according to officials, intervened in the issue as the two States could not resolve the differences that arose in the allocation of the officials notwithstanding several rounds of deliberations between senior officials representing the two sides. The order would, however, be not effective for employees who obtained stay against their allocation to any of the successor States. Orders in respect of such officials would become effective only on vacation of the stay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-allocates-home-department-posts-between-telangana-and-ap/article32968677.ece
29 October 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||New house a dream come true for homeless couple||For elderly couple Pyaram Chandraiah and Lakshmi of Chandapur village in Chinnashankarampet mandal, it was a dream come true. They got a new house and even the house warming ceremony was performed on Wednesday, thanks to Winners Foundation, BDL Bhanur employees’ social arm, which got a house constructed for them within 50 days. On the night of August 16, their old house collapsed due to heavy rains and they were left on the road with whatever they had, literally. Every material in the house got damaged. They had even lost their small jobs well before the incident due to coronavirus. Since then, they started living under a tree. After knowing about their plight through the media, Arikapudi Raghu, president of Winners Foundation, decided to set up a house for the old couple. “We started constructing the house on September 11 with the help of Burugupally Chandra Shekhar, Sridevi and some other persons and completed it with about Rs. 4 lakh. Some NRIs also stepped in to help them. The house was inaugurated by Nanda Marri from Value Momentum,” Mr. Raghu told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-house-a-dream-come-true-for-homeless-couple/article32968892.ece
29 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||TN IPS official observer for Dubbak poll||In a rare move, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has appointed Saroj Kumar Thakur, an IPS officer of Tamil Nadu cadre, as police observer for Dubbak by-election. “In exercise of powers conferred on it by Article 324 of the Constitution of India and Section 208 of the Representation of People Act, 1961, the Election Commission hereby appoint Saroj Kumar Thakur, IPS, TN, 2010, as police observer for the by-elections to the 41- Dubbak Assembly constituency, Siddipet district,” read a press release issued by the ECI on Wednesday. On October 26, a high drama took place at Siddipet where police seized Rs. 18.67 lakh from the house of Surabhi Anjan Rao, a relative of BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao. However, BJP workers who reached there in large numbers along with the candidate alleged that the police had tried to put the cash in the house of S. Ramgopal Rao, father-in-law of Raghunandan Rao. From there the BJP workers allegedly snatched Rs. 12.8 lakh from the police and a case was registered against 27 persons in the matter and three of them were arrested and sent in remand. An amount of Rs. 27,500 was recovered from them. Initially, police said that raids were held at eight places and money was seized from two places. Later, the number of raids conducted was put at four. BJP Sate president Bandi Sanjay, who was not allowed to enter Siddipet on the night of October 26, stated his party would lodge a complaint against Joyal Davis, Commissioner of Police, Siddipet, alleging that police were favoring TRS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tn-ips-official-observer-for-dubbak-poll/article32968670.ece
29 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘We will agitate against Central Acts’||Finance Minister of Telangana T Harish Rao said that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) would take up an agitation against the recently made Acts by Parliament and the entire nation was doing that. He said that Union government had introduced these bills on April 27 and it was anti-farmer.  Power usage “Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders said in the past that farmers were committing suicide as the food they took could not be digested. When in the position of Union Minister Mr. Bandaru Dattatreya said that farming was waste. What do you want – motors burning due to erratic power supply or metres for bore motors or round-the-clock free power supply? Decide your self,” said Mr. Harish Rao while addressing a huge rally of farmers at Chegunta on Wednesday. The Finance Minister alleged that the Union government had written to the State to furnish to it details of the consumption of power usage and it was possible only if metres were fixed to bore wells. The Finance Minsiter, Mr Harish Rao, said the Central government had also offered to pay Rs. 2,500 crore if meters were fixed but Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao rejected the proposal as he had thought in the interest of farmers of the State. “Congress had offered power at midnight and forced us to stay at farm. Bharatiya Janata Party is importing maize from abroad while here maize farmers are suffering. BJP is trying to get votes based on false promises. Can we vote for these parties?” the Finance Minister asked. Mr. Harish Rao also addressed election campaign at Timmapur in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/we-will-agitate-against-central-acts/article32968671.ece
29 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Step-motherly attitude, says Aravind||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Lok Sabha member Dharmapuri Aravind has alleged that the oustees of Mallannasagar received step-motherly treatment from the government and they would teach a lesson to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in Dubbak by-election. “What was the amount for the oustees of Mallannasagar paid and what was the amount paid for the oustees of Siddipet and Gajwel? Why this difference? Is this not step-motherly treatment?” asked Mr D. Aravind, addressing an election campaign at Etigaddakishtapur in Toguta mandal on Wednesday with party candidate M Raghunandan Rao. He was confident the party would win with about 30,000 majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/step-motherly-attitude-says-aravind/article32968894.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Springs a surprise||Mr. K. T. Rama Rao threw a surprise stating that those campaigning for Congress and BJP might end up in TRS much before polls. Most of them want to join the ruling party and he would not be surprised if several leaders from opposition parties ended up with TRS giving a shock to the opposition parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/springs-a-surprise/article32968673.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Daily virus tally breaches 5,000 mark||The Capital reported 5,673 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, which is the highest single day jump for the second day in a row. Delhi recorded its previous highest number of cases on Tuesday with 4,853 cases. The total number of cases now stands at 3,70,014. The death toll has reached 6,396 with 40 fatalities reported in 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. A total of 4,128 patients have recovered taking the total recoveries to 3,34,240. There are now 29, 378 active cases. The cumulative positivity rate in the Capital is 8.19% while the case fatality rate stands at 1.73%. Over 60,571 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 9.37% in the past 24 hours. Of the 15,765 hospital beds in Delhi, 5,665 are occupied. At COVID-19 care centres, which have 7,887 beds, 894 are occupied. Of the 527 beds in COVID health centres, 324 are occupied. There are 16,833 patients in home isolation. The number of containment zones in Delhi increased to 3,047, from 3,032 on Tuesday. According to Revenue Department data, the South-West district has 558 containment zones, South (505), West (333), New Delhi (275), Central (267), South-East (247) and North-West (246). North-East has 82 such zones — lowest in Delhi, followed by East (165), North (171) and Shahdara (198). The number of new cases on Monday was 2,832, and 4,136 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-daily-virus-tally-breaches-5k-mark/article32968291.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court acquits Kejriwal in 2016 defamation case by Bidhuri||A Delhi court on Wednesday acquitted Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a 2016 criminal defamation complaint filed by BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri. The complaint was filed against him Mr. Bidhuri, MP from South Delhi parliamentary constituency, under Section 500 (defamation) of the IPC. Mr. Bidhuri alleged that Kejriwal had defamed him in an interview to a news channel. Mr. Bidhuri had taken objection to Mr. Kejriwal’s statement that though criminal cases were pending against the MP, the Delhi police were not taking any action. “ Ramesh Bidhuri ke khilaf bade bade sangeen charges hain, unko pakda aapne [There are serious charges against Ramesh Bidhuri, did you catch him],” the complaint quoted Mr. Kejriwal as telling the interviewer. “Such defamatory statements have been made with the ulterior motive and wrongful intent to malign and tarnish the image of the complainant,” the complaint said. The MP claimed that no case was pending against him, and the Chief Minister had defamed him by giving such statements. The court had summoned Mr. Kejriwal in February 2016. He was granted bail on a personal bond of Rs. 10,000 in July the same year when he appeared before the court on the summons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-acquits-kejriwal-in-2016-defamation-case-by-bidhuri/article32968288.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Schools to remain shut: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday announced that all schools in Delhi will remain closed until further orders due to the pandemic. Mr. Sisodia said that there were some parents who expressed anxiousness and fear about school reopening. We assured them that schools will not reopen for now. “Teachers, parents, and students have been wondering if schools will reopen during this difficult time. Many parents have also expressed their fear, especially if students congregate on school premises in close quarters,” said Mr. Sisodia before announcing the continued closure of schools. The Minister added that the possibility of spike in cases, or catching COVID-19 on school premises is high. Even in countries where schools have reopened, cases have increased among students. “Keeping parent’s fear in mind, and the potential risk this can pose to children, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and the Delhi government has decided to put children’s safety first, and hence, all schools will remain shut until further orders,” he added. Parents welcome move Parents have welcomed the government’s decision. While online learning has been challenging and does not match the social environment of a school, nothing is more important than the safety of “our children”, said parents. One of them is Preeti Khachroo Chandra, whose 12-year-old daughter studies in a private school. “The government’s decision makes a lot of sense. From the safety perspective of children, there is limited infrastructure at schools to have social distancing and other hygiene protocols. With the number of cases spiking in Delhi, it does not make sense to send children to schools. Their immune systems are sensitive and susceptible,” said Ms. Chandra. Low attendance Meanwhile, private schools in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar are struggling to get students of Classes 9 to 12 back in classrooms as parents continue to feel unsafe to send their wards to school. Private schools recorded a mere 14% attendance on Tuesday, while government and aided schools clocked 39% in Noida and Greater Noida, according to government officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capitals-schools-to-remain-shut/article32968297.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||AAP govt. adds 1,330 seats to nine existing courses at IPU||To deal with the shortfall of higher education seats in colleges in the Capital, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, on Wednesday announced that the Delhi government has added 1,330 new seats in nine existing courses at Guru Gobind Indraprastha (IP) University for the academic session 2020-21. These seats will be added to IP University-affiliated colleges, to nine existing courses at undergraduate as well as graduate level, the Minister said. New opportunities Of the 1,330 seats, maximum seats have been allotted to BTech with a total of 630 seats. The breakdown for the new seats for the nine courses is — BVoc (20 seats), BBA (120 seats), BCom (220 seats), BA economics (120 seats), BCA (90 seats), MBA (60 seats), MSc yoga (15 seats), and MVoc (55 seats). These additional seats, Mr. Sisodia said, is an effort by the government to offer new opportunities to students during an extremely difficult year. Equal to new colleges Mr. Sisodia said that the additional seats are as good as opening 5-6 new colleges. “When a new college opens up in this country, barely 200-odd seats are made available for students. If you look at these new seats, the Delhi government is providing the equivalent of at least 5-6 new colleges for students. It’s a good opportunity for our children,” Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/1330-seats-added-to-nine-existing-courses-at-ipu/article32968295.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||2 minors among 4 held for damaging vehicles||Two men were arrested and two juveniles apprehended for allegedly damaging vehicles in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri area, the police said on Wednesday. In a video which surfaced online, a group of people could be seen with sticks and damaging vehicles, including motorbikes and cars. The incident took place on Monday night, the police said. Lewd comment According to the police, on Monday, when a woman along with her brother went to a shop in the area, a man, standing nearby, allegedly made a lewd comment. When the woman’s brother strongly objected to it, a heated argument broke out between them, a senior police officer said. The man decided to take revenge from the woman’s brother. He, along with his group of friends, went to her house to look for her brother, but did not find him there. They looked for him in the area but could not trace him anywhere. While returning, in anger, they started damaging vehicles that were parked on the street, the officer said. There were around 14 people, including seven juveniles in the group. They damaged around four-five motorcycles and smashed glasses of six-seven cars. But no one was injured, the officer added. The police said the accused is yet to be arrested. Efforts are being taken to nab others also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-minors-among-4-held-for-damaging-vehicles/article32968292.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man kills self over rent||A 35-year-old man was found dead at his accommodation in south Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur, the police said on Wednesday. In a note, he has accused his landlord of harassment. During enquiry, it was found that he had a dispute over rent payment with his landlord. The landlord had also filed a court case against the victim and the hearing was scheduled on Wednesday, a senior officer said.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-kills-self-over-rent/article32968293.ece
29 October 2020||Chandigarh,||70 cows die at shelter in Haryana||At least 70 cows died on Wednesday due to suspected food poisoning at a cow shelter in Haryana’s Panchkula. Naresh Mittal, general secretary of the ‘Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham’ cow shelter in Panchkula, said 70 cows had died while 30 were taken ill. “Most of the cows have recovered. It looks to be a case of food poisoning caused by food offered by some devotee, and not on account of fodder.” “The deaths were reported in two sheds. If there was a problem in the fodder then deaths would have been reported from other sheds as well,” he said. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta visited the cow shelter and announced a three-member committee to probe the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/70-cows-die-at-shelter-in-haryana/article32968594.ece
29 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘My novel misrepresented in Mirzapur 2’||Popular Hindi crime fiction writer Surendra Mohan Pathak has alleged that his novel Dhabba has been “mischievously misrepresented” in Amazon Prime’s Mirzapur 2 . In a letter to the OTT platform, Mr. Pathak, a cult figure in Hindi pulp fiction, has described it as a violation of the Copyright Act. Referring to the episode 3 of the series, Mr. Pathak said character Satyanand Tripathi, played by veteran actor Kulbhushan Kharbanda, is shown reading from his novel Dhabba . “What the character has been shown reading through a voice-over is sheer pornography, which I cannot even dream of writing, supposedly to titillate the reader. It has no bearing with the original text of Dhabba . In fact, there is no character named Baldev Raj in the said novel,” said Mr. Pathak. He is seeking immediate removal of the said sequence failing which he would “initiate legal proceedings against the producers, writers and the actor”. The 80-year-old prolific writer said the “sequence defames him as an author and puts him in a bad light”. “I have been published by the multi-national publishers such as Harper Collins and Westland which is, ironically, an Amazon company.”  Dhabba was originally published by Raj Pocket Books in 2010. Film critic Bobby Sing, who wrote about the misrepresentation in a Facebook post, said it showed the “absurd assumptions” of certain writer-directors about Hindi crime novels and their authors. “They would not have done it with foreign writers,” he said. ‘Not symbolic’ “We could understand that a production assistant came up with the wrong book at the last minute but how can you show reading an excerpt from a book which is not there in it,” said film critic Ajay Brahmatmaj. “Surendra Mohan Pathak is not Mastram. He is not symbolic of the kind of writing that the writer and director are referring to. It reflects that many of those who are writing and directing films and web series in Hindi are not aware of the social, cultural, literary aspects of Hindi,” added Mr. Brahmatmaj. Interestingly, on September 14, the Hindi Day, the PR agency promoting Mirzapur issued a press release wherein it said the team of Mirzapur would help you speak pure Hindi. But the words that it cited in the release were bhaukaal (awesome impression), kantaap (a slap delivered near the ear region) and b awaal (chaos). “These are slangs or colloquial words which practitioners of dignified language avoid even in eastern part of Uttar Pradesh where the series is set,” said Mr. Brahmatmaj. The Amazon Prime PR team didn’t respond despite repeated attempts. Mr. Pathak said he had been approached by a senior team member and had been promised a discussion over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/my-novel-misrepresented-in-mirzapur-2/article32968597.ece
29 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Court grants anticipatory bail to Meham MLA, 2 others in cheating case||The District and Sessions Court here has granted anticipatory bail to Meham MLA Balraj Kundu and two others, including his younger brother, in a case of cheating and breach of trust. The court said that prima facie, the design on the part of the complainant was to turn the civil litigation into a criminal one to exert pressure on the petitioners, but the law did not permit it. Sessions Judge M.M. Dhonchak observed that the police had not displayed the “expected objectivity” in dealing with the case and “the complainant cannot be allowed to succeed in his design as it appears to be a case of high-handedness of the police in troubling the petitioners”. “The sequence of events unfolded in this case is not a happy countenance,” remarked Mr. Dhonchak in his 16-page order. Financial dispute The matter pertains to financial dispute between the petitioners’ company, KCC Buildcon Pvt. Ltd., and Parivartan Singh, the former director of Parivartan Buildtech Pvt. Ltd., over a Rs. 75 crore-road project in Madhya Pradesh. A complaint was made to Gurugram police on October 10 and a case was registered at Sector 50 police station on charges of cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy among others. Mr. Dhonchak argued that Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC, were antithesis and in respect of one transaction both cannot be committed simultaneously. He also pointed out that the Assistant Public Prosecutor failed to point out as to what valuable security was forged by the petitioners and how the alleged offence punishable under IPC Section 467 was made out against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-meham-mla-2-others-in-cheating-case/article32968202.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||HC directs BMC to pay salaries to 268 visually impaired employees||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to pay salaries to 268 visually impaired employees, who were not paid during the lockdown, and said, “Denying benefits during the pandemic was ‘illegal’.” The differently abled employees are members of the National Association for Blind (NAB). A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation filed by the NAB through advocate Uday Warunjikar after the civic body did not pay full salaries to the 268 employees. Mr. Warunjikar said initially the BMC had exempted all its staffers from reporting to work. While the disabled employees were paid in full for the period between March 23 and May 31, in the subsequent months, the civic body began to make deductions for the days that they missed work, the petitioner said. A circular was issued by the BMC that said permissible leave needed to be sanctioned by senior authorities, and for the days that such leave was not sanctioned, an employee would have to undergo a loss of pay. The court said, “The circular requires judicial intervention. The circular and its action of withholding pay is held illegal.” The court said that physically disabled employees, including the petitioner, were eligible for all monetary benefits, and directed the BMC to pay its physically disabled employees, even those ‘who could not report to duty during the pandemic,’ all salary arrears and due monetary benefits. The Bench said that the payment must be made in two instalments, the first must be paid before Diwali and the second must be paid within 45 days from the date of the first instalment. The BMC had previously said, “Around 1,150 physically disabled people, including the 268 visually impaired ones, are its staff members, and that it had started bus services for them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-directs-bmc-to-pay-salaries-to-268-visually-impaired-employees/article32968215.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||Genesis of FIR against Sushant’s sisters is flawed, CBI informs HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), in its reply on Wednesday to a plea filed by the sisters of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput to quash the FIR against them filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty said, “The very genesis of the FIR is flawed.” The central agency filed its reply after a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed it to reply to the petition filed by Priyanka and Meetu Singh. Referring to the FIR filed by Ms. Chakraborty on September 7, the CBI said, “The very genesis of the FIR registered at the Bandra police station is flawed. The allegations levelled in the FIR are mostly presumptive and speculative in nature.” Anil Kumar Yadav, additional SP, said that it was settled law that two FIRs could not be registered on the same cause of action. “It is a fact that the CBI is already investigating the causes relating to the death of Rajput on the basis of a complaint filed by K.K. Singh, father of the deceased. In view of the present situation and the order passed by the Supreme Court, it was expected from the Mumbai Police to forward the complaint received from Ms. Chakraborty to the CBI for necessary action, instead of registering an FIR itself,” Mr. Yadav said. The reply said, “Registration of another FIR on the same facts and cause of action was neither warranted nor allowed under law. Thus the FIR is vitiated and bad in law. The Mumbai Police were required to follow the procedure. It is submitted that it is correct that if the allegations mentioned in the FIR, prima facie, do not constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused, the FIR can be quashed by constitutional courts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/genesis-of-fir-against-sushants-sisters-is-flawed-cbi-informs-hc/article32968218.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||Koshyari sends coffee book to Pawar, gets sarcasm, taunts in compliment||When Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari sent a coffee book named ‘Jana Rajyapal - Bhagat Singh Koshyari’, detailing his one year in the office, to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, he never expected that he would receive a letter full of sarcasm from the veteran politician. Mr. Pawar in his letter dated October 21 to the Governor said there was no mention of term ‘jana rajyapal’ (people’s Governor) in the Constitution, referring to the title of the book. He further took a dig saying “despite such mention I am thankful for receiving a copy of the book.” Mr. Pawar also made a sarcastic reference to the early-morning swearing-in of Devendra Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar undertaken by Mr. Koshyari. He wrote, “After going through the coffee table book, I saw photographs of swearing-in ceremonies except one or two, and the coffee book also mentions about welcome ceremonies, convocation functions and meetings with dignitaries in the limited period of yours.” “In addition, you seem to not have taken note of the advice Union Home Minister gave to you on your advice to the Chief Minister on secularism,” Mr. Pawar taunted. Union Home Minister Amit Shah in his interview to CNN-News 18 had said that the Governor could have avoided the selection of particular words in a letter written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Mr. Koshyari while referring to the issue of reopening temples had written to Mr. Thackeray asking whether he had turned secular. Mr. Pawar in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi had criticised the immoderate language used by Mr. Koshyari towards the CM. Mr. Thackeray had retorted saying he did not want the Governor’s certificate on Hindutva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/koshyari-sends-coffee-book-to-pawar-gets-sarcasm-taunts-in-compliment/article32968213.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||MNS, Sena warn Kumar Sanu’s son over remarks on Marathi language||Singer Kumar Sanu’s son Jaan Kumar Sanu on Wednesday landed in a controversy over his objectionable comments against the Marathi language in the reality television show Bigg Boss on Colors channel, with the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) warning physical violence against him while the ruling Shiv Sena sought strict action. Sensing the trouble, Viacom18 Media Private Limited, who runs the channel, apologised to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, saying the objectionable part would be removed from all future broadcasts of the episode. Mr. Sanu during the show had warned another participant to not speak in Marathi in front of him as he got irritated listening to it. “He gets irritated by Marathi and he wants to make a big name for himself in the entertainment industry by living in Mumbai. We will see to it that it never happens. We will beat you,” said Ameya Khopkar, president, cinema wing of the MNS. Mr. Khopkar said that Colors channel should have edited that part before broadcasting it. “Since it did not, we got to know, who the traitor was. Now I nominate you to get kicked out of Mumbai,” he said. Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik too reacted asking whether the channel was purposely promoting such controversy to increase the TRP of its show. “Mr. Sanu should be kicked out of the show. If the channel fails to do so, our party workers will stage a Sena style protest on the set of the Bigg Boss ,” Mr. Sarnaik said. On Wednesday afternoon, the parent company of the channel sent a letter to Mr. Thackeray. “We hereby apologise if we have inadvertently hurt the feelings of the people of Maharashtra due to the broadcast of the said comment in relation to the Marathi language. We value the audience and the patronage of the Marathi speaking audience and respect all languages of India in the same manner,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mns-sena-warn-kumar-sanus-son-over-remarks-on-marathi-language/article32968214.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||BJP’s Spiritual Front issues ultimatum to govt. on opening of religious places||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-affiliated Spiritual Front on Wednesday said that it would break open locks of temples and other religious places on November 1 if the State government did not decide to reopen them by then. A delegation led by Tushar Bhosle, president of the State BJP’s Spiritual Front, held a meeting with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari demanding that religious places be reopened. “We have already held two agitations in this regard, but the State government did not accept our demand. We had also sent two letters to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeay seeking meetings, but we did not get any reply,” Mr. Bhosle said. He said that they expected that even though Mr. Thackeray did not agree for a meeting, he would issue directions to reopen temples and other religious places. “But he has not announced any date as of now. We are forced to take the extreme step on November 1,” he said. The BJP has already conducted two State-wide agitations and even held a meeting with Mr. Koshyari. Following the last meeting with the Governor, he had sent a letter to Mr. Thackeray. The content of the letter turned out to be controversial after Mr. Koshyari went on to ask whether the CM had turned secular. The CM too reacted sharply reminding the Governor about the Constitution. The Governor was also snubbed by Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar and later by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjps-spiritual-front-issues-ultimatum-to-govt-on-opening-of-religious-places/article32968216.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||NCB seizes contraband hidden in courier shipment in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai unit seized 580 gm of a leafy substance suspected to be ganja from the shipment of a prominent courier company, an official said on Wednesday. Based on a specific information, the Mumbai unit led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Tuesday seized the contraband, which was concealed in a submersible bore water pump, headed from Karnataka to Qatar via Mumbai, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ncb-seizes-contraband-hidden-in-courier-shipment-in-mumbai/article32968211.ece
29 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Booked for vandalising hospital||The police booked four men and three women, relatives of a 50-year-old man who died during treatment at Vashi NMMC hospital on Wednesday, for allegedly vandalising the hospital. Of the seven, four men have been arrested. The patient, Venkatesh Suryavanshi, a Juhu gaon resident, was shifted from a private hospital in Koparkhairane to NMMC hospital in Vashi on Tuesday afternoon. At the time of admission, Suryawanshi who had tuberculosis, was in a critical condition and had very low oxygen levels. An antigen test of Suryawanshi had declared him COVID-19 negative. “At the time of admission, after checking his condition, vitals and the history papers we had said that the chances of survival are very less. He was admitted to the ICU ward,” medical superintendent Prashant Jawade, NMMC hospital, said. Suryawanshi died during the course of his treatment around 3.45 a.m. on Wednesday. After getting to know about the death, his sons Rupesh (22) and Sandesh (20), along with their friends Pankaj Jadhav (22) and Rohit Namwad (32) entered the ICU ward and started vandalising the department. Three women who followed them assaulted the security guard of the hospital Satish Dere. “I was told they also carried a few sharp weapons along with them. Our engineers are analysing the damage and finding the losses that we incurred,” Mr. Jawade said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/7-booked-for-vandalising-nmmc-hospital-in-vashi/article32968217.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. green-lights ‘green’ firecrackers this year||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said that only ‘green’ firecrackers can be manufactured, sold and used in the national capital with the Delhi government scheduled to launch an anti-firecracker campaign on November 3, which will continue even after Deepavali. Mr. Rai appealed to Delhiites to start a ‘no-cracker’ campaign, considering the seriousness of the situation due to COVID-19 pandemic and said that the two main reasons behind the spike in pollution are Deepavali and parali (stubble burning). “Diwali is coming and we all know that the key reasons behind Delhi’s spike in air pollution is Diwali and parali . Crackers cause massive air pollution. Keeping in mind the air pollution situation of Delhi, we have decided that this year only manufacturing and use of green crackers will be allowed. This decision is as per the Supreme Court order of October 23, 2018,” Mr. Rai said. “To make green crackers, pyrotechnic is used due to which the emission of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide does not occur. This is why using green crackers can control or curb the spike in pollution level. Due to these reasons the Supreme Court decided to ban all traditional cracker manufacturing in Delhi and allowed only green cracker,” Mr. Rai said. Across India, the Minister said, there are around 93 companies, which make green crackers using pyrotechnic. A list of these companies will be uploaded on the Delhi government’s website on Thursday so traders can contact them. The Supreme Court, according to Mr. Rai, had given the licencing department of Delhi Police the responsibility to enforce the ban on traditional firecrackers and the Delhi government would reach out to the State police on Thursday. “The Delhi government will also launch an anti-cracker campaign from November 3. This campaign will continue after Diwali as well because many people burn crackers even after the festival,” he said. 11 special squads “The Delhi Pollution Control Committee [DPCC] will form 11 different teams as special squads, which will have engineers, five environmental marshals with vehicles. The teams will keep a vigil on the manufacturers across the Capital,” he also said. Mr. Rai also requested people to comply with norms and traders not to use any remaining stock of traditional firecrackers. If the DPCC teams find any such firecrackers, strict action will be taken against violators under the Environmental Protection Act and Air Act, he cautioned. “I am hopeful that people will cooperate with us to combat air pollution,” he said. Talking about the various initiatives taken by the Delhi government to combat air pollution, Mr. Rai said that the government is sprinkling bio-decomposer to stop stubble burning in the national capital and has also launched the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign, anti-dust pollution campaign and has come up with the Electric Vehicle policy. He added that the ‘Red light on, Gaadi off’ campaign now covers all the 70 Assembly constituencies in the Capital and that by November 2, it will cover all the 272 wards in the city. The Minister said every person in Delhi should encourage five more persons to participate in the city government’s anti-vehicular pollution campaign. He also said that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday would be launching an app, ‘Green Delhi’, by which people can share complaints about any violation of environmental norms. Air quality Meanwhile, the pollution level in the city improved on Wednesday with at an average AQI of 297 which fell in the ‘poor’ category, according to data provided by the Central Pollution Control Board. Air quality of Noida, Greater Noida, Gurgaon and Ghaziabad continued to be in the ‘very poor’ category, with AQI of 301, 324, 313 and 317 respectively. Forecast shows that the air quality of Delhi will enter ‘very poor’ category on Thursday and then the ‘poor’ category again on Saturday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-govt-green-lights-green-firecrackers-this-year/article32968205.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP delegation meets L-G over issue of funds due to civic bodies||The alleged dispute over funding between the Delhi government and the BJP-run municipal corporations of Delhi reached Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal’s doorstep here on Wednesday. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, led a delegation of the three Mayors and Opposition MLAs to Raj Niwas. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said that the Delhi government should consider paying the due amount to the civic bodies in instalments. The AAP’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak demanded an apology from the BJP, alleging that the civic bodies had sufficient funds all along, which was why they had cleared some part of the dues payable to doctors and workers on Tuesday. “We met the L-G and informed that on Monday, all three Mayors had gone to meet the Chief Minister to talk about an outstanding fund of Rs. 13,000 crore and house tax of Rs. 10,000 crore,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “We have requested Mr. Baijal to direct the Delhi government to release the outstanding funds at the earliest. He has given a positive response and assured us that he will take cognisance of the matter and take appropriate action,” Mr. Bidhuri said. Mr. Gupta requested the Delhi government to release the outstanding amount soon even if it was in instalments.“Sanitation workers, doctors, health workers and other employees have worked with complete vigilance and honesty during this [COVID-19] crisis, but the Delhi government is now reluctant to pay their salary,” Mr. Gupta said. According to Delhi government sources, an amount of Rs. 1965.91 crore was due to the civic bodies between April 1 and October 26. Of this, Rs. 1752.61 crore had already been paid and the remainder had been disbursed and was in the process of being credited to the civic bodies, as per Urban Development department records. Mr. Pathak alleged that the episode was an attempt to defame the Delhi government and that the BJP-run civic bodies had paid the salaries due on Tuesday. “Yesterday, all the doctors and workers were paid their salaries by the BJP-led MCD. If they did not have funds to pay salaries, where did this money come from?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-delegation-meets-l-g-over-issue-of-funds-due-to-civic-bodies/article32968201.ece
29 October 2020||Panaji,||Goa casinos to reopen from Nov. 1||The Goa cabinet on Wednesday decided to allow casinos to reopen in the State from November 1 by following the COVID-19 prevention guidelines. The coastal State has six offshore and around a dozen onshore casinos, which have been shut since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in March this year. Talking to reporters here after the Cabinet meeting, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said, “The casinos will have to operate at 50% of their capacity and follow all standard operating procedures laid down by the State Home department,” he said. Mr. Sawant also said that casino operators will have to pay the licence fees before resuming operations. Tourism is one of the major source of revenue for Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/goa-casinos-to-reopen-from-nov-1/article32968209.ece
29 October 2020||Pune,||Raju Shetti admitted to Pune hospital||Former Lok Sabha MP and farmer leader Raju Shetti had been admitted to a private hospital in Pune city after he felt unwell, his aide said on Wednesday. Mr. Shetti (53), who heads the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna, a leading farmer organisation in Maharashtra, had tested positive for COVID-19 last month and later recovered from the infection. He also had swelling in leg and doctors were attending to him, Mr. Shetti’s personal assistant Swastik Patil said. “He had gone to the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital here for a regular check-up, but as he felt unwell, he was advised to get admitted to the hospital,” Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/raju-shetti-admitted-to-pune-hospital/article32968210.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s watching||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/its-watching/article32968717.ece
29 October 2020||WashingtoN,||Campaign heats up in the final week||With Election Day less than a week away and close to 65 million Americans having already cast their ballots, the presidential candidates and their star campaigners are crisscrossing the country taking chances on how best to spend their final days in order to win on Tuesday.   On Monday and Tuesday this week, U.S. President Donald Trump, focused on defending his gains in 2016, campaigned in the Upper Midwestern States of Michigan and Wisconsin as well as Nebraska after spending Monday intensely focused on Pennsylvania, where he made multiple stops. Mr. Trump won all four of these States in 2016 with wafer thin majorities (except for Nebraska). First Lady Melania Trump held her first (and possibly only) campaign rally in Chester County, Pennsylvania, which her husband won in 2016.  The President’s path to victory — 270 seats in the Electoral College — is narrow but still within reach. Democratic candidate and former Vice President Joe Biden is leading in polls in Pennsylvania (+3.8 points), Michigan (+8.7 points) and Wisconsin (+7.6 points), according to an average of recent polls from polling aggregator Real Clear Politics (RCP). Mr. Biden’s strategy this week appears to be different: what’s been described by analysts as an effort to ‘expand his electoral map’ — forcing Mr. Trump to defend States like Florida and Georgia which he had won in 2016. Mr. Biden will travel to Iowa on Friday. In Georgia , Mr. Biden also campaigned with Democrats Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, fighting competitive Senate races. In Iowa too, Republican incumbent Jonie Ernst and her Democratic Challenger Theresa Greenfield are battling it out in the country’s second most expensive senate race as per the Des Moines Register ‘Heal the nation’ Speaking in Warm Springs, Georgia, at a retreat of former President F.D. Roosevelt, Mr. Biden brought up the theme of “healing” the nation. “A few weeks ago, I spoke at Gettysburg about the need to unite our nation, and today I’m here at Warm Springs because I want to talk about how we’re going to heal our nation.” His speech included references to Civil Rights icon Martin Luther King, Pope Francis and the Bible . “I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American President. I’ll work with Democrats and Republicans,” Mr. Biden said, repeating one of his core campaign messages. The former Vice-President has also dwelt at length on the need to control the pandemic before rebuilding the economy. The former Vice-President’s star campaigner, former president Barack Obama, held a drive-in rally in Orlando on Tuesday having already made stops in Pennsylvania last week and in Miami over the weekend. Mr. Biden lost Florida in 2016 and is currently running neck and neck with Mr. Trump, falling behind the President by an average of 0.4 percentage points in recent polls according to Real Clear Politics. “You’ve got the chance to set two things right. You can bring a World Series championship [a baseball tournament] to the Sunshine State and you can send Joe Biden and Kamala Harris to the White House,” Mr. Obama told the audience. On the campaign trail, Mr. Obama has focussed on contrasting Mr. Trump’s character and Mr. Biden’s, saying the former treats the presidency as a reality show. He has also taken to mocking Mr. Trump. “He’s jealous of COVID’s media coverage,” Mr. Obama said. “ If he had been focused on COVID from the beginning, cases wouldn’t be reaching new record highs across the country this week.” Mr. Trump’s messaging has been that the country is “rounding the turn” [turning the corner] on the pandemic — a hypothesis that runs counter to scientists’ expectations based on rising infection numbers and dropping temperatures. He has also linked the pandemic to an economic message — that the election is a choice between a “Trump super recovery” and a “Biden depression.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/campaign-heats-up-in-the-final-week/article32967861.ece
29 October 2020||COLOMBO,||China is a predator, Pompeo tells Sri Lanka||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday slammed China for operating as a “predator” in Sri Lanka, while the U.S. came as a “friend”. He made the remark during his visit to Colombo, amid a heightening geopolitical contest playing out in the island nation. “We see from bad deals, violations of sovereignty and lawlessness on land and sea that the Chinese Communist Party is a predator, and the United States comes in a different way, we come as a friend, and as a partner,” Mr. Pompeo told a media conference in Colombo, winding up his 12-hour trip, the second stop on his four-nation tour spanning India, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Indonesia. The Chinese Embassy in Colombo was quick to respond to Mr. Pompeo’s attack. “Sorry Mr. Secretary @SecPompeo, we’re busy promoting #China-#SriLanka friendship and cooperation, not interested in your #AlienVsPredator game invitation. The US can play two roles at the same time as always,” the Embassy said in a tweet from its handle. The U.S.’s growing concern over China in the region — which dominated the Quadrilateral dialogue, or ‘Quad’ Foreign Ministers’ meet in Tokyo early October — appears to have figured prominently in Mr. Pompeo’s meeting with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who was also a U.S. citizen earlier, until he gave it up last year to contest polls in Sri Lanka. An official media release from the President’s office said Mr. Rajapaksa, in his meeting with Secretary Pompeo, underscored Beijing’s crucial assistance to Colombo in the post-war years and reiterated that Sri Lanka is “not caught in a debt trap”, in addition to welcoming more American investment. Chinese delegation It was in line with his message a top Chinese delegation visiting Colombo earlier this month. Pledging to pursue a China-style development model, Mr. Rajapaksa told the delegation from Beijing that he wished to disprove the prevalent “debt trap” analysis of Sri Lanka’s borrowings — totalling over $5 billion — from the Asian giant. Further, President Rajapaksa in his meeting with Secretary Pompeo “stressed that he is not ready to compromise the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the nation in maintaining foreign relations whatever the circumstances may be,” his office said in the statement. While India and China’s competing strategic interests in Sri Lanka are well known, the tension between the U.S. and China escalated around Mr. Pompeo’s visit, even before the open diplomatic clash on Wednesday. Responding to U.S. Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Dean Thompson’s remarks ahead of Mr. Pompeo’s visit, the Chinese Embassy in Colombo issued a statement, saying the U.S. was using the visit to “interfere in China-Sri Lanka relations, and to coerce and bully Sri Lanka”. Reliance on Beijing Even as government critics flag the Rajapaksa administration's growing reliance on China for economic help — a $500 million Chinese loan was sanctioned in March and Colombo is negotiating another $700 million loan — the Sri Lankan President told Mr. Pompeo that Colombo’s foreign policy was “based on neutrality”. Sri Lanka, over the last decade, has borrowed heavily from bilateral partners and multilateral agencies, and is due to repay $4.5 billion next year. In his remarks to the press, Mr. Pompeo said the State Department has offered “substantial counter-terrorism assistance” to help Sri Lankans bring those behind the Easter terror bombings to justice. “These Easter Sunday attacks represent the kind of sectarianism that Sri Lankans are ready to leave behind forever.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-is-a-predator-pompeo-tells-sri-lanka/article32967869.ece
29 October 2020||Istanbul,||Erdogan blasts ‘disgusting’ Charlie Hebdo cartoon||Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday vented his outrage at the “scoundrels” at the French satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo for mocking him in a front-cover cartoon. His office also vowed to take “legal and diplomatic action” over the depiction of the 66-year-old leader. The publication stoked fury in Turkish political circles and added to a sense of crisis enveloping Turkey’s deteriorating relations with France. The cartoon came out just days after Mr. Erdogan called for a boycott of French products and questioned President Emmanuel Macron’s sanity for promoting a drive against radical Islam. Mr. Macron’s accompanying defence of the media’s right to mock religion stirred angry protests across Turkey and swathes of the Muslim world. Mr. Erdogan said he had never personally seen the Charlie Hebdo drawing because he did not want to “give credit to such immoral publications”. But he called it “disgusting” nonetheless. “I don’t need to say anything to those scoundrels who insult my beloved prophet on such a scale,” Mr. Erdogan said in a speech to his party’s lawmakers. “I am sad and frustrated not because of this disgusting attack on me personally but because of the impertinence taking aim at our prophet we love more than ourselves.” Turkey is a mostly Muslim but officially secular country that has taken a more conservative and nationalist course under Mr. Erdogan’s rule. These policies have put Turkey and Mr. Erdogan at growing odds with France and Mr. Macron — one of Ankara’s most vocal critics. France’s European Affairs Minister said on Wednesday that Paris would “push for strong European responses, which include sanctions” over Mr. Erdogan’s series of “provocations”. Probe being launched Ankara prosecutors said they were launching an investigation into the publication for “insulting the head of state”. The cartoon was published in the midst of an emotional debate over France’s broader policy toward Muslims. That conversation has been lent urgency by the murder near Paris this month of a teacher who showed his class cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed previously published byCharlie Hebdo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/erdogan-blasts-disgusting-charlie-hebdo-cartoon/article32967866.ece
29 October 2020||Baku,||Armenian missile strike killed 21, injured 70, says Azerbaijan||Azerbaijan accused Armenia of killing 21 people and wounding dozens in a missile strike near Nagorno-Karabakh on Wednesday, the deadliest reported attack on civilians in a month of fighting over the disputed region. Armenia immediately denied carrying out the attack, the second in two days that Azerbaijan says killed civilians in the Barda district close to the front line. Yerevan also accused Azerbaijani forces of deadly new strikes on civilian areas of Karabakh, as both sides claim the other is targeting civilians after weeks of fierce front-line clashes. The latest attacks came despite a U.S.-brokered truce agreed at the weekend, the third ceasefire attempt in a row to collapse just minutes after it took effect. Azerbaijani presidential aide Hikmet Hajiyev said Armenian forces had fired Smerch missiles at Barda, accusing them of using cluster munitions “to inflict excessive casualties among civilians”. The Prosecutor General’s office said the strike had hit a densely populated area and a shopping district, killing 21 civilians and wounding at least 70. Azerbaijan had on Tuesday accused Armenia of another missile strike in the Barda district that killed four civilians, including a two-year-old girl. The casualties are the worst for Azerbaijani civilians since 13 people were killed in shelling on the country’s second largest city Ganja on October 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/armenian-missile-strike-killed-19-injured-60-says-azerbaijan/article32967859.ece
29 October 2020||Beijing,||China slams U.S. Senators for ‘genocide’ resolution||China on Wednesday accused U.S. Senators of telling “all kind of lies” after a group of lawmakers put forward a resolution accusing Beijing of genocide against Muslim minority groups in the far northwestern region of Xinjiang. Relations between Washington and Beijing are at their worst in years over a series of flashpoints including trade, technology and human rights. The text put forward by the Senators from across Washington’s political divide alleged China was guilty of a campaign “against Uighurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz and members of other Muslim minority groups” that “constitutes genocide”. Further fuelling the criticism, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told Indian news site The Print on Tuesday that China’s actions in Xinjiang “remind us of what happened in the 1930s in Germany”. Beijing angrily hit back on Wednesday, saying the “so-called genocide in Xinjiang is a rumour deliberately concocted by some anti-China forces”. The sensitive region is tightly controlled by Chinese authorities, and rights groups say more than one million Uighurs have been detained in camps. “The U.S. Senators you mentioned have always been anti-China and are keen to concoct all kinds of lies to discredit China and use them to seek their own political gains,” Foreign Spokesman Wang Wenbin told reporters. Mr. Wang also turned the tables on China’s critics, attacking the U.S. for the “assimilation and massacres of Native Americans in history to greatly reduce their population.” “We urge certain US politicians to respect the facts, stop fabricating lies, and stop using Xinjiang-related issues to interfere in China's internal affairs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-slams-us-senators-for-genocide-resolution/article32967864.ece
29 October 2020||Yangon,||Suu Kyi, old guard frustrate young Myanmar politicians||Once celebrated as democracy champions, an elite group of elderly former political prisoners at the helm of Myanmar’s ruling party now stands accused of oppression, discrimination and censorship. The National League for Democracy (NLD) is widely expected to win next week’s election —five years after it swept to power in a landslide victory. Throngs of young people signed up to the party when the Southeast Asian nation emerged from outright military rule, eager to play their role in cementing democracy. But critics now say the top echelons of the NLD remain closed to anyone who did not serve time behind bars in the fight against the former junta — effectively sidelining the youth. “We thought, proudly, we’d be future political leaders,” current NLD MP and former youth leader Aung Hlaing Win, now 37, told AFP. “But, unfortunately, it went the wrong way.” The average age for the 12 members of the NLD’s top decision-making body, including party boss and civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi, is more than 70. All of them were jailed or placed under house arrest for opposing the military regime. Younger members of the party were largely reduced to supporting acts for their seniors, required to ask permission to speak to anyone outside the party and submit speeches for “censorship”, said Aung Hlaing Win. ‘No different’ “It turned out to be an oppressive system — no different from the system of military rule,” he added. “Just because they’d been political prisoners didn’t mean they knew how to run a country.” The hopes for change were dashed for many young democracy activists, who accuse the NLD of operating no better than other parties. Political parties still ask new members about the role they played in the 1988 protests, complained 28-year-old Thinzar Shunlei Li, even though a majority of people in Myanmar were born in or after the 1980s. “This is not the right way to judge a person,” she said. “Our issues, concerns and struggles are different.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suu-kyi-old-guard-frustrate-young-myanmar-politicians/article32967867.ece
29 October 2020||La Paz,||Bolivia’s Morales calls for calm||Exiled former Bolivian President Evo Morales called for calm on Tuesday after several hundred right-wing protesters demanded that a “military junta” replace socialist President-elect Luis Arce. On Monday, hundreds of demonstrators marched to military barracks in the eastern city of Santa Cruz — a right-wing stronghold — and called for “military help” to prevent the Movement for Socialism party from regaining power following a year under conservative Jeanine Anez’s interim government. ‘Role is clear’ Mr. Morales wrote on Twitter, however, that “the Constitution is very clear on the role of the armed forces and the Bolivian police: We, as we always have done, will respect them as institutions”. “We must all act calmly in a constitutional way.” Bolivia has been in political crisis for a year after Mr. Morales ignored the Constitution and stood for and won a fourth successive term as President, even though leaders are limited to two terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bolivias-morales-calls-for-calm/article32967862.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Helping dyslexic children bloom||Mumtaz does not like reading. At nine she can manage basic stories, but reading leaves her tired and irritable. Movies and television dramas fascinate her, but even the lure of a well-written story cannot coax her into reading. She does not do storytelling either. The story would unfold with the beginning, middle and end all jumbled up. Then there are the funny words: hopsital (for hospital), strachedy (for strategy). But she was a happy, chirpy kid, always the life of a party, loved by all. Things began to change as she entered school. Her mother was the first to notice. For an otherwise multilingual chatterbox, she appeared to lack an intuitive understanding of phonics or basic arithmetic. Her vocabulary was lagging, her comprehension lacking. Her father could somehow relate to her better. A successful financial analyst, he still avoids books. He vividly remembers struggling through school, labelled ‘lazy’ by his teachers. His daughter perhaps took after him, but she will figure it out, just like he did. But six months of internal struggle and the undeniable social withdrawal of their bright and happy child drove them to finally approach a child psychologist. The psychologist conducted a cognitive assessment and finally delivered the verdict. Struggling to keep it all together Mumtaz has a specific learning disorder or SLD, in her case, dyslexia. This is a condition that makes it difficult to read and write, often accompanied by difficulties in math. Reading requires (1) decoding or converting symbols into sounds and (2) comprehension or understanding the meaning of words. Dyslexics may have difficulty in either or both. Dyslexics have poor phonological awareness, the ability to recognise similarities and differences in sounds, for example in rhyming words. They may have trouble sequencing; for instance remembering sequences such as days of the week, syllables in a word (hence hopsital), steps in a long division, or the order of events in a story. They may also have a weak working memory such as difficulty in listening to the teacher while taking notes or following their mother’s multi-step instructions. Working memory is like the RAM of a computer, where you temporarily store bits of information to be retrieved for daily activities. Children with dyslexia may look like they are not paying attention, but in reality they are struggling to keep it all together. Dyslexia is a very diverse condition: Mumtaz is one example while young Ishaan in the movie Taare Zameen Par is another, with different combinations of deficits. For most of our existence we Homo sapiens have communicated verbally. When books were first written, only the scholars needed to read them. As modern societies began embracing universal school-based standardised education, instead of the usual apprenticeship for vocational training, we stumbled upon dyslexia. Differences in the brain Dyslexia often runs in the family. Comparisons of genomes of dyslexic people with proficient readers have found changes in many genes that could be associated with dyslexia. These studies are opening new windows into our understanding of how the brain learns. The brain is, however, too complex for us to yet be able to figure out whether these genes have any direct role in reading deficits. In humans, the area known as visual word form area (VWFA — that recognises written words) in the brain is connected to the language region even before children have learned to read. This must be one of those evolutionary inventions that set us up to be linguists and decoders meant for greater things. Comparisons of functional MRI (fMRI) scans of brains of skilled and dyslexic readers clearly show differences in regions related to reading and language processing. But they also show many other differences. Differences in our brain are what make us sociable, moody, imaginative or creative. Thus, these differences in the brains of dyslexics manifest in the way they look at the world, think about and solve problems. Dyslexic individuals are more likely to miss the details while being able to see the larger picture. They may have better pattern recognition and visual-spatial abilities even as they struggle with reading and sequencing. They may be better at dealing with social interactions and managing people. Perhaps these are the traits that helped Albert Einstein and Agatha Christie and Steve Jobs, all dyslexics, to make their mark in the world. But this blooming generally happens after they leave the trauma of school and discover their strengths for themselves. Could we forgo this trauma and bolster their strengths in the school itself? Armed with the diagnosis, Mumtaz’s parents entered her into a remedial programme where special education teachers worked with her individually to strengthen her phonological awareness, sequencing and math skills. The school started providing accommodations in the class and gave her extra time and help in understanding the questions during tests. Slowly she began to regain her footing in the school. She is still way behind her classmates in academics, but with encouragement from teachers and parents she has discovered a talent for music and sports. She received this support and help thanks to her getting identified as a dyslexic. Every teacher will agree that there are always a few children in their class who have difficulties with language and math. But these deficits do not get formally identified due to a lack of awareness among teachers and parents. To add to this, privately administered cognitive assessments and remedial classes are very expensive and not within the reach of all. Remedial measures Some of these issues can be remedied by making cognitive assessments compulsory in junior school. The National Education Policy 2020 mandates inclusive education for all children with disabilities. It states that teachers should be provided with help to identify children with learning disabilities early, so that these children can be supported from the beginning. It lists out specific actions such as using appropriate technology, allowing students to work at their own pace and making curricula flexible to make education accessible to all. There is now a framework in place to implement such changes in our educational institutions. When inclusive teaching strategies become mainstream, then each student in the class will flourish. A child who believes in herself and feels confident to face her own personal challenges is a child set on a path to success and happiness. Chetana Sachidanandan is a scientist at CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi and mother of a dyslexic child. Views are personal. October is Dyslexia Awareness Month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/helping-dyslexic-children-bloom/article32967856.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The challenges of walking the Indo-Pacific talk||The recently concluded third annual United States-India 2+2 ministerial dialogue has amplified the ongoing conversation in India on the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad), the Indo-Pacific, the threat from China, and, the United States as a potential ‘alliance’ partner (https://bit.ly/3e1MKq8 and https://bit.ly/3kANMw3). No strategic vision has captivated India’s foreign policy mandarins and strategic community in recent times as have the Indo-Pacific and the Quad. The international community has once again decided to court New Delhi to play a decisive role in shaping the region’s strategic future. While during the mid-2000s the world expected India to be an economic powerhouse, a decade later, those expectations remain modest, at best. The expectation this time is more strategic and military, to lead the charge against China from within the region. Will India, and can India, fulfil these expectations? The concepts, the differences The Indo-Pacific is a grand politico-economic vision while the Quad is a forum for strategic and military consultations among India, the U.S., Australia and Japan. Depending on how one wishes to view it, they could be seen as conceptually interlinked or as separate visions. Their similarity comes from the fact that the Quad members are also major States in the Indo-Pacific region, and both the Quad and the Indo-Pacific constructs are focused on China. More so, they are also in some ways centred around India’s geographic location and its policies. Put differently, if you take China out of the equation, they would have little rationale for existence. And if you take India out of the picture, their ability to sustain as geopolitical constructs would drastically diminish. At the same time, the Indo-Pacific and the Quad are also quite different from each other. The first is a politico-economic vision and the last is a military-strategic vision — the last does not form the military or strategic nucleus of the first. While the Indo-Pacific provides a complex political and economic picture with a hesitant, but growing, articulation of China as a strategic challenge, the Quad is inherently more anti-China in character and intent. The Indo-Pacific, despite the subtle anti-China undertones, will find it impossible to avoid engaging China. Even the Quad, still in its institutional infancy, is mostly focused on diplomatic signalling and with little common intent let alone joint action. At the moment it so seems, paradoxically however, that the Quad’s ability to succeed would entirely depend on China — the more aggressive China gets, the more resolute the Quad countries would be in strengthening it. It is too early to say whether the Indo-Pacific as an economic construct will be able to pose an alternative to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The BRI is far more advanced, much more thought-out, and has the economic might of the Chinese state behind it. Several Indo-Pacific countries are already members of the BRI. On the flip side, the BRI is a ‘Chinese’ project and is already under immense stress from its inherent weaknesses, such as China’s unilateral pursuit of the BRI and the associated economic burdens on the States that sign up to it. Hurdles in India’s strategy Notwithstanding the current excitement in New Delhi about the Indo-Pacific, the question we must ponder over is how successful New Delhi’s Indo-Pacific strategy would be going forward. For a politico-economic construct such as the Indo-Pacific to survive, there must be strong economic partnerships and linkages among its members. Merely focusing on strategic talk and possible military cooperation will not work because at some point, the unavoidable economic logic will kick in. With that in mind, let us examine India’s economic engagement of the Indo-Pacific. For one, New Delhi’s recent decision not to join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), the region’s flagship free trade arrangement, could potentially complicate the country’s future engagements in the region. But that is not the complete story. The RCEP decision, a direct result of domestic political compulsions in India, comes in the backdrop of the already huge gap between India and China on trade with almost every Indo-Pacific country. The table shows the gap that exists between Indian and Chinese trade with the major Indo-Pacific and Quad States. This growing trade gap that India and China have with these countries will be a major determining factor in shaping the region’s strategic realities. New Delhi’s decision not to sign on to the RCEP also needs to be viewed in the broader context of the Chinese institutional engagement of the region. Of the main countries of the Indo-Pacific, the bilateral free trade agreements are as follows. In the case of India, it does not have FTAs with Australia, New Zealand, the U.S., Bangladesh and the Maldives. It has FTAs with South Korea, the Association of South East Asian Nations, or ASEAN, Japan and Sri Lanka. In the case of China, it has FTAs with all these countries barring the U.S. It does not have an FTA with Bangladesh, while negotiations are on with Sri Lanka. Trilateral FTA negotiations are also going on between China, Japan and South Korea. Once again, economic compulsions will go a long way in shaping strategic realities for a variety of reasons including that trade with China is crucial for the economies of these States. Even if they attempt economic decoupling from China, it would be a long process, if pursued with adequate alternatives and political determination. The lesson is straightforward: strategic talk alone cannot trump economic realities. China’s larger military reach If our economic engagements with the region were insufficient, which are at least partly due to domestic political considerations, our strategic and military engagements in the region also fall short. Beijing, for instance, is a major defence supplier to several of the region’s States including Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand, dwarfing India’s minimal sales, defence dialogues and occasional joint military exercises in the region. Economic role is key Put differently, India’s role in the Indo-Pacific will remain limited if it does not prove to be a major economic partner to these States. But given the economic slowdown in India today in the wake of COVID-19 (compared to the much better place that China is in) and the lack of political consensus in the country about regional economic agreements such as the RCEP, India’s ability to economically engage with the region remains limited. On the military-strategic side too, India’s performance in the region is less than desirable. The only choice, it appears then, is for some sort of a loosely structured regional strategic alliance with the U.S. and its allies in the broader Indo-Pacific region. But let us be clear. There is a fundamental difference between sustainably engaging the Indo-Pacific region using economic, strategic and military tools, and choosing to take the easier and quicker path of a military ‘alliance’ with the U.S. and its allies. Moreover, is there sufficient political consensus within the country’s strategic elite to pursue such a path? Having been socialised in the Cold War crucible of non-alignment, and later strategic autonomy, is the Indian strategic elite ready to embrace a new set of beliefs and ideas about a balancing act in international politics? For sure, there is an unapologetic ‘realist’ turn in India’s foreign policy today, perhaps an unavoidable one, and the Indian debates on balancing and alliance formation are undergoing major changes as well. New Delhi, however, remains caught between a deeply constrained, but unavoidable, need to rethink its strategic posture, and the recognition of its material inability to do so, at least for now. Happymon Jacob teaches National Security at the School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-challenges-of-walking-the-indo-pacific-talk/article32967846.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Countering deepfakes, the most serious AI threat||Disinformation and hoaxes have evolved from mere annoyance to high stake warfare for creating social discord, increasing polarisation, and in some cases, influencing an election outcome. Deepfakes are a new tool to spread computational propaganda and disinformation at scale and with speed. Access to commodity cloud computing, algorithms, and abundant data has created a perfect storm to democratise media creation and manipulation. Deepfakes are the digital media (video, audio, and images) manipulated using Artificial Intelligence. This synthetic media content is referred to as deepfakes (https://bit.ly/3kNPjyA. A cyber Frankenstein Synthetic media can create possibilities and opportunities for all people, regardless of who they are, where they are, and how they listen, speak, or communicate. It can give people a voice, purpose, and ability to make an impact at scale and with speed (https://bit.ly/31NHFwO). But as with any new innovative technology, it can be weaponised to inflict harm. Deepfakes, hyper-realistic digital falsification, can inflict damage to individuals, institutions, businesses and democracy. They make it possible to fabricate media — swap faces, lip-syncing, and puppeteer — mostly without consent and bring threat to psychology, security, political stability, and business disruption. Nation-state actors with geopolitical aspirations, ideological believers, violent extremists, and economically motivated enterprises can manipulate media narratives using deepfakes, with easy and unprecedented reach and scale. Targeting women The very first use case of malicious use of a deepfake was seen in pornography, inflicting emotional, reputational, and in some cases, violence towards the individual. Pornographic deepfakes can threaten, intimidate, and inflict psychological harm and reduce women to sexual objects. Deepfake pornography exclusively targets women (https://bit.ly/2J6TqYI). Deepfakes can depict a person indulging in antisocial behaviours and saying vile things. These can have severe implications on their reputation, sabotaging their professional and personal life. Even if the victim could debunk the fake via an alibi or otherwise, it may come too late to remedy the initial harm. Malicious actors can take advantage of unwitting individuals to defraud them for financial gains using audio and video deepfakes. Deepfakes can be deployed to extract money, confidential information, or exact favours from individuals. Deepfakes can cause short- and long-term social harm and accelerate the already declining trust in news media. Such an erosion can contribute to a culture of factual relativism, fraying the increasingly strained civil society fabric. The distrust in social institutions is perpetuated by the democratising nature of information dissemination and social media platforms’ financial incentives. Falsity is profitable, and goes viral more than the truth on social platforms. Combined with distrust, the existing biases and political disagreement can help create echo chambers and filter bubbles, creating discord in society. Imagine a deepfake of a community leader denigrating a religious site of another community. It will cause riots and, along with property damage, may also cause life and livelihood losses. A deepfake could act as a powerful tool by a nation-state to undermine public safety and create uncertainty and chaos in the target country. It can be used by insurgent groups and terrorist organisations, to represent their adversaries as making inflammatory speeches or engaging in provocative actions to stir up anti-state sentiments among people. Undermining democracy A deepfake can also aid in altering the democratic discourse and undermine trust in institutions and impair diplomacy. False information about institutions, public policy, and politicians powered by a deepfake can be exploited to spin the story and manipulate belief. A deepfake of a political candidate can sabotage their image and reputation. A well-executed one, a few days before polling, of a political candidate spewing out racial epithets or indulging in an unethical act can damage their campaign. There may not be enough time to recover even after effective debunking. Voters can be confused and elections can be disrupted. A high-quality deepfake can inject compelling false information that can cast a shadow of illegitimacy over the voting process and election results. Deepfakes contribute to factual relativism and enable authoritarian leaders to thrive. For authoritarian regimes, it is a tool that can be used to justify oppression and disenfranchise citizens. Leaders can also use them to increase populism and consolidate power. Deepfakes can become a very effective tool to sow the seeds of polarisation, amplifying division in society, and suppressing dissent. Another concern is a liar’s dividend (https://bit.ly/2G6cjdj); an undesirable truth is dismissed as deepfake or fake news. Leaders may weaponise deepfakes and use fake news and an alternative-facts narrative to replace an actual piece of media and truth. Major solutions To defend the truth and secure freedom of expression, we need a multi-stakeholder and multi-modal approach. Collaborative actions and collective techniques across legislative regulations, platform policies, technology intervention, and media literacy can provide effective and ethical countermeasures to mitigate the threat of malicious deepfakes. Media literacy for consumers and journalists is the most effective tool to combat disinformation and deepfakes. Media literacy efforts must be enhanced to cultivate a discerning public. As consumers of media, we must have the ability to decipher, understand, translate, and use the information we encounter (https://bit.ly/2HFlUs8). Even a short intervention with media understanding, learning the motivations and context, can lessen the damage. Improving media literacy is a precursor to addressing the challenges presented by deepfakes. Meaningful regulations with a collaborative discussion with the technology industry, civil society, and policymakers can facilitate disincentivising the creation and distribution of malicious deepfakes. We also need easy-to-use and accessible technology solutions to detect deepfakes, authenticate media, and amplify authoritative sources. Deepfakes can create possibilities for all people irrespective of their limitations by augmenting their agency. However, as access to synthetic media technology increases, so does the risk of exploitation. Deepfakes can be used to damage reputations, fabricate evidence, defraud the public, and undermine trust in democratic institutions. To counter the menace of deepfakes, we all must take the responsibility to be a critical consumer of media on the Internet, think and pause before we share on social media, and be part of the solution to this infodemic.  Ashish Jaiman is the Director of Technology and Operations in the Customer Security and Trust organization at Microsoft, focusing on the Defending Democracy Program||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/countering-deepfakes-the-most-serious-ai-threat/article32967848.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Bihar’s circulation of elites||Democracy is meant to promote civic consciousness. Therefore, it should abolish all kinds of irrational identities including caste. Yet, electoral democracy in most parts of India works through caste and representation. The khas (special) and the raees (wealthy) get the highest preference in the distribution of power, while smaller communities tend to receive token representation. This phenomenon is particularly relevant in Bihar where the khas groups have acquired direct access to state institutions and utilise them to perpetuate the dominance of the elite. This does not mean that khas groups are exclusive. There is a circulation of elites in Bihar that allows for newer dominant groups to replace the previously dominant ones. This means that there is a narrow pyramid of political power that has different elite sections but does not accommodate other marginalised groups over time. OBC mobilisation Bihar comprises about 205 caste groups. Immediately post Independence, caste groups such as the Kayasthas, Brahmins, Bhumihars and Kshatriyas, which together constitute 20% of Bihar’s population, carved out a dominant space for themselves in politics and retained their hegemony for a few decades. Back in the colonial period, these groups had acquired sufficient education and jobs. They then led political communities in the State during the freedom movement. From 1952 onwards, for about three decades, they produced the largest number of MPs and MLAs under the aegis of the Congress. Numerically populous Other Backward Classes (OBC) groups such as the Yadavs, Kurmis and Koeries, besides Scheduled Castes (SC) such as the Chamars and Dusadhs, were allowed token representation. The OBC communities had also groomed aspirations for their share in state power during the colonial period — political organisations representing Yadav-Kurmi-Koeri interests were formed in the late 1930s. Soon members of the OBCs also comprised raiyyat (wealthier) sections who had attained ownership of agricultural land after years of being tillers. The Green Revolution bestowed benefits on them and other governmental and banking schemes allowed them to become rural entrepreneurs. All this provided opportunities to them to avail of good education and government jobs and political power later on. These groups were initially mobilised around most non-Congress political outfits, the Socialist parties, as the Congress was predominantly hegemonised by the upper caste political elite. Later, the non-Congress outfits allowed for an OBC-elite dominated political forum which managed to supplant the upper caste-dominated political structure by getting accommodated into the structures of state power, beginning in the 1980s. Under this political regime of Yadav-Kurmi-Koeri-led political elites, however, only a few OBC groups got a political share. The rest, more than 90 OBC groups, are yet to be accommodated in structures of political power and lack the ability to take advantage of state patronage. Contradictions within Upper caste elites supporting the Congress gradually shifted to the BJP in the 1980s. This process quickened during the Ramjanmabhoomi movement. The OBC elites got divided between the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Janata Dal (United) by the 2000s — a process that occurred due to the competing aspirations of the Yadav-dominated OBC leadership on the one hand and the Kurmi-Koeris on the other. The internal contradictions among the OBCs and the consequent lowering of numerical superiority led to these parties providing for some representation for marginalised groups as well. Among the Dalits too, the numerically superior Chamars and Dusadhs managed to gain a share in state power over time and produced new political elites, while other Dalit communities did not gain a share. Essentially, distribution of various opportunities through government schemes and policies were still controlled by the dominant political elite. As Bihar’s political leadership transits from its Mandal generation – with Lalu Prasad in jail, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar diminishing in popularity, and the death of Ram Vilas Paswan – to a new crop of leaders, there is the expectation that the dependence on identity politics will give way to a more inclusive politics that tries to mobilise people across different segments. Yet, if the emphasis remains on representation in power structures being limited to the elite among a select set of not more than 20 castes, there will not be any true change. The marginal communities which lack the capacity to aspire towards and engage in this system and those who have not yet had access to education and wealth will continue to be invisible. Badri Narayan is Director of the G.B. Pant Social Science Institute, Allahabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bihars-circulation-of-elites/article32967851.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Victim’s account may be more conclusive than medical finding||The alleged gang-rape of a woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, in September brought forth an important issue concerning the relevance of forensic evidence of the victim of rape, i.e., about the signs of recent sexual intercourse and struggle. This acquired more attention after a senior police officer of U.P. stated that the forensic science laboratory report did not confirm the allegation of rape. Since the Hathras case is still under investigation, instead of commenting on it, I will explain the general medico-legal status and the various judgments of the Supreme Court in this regard. It is surprising that doctors conducting medical examinations on victims still use the word ‘rape’ in their conclusions. They forget that rape is an offence and not a medical diagnosis to be made by them. The issue of whether someone has been raped or not is a legal conclusion; it is to be made by an investigating officer on a complaint by the victim. The medical officer can only state whether there is evidence of recent sexual activity and injuries in and around the private parts of the victim or bite marks noticed in any part of the body. Collecting evidence The presence of semen is always a material piece of evidence, but by no means conclusive. Semen, a human body fluid, is a suspension of a single type of cell known as spermatozoa. The nucleus of the sperm head contains deoxyribonucleoproteins which is used to establish the identity of the accused. The spermatozoa can be identified only for 72 hours after sexual assault and the likelihood of its presence after that is greatly reduced. Therefore, it is generally advisable to collect evidence up to 96 hours in case the victim is unsure of the number of hours that have elapsed since the assault. However, in such cases, swabs can still be collected for identifying semen. Evidence on the outside of the body and on material such as clothing can be collected even after 96 hours. The courts have carefully examined the value of victim statements qua forensic evidence. In Tuka Ram v. State of Maharashtra (1978), also known as the ‘Mathura case’, the accused policemen were acquitted as the victim bore no traces of violence. But in later cases, absence of live or dead spermatozoa during vaginal examination was held to be irrelevant by the Supreme Court. It is established now that injury is not a sine qua non for deciding whether rape has been committed. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh (1996), the court laid down that the victim’s ipse dixit is sufficient to record a conviction and no corroboration is necessary. Change in rape law There was no change in the rape law from 1860 to 1983. The first major change came about after the apex court decision in the ‘Mathura case’ and the burden of proof was shifted to the accused. The Criminal Procedure Code was amended to incorporate medical examination of the victim within 24 hours of receiving information relating to commission of rape. The definition of rape was enlarged after the ‘Nirbhaya’ case in 2012. The expression ‘sexual intercourse’ has been removed from the definition for a shift in emphasis that it is not necessarily a union of sexual organs that could give rise to proof of rape. There is no need to find out whether or not the woman is habituated to sex. It is irrelevant and inappropriate to record such findings. It is well settled that the testimony of a victim in sexual assault cases is vital and unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate corroboration, the courts should find no difficulty to convict the accused solely on the testimony of the victim. If the evidence is reliable, conviction can be based on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix. The forensic evidence is at the most corroborative evidence; not conclusive. Moreover, the forensic details need not be disclosed to the public when the matter is still under investigation. It may hurt the victim’s fundamental right to privacy. R.K.Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/victims-account-may-be-more-conclusive-than-medical-finding/article32967852.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Real estate||The changes in land laws in Jammu and Kashmir notified by the Centre on October 26 allow the purchase of land by those who are not permanent residents of the Union Territory, for the first time. Only permanent residents could purchase land in the erstwhile State, which was reorganised as two UTs, J&K and Ladakh, in August 2019. One of the arguments against the now nullified special status of J&K was that the restrictions on land transfers hampered investments. J&K industrial policy had limited land holding of investors to designated enclaves. The changes in land laws were logical steps to follow the end of the special status. Some restrictions remain on the transfer of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes, but this too can be cleared by the district collector. The government has said the changes will encourage investment and advance peace and progress in J&K. The argument that these changes would help the people of the region might have been stronger if these were done in consultation with them. The irony is that in all three regions — Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh — there is strong opposition to opening the land market to non-residents. Political parties in J&K too have opposed the changes. Free movement of people, and an integrated national market can advance development but India’s governance structure accommodates fears and concerns of local populations in this context in a measured manner. There are several States which have provisions to regulate ownership and transfer of land under Article 371 of the Constitution. The Centre is expected to announce new land laws for the UT of Ladakh before October 30, and it has promised to “safeguard interests of the people” regarding “all issues related to language, demography, ethnicity, land and jobs”. The Centre’s approach towards J&K has been marked by a lack of trust, which has accentuated the alienation of large sections of the population. Fears of deliberate demographic engineering have dominated politics in the Valley for long. After the reorganisation of the State and the loss of its special status in 2019, the people of Jammu and Ladakh also turned nervous on this question. Desirable as it may be, there is no point forcing a particular path of development upon people. The situation is precarious also because of the heavy hand of the state on political and civil society activities in J&K. The unilateralism that has come to define New Delhi’s dealings with J&K is achieving little. There is no wisdom in pushing through measures aimed to promote investment when the end result is political volatility. The Centre’s policy towards J&K must be buttressed by a robust political process that enables people’s participation and ensures stability with growth and development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/real-estate/article32967840.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Two together||The India-U.S. Foreign and Defence Ministers meet for the “2+2” mechanism just a week before the U.S. elections is proof that bilateral ties between the two countries are on a firm footing. Ostensibly, the purpose was to conduct an annual review of ties and to wrap up the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for Geo-spatial Cooperation, the last of the three enabling agreements which will facilitate easier interoperability between the Indian and American defence forces. Other agreements signed or reviewed included those in the areas of health and COVID-19 cooperation, building strategic petroleum reserves in the U.S., renewable energy, space, cyberspace, counter-terrorism and counter-narcotics. In the Joint statement they issued, the Ministers also called on Pakistan to take “immediate, sustained and irreversible action” against cross-border terror groups on its soil, and to bring to justice the perpetrators of the 2008 Mumbai attacks, and 2016 Uri and Pathankot strikes. However, the timing and the tenor of the American pronouncements prior to the visit made it clear that the larger import of the visit for the Trump administration was about dealing with China. In every interaction, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo referred to the challenge from Beijing, of the need to build a counter coalition to the “Chinese Communist Party”, and to further U.S. Indo-Pacific policy in this regard. In India, he made a reference to the “increasing aggression and destabilising activities by China” and mentioned Indian soldiers killed in clashes with the PLA on the LAC in June. He is taking the same message to his next stops. In Colombo and Male on Wednesday — he is also visiting Indonesia — Mr. Pompeo raised the need to counter and provide alternatives to what he called China’s “bad deals, violations of sovereignty and lawlessness on land and sea”. For New Delhi, the visit by the U.S. officials was a way to demonstrate that the bilateral relationship is “poll-proof” and will grow regardless of the November 3 election result. The BECA agreement signed is an important addition to India’s defence and strategic capabilities, and it is significant that India-U.S. ties have been reaffirmed now given that it could take some months for the U.S. administration to restart bilateral engagements post-elections. While welcoming their U.S. interlocutors and taking ties forward, however, it is significant that the government has chosen not to enter into the comments made by Mr. Pompeo on India’s China challenge, in keeping with New Delhi’s stated policy that the LAC tensions are a “bilateral matter”. The conspicuous silence from External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar in response to Mr. Pompeo’s comments on China is also a sobering reminder that while India appreciates support from the U.S., it retains its strategic autonomy in dealing with threats and troubles with its biggest neighbour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/two-together/article32967841.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Linguistic broadcasts: pleas rejected||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has turned down a suggestion that All India Radio should arrange for broadcasts of programmes for the benefit of linguistic groups living in States other than their own. The Commissioner of Linguistic Minorities has drawn attention to the fact that “radio broadcasts have become part and parcel of the life of our citizens” and has observed in the latest annual report that demands were received from Sindhi speakers in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, Oriya speakers from Andhra Pradesh, Konkani speakers from Kerala, Sourashtra speakers from Tamil Nadu and Urdu speakers from Uttar Pradesh and Mysore for broadcast of radio programmes from All India Radio stations in their mother tongue. The Commissioner referring to the attitude of the Ministry says that since radio broadcasts are not only media of entertainment but are also a very powerful agency for publicity “there is need for slight adjustment in arranging the broadcasts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/linguistic-broadcasts-pleas-rejected/article32967849.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.K. to partner for developing GIFT City, funding infra pipeline||The United Kingdom has entered into a strategic partnership to develop India’s fledgling international financial services centre GIFT City, and agreed to set up a new Fund of Funds to be managed by the State Bank of India (SBI) group in order to route the U.K.’s future capital investments into India. India and the U.K. also signed off on a new infrastructure finance and policy partnership to help India execute its National Infrastructure Pipeline that envisages investments worth $1.4 trillion, at the 10th Economic and Financial Dialogue between the two countries steered by U.K. Chancellor Rishi Sunak and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday. “As we seek to recover from the profound impact of COVID-19, we can only do so in partnership and co-operation,” Mr. Sunak said soon after the conclusion of the dialogue, introduced in 2007 and last held in 2017. “We have been able to announce a series of ambitious initiatives across trade, infrastructure, sustainable finance and research [including] a new strategic partnership to develop the GIFT city, an opportunity to drive international capital flow from London to India,” Mr. Sunak added. Second-largest source Bilateral trade between India and the U.K. stood at £24 billion in 2019. India is now the second-largest project investment source for the U.K. To help combat the pandemic, the U.K. and India announced a joint investment of £8 million for research to understand and address the factors leading to the severity of the novel coronavirus in South Asian populations in the U.K. and in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uk-to-partner-for-developing-gift-city-funding-infra-pipeline/article32967836.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bharti won’t bid at 5G auction, reserve price too high: Vittal||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday indicated that it would refrain from bidding for 5G spectrum at the auctions, which were likely to be held early next year, given the current reserve prices. The company may look at radio frequencies below 1,000 megahertz (Mhz) to improve network availability inside buildings and in rural areas, Gopal Vittal, MD and CEO, India & South Asia, said in a post-earnings call. “We are hearing from the department that there may be an auction early next year… any time between January and March,” Mr. Vittal said. “Given that the reserve price of 5G is as high as it is, we will not buy it because we won’t be able to afford it. I can’t comment on what others will do, but from our perspective, it will not make sense,” he added. Bharti would also consider whether it needs to bid for spectrum in the 1,800 Mhz band as the amount of spectrum being used for 2G was decreasing every quarter. Asked if there were any plans to introduce affordable low-cost smartphones, similar to what Jio was working on, Mr. Vittal said Bharti was studying the space. On tariffs, Mr. Vittal reiterated that there was a need to raise prices. “We have signaled that we want tariffs to go up. We’re at a premium already, and we’ll be happy to follow the same day if tariffs sort of go up.” The current tariff levels were not sustainable in the long term for the industry, Mr. Vittal added. On AGR dues, the Bharti India CEO said the company had sought clarity from the DoT on some issues, including payment terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-wont-bid-at-5g-auction-reserve-price-too-high-vittal/article32967825.ece
29 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||DRL net slides 30% even as sales rise||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories on Wednesday reported second-quarter consolidated net profit fell 30.3% to Rs. 771.8 crore from Rs. 1,106.8 crore a year earlier, when it benefitted from the recognition of deferred tax assets. A close to 20% rise in net sales to Rs. 4,776.6 crore (Rs. 3,998.2 crore) — which CFO Saumen Chakraborty said was highest ever in a single quarter — thus proved insufficient. Like the MAT credit recognition for net profit, a one-off licencing fee gain a year earlier meant total income from operations grew a subdued 2% to Rs. 4,962.1 crore (Rs. 4,866.8 crore), according to the results prepared as per Ind AS norms In a statement, co-chairman and MD G.V. Prasad said, “We are pleased to report continued growth across all the markets and improved productivity”. Mr. Chakraborty, who briefed the media virtually along with CEO Erez Israeli, said the decline in net profit was expected as last year there “were huge out licensing income, [of] more than Rs. 700 crore and we [also] had MAT credit recognition.” Vaccine trials On the timeline of clinical trials for Russia’s Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine candidate, for which Dr. Reddy’s had got approval recently from India’s health regulator, Mr. Israeli said while Phase II will begin with about 100 participants soon and get over by December, Phase III trials, with 1,500 participants, could be completed as early as March. Depending on compilation of data from Phase-II and regulatory approvals, it could even stretch into April or May, he added. DRL and Russian sovereign wealth fund RDIF had announced a partnership to conduct clinical trials for Sputnik-V and its distribution in India. On whether Dr. Reddy’s will manufacture the vaccine, he said “it will be produced in India by someone else.” Ransomware attack On the cyberattack on DRL last week, Mr. Chakraborty said it was a ransomware attack. “We experienced an information security incident and... isolated the impacted IT services. This incident involved a ransomware attack,” he said. The firm engaged outside cybersecurity experts, launched a comprehensive containment and remediation effort and investigation to address the incident. “We are still investigating as to where it originated from,” he said, parrying questions on whether any ransom was paid. A release said: “as of date, our investigation has not ascertained if any data breaches in the incident pertain to personally identifiable information stored in the company’s systems. Recovery and restoration of all applications and data is underway. Critical operations are being enabled in a controlled manner.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/drl-net-slides-30-even-as-sales-rise/article32967819.ece
29 October 2020||MUMBAI,||L&T Q2 net jumps 118% to Rs. 5,520 cr. on divestment||Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (L&T) on Wednesday reported second-quarter consolidated net profit more than doubled to Rs. 5,520 crore, from Rs. 2,527 crore in the year-earlier period. The 118% jump in profit was on account of exceptional gains from the disinvestment of the electrical and automation business during the quarter. Excluding the exceptional item, profit was Rs. 1,410 crore, a 45% decline from Rs. 2,552 crore in the year-earlier quarter. “PAT was impacted mainly due to the lower revenue, higher credit provisions in the financial services business and disruption of the Metro services,” L&T said in a regulatory filing. Consolidated revenue slid 12% to Rs. 31,035 crore. The company has declared a special dividend of Rs. 18 per equity share “to mark the successful completion of the divestment”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lt-q2-net-jumps-118-to-rs-5520-cr-on-divestment/article32967821.ece
29 October 2020||MUMBAI,||U.S. investors want more reforms in IPO rules: SEBI||Investors from the U.S. have emphasised the need for early finalisation of direct listing proposals, development of the corporate bond market and reforms in IPO regulations, said SEBI. In an interaction with top Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) officials, they have also shown interest in taking part in innovative ideas under the regulatory sandbox framework, the regulator said. Ajay Tyagi, Chairman, SEBI, along with other officials, held an e-interaction with stakeholders from the U.S. “We briefed them about key developments in the Indian economy as well as recent trends in the securities market, especially in this COVID era,” he said. As the largest number of FPIs and about a third of the total assets under FPIs’ custody are from the U.S., the importance of U.S. investments into India was emphasised, Mr. Tyagi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/us-investors-want-more-reforms-in-ipo-rules-sebi/article32967830.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India seeing its biggest content revolution’||India is seeing its biggest content revolution and there is a fundamental shift in viewing habits with two out of three Indians saying that they would rather give up TV than YouTube for a month, said Sanjay Gupta, country head and vice-president, Google India. Speaking at YouTube’s annual ‘Brandcast’ event, Mr. Gupta added that online video today is not just about entertainment but also experiences and learning. “YouTube today caters to the personal interest of a billion Indians across genres, languages, geographies and age groups, making YouTube the #1 platform for accessing videos in regional languages with Hindi leading the charts followed by Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Bengali and others,” he said. In a statement, the online video platform said that YouTube in India now reaches over 325 million monthly active viewers who are over 18 years of age, as per Comscore (May 2020), and that watchtime of gaming videos in India grew by two times as compared with Q2 2019 and baking videos grew by three times during the same duration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-seeing-its-biggest-content-revolution/article32967833.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hero Q2 profit climbs 9% to Rs. 963.82 crore||Hero MotoCorp on Wednesday reported a 9% increase in consolidated net profit to Rs. 963.82 crore for the quarter ended September 30. The company had registered a net profit of Rs. 883.78 crore in the July-September 2019 quarter. The consolidated revenuefrom operations rose nearly 24% to Rs. 9,473.32 crore compared with Rs. 7,660.60 crore in the year-ago period. “The earnings in the second quarter of FY21 reflects a strong performance, signalling a gradual revival from the negative impact of the global pandemic,” Niranjan Gupta, chief financial officer (CFO), Hero MotoCorp, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hero-q2-profit-climbs-9-to-rs-96382-crore/article32967826.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Titan Q2 profit plunges 38% to Rs. 199 crore||Titan Company on Wednesday reported a 38% plunge in net profit to Rs. 199 crore for the second quarter ended September 30 from a year earlier. Total income fell 1.7% to Rs. 4,389 crore. For the first half, total income stood at Rs. 6,290 crore, a decline of 34% from the year-earlier period. The company posted a loss of Rs. 71 crore against a profit of Rs. 691 crore. During the quarter, the company sold gold to the extent of Rs. 391 crore, posting a decline of 11% in bullion sales. “E-commerce is leading the recovery with absolute growth but the trade channel continues to pose challenges primarily due to destocking,” Titan said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/titan-q2-profit-plunges-38-to-rs-199-crore/article32967828.ece
29 October 2020||NEW Delhi,||AI Express posts ‘record’ profit in FY20||Air India Express, the low-cost international arm of Air India, reported its highest-ever net profit of Rs. 412 crore for FY20. The airline’s profit is 2.5 times what it earned the year before at Rs. 169 crore. The airline has been reporting net profit for the past five consecutive years. Despite the adverse market conditions due to COVID-19, operating revenue rose more than 25% to Rs. 5,219 crore, the airline said. “Efficient asset utilisation and enhanced operational efficiency have significantly contributed to the record profit,” said CEO Shyam Sundar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ai-express-posts-record-profit-in-fy20/article32967831.ece
29 October 2020||MUMBAI,||SBI raises $1 billion loan from JBIC||State Bank of India has signed a loan agreement for up to $1 billion with the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). The loan is to promote smooth flow of funds for the whole range of business operations of Japanese automakers and their dealers in India. While $600 million will be financed by JBIC, $400 million will be from other participating banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-raises-1-billion-loan-from-jbic/article32967823.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||LG Wing with 5G, swivel screen launched in India||Korean major LG unveiled two new smartphones in India, including the 5G-ready dual screen ‘LG Wing’ which comes with swivel mode that allows the main display to rotate 90 degrees, giving a T-shaped form factor. LG also introduced LG Velvet, which gives users an option of using it with dual screens. LG Wing would cost Rs. 69,990 and LG Velvet, Rs. 36,990 (single screen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lg-wing-with-5g-swivel-screen-launched-in-india/article32967827.ece
29 October 2020||Chennai,||CUMI Q2 profit rises 15.4%||Murugappa Group firm Carborundum Universal Ltd. (CUMI), posted a 15.4% rise in standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September to Rs. 50.2 crore amid steady performance across segments. Total income shrank 1.35% to Rs. 438 crore. Revenue from the electrominerals and abrasives segment was flat, while that of ceramics dipped 9.5%, CUMI said in a filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cumi-q2-profit-rises-154/article32967834.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||Axis Bank posts net profit of Rs 1,683 cr in Q2||Axis Bank on Wednesday reported a net profit of Rs. 1,683 crore on a standalone basis for the quarter ended September on account of a decline in bad loans. The private sector lender had posted a loss of Rs. 112 crore in the corresponding July-September period of the previous fiscal. Total income rose marginally to Rs. 19,870 crore from Rs. 19,334 crore in the same period last year.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/axis-bank-posts-net-profit-of-rs-1683-cr-in-q2/article32967837.ece
29 October 2020||DUBAI,||‘We have to change things quickly’||Delhi Capitals coach Ricky Ponting conceded that chasing is an area of concern for his team and it needs to hit the “reset” button to seal an IPL playoff spot in the remaining two league games after enduring a third straight loss, this time to Sunrisers Hyderabad, on Tuesday. “It’s been a concern. When we decide to bowl first, we’ve given away big totals. We have to get better at that, we need to be better at bowling first and at chasing totals because so far, it hasn’t worked for us,” said Ponting during the post-match press conference. Do a reset “We had a rough idea from the start of the game on how many points one might need to qualify. We got to seven wins quite quickly, and now lost three in a row. We have to reset right now,” Ponting said. “We play MI next and RCB in the last match and if we keep playing the way we are, we will find it hard to win those games. So we have to change things and change them quickly,” said Ponting. Ponting said his team has failed to bounce back whenever it has conceded an advantage to the opponents. “We’ve got some work to do on our all-round game. Out-fielding has been a bit sloppy and our batsmen have struggled to find any sort of rhythm.” Chasing a big target, DC had promoted Marcus Stoinis and Shimron Hetmyer up the order ahead of skipper Shreyas Iyer and Rishabh Pant.  “Chasing 220, with Rahane and Shikhar at the top, we thought if we lost an early wicket, we would have to match them (SRH) in the PowerPlay and get to 65 or 70,” the former Australian captain said. “Stoinis has been in sensational form so far, he was dying for an opportunity at the top-order. It didn’t come off today but it was all circumstantial because we were chasing such a big total. It was a bit of experimentation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-have-to-change-things-quickly/article32967972.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Bumrah and Suryakumar dominate RCB, put MI in the clear||Royal Challengers Bangalore’s middle-to-late-overs rut bit the side again as it finished on 164 for six against Mumbai Indians at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday. Devdutt Padikkal’s fine half-century (74, 45b, 12x4, 1x6) had ensured that RCB was 54 for no loss after six overs and 129 for two at the 15-over mark. But the outstanding Jasprit Bumrah (4-1-14-3) bowled a superb spell (2-1-5-2) at the death to take the wind out of RCB’s sails. After MI opted to field, RCB unveiled a new opening combination, with Josh Phillipe partnering Padikkal in place of the misfiring Aaron Finch. The two played to script, scoring at nearly nine an over in the PowerPlay. Padikkal unfurled a range of strokes, driving beautifully through extra-cover, executing cheeky sweeps and playing one majestic flick to the square-leg boundary that was ‘Yuvraj-esque’. Phillipe (33, 24b, 4x4, 1x6) matched Padikkal, the pull over square-leg off James Pattinson and the six over long-on off Trent Boult his stand-out shots. Rahul Chahar did the trick for MI in the eighth over, drawing Phillipe out and having him stumped. But Padikkal was unruffled, as his three sumptuous boundaries off Chahar and Krunal Pandya in the extra-cover region showed. The last one brought up a well-made half-century (30b).  However, Kohli struggled at the other end (9, 14b) and eventually fell to Bumrah. The skipper pulled a short ball, but connected it too high on the bat. Saurabh Tiwary completed a fine running catch from short mid-wicket for the speedster's 100th IPL wicket. A.B. de Villiers released some pressure by dispatching a 140 kmph delivery from Pattinson for a scooped six and backed it up with a pulled four. Padikkal then hit Chahar for two fours and a six to set RCB up for a late-overs flourish. But Kieron Pollard chanced his arm and bowled a wobbly full toss that de Villiers hit straight to the deep backward square-leg fielder. In the 17th over, Bumrah pinned RCB down with a double-wicket maiden, sending back both Shivam Dube and Padikkal. Boult’s final over produced 13, making the total look competitive.   MI 99 for three  MI was 99/3 in 13 overs, with Suryakumar (40) and Krunal (7) at the crease. de Kock (18), Ishan (25) and Tiwary (5) were dismissed    Bumrah’s 1 & 100  Kohli, who was Bumrah’s first IPL wicket, also became his 100th during their match on Wednesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/padikkal-and-bumrah-hog-the-limelight/article32967935.ece
29 October 2020||DUBAI,||Saha’s groin injury ‘not serious’||Wriddhiman Saha’s groin injury is “not serious” but his IPL franchise Sunrisers Hyderabad is expected to adopt a cautious approach after consultation with the BCCI’s medical team as the senior wicketkeeper-batsman is Australia-bound after the tournament. Saha had picked up the niggle during his match-winning knock of 87 off 45 balls against Delhi Capitals on Tuesday and didn’t keep wickets with substitute Shreevats Goswami replacing him. “Unfortunately, he’s got a little groin niggle but hopefully it isn’t too bad,” SRH skipper Warner said. A senior BCCI source said that all the franchises have been told to be a bit cautious with regards to fitness of national team players. “It doesn’t look very serious at the moment but there is a three-day gap before Sunrisers’ next game. Let’s keep our fingers crossed,” the official said. There is a possibility that Saha may be advised to skip the next two games and in case Sunrisers makes it to play-offs, he would be fully fit. Praise from Tendulkar and Shastri Sachin Tendulkar lauded Saha’s “under-rated” shot-making while the Indian team’s head coach Ravi Shastri felt his 45-ball 87 was simply “outstanding”. Saha smashed 12 fours and two sixes for SRH in its 88-run victory over Delhi Capitals, showing his batting skills which have largely gone unnoticed over the years. “Very smart batting,” Tendulkar tweeted. “I also feel that @Wriddhipops quick scoring ability is invariably underrated,” he also said. He loved the manner in which Saha was able to improvise his shots. “There was no slogging at all. Played a fantastic innings which I thoroughly enjoyed watching.” Shastri once again termed him as the world’s best wicketkeeper and praised his batting effort. “To the best Glove Man in the world. Outstanding performance tonight,” Shastri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sahas-groin-injury-not-serious/article32967977.ece
29 October 2020||MONCHENGLADBACH,||Casemiro saves Real’s blushes||Casemiro scored a last-gasp equaliser as Real Madrid fought back from two goals down to snatch a 2-2 draw against Borussia Monchengladbach on Tuesday, avoiding a second straight loss in the Champions League. Marcus Thuram’s double had put the German outfit on course for a famous victory, but Real roared back with late efforts from Karim Benzema and Casemiro — three minutes into added time — to salvage a point. But Real remained at the bottom of Group B after its shock 3-2 home defeat against a depleted Shakhtar Donetsk side in the opener. Shakhtar was three points clear at the top after a goalless draw with Inter Milan in another encounter. Despite having more than 60% possession, Real rarely troubled Gladbach goalkeeper Yann Sommer until the frantic final moments. It was Gladbach which scored just after the half-hour mark. A poor pass by Toni Kroos put Real under pressure in its own half. Gladbach midfielder Jonas Hofmann snapped up the loose ball and fed Alassane Plea, whose pin-point low pass to Thuram was buried into the back of the net. Thuram, the son of French 1998 World Cup winner Lilian Thuram, pounced to score his second in the 58th. However, Zidane’s men fought back to share the honours. Holder Bayern Munich needed a Joshua Kimmich strike to claim a 2-1 win at Lokomotiv Moscow in Group A. Joao Felix scored twice, including a late winner, as Atletico Madrid came from behind to beat Salzburg 3-2. Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City eased to a second straight win in Group C while Liverpool defeated Danish champion Midtjylland 2-0 in a low-key game in Group D. Atalanta came from 2-0 down to draw 2-2 at home to Ajax, thanks to Duvan Zapata’s brace.  The results: Group A: Lokomotiv Moscow 1 (Miranchuk 70) lost to Bayern Munich 2 (Goretzka 13, Kimmich 79); Atletico Madrid 3 (Llorente 29, Felix 52 & 85) bt Salzburg 2 (Szoboszlai 40, Berisha 47).   Group B: Shakhtar Donetsk 0 drew with Inter Milan 0; Borussia Monchengladbach 2 (Thuram 33 & 58) drew with Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 87, Casemiro 90+3).   Group C: Porto 2 (Vieira 11, Oliveira 85) bt Olympiakos 0; Marseille 0 lost to Manchester City 3 (Torres 18, Gundogan 76, Sterling 81).   Group D: Atalanta 2 (Zapata 54 & 60) drew with Ajax 2 (Tadic 30-pen, Traore 38); Liverpool 2 (Jota 55, Salah 90+2-pen) bt Midtjylland 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/casemiro-saves-reals-blushes/article32967930.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delighted to have the ball rolling again, says Sharath Kamal||After a seven-month layoff forced by the COVID-19 pandemic, some of the country’s leading table tennis players arrived at Sonepat on Wednesday for a 42-day national camp aimed at the Olympic qualification next year. Nine-time National champion Sharath Kamal, and Anusha Kutumbale, both part of the 11-player group, will reach on Thursday. All the campers were required to clear a COVID-19 test three days prior to their travel to Sonepat. After six days of mandatory quarantine, the players will start training. Sharath, instrumental in pushing for this camp since August in keeping with Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI)’s plan and the requirements laid down by the Sports Authority of India (SAI), was “delighted to have the ball rolling again”. “I am looking forward to getting back the focus and concentration which is not possible to experience when you are training at home. There will be some young, quality players in the camp, like Manav Thakkar and Sudhanshu Grover, and we all can gain from each other’s presence,” Sharath told The Hindu on Wedesday. From those missing from the camp, G. Sathiyan is training in Germany and currently playing in France. On his return, Sathiyan is due to play in Japan. Harmeet Desai is training in Poland while A. Amalraj is recovering from COVID-19. Satisfied Manika Batra and Madhurika Patkar have expressed satisfaction with their training routine in Pune and Thane, respectively. In contrast to the initial apprehension expressed by several players, the news of Sharath’s presence at Sonepat has prompted many of them to enquire about joining the camp later. The TTFI is not in favour of such staggered arrivals of the players that could raise the risk of COVID-19 for the campers. The camp ends on December 9. TTFI secretary M.P. Singh said “the camp will help them come into good shape, kind of match-ready fitness, before the Olympic qualifiers next year.”  The campers: Men: A. Sharath Kamal, Manav Thakkar, Manush Shah, Sudhanshu Grover and Jubin Kumar. Women: Sutirtha Mukherjee, Archana Kamath, Anusha Kutumbale, Takeme Sarkar, Kaushani Nath and Diya Chitale. Coaches: Arup Basak, Sunil Babras and Sachin Shetty .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delighted-to-have-the-ball-rolling-again-says-sharath-kamal/article32967981.ece
29 October 2020||Mumbai,||World Cup 2022: Qatar hoping for more Indian eyeballs||The organisers of the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar are expecting more Indian eyeballs than during the 2018 edition as the matches will be played at convenient timings for the audience in the country, the CEO Nasser Al Khater said on Wednesday. Qatar will become the first country in the Middle East to host the mega sporting event, which will kick off from November 21, 2022. “It (FIFA World Cup) may not be as gigantic (in India) as the cricket World Cup but the FIFA World Cup 2018 in Russia drew broadcast audiences of nearly 300 million in India and this is only going to go further up in 2022,” Khater told PTI in an interview. “In India, majority of matches will kick-off at convenient times. During group stage, the first game will start at 15:30 IST and the last game at 00:30 IST. The second and third matches at 18:30 and 21:30 IST respectively, which will both be consumed by prime time evening broadcast audience in India.” Affordable event Khater said Qatar is committed to deliver an affordable and exciting experience to anyone who visits the country during the World Cup. “We are committed to delivering an exciting, memorable and affordable FIFA World Cup for everyone visiting in 2022, particularly in light of the impact of COVID-19 pandemic. “Despite the hard times we live in, we will ensure that 2022 remains affordable for everyone,” he said. According to Khater, Qatar will welcome Indian clubs if they want to use the facilities. “Indian clubs are always welcome to Qatar, whether for training or competition, and I am certain that anyone who makes the trip will enjoy world class facilities and our renowned hospitality,” he added. Sharing technology Qatar had used cooling systems at FIFA World Cup stadiums during the AFC Champions League matches in September and the top official said that they were ready to share the technology with countries having similar climate. “This was driven by several legacy considerations...to use these venues year-round in the lead up to and after 2022. “This was a benefit witnessed first hand during the AFC Champions League, and a demonstration of how this legacy is taking shape before 2022,” he said. “We are definitely open to sharing our knowledge and expertise when it comes to the cooling technology with any country with a similar climate to Qatar who may benefit from it.”  We are committed to delivering an exciting, memorable and affordable FIFA World Cup for everyone visiting in 2022 — Nasser Al Khater||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/world-cup-2022-qatar-hoping-for-more-indian-eyeballs/article32967982.ece
29 October 2020||Dubai,||Pakistan, Zimbabwe begin 2023 WC qualification bid||Former world champion Pakistan hosts Zimbabwe in the ICC men’s World Cup Super League series in Rawalpindi from Friday as the teams begin their qualification campaign for the 2023 World Cup, scheduled to be held in India. A record of losing just one out of 19 ODIs over six previous home series against Zimbabwe would give new captain Babar Azam confidence ahead of their opening series of the Super League, introduced to bring context to ODI cricket and to confirm the top seven teams with direct spots for the World Cup along with host India. Featuring 13 teams, the 12 ICC full members and the Netherlands, who qualified by winning the ICC World Cricket League Championship 2015-17, the Super League will see sides play eight three-match series each, four at home and four away. Second chance The sides failing to qualify directly will get a second shot through a Qualifier. Each team gets 10 points for a win, five for a tie / no result / abandonment and none for a loss. Teams will be ranked according to total points earned across the eight series. England on top England, which on the ICC men’s World Cup as host last year, leads the points table with 30 points after featuring in both series played so far. It beat Ireland 2-1 before losing to Australia by the same margin last month. Babar, who was player of the series in Pakistan’s last ODI rubber against Sri Lanka played over a year ago, is the top-ranked player from either side in the ICC men’s ODI player rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-zimbabwe-begin-2023-wc-qualification-bid/article32968219.ece
29 October 2020||TIRUCHI:,||Thulip gets Hyper in summit clash||Thulip Sports scripted a 12-run win over Hyper CA to clinch the Major Saravanan Memorial Trophy in the State-level under-12 inter-academy T20 cricket tournament, organised by RKV CA, at RKV Garden recently.  The scores:   Final: Thulip Sports 111/6 in 20 overs (S.S. Dhanvanth 44) bt Hyper 99/7 in 20 overs (S. Hariprashath 54 n.o.).   Semifinals: RKV 41 in 18.2 overs lost to Thulip Sports 44/5 in 15.2 overs.   Hyper 110/4 in 20 overs (Nisvanth 25, Kowsick 30) bt Sethu CF 105/8 in 20 overs.   Special awards:   Best batsman: S.S. Dhanvanth (Thulip Sports); Best bowler: S. Mohammed Rafan (Hyper); Best all-rounder: A. Rithan Kumar (RKV); Best wicketkeeper: V. Naveen (Thulip Sports).   Best fielder: S. Mohammed Rafan; Promising youngster: R.S. Sithays (RKV); Player-of-the-final: S. Hariprashath (Hyper); Player-of-the-tournament: J. Hemchudesan (Sethu CF) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thulip-gets-hyper-in-summit-clash/article32967970.ece
29 October 2020||DHAKA,||Bangladesh team gets ready to welcome Shakib||Bangladesh’s cricket establishment is waiting eagerly to welcome Shakib Al Hasan with open arms as he completes his one-year anti-corruption rule violation ban on Thursday. Shakib was handed a two-year ban, with a one-year suspended sentence, by ICC’s Anti-Corruption Unit on October 29 last year, for failing to report multiple corrupt approaches by an Indian bookmaker.  Mahmudullah said the Bangladesh cricket team is waiting with bated breath to welcome back Shakib into the dressing room. “Our boy is coming back home,” said the Bangladesh T20 captain, which is the collective mood of country’s cricketing fraternity. Best player “We know that Shakib has been the best player for so many years, for the Bangladesh cricket team. We are all eagerly waiting for his return to the dressing room,” Mahmudullah was quoted by ESPN Cricinfo . “It feels good to know that we can see him, talk to him and spend time with him.” The 33-year-old all-rounder is currently in the United States with his family and is expected to return to Bangladesh early next month. “Shakib is a champion player. I think it won’t take him long to get back to rhythm,” said Mahmudullah, who has been playing international cricket along side Shakib for the last 13 years. “The biggest thing is that we can fill up the gap that his absence had created. He always makes important contributions.” Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) chief selector Minhajul Abedin said Shakib will be eased into the international scene through the domestic route. “Our best player is coming back to the field. He now has to prepare himself for domestic tournaments since we don’t have any international series for the time being,” Abedin said. “We have to monitor his physical condition. Let him start in domestic cricket. We should give him time. He won’t take long to get back into rhythm,” he said.  It feels good to know that we can see him, talk to him and spend time with him.— Mahmudullah||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-team-gets-ready-to-welcome-shakib/article32967979.ece
29 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Manasi — triumphing over adversity||Manasi Joshi lost her leg in a horrific road accident, but found her calling — and international recognition — on the badminton court. Now the inspirational World champion, who has featured on the cover of Time magazine and has had a Barbie doll created in her image, is targeting Paralympic gold when the sport debuts in Tokyo next year. Eight years ago, she was a 23-year-old software engineer riding her scooter to work in Mumbai when a truck smashed into her, crushing her left leg and breaking both arms. Joshi’s severely injured leg was amputated by doctors and she faced months of rehabilitation to learn to walk again. But the accident could not damage her spirit and the young woman was determined to build her strength by playing her favourite sport, badminton. Learning experience “It has been a journey about learning and accepting different things,” said Joshi from Ahmedabad. “Working hard on things that looked hard but are a new normal now. So I have come a long way.” Five months after putting on the artificial limb, Joshi won her first gold in an office tournament against able-bodied players. “I used more of my mind. Made people run, made sure that wherever I put the shuttle they end up giving it to my hand so that I could finish the point,” she said. “It was a turning point after my injury and the win certainly boosted my confidence.” Emboldened, she trained harder with the support of her family and eventually quit software engineering to play badminton full-time in 2016. Two years later, she joined P. Gopi Chand’s academy in Hyderabad, and became a member of India’s National para-badminton squad. Last year, Joshi won singles gold at the para-badminton World Championships.  Time featured Joshi on the cover of their Asia edition this month as one of eight global “next generation” leaders. The makers of America’s famous Barbie doll celebrated the achievements of Joshi on the International Day of Girl Child on October 11 with a Barbie modelled on her. Inspirational “I feel honoured to be a part of all this. “And I think this will inspire people and they will believe that everything is possible,” Joshi said, adding that there was growing acknowledgement of the achievements of differently-abled athletes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manasi-triumphing-over-adversity/article32967974.ece
29 October 2020||ANANTAPUR:,||Gnaneswar, Ricky Bhui excel||Opener C.R. Gnaneswar (52, 45b, 6x4, 1x7) and P. Tapaswi (3/13) helped Kings XI score a three-run in over Chargers XI in the Karbonn Harmonycity ACA T20 league cricket championship at Anantapur on Wednesday. In another match, a captain’s knock by Ricky Bhui (62, 41b, 4x4, 6x6) fashioned Champions XI’s seven-wicket win over Titans XI.  The scores:   Kings XI 157/6 in 20 overs (C.R Gnaneswar 52, Naren Reddy 44) bt Chargers XI 154/6 in 20 overs (B. Sumanth 39, Sk. Rasheed 61, P. Tapaswi 3/13).   Titans XI 151/8 in 20 overs lost to Champions XI 152/3 in 19 overs (U.M.S. Girinath 37, Ricky Bhui 62, K. Ashwin Hebbar 36 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gnaneswar-ricky-bhui-excel/article32968819.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Rashid spins out Capitals||Chasing a target of 220 is never easy but Delhi Capitals lacked intent and eventually faltered against Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Dubai International Stadium on Tuesday. SRH beat DC by 88 runs to stay alive in the tournament. David Warner led from the front, scoring a 34-ball 66 (8x4, 2x6) and then taking two catches to help dismiss the in-form Shikhar Dhawan — for a golden duck off Sandeep Sharma’s third ball — and Marcus Stoinis, off Shahbaz Nadeem, inside the PowerPlay. He even took the right DRS call towards the back end of the game, which saw the end of Rishabh Pant (36, 35b, 3x4, 1x6). Ajinkya Rahane (26, 19b, 3x4, 1x6) had tried to build a partnership with Shimron Hetmyer in the chase, but that was cut short by leg-spinner Rashid Khan, who dismissed them both. Rashid’s three for seven strangled DC. He bowled 17 dot balls in his spell.   Powerplay  Warner and Saha scored 77 in the first six overs, the highest this season eclipsing Royals’ 69 for one against Kings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rashid-spins-out-capitals/article32967924.ece
29 October 2020||PARIS,||Coleman to appeal ban||World champion sprinter Christian Coleman will appeal his two-year ban from athletics for anti-doping violations, his manager said on Wednesday. “The decision of the Disciplinary Tribunal established under World Athletics Rules is unfortunate and will be immediately appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport,” Emanuel Hudson tweeted. “Mr. Coleman has nothing further to say until such time as the matter can be heard in the Court of jurisdiction.” Coleman, who won the men’s 100 metres at last year’s World Championships in Doha, in a world-leading time for the season of 9.76 seconds, was provisionally suspended for three ‘whereabouts failures’ in June. Should the ban remain in place, Coleman would miss next year’s Olympic Games in Japan, where he would have been among the favourites to win 100m gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coleman-to-appeal-ban/article32967926.ece
29 October 2020||MUMBAI,||India’s Australia tour dates confirmed||With less than a fortnight remaining for India’s departure to Australia for a full series, Cricket Australia (CA) on Wednesday announced the detailed itinerary of the tour. D-N Test at Adelaide It was thus confirmed that India will figure in its first overseas day-night Test match at Adelaide from December 17. India hosted Bangladesh for a pink-ball Test last year, which was the first experience of floodlit Test cricket for Virat Kohli’s side.  In order to facilitate the tourists’ preparation for the Adelaide Test, a day-night warm-up game will be played in Sydney from December 11 to 13. Coinciding with T20Is The tour schedule also confirms that the first of the two warm-up matches against Australia-A will coincide with the T20Is. The tour will start with a three-match ODI series on November 27 and end with the fourth Test, scheduled in Brisbane from January 15 to 19 next year. Although the initial phase of the series will be played in front of empty stands, CA hopes that the Tests, including the traditional Boxing Day fixture at the iconic Melbourne Cricket Ground, will see limited crowds in attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-tour-dates-confirmed/article32967932.ece
29 October 2020||Nur Sultan (Kazakhstan),||Divij & Bambridge enter quarterfinals||Divij Sharan and Luke Bambridge beat Ariel Behar and Gonzalo Escobar 7-5, 4-6, [10-6] in the doubles first round of the $337,000 ATP tennis tournament here on Wednesday.  Other results: First round: €44,820 Challenger, Hamburg, Germany: Hugo Gaston (Fra) bt Sumit Nagal 7-5, 4-1 (retired); Tobias Kamke (Ger) bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran 3-6, 6-4, 6-1.   Doubles: Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji bt Illya Marchenko (Ukr) & Roman Safiullin (Rus) 6-1, 7-6(4).   €44,820 Challenger, Marbella, Spain: Carlos Taberner (Esp) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 3-6, 7-5, 7-6(4).   $15,000 ITF, Sharm El Sheikh: Women: Alina Silich & Mariia Tkacheva (Rus) bt Emillie Lindh (GBr) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-7 (5), 6-1, [10-8].   Men: Vladyslav Manafov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe bt Preston Connor (Irl) & Aijaz Fugina (Slo) 6-0, 6-0; Marat Deviatiarov & Oleksil Krutykh (Ukr) bt Kelsey Stevenson (Can) & Sidharth Rawat 7-6(4), 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-bambridge-enter-quarterfinals/article32967937.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Uttama Purana||The Puranas are considered as a vital portion of the scriptures. Along with the Itihasas and the Smritis, they explain and illustrate the spiritual truths in the Vedas. The term ‘purana’ occurs in the Vedas and the Upanishads and means ‘pura api navam,’ that is, though old it is always new. The puranas are relevant to all ages and it is the belief that by listening to the sacred purana stories human beings get purified of their sins committed by thought, word and deed. Vyasa, the composer and compiler of many puranas, says this as a word of encouragement to Janamejaya when he is depressed that the Sarpa yagna that was begun to avenge the death by snake bite of his father Parikshit, could not be completed, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a lecture. To remove the sin caused by the disruption of the yagna, Janamejaya had already listened to the entire story of the Mahabharata from Vaisampayana, Vyasa’s disciple. Vyasa explains that he is certainly blessed because of this. Moreover he is of noble nature and has done many good deeds. But since still his father has not attained the heavens, Vyasa recommends that he build a temple for Devi who will grant him all auspiciousness. He should also perform Devi Makam or Devi yagna and also listen to Devi Bhagavata Purana. His heart will be appeased and all his ancestors will attain the heavens. The sage extols the greatness of this purana that contains glorious accounts of Devi and reflects various sentiments that are highly sanctifying. There is none greater than Devi and no greater story than this narrative that helps one cross the ocean of samsara. All the celestial beings are always engaged in Her devotional service. He who hears this purana will get all his desires fulfilled. It is held that the Purana was related by Goddess to Vishnu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uttama-purana/article32967921.ece
29 October 2020||Bengaluru:,||Akshay in lead||Akshay Neranjen (three-under 141 overall) sits on top of the leaderboard at the end of the penultimate round of the first leg of the RBG Champions Golf Development Tour, at Prestige Golfshire here on Thursday.  The scores (leaders only):     Teen and amateur:   Boys: 141: Akshay Neranjen (70, 71); Girls: 153: Jasmine Shekhar (74, 79).   Under-14 (first round): 69: Kaushal Karupakula .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akshay-in-lead/article32968542.ece
29 October 2020||Buenos Aires,||Maradona self-isolating||Argentina great Diego Maradona, who turns 60 on Friday, is self-isolating after a bodyguard started displaying coronavirus symptoms, local press reported on Tuesday. A bodyguard “woke up with COVID-19 symptoms and went into preventative quarantine until the relevant tests are carried out,” said the sports newspaper Ole . “Just in case and until there is more information, Maradona will remain confined at home,” added the Pagina/12 website, quoting “inside sources.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maradona-self-isolating/article32967975.ece
29 October 2020||BARCELONA,||Bartomeu resigns as Barcelona president||Josep Maria Bartomeu resigned as Barcelona president on Tuesday, along with his board of directors, and left with a bombshell admission that he had accepted a proposal for the club to play in “a future European Super League”. Bartomeu’s departure comes following mounting pressure from fans and his public fall-out with Lionel Messi. His resignation means avoiding a vote of no confidence, which had been triggered after more than 20,000 Barcelona members signed a petition for him to be removed. Victor Font and Joan Laporta are among the candidates expected to run to be Bartomeu’s successor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bartomeu-resigns-as-barcelona-president/article32967928.ece
29 October 2020||Dubai,||KKR needs a big victory||Already out of the reckoning, a relaxed Chennai Super Kings is ready to foil Kolkata Knight Riders’ desperate bid for a victory on Thursday. KKR, with 12 points from 12 games, would like to win the next two encounters to ensure a smooth passage. A possibility remains that multiple teams will end up on either 16 or 14 points and a comprehensive victory at this stage of the tournament, will bring the superior net run-rate into equation when the play-off spots are decided. It won’t get too easy for KKR against CSK, which handed an eight-wicket thrashing to RCB in its previous outing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kkr-needs-a-big-victory/article32967931.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The Hindu Cryptic 13078 by Arden displayed a wrong enumeration for 24 Across. It should have been printed as (3,3,3). Error is regretted. Visit crossword.thehindu.com to solve online and interactively.||6 Toll for the man in church (5)  7 Run, some are crushed like a bunch of grapes (8)  10 Puzzles females wearing cotton, perhaps... (7)  11 ... if they stimulate one of them (7)  12 Becomes clear, American city follows crime (7)  13 Old official carrying note — it’s all gas (7)  14 Absolving old sailor — one is involved (11)  19 Sack from the French city of yore (7)  21 East of Berlin moneybags can’t fly (7)  23 After revolution liberators lost IRA support (7)  25 Alfilaria — every other issue is an affair (7)  26 Fight over land, one’s taken away mineral (8)  27 Child is sick, gets cold (5)    1 Service pneumatic drive (3,5)  2 Enemy takes measure of the rim (6)  3 Minister’s house damaged by trees in question (10)  4 Boat is slower, taken separately (4)  5 In a detailed manner ask the man his complaint (6)  6 Metal business by Latvian (6)  8 Current carrying master switch for conductors (7)  9 Move slowly — after first count another count comes up (5)  13 Make a world fit for a flyer (6,4)  15 Sorted out internal energy and unit of magnetic field strength (7)  16 Appreciates help — that’s denied (8)  17 Bother to live in a mud hut (5)  18 Cut up having woman cleaner (6)  20 Fix everything in a helmet (6)  22 Stupor in Goa, perhaps (6)  24 Riveted to music tempo (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-hindu-cryptic-13078-by-arden-displayed-a-wrong-enumeration-for-24-across-it-should-have-been-printed-as-333-error-is-regretted-visit-crosswordthehinducom-to-solve-online-and-interactively/article32967923.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 08:52 IST,||Sudoku - October 29, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-29-2020/article32969316.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Sourdough that curries f a v o u r||Reassuringly, Bread and Chocolate, which opens today in Alwarpet, is a joyful manifestation of unwavering idealism and stubborn faith. The man behind the bread is baker Daniel Trulson. A Chicago native, who met his wife in Auroville, Trulson believes in home grown, healthy, organic produce. The man behind the chocolate is Fabien Mason. The Frenchman, along with his ex-wife Jane launched Mason and Co in Auroville seven years ago, determined to celebrate the potential of the undervalued Indian cacao bean. Daniel cooks and bakes only with healthy fats: even his vegetables are roasted in raw cacao butter. Fabien untiringly advocates eco-friendly packaging, pushing back on plastic. Both are uncompromising when it comes to produce, insisting on thoughtful, responsible sourcing. They staff their kitchen with women, none of whom have any restaurant experience. While this unrelenting attention to detail makes functioning more challenging, it is also why the Bread And Chocolate café, launched in Auroville five years ago, quickly gained a cult following. After turning down multiple requests for collaboration, last year the duo met city restaurateurs Japtej Ahluwalia and Nikesh Lamba over chocolate croissants in Auroville and agreed to open in Chennai. Total makeover The result is a sprawling flagship restaurant cheery with sunshine, bouncing off trays of billowing croissants with flaky crusts and steamy hearts. A staffer from Auroville, draped in a bright pink sari, giggles excitedly on a video call, showing her family the space, pausing only so Daniel and Fabien can say hello to them as well. “It’s the first time she has been outside Auroville,” smiles Japtej, also waving, as he bounds up the stairs to explain the layout. Formerly housing Bharat Bistro, the once-moody space is now open and inviting. The highlight is a surprising open air dining area tucked into a corner, where the older restaurant’s private dining used to be. “It’s been a crazy roller coaster ride,” laughs Daniel, arriving at the table bearing warm loaves of his signature sourdough, a result of many years of experimentation with local flour. Even now, with a reputation for baking some of the country’s best sourdough, he is on his toes, tweaking recipes everyday in response to humidity and ingredients. “It is easy to fall asleep at the wheel… I always motivate myself by challenging myself on a global scale,” he says. Along with regular and seeded versions, he has been experimenting with figs, spices and even a curry sourdough. The café, open from 8 am, features updated Bread and Chocolate classics, and more. Try the summertime tartine, which shatters into warm buttery shards on every bite, filled with jammy roasted tomatoes, poached eggs, basil pesto and fresh ricotta from Auroville. Or the bowls, including a tropical smoothie version with creamy chia pudding chunky with fruits and toasted coconut. The essential hipster avocado toast is served with capers and almond dukkah. Of course, there are a range of croissants, stuffed with chocolate or studded with crisp almonds. And, their signature ‘bread and chocolate’ — hefty slices of sourdough generously piled with dark chocolate, sea salt and honey. Created in collaboration with Subko Mumbai, known for its small batch artisan coffee, the café boasts an array of drinks, including iced barrel aged cascaras, cold brew bottles and coffee-tonic. Meanwhile Fabian, who has spent the past seven years working with Indian cacao growers and processors, is enjoying creating bonbons using coconut, coffee, nuts and cacao nibs. “Coffee and chocolate are very different but also similar,” he says, discussing how attention to farming and processing over the years has resulted in Indian beans now earning global attention. “One of our main goals is to show people that India has high quality ingredients,” he says, pausing to add with a smile, “India has everything.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sourdough-that-curries-f-a-v-o-u-r/article32968509.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Not lost in translation||The lockdown might have allowed film buffs to discover regional films on digital platforms, but interest in dubbed cinema from the South, particularly Telugu and Tamil films, too, has been mushrooming in parallel. This is not a recent phenomena. The 2018-19 report published by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), India, about the viewership percentage for films from the South on television, states that Hindi channels relied on dubbed films for “at least 11% of the viewership”. The report adds that films in Kannada, Telugu, Tamil and Malayalam languages “clocked at least 135 billion hours” of viewership. Love for the masala What explains the growing audience for dubbed content up North? There was a time in the ‘90s and early noughties when Bollywood churned out ‘masala films’ starring the likes of Sunny Deol and Sanjay Dutt. These films, which occupied prime time slots, gradually diminished in numbers with the emergence of content deemed ‘multiplex-friendly’. It is this dearth of commercial potboilers that prompted distributors like Aneesh Dev, managing director, WAM India (a pioneer in film distribution) to venture into the dubbing business. He bought the rights of sought-after Telugu and Tamil films, dubbed and presented them to non-native speakers. That was until Rajinikanth’s 2005 film, Chandramukhi , whose dubbed version was lapped up by the Hindi speaking audience, woke Aneesh up to the untapped potential of ‘masala films’. “Television channels used to screen old movies of Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna in the 2000s. But the major shift happened with Chandramukhi , whose Hindi rights we had bought. Thereafter, we started looking at Telugu and Tamil films more,” says Aneesh, over phone from Mumbai. He observes that the popularity of dubbed movies from the South has grown at such an exponential rate that when presented with an opportunity, he launched an exclusive streaming platform for such films. Called Dollywood Play, which went live in July this year. According to Aneesh, dubbed movies are categorised in two verticals: A plus and A minus. The former includes star vehicles while the latter category features films headlined by mid-tier actors. Plus or minus “We don’t opt for A plus because it is difficult to recover the money. A minus is a safer zone and the price will not fluctuate,” he adds. In most cases, distributors acquire the Hindi dubbing rights from a producer and dub on their own, as opposed to buying the rights of an already dubbed film. “We prefer it this way because we are able to supervise quality. Dubbing into vernacular languages is a market that is emerging,” says Aneesh. One of the contributing factors to this preference for ‘masala films’ among the audience is the way action sequences are choreographed in South films, says SR Prabhu, partner, Dream Warrior Pictures production firm. “Action scenes in our movies are superior to the ones you would find in Bollywood. In fact, when a distributor approaches us for the Hindi rights, the first question he asks is: ‘how many action blocks does the film have?’,”he says. Umesh Gupta, managing director, Aditya Movies, shares a similar train of thought. “The Hindi-speaking audience love the one-liners that we call ‘punch dialogues’, the comedy and action sequences,” he says, adding that recent years have witnessed a demand for non-action films as well, such as Telugu director Trivikram Srinivas’ A… Aa ,  starring Nithiin and Samantha Akkineni. “The dubbed version of A... Aa got 200 million views,” he adds. Same with the Tamil social-drama, Raatchasi , which was dubbed and released as Madam Geeta Rani by Goldmines Telefilms on their YouTube channel. In under a month, it had amassed 100 million views. Prabhu, who is Raatchasi ’s producer, says that the film performed better on digital platforms than during its theatrical run. Its dubbing rights fetched his company nearly the same revenue as satellite and digital streaming rights. Thriving business What is the demography of the audience watching dubbed movies online? Prabhu says that dubbed films resonate more with people from economically-backward sections, who prefer watching movies in their vernacular languages. “There is a whole section of the audience that does not watch movies with subtitles. When someone from an underprivileged background watches a dubbed film, (s)he is able to relate to the emotions, even if they don’t know understand the film’s original language,” he says. Lately, YouTube has opened a new source of revenue for producers and distributors, whereby the latter monetises the viewership numbers based on the ads generated for the content. Prabhu, however, feels that this revenue is meagre. “If your movie crosses 100 million views, you might end up making Rs. 1 crore on YouTube; it is a small model,” he says, and adds: “That is why producers prefer selling the Hindi remake rights because it fetches more money.” Aneesh, however, believes the dubbing industry is here to thrive. “In our country, 80% of the audience likes masala and the remaining watch all kinds of content. So, when it comes to business, I am only concerned about what the majority likes because that is only bringing money.”  With inputs from       Sangeetha Devi Dundoo    Numbers game The 2017 Telugu film Ninnu Kori starring Nani, Aadhi Pinisetty and Nivetha Thomas, has been uploaded to YouTube by Aditya Movies as Aaj Ka Khiladi . It has gained 18 million views in less than a month. The Hindi-dubbed version of Tamil film Action starring Vishal and Tamannaah Bhatia — a film which underperformed critically and commercially upon release — has 74 million views on YouTube in under three weeks of its upload. Vijay’s Jilla dubbed as Policewala Gunda 2 and Bairavaa have 123 million and 100 million each, Dhanush’s Maari 2 and Vada Chennai garnered 93 and 30 million, while Karthi’s Dev and Sivakarthikeyan’s Remo have 79 and 77 million views. The Hindi version of Telugu film iSmart Shankar has 138 million views, Majili has 73 million views and the 2018 film Srinivasa Kalyanam has 136 million views on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/not-lost-in-translation/article32968514.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Cake by the ocean||It was an unusual Sunday in an unusual year for Sendil Nath. Six kilometres into the Bay of Bengal, atop a yacht, as he manned the boom and pulled the ropes to steer the boat under his captain Dheer Singhi’s orders, he felt a familiar thrill. “There were times the wind was so strong, it felt like the boat would almost capsize,” says the 41-year-old former motorbike racer, “That rush I felt while racing was back after 15 years.” A day at sea is one of the main thrills that Sportifying India, a city-based niche sports company is offering. “People come looking to escape city life. Once you have exited the harbour, it no longer feels like you are in Chennai,” says Dheer, who co-founded Sportifying India, along with fellow international sailors, Abhimanyu Panwar and Avinash Shanbagh. As cities limp cautiously back to recovery, entertainment avenues are still limited. Niche watersports such as sailing, kayaking, paddling and canoeing hope to fill the void. “Sailing is not a team sport. You are on a boat and on your own (in the case of single-handed boats). You may have one more person as a crew member, but social distancing is part of the game,” points out Dennis Luiz, commodore of the Ernakulam Sailing Association in Kerala. After a hiatus since the lockdown when it had to down oars, the association is gearing up to reopen soon. Setting sail After launching in November 2019, Sportifying India had to put an early brake on its operations due to the pandemic. But once the Chennai harbour opened up to commercial activities, in late September, they resumed the sailing trips, starting by inviting city musicians such as Maalavika Manoj and The F16 band for a day of music and fishing. “We first ask people what kind of experience they are looking for. Some want to celebrate a birthday or an anniversary, some just want to go out to sea. We curate the trip accordingly. We could get a cake or decorate the boat with balloons,” says Dheer, adding that all COVID-19 protocols of wearing masks and sanitising are followed. “If you wish, you can come in lesser numbers so that you feel more safe,” he adds. While sailing has just restarted in Chennai, the Global Sailing Club in Kochi, a seven-year-old association, has been back in business since June. In fact, the number of people participating in sailing has doubled since last year, says OC Thomas, founder of the sailing club, adding that up to 40% of them were newcomers. “People learn sailing but mostly, they want to make a whole day out of it — they come with their families to sail, have lunch, drinks and then head back,” he says. This strategy of promoting water sports at a family level, is one that even the Ernakulam Sailing Association has embraced. “The idea is to rope in adults who are interested. So, when they join, their family too, especially kids, jump on the bandwagon,” Dennis says. About a week ago, Kollam’s Syzygy Ecosports restarted kayaking and canoeing, for up to three people. Located at Pozhikkara beach, it takes its customers to the Paravur backwaters and the Ithikkara river. “We already have bookings made by residents of Trivandrum and Varkala. They prefer weekdays, while on weekends we get visitors from nearby resorts,” says Dani George, founder. In still waters Dani describes how paddling in the Ithikkara River, when you cross a mangrove forest, feels like a mini-Amazon. “Even at midday, there is no sunlight, the canopy is that thick and tall. You can also get out of the canoe onto a sandbar. It is a good place to take a break and rest, and play volleyball. During high tides, it appears as if you are standing on the surface of the water,” he says. Being stifled at home for a few months has clearly increased appreciation for the outdoors. This, Chennai-based Kumaran Mahalingam, founder of Paddle for Future, discovered looking at his sales over the past few months. The company expanded its Mangrovebay Ecocamp in Chidambaram near Pichavaram and now includes sunrise kayaking. “If we had 50 bookings a month before the pandemic, it has increased to 150 now, post the lockdown,” says Kumaran cheerily. “The value of being in Nature has increased.” The ecocamp takes a maximum of 14 people per day, and the 10-acre campus makes social distancing easier. Guests come in a day in advance, stay the night in tents or bunks, kayak early morning, have breakfast and then head back to the city. Its Work From Camp programme sees people staying there for longer — the 9 to 5 day begins with a round of kayaking in the morning and paddling in the evening. “We take the kids to a beach near Pichavaram and teach them about the ecosystem there. We have also introduced silambam training on the beach,” says Kumaran Kumaran and his family live the outdoor life they preach. For 100 days, from March to July, and again for the past three weeks, they have been living by the mangroves. “We spotted wild otters every day last month.” But the best part? “My 10-year old son became an expert in kayaking and bird watching.” With inputs from    Harikumar JS      Take your pick Sportifying India A J80 boat costs Rs. 12,500 for a group of six. Visit @sportifying.india on Instagram Paddle for Future Sunrise Kayaking costs Rs. 2,250 inclusive of stay and home meals. Visit @paddleforfuture on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cake-by-the-ocean/article32968512.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||A novel attempt||Try asking a creative mind to shoehorn his work of art in a style that suits the audience’s perception of his idea, chances are that you will be met with a response similar to Bejoy Nambiar’s. “If I had to distill [the film], then yeah... Taish is a revenge drama,” the 41-year-old filmmaker says, when asked to classify his upcoming film’s genre. “I’m a big fan of the drama genre. I’m also a fan of human [centric] stories. I tend to gravitate towards these ideas when I write. Taish is an example. It has action, it is set in the format of a thriller, but at the core of it, the film is a human [centric] story and tackles serious issues (sic),” he adds, over phone from his Mumbai residence. Cut from the same cloth Starring Pulkit Samrat, Kriti Kharbanda, Jim Sarbh, Harshvardhan Rane and Abhimanyu Singh among others, Taish makes a simultaneous release as a film and a six-episode web series on ZEE5 today. It follows the story of two warring families and a past incident that comes to haunt them. “A cycle of violence and revenge starts and there is seemingly no tangible end,” Bejoy notes. While he shot Taish as a feature film, the idea to make a separate cut and package it as a web series became possible after lockdown. Bejoy had screened a rough cut to a test audience prior. Feedback indicated a preference to watch the content as web series, but the filmmaker only acted on it after the pandemic outbreak. “The lockdown really helped because the film’s editor [Priyank Prem Kumar] and I were able to revisit the material. We first did a three-episode version and then cut it down further to six episodes,” he says. Bejoy points out that the web series is not a chopped down version of the film. “It is a different kind of edit, and in terms of viewing experience, both the film and the web series would be different,” he says, adding, “In a way, this empowers the audience to choose the format in which they want to watch Taish , which is a novel way of presenting the content.” Known for his unique stories in David , Shaitan and the Dulquer Salmaan-starrer Solo , Bejoy has, in the past, been vocal of ‘his struggles’ to bring his vision to reality. “I find it a challenge to convince producers and actors to come on board the kind of stories I want to say. I want to work with people who let me realise my film the way I want it,” he says. Ensemble trouble His track record also indicates a penchant for making multi-starrer films, although, suffice to say, it is not easy. “[Multi-starrers] have become an alien concept. Even a two hero subject is so difficult to cast. The idea I get from producers and directors is that it is almost a crime to write an ensemble subject. You have two or three multi-starrers in the comedy genre every year but in thrillers and drama, none at all,” says Bejoy, adding, “I think insecurity of the artiste is one main reason, but also there isn’t enough conviction shown by artistes on the story and the maker.” But for someone who is not always dealt the hand he desires, Bejoy is not short on optimism. For instance, his desire to make a feature film with Mohanlal and Mammootty — “both together in the same film if possible”, he says — has not faded. Bejoy’s début short film, Reflections , featured Mohanlal. “Mammootty and Mohanlal are the heroes that I grew up watching. It is their cinema that inspired people like me to join films. I did go to Lal sir with a Malayalam subject but it didn’t work out. I ended up making it as a one hour short film later on, but there still is time,” he adds. Taish is streaming on ZEE5   I’m a big fan of the drama genre. I’m also a fan of human [centric] stories. I tend to gravitate towards these ideas when I write.Taishis an example Bejoy Nambiar Filmmaker   Netflix début Bejoy, who has assisted Mani Ratnam in the past, returned to work in that capacity for his mentor’s magnum opus directorial, Ponniyin Selvan . Production on the film, which features an ensemble cast, had to be put on hold due to the pandemic outbreak, but it is now speculated that filming is likely to resume in November or December 2020. While Bejoy is expected to rejoin Ponniyin Selvan crew, the filmmaker remarks that he, meanwhile, is likely to finish work on a Netflix project starring Madhuri Dixit, which is bankrolled by Karan Johar’s Dharma Productions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-novel-attempt/article32968513.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Colours of the sea||There was excitement amidst children of the seaside village of Alamparai, near Puducherry. They lined up at the village square to receive a precious package: a colouring book and colour pencils from a team from Chennai. This was last weekend, when wildlife biologist Chaitanya Krishna and marine geographer Divya Karnad of In Season Fish, a sustainable seafood initiative, had visited the village. “They leafed through the book and were curious,” recalls Chaitanya. The colouring book, titled Art to Heal , was the result of several weeks of work during lockdown. It has sketches by 39 artists — one from Australia and the rest from across India — themed on the marine world. It features line drawings of marine life including whales, sharks and turtles found in Indian coastal waters. With text in English and Tamil, the book has a fun Spot The Fish exercise that asks children to identify the species they colour. Chaitanya and team distributed the book and colour pencils to around 70 children in the village, and will continue the exercise across fishing villages in Tamil Nadu and later, among children living inland too. Chaitanya says, it all began as In Season Fish’s “Covid relief work”. “We distributed rice, dal , and oil to 1,000 fisherfolk families from Tiruvallur, Ennore, Cuddalore, Tuticorin, Nagapattinam, and Rameshwaram in April to help supplement their savings.” The pandemic was hard on the fisherfolk since they could not head out to sea for several weeks. “This took care of their physical well-being. But what about their mental well-being?” asks Chaitanya. And so they came up with the idea of putting together a colouring book. “Children missed their school environment. We hoped the book would keep them engaged as well as keep their memory of the sea and all its creatures alive,” explains Chaitanya. In April, the team put out a request on its social media handle asking for artists to contribute and slowly, the book took shape. Madhuri Tarimane is among the artists who contributed. “I’m from the coastal region myself,” says Madhuri, speaking over phone from Bengaluru. “I spent my early childhood in Karwar, Karnataka.” Which is why when she came across the opportunity, she did not let it go. “It also helped me cope during lockdown; I was stressed due to all the uncertainty,” she says. Madhuri also teaches children art and knows that it can be therapeutic. “Children have so much energy in them and art is a good way to channelise it,” she adds. Chaitanya says that through Art To Heal , they plan to strike a rapport with people in the various fishing villages and start a conversation about conserving marine species and ocean health. The book, therefore, is just the beginning.  For details, write to chaitanya@inseasonfish.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/colours-of-the-sea/article32968510.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Race to the ceiling||For those who have spent the lockdown figuratively climbing the walls, there is now a fun alternative: installing a pre-built rock-climbing wall at home. A month ago, Shyamsundar Manoharan, founder of Chennai-based Fit Rock Arena, an indoor climbing gym, was approached by a long-time client. “Since there are still many restrictions and safety precautions due to the pandemic, he wanted to know if we could build a private wall for him at home,” says Manoharan. Manoharan has built large-scale walls for outdoor events in the past — pre-Covid, their 35-feet high rock-climbing wall in Pallikaranai used to be popular with mountaineering and fitness experts. During the pandemic, he has been creating much smaller custom-built pieces, mapped with an advanced route. One of them now graces an 8x4 foot wall in a Velachery home. “We use specific types of waterproof and natural fibre composite or plywood, and no structural alterations are necessary to the building,” he clarifies, adding that the routes are not static, and can be changed (by professionals) if the person wants some variety or is looking to increase their skill level. They can also be re-installed at different locations. Prices vary depending on size and complexity of route. They start at Rs. 35,000 (all inclusive) for an 8x4 foot wall, which can support one person and a maximum of 120 kilograms at a time. With kids being kept out of common play areas, parents saw this as a safer alternative to keep their children active and engaged. One of the walls has been designed as a birthday present for a 10-year-old, and another for a toddler (and his rock-climbing mother). Each wall comes with an eight-week basic online training programme at no additional cost. Further classes can be arranged with the team for a fee.  Emailfitrockarena@gmail.comor call 9962357035||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/race-to-the-ceiling/article32968515.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Not lost in translation||The lockdown might have allowed film buffs to discover regional films on digital platforms, but interest in dubbed cinema from the South, particularly Telugu and Tamil films, too, has been mushrooming in parallel. This is not a recent phenomenon. The 2018-19 report published by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), India, about the viewership percentage for films from the South on television, states that Hindi channels relied on dubbed films for “at least 11% of the viewership”. The report adds that films in Kannada, Telugu, Tamil, and Malayalam languages “clocked at least 135 billion hours” of viewership. Love for the masala What explains the growing audience for dubbed content up North? There was a time in the ‘90s and early noughties when Bollywood churned out ‘masala films’ starring the likes of Sunny Deol and Sanjay Dutt. These films, which occupied prime time slots, gradually diminished in number with the emergence of content deemed ‘multiplex-friendly’. It is this dearth of commercial potboilers that prompted distributors like Aneesh Dev, managing director, WAM India (a pioneer in film distribution) to venture into the dubbing business. He bought the rights of sought-after Telugu and Tamil films, dubbed and presented them to non-native speakers. That was until Rajinikanth’s 2005 film, Chandramukhi , whose dubbed version was lapped up by the Hindi speaking audience, woke Aneesh up to the untapped potential of ‘masala films’. “Television channels used to screen old movies of Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna in the 2000s. But the major shift happened with Chandramukhi , whose Hindi rights we had bought. Thereafter, we started looking at Telugu and Tamil films more,” says Aneesh, over a phone call from Mumbai. He observes that the popularity of dubbed movies from the South has grown at such an exponential rate that when presented with an opportunity, he launched an exclusive streaming platform for such films. It’s called Dollywood Play, which went live in July this year. According to Aneesh, dubbed movies are categorised in two verticals: A plus and A minus. The former includes star vehicles, while the latter features films headlined by mid-tier actors. Plus or minus “We don’t opt for A plus because it is difficult to recover the money. A minus is a safer zone and the price will not fluctuate,” he adds. In most cases, distributors acquire the Hindi dubbing rights from a producer and dub on their own, as opposed to buying the rights of an already dubbed film. “We prefer it this way because we are able to supervise quality. Dubbing into vernacular languages is a market that is emerging,” says Aneesh. One of the contributing factors to this preference for ‘masala films’ among the audience is the way action sequences are choreographed in Southern films, says SR Prabhu, partner, Dream Warrior Pictures production firm. “Action scenes in our movies are superior to the ones you would find in Bollywood. In fact, when a distributor approaches us for the Hindi rights, the first question he asks is: ‘How many action blocks does the film have?’,”he says. Umesh Gupta, managing director, Aditya Movies, shares a similar train of thought. “The Hindi-speaking audience love the one-liners that we call ‘punch dialogues’, the comedy, and action sequences,” he says, adding that recent years have witnessed a demand for non-action films as well, such as Telugu director Trivikram Srinivas’ A… Aa ,  starring Nithiin and Samantha Akkineni. “The dubbed version of A... Aa got 200 million views,” he adds. It’s the same with the Tamil social-drama, Raatchasi , which was dubbed and released as Madam Geeta Rani by Goldmines Telefilms on their YouTube channel. In under a month, it had amassed 100 million views. Prabhu, who is Raatchasi ’s producer, says that the film performed better on digital platforms than during its theatrical run. Its dubbing rights fetched his company nearly the same revenue as satellite and digital streaming rights. Thriving business What is the demography of the audience watching dubbed movies online? Prabhu says that dubbed films resonate more with people from economically-weaker sections, who prefer watching movies in their vernacular languages. “There is a whole section of the audience that does not watch movies with subtitles. When someone from an underprivileged background watches a dubbed film, they are able to relate to the emotions, even if they don’t know understand the film’s original language,” he says. Lately, YouTube has opened a new source of revenue for producers and distributors, whereby the latter monetises the viewership numbers based on the ads generated for the content. Prabhu, however, feels that this revenue is meagre. “If your movie crosses 100 million views, you might end up making Rs. 1 crore on YouTube; it is a small model,” he says, and adds: “That is why producers prefer selling the Hindi remake rights because it fetches more money.” Aneesh, however, believes the dubbing industry is here to thrive. “In our country, 80% of the audience likes masala and the remaining watch all kinds of content. So, when it comes to business, I am only concerned about what the majority likes because only that is bringing money.”  With inputs from       Sangeetha Devi Dundoo    Numbers game The 2017 Telugu film Ninnu Kori starring Nani, Aadhi Pinisetty and Nivetha Thomas, has been uploaded to YouTube by Aditya Movies as Aaj Ka Khiladi . It has gained 18 million views in less than a month. The Hindi-dubbed version of Tamil film Action starring Vishal and Tamannaah Bhatia — a film which underperformed critically and commercially upon release — has 74 million views on YouTube in under three weeks of its upload. Vijay’s Jilla dubbed as Policewala Gunda 2 and Bairavaa have 123 million and 100 million each, Dhanush’s Maari 2 and Vada Chennai garnered 93 and 30 million, while Karthi’s Dev and Sivakarthikeyan’s Remo have 79 and 77 million views. The Hindi version of Telugu film iSmart Shankar has 138 million views, Majili has 73 million views and the 2018 film Srinivasa Kalyanam has 136 million views on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/not-lost-in-translation/article32968172.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Cake by the ocean||It was an unusual Sunday in an unusual year for Sendil Nath. Six kilometres into the Bay of Bengal, atop a yacht, as he manned the boom and pulled the ropes to steer the boat under his captain Dheer Singhi’s orders, he felt a familiar thrill. “There were times the wind was so strong, it felt like the boat would almost capsize,” says the 41-year-old former motorbike racer. “That rush I felt while racing was back after 15 years.” A day at sea is one of the main thrills that Sportifying India, a Chennai-based niche sports company is offering. “People come looking to escape city life. Once you have exited the harbour, it no longer feels like you are in Chennai,” says Dheer, who co-founded Sportifying India, along with fellow international sailors, Abhimanyu Panwar and Avinash Shanbagh. As cities limp cautiously back to recovery, entertainment avenues are still limited. Niche watersports such as sailing, kayaking, paddling and canoeing hope to fill the void. “Sailing is not a team sport. You are on a boat and on your own (in the case of single-handed boats). You may have one more person as a crew member, but social distancing is part of the game,” points out Dennis Luiz, commodore of the Ernakulam Sailing Association in Kerala. After a hiatus since the lockdown when it had to down oars, the association is gearing up to reopen soon. Setting sail After launching in November 2019, Sportifying India had to put an early brake on its operations due to the pandemic. But once the Chennai harbour opened up to commercial activities, in late September, they resumed the sailing trips, starting by inviting city musicians such as Maalavika Manoj and The F16 band for a day of music and fishing. “We first ask people what kind of experience they are looking for. Some want to celebrate a birthday or an anniversary, some just want to go out to sea. We curate the trip accordingly. We could get a cake or decorate the boat with balloons,” says Dheer, adding that all COVID-19 protocols of wearing masks and sanitising are followed. “If you wish, you can come in lesser numbers so that you feel safer,” he adds. While sailing has just restarted in Chennai, the Global Sailing Club in Kochi, a seven-year-old association, has been back in business since June. In fact, the number of people participating in sailing has doubled since last year, says OC Thomas, founder of the sailing club, adding that up to 40% of them were newcomers. “People learn sailing but mostly, they want to make a whole day out of it — they come with their families to sail, have lunch, drinks and then head back,” he says. This strategy of promoting water sports at a family level, is one that even the Ernakulam Sailing Association has embraced. “The idea is to rope in adults who are interested. So, when they join, their family too, especially kids, jump on the bandwagon,” Dennis says. About a week ago, Kollam’s Syzygy Ecosports restarted kayaking and canoeing, for up to three people. Located at Pozhikkara beach, it takes its customers to the Paravur backwaters and the Ithikkara river. “We already have bookings made by residents of Trivandrum and Varkala. They prefer weekdays, while on weekends we get visitors from nearby resorts,” says Dani George, founder. In still waters Dani describes how paddling in the Ithikkara River, when you cross a mangrove forest, feels like a mini-Amazon. “Even at midday, there is no sunlight, the canopy is that thick and tall. You can also get out of the canoe onto a sandbar. It is a good place to take a break and rest, and play volleyball. During high tides, it appears as if you are standing on the surface of the water,” he says. Being stifled at home for a few months has clearly increased appreciation for the outdoors. This, Chennai-based Kumaran Mahalingam, founder of Paddle for Future, discovered looking at his sales over the past few months. The company expanded its Mangrovebay Ecocamp in Chidambaram near Pichavaram and now includes sunrise kayaking. “If we had 50 bookings a month before the pandemic, it has increased to 150 now, post the lockdown,” says Kumaran cheerily. “The value of being in Nature has increased.” The ecocamp takes a maximum of 14 people per day, and the 10-acre campus makes social distancing easier. Guests come in a day in advance, stay the night in tents or bunks, kayak early morning, have breakfast and then head back to the city. Its Work From Camp programme sees people staying there for longer — the 9 to 5 day begins with a round of kayaking in the morning and paddling in the evening. “We take the kids to a beach near Pichavaram and teach them about the ecosystem there. We have also introduced silambam training on the beach,” says Kumaran Kumaran and his family live the outdoor life they preach. For 100 days, from March to July, and again for the past three weeks, they have been living by the mangroves. “We spotted wild otters every day last month.” But the best part? “My 10-year old son has become an expert in kayaking and bird watching.” With inputs from  Harikumar JS     Take your pick Sportifying India A J80 boat costs Rs. 12,500 for a group of six. Visit @sportifying.india on Instagram Paddle for Future Sunrise Kayaking costs Rs. 2,250 inclusive of stay and home meals. Visit @paddleforfuture on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cake-by-the-ocean/article32968313.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||A novel attempt||Try asking a creative mind to shoehorn his work of art in a style that suits the audience’s perception of his idea, chances are that you will be met with a response similar to Bejoy Nambiar’s. “If I had to distill [the film], then yeah... Taish is a revenge drama,” the 41-year-old filmmaker says, when asked to classify his upcoming film’s genre. “I’m a big fan of the drama genre. I’m also a fan of human [centric] stories. I tend to gravitate towards these ideas when I write. Taish is an example. It has action, it is set in the format of a thriller, but at the core of it, the film is a human [centric] story and tackles serious issues (sic),” he adds, over a phone call from his Mumbai residence. Cut from the same cloth Starring Pulkit Samrat, Kriti Kharbanda, Jim Sarbh, Harshvardhan Rane and Abhimanyu Singh among others, Taish makes a simultaneous release as a film and a six-episode web series on ZEE5 today. It follows the story of two warring families and a past incident that comes to haunt them. “A cycle of violence and revenge starts and there is seemingly no tangible end,” Bejoy notes. While he shot Taish as a feature film, the idea to make a separate cut and package it as a web series became possible after the lockdown. Bejoy had screened a rough cut to a test audience prior to this. Feedback indicated a preference to watch the content as web series, but the filmmaker only acted on it after the pandemic outbreak. “The lockdown really helped because the film’s editor [Priyank Prem Kumar] and I were able to revisit the material. We first did a three-episode version and then [broke] it down further to six episodes,” he says. Bejoy points out that the web series is not a chopped down version of the film. “It is a different kind of edit, and in terms of viewing experience, both the film and the web series would be different,” he says, adding, “In a way, this empowers the audience to choose the format in which they want to watch Taish , which is a novel way of presenting the content.” Known for his unique stories in David , Shaitan and the Dulquer Salmaan-starrer Solo , Bejoy has, in the past, been vocal of ‘his struggles’ to bring his vision to reality. “I find it a challenge to convince producers and actors to come on board the kind of stories I want to say. I want to work with people who let me realise my film the way I want it,” he says. Ensemble trouble His track record also indicates a penchant for making multi-starrer films, although, suffice to say, it is not easy. “[Multi-starrers] have become an alien concept. Even a two hero subject is so difficult to cast. The idea I get from producers and directors is that it is almost a crime to write an ensemble subject. You have two or three multi-starrers in the comedy genre every year but in thrillers and drama, none at all,” says Bejoy, adding, “I think insecurity of the artiste is one main reason, but also there isn’t enough conviction shown by artistes on the story and the maker.” But for someone who is not always dealt the hand he desires, Bejoy is not short on optimism. For instance, his desire to make a feature film with Mohanlal and Mammootty — “both together in the same film if possible”, he says — has not faded. Bejoy’s début short film, Reflections , featured Mohanlal. “Mammootty and Mohanlal are the heroes that I grew up watching. It is their cinema that inspired people like me to join films. I did go to Lal sir with a Malayalam subject but it didn’t work out. I ended up making it as a one hour short film later on, but there still is time,” he adds. Taish is streaming on ZEE5   I’m a big fan of the drama genre. I’m also a fan of human [centric] stories. I tend to gravitate towards these ideas when I write.Taishis an example Bejoy Nambiar Filmmaker   Netflix début Bejoy, who has assisted Mani Ratnam in the past, returned to work in that capacity for his mentor’s magnum opus directorial, Ponniyin Selvan . Production on the film, which features an ensemble cast, had to be put on hold due to the pandemic outbreak, but it is now speculated that filming is likely to resume in November or December 2020. While Bejoy is expected to rejoin Ponniyin Selvan crew, the filmmaker remarks that he, meanwhile, is likely to finish work on a Netflix project starring Madhuri Dixit, which is bankrolled by Karan Johar’s Dharma Productions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-novel-attempt/article32968170.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Colours of the sea||There was excitement amidst children of the seaside village of Alamparai, near Puducherry. They lined up at the village square to receive a precious package: a colouring book and colour pencils from a team from Chennai. This was last weekend, when wildlife biologist Chaitanya Krishna and marine geographer Divya Karnad of In Season Fish, a sustainable seafood initiative, visited the village. “They leafed through the book and were curious,” recalls Chaitanya. The colouring book, titled Art to Heal , was the result of several weeks of work during lockdown. It has sketches by 39 artists — one from Australia and the rest from across India — themed on the marine world. It features line drawings of marine life including whales, sharks and turtles found in Indian coastal waters. With text in English and Tamil, the book has a fun Spot The Fish exercise that asks children to identify the species they colour. Chaitanya and team distributed the book and colour pencils to around 70 children in the village, and will continue the exercise across fishing villages in Tamil Nadu and later, among children living inland too. Chaitanya says, it all began as In Season Fish’s “Covid relief work”. “We distributed rice, dal , and oil to 1,000 fisherfolk families from Tiruvallur, Ennore, Cuddalore, Tuticorin, Nagapattinam, and Rameshwaram in April to help supplement their savings.” The pandemic was hard on the fisherfolk since they could not head out to sea for several weeks. “This took care of their physical well-being. But what about their mental well-being?” asks Chaitanya. And so they came up with the idea of putting together a colouring book. “Children missed their school environment. We hoped the book would keep them engaged as well as keep their memory of the sea and all its creatures alive,” explains Chaitanya. In April, the team put out a request on its social media handle asking for artists to contribute and slowly, the book took shape. Madhuri Tarimane is among the artists who contributed. “I’m from the coastal region myself,” says Madhuri, speaking over the phone from Bengaluru. “I spent my early childhood in Karwar, Karnataka.” Which is why when she came across the opportunity, she did not let it go. “It also helped me cope during lockdown; I was stressed due to all the uncertainty,” she says. Madhuri also teaches children art and knows that it can be therapeutic. “Children have so much energy in them and art is a good way to channelise it,” she adds. Chaitanya says that through Art To Heal , they plan to strike a rapport with people in the various fishing villages and start a conversation about conserving marine species and ocean health. The book, therefore, is just the beginning.  For details, write to chaitanya@inseasonfish.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/colours-of-the-sea/article32968316.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Winter’s wild fruit||It has been over a year since I first started writing the ‘In Your Backyard’ series, and it has been the most remarkable journey. In writing these articles, I have been able to rediscover my love for urban ecology and a few species that I often ignored. Mostly , it reinforced the absolute joy I feel about nature. The key to understanding the environment we live in better, is to understand plant-animal interaction. We know that plants attract insects for nectar, but do we know that they attract specific insects at times? Butterflies laying their eggs on leaves is common knowledge, but do we know that this isn’t a random selection and that these butterflies have specific host plants? All this was new for me when I began to explore Nature about six years ago, but making these connections is what a nature educator does. The more I ventured into it, the more logical and fun it became, and the more I realized that this was Nature’s common sense. I began to think that it might be a good idea to add a wild-fruit-tasting trail to our itinerary of walks around Delhi-NCR, so children can get a feel of plucking and eating fruits directly from trees. October to March is the migratory bird season and also the time when Ber ( Ziziphus mauritiana ) and Jhad Beri ( Zizyphus nummularia ) are fruiting. When in winter, plants in scrublands display earthy-brown shades, the hardy Ziziphus species adds a little colour to the otherwise dry landscape. Ber or the Desert Apple, also called Indian Jujube/plum/cherry is deciduous and is most often a bush, but can grow into a small to moderate-sized tree. A characteristic dry-arid tree with spines, it has a short dark grey to black bark and individual trees may look very different, in terms of size and appearance. Though the scrublands are mostly confined to certain areas of Delhi-NCR now, these trees are still found on Aurobindo Marg, in Safdarjang Enclave, Hauz Khas, Shalimar Bagh and even the Qutab compound, according to Pradip Krishen’s book Trees of Delhi . Like the Ber, even Jhad Ber/Beri or Jhaad Ber which translates from Hindi to Ber of bushes/shrubs in English, is a shrub that grows up to 3 metres in height. It is native to the Western deserts of India, Pakistan, and in certain parts of the Gulf. In the city, this shrub is widely seen in the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Gurugram, in Vasant Kunj, Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary and in the Jahanpanah City Forest. Even though the Ber from Jhad Beri is sweet, it is quite a task to get to the berries, because of the thorns that protect them against animals (mostly cattle). The fruit is green at first, then slowly turns yellow that ripens to red. The not so ripe yellowish-red ones have a certain tang to them. Animals like jackals and the Indian Peafowl feed on them and scatter the seeds widely in their excreta. The leaves on both plants are broadly oval and glossy green on top and rough below. Both these plants have been cultivated for their fruit, but also for timber and fuel for fire in drier areas. One cold winter morning in November, 2016, a group of us came across a huge congregation of Jewel Beetles and their nymphs (immature form) on one of the shrubs. Later on, I also observed that these plants play host to a variety of beautiful butterfly species like some Pierrots and the elusive Indian Red Flash. Spiders and their webs are a common sight on these plants, considering that a lot of insects are attracted to the plant for food and end up falling prey to these eight-legged arachnids. Being your friendly neighbourhood naturalist for a little over a year has been a wonderful experience for me and I hope it has helped you explore your own backyard. With today's article being my last for this series, I wish you a very Ber-ful life ahead. Thank you, dear readers, for all your support. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India. He can be reached at ninox.edu@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/winters-wild-fruit/article32968309.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Race to the ceiling||For those who have spent the lockdown figuratively climbing the walls, there is now a fun alternative: installing a pre-built rock-climbing wall at home. A month ago, Shyamsundar Manoharan, founder of Chennai-based Fit Rock Arena, an indoor climbing gym, was approached by a long-time client. “Since there are still many restrictions and safety precautions due to the pandemic, he wanted to know if we could build a private wall for him at home,” says Manoharan. Manoharan has built large-scale walls for outdoor events in the past — pre-Covid, their 35-feet high rock-climbing wall in Pallikaranai used to be popular with mountaineering and fitness experts. During the pandemic, he has been creating much smaller custom-built pieces, mapped with an advanced route. One of them now graces an 8x4 foot wall in a Velachery home. “We use specific types of waterproof and natural fibre composite or plywood, and no structural alterations are necessary to the building,” he clarifies, adding that the routes are not static, and can be changed (by professionals) if the person wants some variety or is looking to increase their skill level. They can also be re-installed at different locations. Prices vary depending on size and complexity of route. They start at Rs. 35,000 (all inclusive) for an 8x4 foot wall, which can support one person and a maximum of 120 kilograms at a time. With kids being kept out of common play areas, parents saw this as a safer alternative to keep their children active and engaged. One of the walls has been designed as a birthday present for a 10-year-old, and another for a toddler (and his rock-climbing mother). Each wall comes with an eight-week basic online training programme at no additional cost. Further classes can be arranged with the team for a fee.  Emailfitrockarena@gmail.comor call 9962357035||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/race-to-the-ceiling/article32968175.ece
29 October 2020||Gwalior,||Cong. invokes Laxmibai to target Scindia in M.P.||The Congress in Madhya Pradesh is attempting to appropriate Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi, among leaders of the 1857 rebellion against the British, by evoking her to target its former leader Jyotiraditya Scindia ahead of the by-election to 28 seats. Recently when Mr. Scindia, a BJP MP, was scheduled to address a public meeting in Sanwer Vidhan Sabha constituency of Indore, a group of girls dressed up as the queen took to the streets. “I am Rani Laxmibai. The Scindia family is my murderer. Why are members of the Scindia family here in Sanwer. Shoo away these murderers,” they shouted. The reference is to the claim of a few historians that the Scindia dynasty of Gwalior betrayed the queen and joined hands with the British, which helped quell the uprising. With three political leaders of the family now in the BJP, including Mr. Scindia’s aunts Vasundhara Raje and Yashodhara Raje, the Congress is flaying him by claiming he “betrayed” the mandate and the State’s voters in the present. Further, the Congress is associating the trope with the alleged historical injustice meted out to the queen, a symbol of pride and women empowerment in the Gwalior Chambal region, a stronghold of Mr. Scindia where 16 seats are up for contest. “I wish the Congress all the best. I wonder why they were silent for 30 years while my father was a member. And I wonder why they were silent for 20 years while I was a member,” Mr. Scindia told The Hindu . “I think the public sees through such nefarious designs and duplicity. They (the Congress) should take a lesson in history before they comment on my family. My family’s contribution to the nation is well known. I don’t think the public needs a lesson in history, the least of all from Kamal Nath, who should speak about his own history rather than about others’,” he added.  ‘Biggest weapon’ “The betrayal of Rani Laxmibai is the biggest weapon with the Congress,” said K.K. Mishra, Congress media incharge for Gwalior-Chambal. “Everyone is talking about their betrayal in the present and the past. Do they believe voters are stupid?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-invokes-laxmibai-to-target-scindia-in-mp/article32968187.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||Situation not normal, do not lower guard: Delhi’s 1st COVID-19 patient||With experts predicting a major surge in COVID-19 cases in the coming months in Delhi, the city’s first COVID-19 patient on Wednesday cautioned people to stay indoors as much as possible during the festive season while emphasising that the situation is “not back to normal“. Rohit Datta, who was diagnosed with the infection on March 1, made an appeal to the masses to “not lower our guard” by getting into a casual festive mode. “I was diagnosed with COVID-19 at a time when the virus had already wreaked havoc in China and a few other countries. I was the first patient in Delhi. So much fear and uncertainty was there at that time. Despite all the research, the virus is still unpredictable,” the 46-year-old said. Mr. Datta cautioned that though the economy has been reopened people must realise that the situation in Delhi is “not back to normal”. He referred to many residents going out without wearing masks and violating social distancing norms, giving the example of youths who are putting up pictures on social media of parties and events “as if it’s all ok now“. “It is still not ok and work is on for the elusive vaccine. In the festive season, the chances of infection being spread through symptomatic or asymptomatic carriers is huge,” he said. Days before the festival of Deepavali, he urged people to step out only for urgent matters and to take full precautions. “If you love your family, stay home this Deepavali,” he said in his appeal to people. Asked about his plan for Deepavali, Mr. Datta, a resident of Mayur Vihar in east Delhi who lives with his wife, two children and mother, said, “It will be a celebration of family bonds and nature“. Family celebration “For two years, our family has not burst crackers on Deepavali. This time, we will not step out at all. We will light ‘diyas’ to feel the power of nature and share sweets and warm moments with family members,” he said. “As they say, ‘ Jaan hai to jehan hai’ (if you have life, you have the world), and I guess the adage applies aptly right now,” said the businessman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/situation-not-normal-do-not-lower-guard-delhis-1st-covid-19-patient/article32968200.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||North-east Delhi riots: three persons get bail||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to three persons arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots and asked the investigating agency as to why it has been merely able to identify and chargesheet only the three persons from a riotous mob of several hundred persons. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav, while granting bail to Shah Alam, Rashid Saifi and Mohd. Shadab, in a combined order, asked as to why the beat constable, who claimed to have categorically seen and identified the three accused indulging in the riots on February 24, waited for 40 days to record his statement. “There is a gap of about 40 days between the date of incident and recording of statement of the beat constable in the matter by the Investigating Officer [IO] and no plausible explanation in this regard has been given by the IO,” the judge said. “What stopped the beat constable from reporting the matter then and there in the police station or from bringing the same to the knowledge of senior police officers. This casts a serious doubt on the credibility of this witness,” the court rmarked. Besides, admittedly, no CCTV footage or viral video capturing the presence of trio at the crime scene on the date of incident is available on record. The judge also noted that the three applicants have neither been named in the FIR nor there are any specific allegations against them by any of them. The court also said that the even the statements of public eyewitnesses have been recorded by the IO recently much after the filing of the chargesheet. The court said that the three persons “cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity merely because other persons, who were part of the riotous mob, have to be identified and arrested in the matter”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-east-delhi-riots-three-persons-get-bail/article32968191.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Immunity in Children||1) What is Immune system? The immune system is a host defense system comprising many biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against diseases. It is a complex network of cells and proteins that defends the body against infections. The organs or organ systems involved with the immune system are Thymus gland, Spleen, Lymphatic system, bone marrow, white blood cells (T & B Lymphocytes), etc. Every living organism has its own species specific immune system including unicellular organisms such as bacteria. 2) How does the immune system function? The main function of the immune system of an individual is to fight against infections acquired from micro-organisms (when they enter the body, are considered as foreign body). Apart from this an individual’s immune system can be over-active or under-active. The over active immune system leads to allergic or autoimmune disorders. The underactive immune system (immunodeficiency) fails to fight against infections. 3) How does the immune system of an individual evolve from childhood to older age? The immune system of an individual is immature in infants (<1year of age), which matures with exposure to antigens (pathogens / micro-organisms) by natural infection or by vaccine and develops active immunity. Children have the ability to rapidly produce natural antibodies. So the evolution has endowed a survival advantage to children to combat known and unknown pathogens. The adult is also well protected by the balance of cells with high and low specificity. With aging, malnutrition, immunosuppression and other co-morbid states, our immune system loses the ability to adapt to the novelty.    4) When does the immune system of the newborn baby gets activated or triggered? The fetus in the mother’s womb is grown in sterile environment. A newborn baby gets exposed to the micro-organisms right from the time of delivery through the birth canal. The birth canal of the mother is colonized with different microbes (physiological microbial flora). During the process of natural delivery, the newborn is likely to swallow the microorganism present in the birth canal thereby the sterile digestive tract of the baby becomes colonized with microbes. That is how the immune system of the baby gets activated. Adding to this, it should be known that the bacterial flora of the digestive tract of babies born by natural delivery and caesarean section are different.  5) Most parents of children aged between 1 - 3years, complain that their child is getting sick too often. During the first months of life, maternal antibodies (passive immunity) protect the child from the microorganisms that the mother has encountered previously. These maternal antibodies (Ig G) are transferred to the fetus during the last weeks of pregnancy and protect their infant for about 9months to 1year of age from acquiring infections. The maternal protective antibodies transferred to the fetus, gradually disappear during the second half of their first year and the child begins to develop their own antibodies against individual antigens after being exposed to them. When child starts going to school, Nursery represents a major milestone for a child for various different reasons. This is also important from their immune system development point of view.  6) What is a Vaccine? Vaccines are antigenic contents of the microorganisms (bacteria or viruses) injected into the body in small quantities which trigger the immune response in the recipients. There are live attenuated vaccines, inactivated or killed vaccines, conjugate vaccines and toxoid vaccines. After vaccination, the immune system triggers the production of antibodies against specific pathogen which helps in preventing infection when subsequently exposed. 7) How to boost up the immune system naturally? Adhere to breast feeding whenever possible, include natural fruits and vegetables in diet, adequate sleep, exercise as a family, prevent passive smoking exposure, and maintain personal hygiene. Vitamin supplementation - Vitamin C and Vitamin D are powerful immune booster, Vitamin B6, Vitamin E - an antioxidant to fight off infections, Vitamin A - to prevent skin and GI infections.  8) How do you know if the child is having poor immunity? Child falls sick too often, failure to thrive (physical growth), skin lesions, poor feeding, gastroenteritis etc. You should seek the help of your doctor for further evaluation to rule out any organic cause. Dr.Surender Rao Paediatrician & Neonatologist Rainbow Children’s Hospital, Vikrampuri, Secunderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/immunity-in-children/article32968605.ece
29 October 2020||JAIPUR,||Centre’s farm laws will hit market reforms: experts||Ahead of the Rajasthan Assembly session in which the Bills against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws will be introduced, experts at the Institute of Development Studies (IDS) here have opposed the Central legislations. The three statutes would impinge on constitutional rights of States and violate the federal structure, said the experts. The IDS held a discussion on the farm laws and their impact on the State’s agriculture and economy earlier this week to find an academic basis for the legislative exercise. Academicians, agricultural experts and development practitioners said the States would find it difficult to initiate market reforms for major crops because of the Central laws having an overriding effect. IDS Director S. Mohanakumar said the three Central Acts, put together, would throw the agriculture sector to the mercy of large agro-industrial capital, which would not augur well for the majority of farmers with small land holdings. They would also undermine the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) in the States, he added.  ‘Laws will finish ties’ “The relationship between commission agents in APMCs and farmers has been established through generations. The new laws will finish these relations,” Dr. Mohanakumar said. Other experts who took part in the event included National Institute of Agricultural Marketing Director-General P. Chandra Shekara and Kerala State Planning Board member K.N. Harilal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centres-farm-laws-will-hit-market-reforms-experts/article32968188.ece
29 October 2020||new delhi,||North civic body doctors call off strike||Doctors of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run hospitals who have been agitating for the last several days over their pending salaries called off their stir on Wednesday, officials said. While five resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital had been sitting on a relay hunger strike since Friday, senior doctors of the North Corporation-run facilities had gone on an indefinite strike on Tuesday. Their associations had joined hands in solidarity since Tuesday. “The strike by agitating doctors was called off as North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash offered juice to the medics on hunger strike. Salaries of all doctors have been released, till September,” the North Corporation said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-civic-body-doctors-call-off-strike/article32968198.ece
29 October 2020||Guwahati,||Rhino horn trade: 7 Kaziranga workers held||A piece of rhino horn believed to have been salvaged from the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) has led to the arrest of 17 people, including seven casual workers of the prime wildlife habitat in Assam. Forest and police officers said the piece might not be associated with poaching. But the arrest of the Kaziranga workers has uncovered what officials said was a “non-violent” wildlife crime — collecting pieces that fall off rhino horns naturally or during infighting and trading them illegally. “So far, seven of our frontline staff members have been arrested for involvement in rhino horn trading,” said P. Sivakumar, Director of KNPTR. “All seven are mahouts who can access tougher parts of the park on elephant-back and are more likely to spot and collect animal body parts. They probably gave in to greed,” said Ramesh Chandra Gogoi, KNPTR’s Divisional Forest Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rhino-horn-trade-7-kaziranga-workers-held/article32968189.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||HSRPs will now be home delivered: govt.||High-Security Registration Plates (HSRPs) will now be delivered to commuters. The Delhi government on Wednesday reviewed the preparations made by Original Equipment Manufacturers’ and dealers in the city to affix HSRPs and colour-coded stickers on existing vehicles in a time-bound manner. The officials were instructed to ensure hassle-free affixation of HSRP and colour-coded stickers on all vehicles. “In the new version of a website, which will be available for public from November 1, a single website URL, through SIAM, will be available for booking HSRP and colour-coded stickers. The National Informatics Centre will facilitate technical support for the website,” the government said. After booking of HSRPs or colour-coded sticker, consumers will get a real-time updates through SMS. “The customer will be notified of the same at least two days prior to the date of appointment so that there is no delay in delivery,” the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hsrps-will-now-be-home-delivered-govt/article32968193.ece
29 October 2020||October 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Sanitation agitation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sanitation-agitation/article32968195.ece
29 October 2020||FARIDABAD,||‘Key accused had plans to forcibly marry victim’||The prime accused in the murder case of a woman college student had plans to abduct and forcefully marry her, but he opened fire in a fit of rage when she resisted, said the police sources. Nikita, 20, was shot dead by Tausheef and his friend Rehan in broad daylight during an abduction bid outside her college in Ballabgarh here on Monday. Both the accused were arrested. Police sources said the two knew each other since school days. Tausheef had been putting pressure on her for marriage for long, but Nikita was not interested. He had abducted her in 2018 and a case was registered in this connection, but the woman’s family later withdrew the complaint. On the fateful day, Tausheef along with Rehan reached outside Nikita’s college and the former tried to push her inside a car. But she resisted and Tausheef shot her point-blank. The two then drove away leaving behind the countrymade pistol. The car was also found on Sohna-Taura Road on Wednesday. The SIT headed by ACP Anil Kumar met the deceased’s family at their residence on Wednesday to gather more details. Meanwhile, Tausheef’s uncle Javed, who had twice unsuccessfully contested Assembly elections from Sohna, said the law should take its own course and his nephew, if found guilty, should be punished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/key-accused-had-plans-to-forcibly-marry-victim/article32968196.ece
29 October 2020||New Delhi,||DU’s stand sought on salaries plea||The High Court has asked the Delhi government to reply to a plea which has claimed that salaries and other emolu-ments of serving teaching and non-teaching employees of Delhi University have not been paid by their colleges for the last five months. DU has also been told to clarify its stand by November 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dus-stand-sought-on-salaries-plea/article32968192.ece
