01-07-2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad colony named after Milkha Singh||It’s strange to find a residential colony named after a Sikh in the far-away Southern city of Secunderabad, which is also an important cantonment. But the resident of the Milkha Singh Colony in the EME Centre is a place that locals are as proud as India’s Flying Sikh Milkha Singh after whom the colony is named. Recruited in the Corps of Electrical and Mechanical Engineers (EME) in 1952, much of his training started here.Not many know that Milkha Singh---the 90-year-old legend who lives in Chandigarh, where he spends his time playing golf and going for his walks---lived here from 1952 to 1960 and prepared for the 1960 Rome Olympics in the local grounds or as he says running for practice from the barracks here each morning. Singh missed the bronze medal at Rome in the 400m by a few seconds.Practice here in and around the Milkha Singh Colony later helped him win several medals and laurels in Asian Games and Commonwealth Games. The athlete acknowledges that the hard work put in here laid the foundation for his athletic career later. For practice, Milkha Singh would run up the “Ammuguda Pahad” (hill) near EME Centre carrying stone-filled bag to build up stamina, strength and muscle.It is not only here that Milkha Singh prepared for the sporting career, but he also used to run alongside a train, which ran on the metre gauge then between Bolarum and Ammuguda. Milkha Singh has told family and friends that one driver of a loco used to encourage him by motivating him not to give up and stay with the speed of the train. All this was done in Secunderabad and the people have now acknowledged his contribution to Indian athletics by naming the colony after him.Majority of the area around the EME Centre was a jungle and this made his practice tougher. Milkha Singh acknowledges the contribution of the army in his sporting career. “Had I not joined the Army, perhaps I would not have worked so hard. The Milkha Singh as you know him is the because of the Army and EME Centre”, he says.It is not only the colony, the stadium at the EME Centre is also named after him. The Stadium inside the EME Centre where he trained during 1952-53 is called the Milkha Singh Stadium.
01-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports five new coronavirus cases||Mohali reported five new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, officials said.Two more people---both women, ages 19 and 36---tested positive from Behda village in Mohali, officials said. They were contacts of an already diagnosed case.The others who tested positive were a 39-year-old woman from Zirakpur, a 20year-old woman from Sector 71 and a 61-year-old man from Khanpur. The last patient returned from Bihar recently, officials said.A 40-year-old woman from Dera Bassi was released from a hospital after recovery.The developments takes the district’s cases to 275, officials said, although Punjab’s COVID bulletin puts this number at 271.Break up
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana reports 41 new coronavirus cases, Punjab records 101||Ludhiana district continued to report an alarming number of coronavirus infections, reporting 41 of Punjab’s 101 new cases on Wednesday, the state’s COVID bulletin showed.Punjab reported five deaths in a span of 24 hours, the bulletin shows---one of them from Ludhiana. SAS Nagar, Gurdaspur, Amirtsar and Tarn Taran also reported one death each.A 73-year-old man died in Amritsar on Wednesday, taking the district’s death toll to 43. District health authorities in Amritsar said six people were on oxygen support and one was on ventilator.= In Ludhiana, a 71-year-old woman from Basti Jodhewal died at CMCH. She was diabetic and had respiratory problems, officials said. The developments take Punjab’s death toll to 149 from 5,668 infections.Amritsar (17), Jalandhar (9), Sangrur (2), SAS Naga (5), Hoshiarpur (5), Moga (5), Fazilka (4), Faridkot (3), Patiala (3), Gurdaspur (3), Pathankot (2), Tarn Taran (1), and Bathinda (1) reported new cases.Of Ludhiana’s 41 new infections, three were domestic travellers. Nine were ILI (influenza-like illness), seven were contacts of diagnosed cases, one was a healthcare worker, three were pre-operative cases, one was categorised as ANC and one was an outpatient. Also among Ludhiana’s patients was a policeman---an additional SHO of Mullanpur Dakha police station.The bulletin said that state health department was still compiling details of the rest of Ludhiana’s patients. Sangrur, a district that had been reporting an alarmingly high cases these past few days, showed some let up---the district reported only two cases on Wednesday, both categorised as new cases---that is, cases without no known contact history or no recent travel record.    A doctor at a private hospital tested positive was among Jalandhar's nine new cases.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (928), Ludhiana (880), Jalandhar (743), Sangrur (492), Patiala (332), SAS Nagar (271), Gurdaspur (224), Pathankot (221), Tarn Taran (196), Hoshiarpur (183), SBS Nagar (141), Muktsar (127), Fatehgarh Sahib (120), Ropar (108), Faridkot (108), Moga (107),  Ferozepur (96), Kapurthala (96), Bathinda (92), Fazilka (95), Barnala (59), and Mansa (48).Death toll stands thus: Amritsar *(43), Ludhiana* (22), Jalandhar (21), Sangrur (13), Patiala (9), SAS Nagar* (4), Gurdaspur* (5), Pathankot (6), Hoshiarpur (6), Kapurthala (5), Tarn Taran* (4), Ferozepur (3), Bathinda (2), Moga (2), Barnala (2),  SBS Nagar (1), and Ropar (1), Punjab has been consistently reporting infections in triple digits since June 15.   The state has reported 44 per cent of its 5,668 cases since June 14.  *Districts that have reported deaths today
01-07-2020||Mukesh Ranjan||Gurpatwant Singh Pannun among nine designated as terrorists under UAPA||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 1India on Wednesday declared nine individuals, including Gurpatwant Singh Pannun – a US-based member of the banned ‘Sikhs for Justice’ – as terrorists under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).   Pannun, who organised the Khalistan 2020 referendum, has been seen actively running a campaign against India and motivating Sikh youngsters in his home state of Punjab to join militancy.The others who have been designated by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) as individual terrorists under the UAPA include Paramjit Singh (Babbar Khalsa International), Hardeep Singh Nijjar (Khalistan Tiger Force), Gurmit Singh Bagga (Khalistan Zindabad Force), Wadhawa Singh Babbar (Babbar Khalsa International), Lakhbir Singh (International Sikh Youth Federation), Ranjeet Singh (Khalistan Zindabad Force), Paramjit Singh (Khalistan Commando Force), Bhupinder Singh Bhinda (Khalistan Zindabad Force).Following an amendment in the UAPA, the government had first designated four as terrorists under the changed provisions of the Act. They included Maulana Masood Azhar, Hafiz Saeed, Zaki ur Rehman Lakhvi and Dawood Ibrahim. With Wednesday’s listing, the total number of people declared individual terrorists stands at 13.In an official statement the MHA said, “These individuals are involved in various acts of terrorism from across the border and from foreign soil. They have been relentless in their nefarious efforts of destabilising the country, by trying to revive militancy in Punjab through their anti-national activities and through their support to and involvement in the Khalistan Movement.”
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sultry weather in Haryana and Punjab||Haryana and Punjab witnessed a hot and humid Wednesday, with maximum temperatures settling two-three notches above normal limits.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.5 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological Department here.In Haryana, the maximum temperature in Hisar was 40.6 degrees Celsius, followed by Ambala 37.7 degrees Celsius and Karnal 37 degrees Celsius. Amritsar in Punjab recorded a high of 39 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 38.1 degrees Celsius and Patiala 37.7 degrees Celsius. PTI
01-07-2020||Bathinda||Farmer ends life outside GNDTP in Bathinda||A farmer distressed over the auctioning of the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) land on Wednesday morning reportedly committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance outside the thermal plant.The deceased has been identified as Joginder Singh Bhola (55), resident of Cheema in Sangrur district.Bhola was a farmer leader and associated with the BKU Ekta Ugrahan from a long time. Joginder was carrying a placard bearing a photo of Guru Nanak Dev along with words written in Punjabi stating that Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant is a historic place and he is sacrificing his life to stop it from being sold.BKU Ekta Ugrahan state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said, “Farmer leader Joginder Singh has ended his life by committing suicide outside the thermal plant as he was in religious distress after the state government’s decision to auction the GNDTP land and it seems that he had come prepared for this as on his placard it was written that he is sacrificing his life for the GNDTP.”Lashing out at the state government, he said, “Punjab government should stop distressing the people religiously and it should restart the GNDTP by stopping its privatisation.”He also demanded that district administration should give compensation of Rs 10 lakhs and a job to family members of Joginder Singh.BKU Ekta Ugrahan activists claimed that today morning Joginder Singh came on his motorcycle to sit on a hunger strike in protest against the closure of GNDTP outside the thermal plant main gate but after some time he has been found dead in mysterious circumstances.They also stated that Joginder was irked over the state government’s decision to auction the land of GNDTP, Bathinda which was dedicated to the Guru Nanak Dev.Later, SAD Kisan wing president Sikander Singh Maluka and former MLA Sarup Chand Singla visited the civil hospital and they blamed state government and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal for the death of Joginder Singh.They claimed that people are feeling distressed and cheated as Congress leaders during the 2017 polls promised to restart the thermal plant, but now a few days back they have approved the auctioning of the land.SSP Dr Nanak Singh said, “We are conducting the post-mortem of the deceased, after which the reason behind the death would be cleared and after that only it would be clear whether this is a suicide or not.”
01-07-2020||Patiala||Women fight COVID-19 in Patiala; spearhead disease at cost of family time||Swati Dhawan, a microbiologist of the Health Department, has not taken a single day-off from her job since January 15. She has been playing a key role in collecting samples of COVID-19 patients.  She has collected over 1,000 samples already. Forcing herself in hostile situations, she collects samples from containment zones, like Rajpura—which makes her job difficult. Talking about her difficult days, Swait revealed: "Once, a group of people in a congested area of the city — gheraoed us to spook. Consequently, we had to call the police to defuse the situation". Swati said there have been times when she had to collect a sample at midnight as well. She added that her family, especially, her husband was a great help. He has been taking care of her five-year-old daughter in her absence.   “My daughter always complains of that I don't spend enough time with her. On Sundays, she hides my office-bag so that I don’t go to the office,” said Swati. Another corona warrior, Dr Rupinder Bakshi, who is in-charge of VRDL Lab at Government Medical College (GMC) Patiala, is a one-man army. Dr Rupinder works round the clock to test over 3,000 samples in a day. She caters to over six districts of the state.  Bakshi believes that she has been given an important responsibility during the global crisis, and she wants to fulfil it with utmost sincerity.    "From 40 samples a day to 5,000 now, the testing was a stressful job because a subtle mistake could lead to a bigger blunder", said Bakshi. "I have to check reports twice before sending them to Civil Surgeons", Bakshi added.Communication with COVID-19 patients makes a difference: At a time, when doctors are afraid to step closer to COVID-19 patients, Dr Nidhi Sharma, a Medical Officer, interacts with patients fearlessly—day in and day out. Dr Nidhi Sharma, who works at the COVID-19 Care Center, believes that a patient’s satisfaction was the real motivation for her.Dr Nidhi Sharma.“At the end of the day, If a patient recovers and goes home with satisfaction, I am happy. Sometimes, the level of ignorance — shown by the people by mistreating the COVID-19 patients — frustrates me,” said Nidhi.“It is a huge learning experience for the medical fraternity as they (doctors) have landed in a situation that they have no clue of. The virus is unique and volatile,” said Nidhi—who hopes that situation gets better soon.
01-07-2020||---||ED seizes Jalandhar man’s house for holding illegal assets in Canada||New Delhi, July 1The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday said it had seized residential premises of Sukhwinder Singh Lally of Nangal Shama village in Jalandhar against holding undeclared assets abroad in contravention of the Section 4 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).The seizure order was issued under Section 37A of the FEMA, the ED added.The central financial probe agency’s move comes after specific inputs and discreet enquiries indicated involvement of Sukhwinder Singh Lally, who is affiliated to Congress party, in illegal dealings in foreign exchange, said officials in the ED.“A search was conducted on his premises on December 6 last year and certain incriminating documents were seized which reflected about illegal acquisition of property at Ontario in Canada for around Canadian Dollar 3,60,000,” said the officials.“Further investigation under the FEMA revealed that the money required for purchase of the said house was illegally transferred by Lally through non-banking channel from India and part of the payment was also arranged by him through his friend in Canada without adhering to the due procedures laid down under the Act and prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India,” the ED said in an official statement.Accordingly, ED invoked the provisions of Section 37A of the FEMA that empowers the agency to seize property of equivalent value in India and the above referred immovable property of Lally was seized against illegally acquired and held “foreign exchange” to the tune of Canadian Dollars equivalent to Rs 2.01 crore as on date under the Act.Investigation also revealed that Lally maintained undeclared bank accounts in Canada and also allegedly received Rs 16.5 lakh in India from a New Zealand resident in an unauthorised manner, the agency said, adding that he has also arranged funds for his relative in Canada to the tune of Canadian Dollars 4,500 in an unauthorised manner. It said further investigation in the case was in progress.
01-07-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Sikh family performs 'You'll never walk alone' as Liverpool win Premier League title; Twitterati praises viral clip||Liverpool's fans have been celebrating ever since they won their first Premier League title last week.On Monday, the official Indian page of the Premier League shared a clip of a Malaysia-based Sikh family singing the classical rendition of Liverpool's anthem, "You'll never walk alone".Donning the Liverpool scarves, Gurmukh Singh and his family were seen performing the classical rendition.Watch:A classical flavour to @LFC's 🎶 You'll Never Walk Alone 🎶📹 Gurmukh Singh pic.twitter.com/sHYsdzfwgO  Singh revealed that his son switched to backing Manchester United during his childhood. He wore a Manchester United scarf in the video.Reactions:This is the stuff I love to see on Twitter. YNWA  Why's the table guy wearing a United scarf though 😂  Fantastic #YNWA  I'm an absolute sucker for this  That was pretty sweet  Liverpool is currently 23 points ahead of Manchester City with seven games to spare.Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola earlier confirmed that their players will give a guard of honour to Liverpool after they secured the Premier League title. The city will take on Liverpool in their next Premier League match on July 2.
01-07-2020||Arun Sharma||Fruit, vegetables worth lakhs ‘bought’ during lockdown; 5 employees of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib suspended||Tribune News ServiceAnandpur Sahib, July 1Even as the footfall at all religious places remained negligible during lockdown, the management at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib here claimed to have bought fruit and vegetables worth lakhs for serving in the 'langar' to the devotees.Interestingly, vegetables are rarely served at 'langar' in gurdwaras; fruit is served only to VIPs who visit the gurdwara on festivals or to attend meetings.Finding these purchases suspicious, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal suspended manager Jasvir Singh, deputy manager Lakhvinder Singh, accountant Kaur Singh, inspector Bakshish Singh and storekeeper Harmandar Singh and ordered an inquiry.According to sources, though vegetables are rarely served in 'langar' the bills against purchase of lady finger, tinda, bottle gourd, pumpkin and bitter gourd have been entered in the accounts. Purchase of such vegetables and that too for 'langar' is unusual, said sources.Surprisingly, a mere Rs 1 lakh was found in the 'golak' of the gurdwara during 86 days of the lockdown while the management showed bills of around Rs 2.5 lakh against purchase of fruit and vegetables during this period.In fact, during lockdown due to the thin footfall, the SGPC issued an appeal to people to send rations to gurdwaras as the offerings during this period were found to be almost nil. Following this, several people from the region, including SGPC members Gurbaksh Singh Khalsa and Ajmer Singh Khera, with the help of their supporters, brought truckloads of rations to Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib.Under such circumstances, when there were no devotees at the gurdwara, the purchase of fruit and vegetables worth lakhs has come as a surprise.This is not the first such irregularity at the gurdwara unearthed by the SGPC. Recently, a scam of around Rs 5 lakh of fake receipts issued to the devotees against ‘kadah parshad’ was also unearthed.SGPC secretary Mohinder Singh Ahli said the five employees had been suspended, adding that the SGPC president had ordered an inquiry into all the purchases made by the gurdwara management in the recent past.
01-07-2020||---||CKD passes budget of Rs 147 crore, says will prioritise infrastructure||Amritsar, June 30The executive and general committee of the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) on Tuesday held its annual meeting through video-conferencing and passed Rs 147.50 crore budget for 2020-21. The CKD will prioritise infrastructure development for colleges and other institutions, and build seven new schools in current year.The meetings were presided over by CKD vice-president Inderbir Singh Nijjar, who while giving information about the budget said that the estimated budget of the Chief Khalsa Diwan for the year 2020-21 has been kept at 147.50 crore. He further said Rs 7 crore for the construction of new CKD school at Ajnala Road, Rs 1.62 crore for Adarsh schools, Rs 20 lakh for dharam prachar, 2 crore for upgrading CKD rural schools, Rs 1 crore for development of Central Khalsa Orphanage old-age homes and other institutes have been assigned under the budget. He said Rs 3 crore for the purchase of land and Rs 2 two crore for the construction of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Bhagatwala, has been earmarked. Rs 50 lakh for further acquisition of land and Rs 80 lakh for construction on it for a CKD School at Sur Singh has been reserved. Apart from this, three badminton halls are also planned to be constructed at Sri Guru Harkrishan International School, Ranjit Avenue, in the year 2020-21.Secretary Surinder Singh Rumalianwale said the total revenue in the year 2019-20 was Rs 116.42 crore, which is projected to increase to Rs 137.98 crore this year. He said that the increase this year in revenue was Rs 21 crore over the last year, which is 18.5 per cent. He also informed that hi-tech solar systems had been installed in four CKD schools at a cost of Rs 4 crore.High-tech system installed in schoolsSecretary Surinder Singh Rumalianwale said the total revenue in the year 2019-20 was Rs 116.42 crore, which is projected to increase to Rs137.98 crore this year. He said the increase this year in revenue was Rs21 crore over the last year, which is 18.5 per cent. He also informed that hi-tech solar systems had been installed in four CKD schools at a cost of Rs 4 crore.
01-07-2020||Jalandhar||Youths feel the heat after ban on TikTok||Addicted to the use of TikTok and other Chinese applications, youngsters of the city on Tuesday said it would take them some time to remove such apps from mobile phones.Youngsters said they had not removed the app but had already begun limiting its use. There are others who don’t want to stir any controversey and said they would no longer be uploading or sharing any video and would do away with it soon.“I know that once deleted, I will not be able to upload TikTok again. However, that’s not a big deal, I will look for other video-based Indian apps such as Chingari or Bolo Indya,” said Savvy, a collegiate and a TikTok buff.Some said their parents advised them to remove the Chinese apps from their cells. Parul, a teenager, said, “I was so into TikTok that I would spend at least half an hour on searching good videos daily, even during my examination. But my parents yesterday told me to delete the app as it was banned now.” — TNS
01-07-2020||---||Nod to fill 3,954 medical posts in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 30To effectively tackle the increasing patient load in government hospitals due to the pandemic, the Punjab Cabinet on Tuesday gave approval to fill 3,954 vacant posts in the Health Department and 291 in the Medical Education and Research Department.The decision was taken during a Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, this evening. It was the first meeting of the Council of Ministers conducted by the new Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, in her capacity as Secretary to the Cabinet.Giving details, an official said of the total 3,954 posts in the Health Department, 2,966 would be filled in the first phase and the remaining 988, which would fall vacant on September 30, in the next phase. An approval has also been granted to continue the recruitment of medical officers (specialists).The Cabinet also gave its approval for the recruitment of medical staff through the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. Previously, the recruitments were done by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) and the Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSB).An approval has been granted to retain junior residents, who are passing out after the completion of their three-year post-graduation course, as senior residents (ad hoc) for one year.Meanwhile, by clearing the name of former Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh as Chairman of the Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority, the Chief Minister has honoured the commitment he is learnt to have made to the 1984-batch IAS officer.Sources said Karan Avtar’s appointment as water regulatory body chairman was first in the series to strike a balance in the power equations among the bureaucracy. Some other top bureaucrats “who have been superseded by Vini Mahajan’s appointment” and are retiring over the next one year could also be adjusted.Unlock 2.0 Restaurants can serve liquor
01-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||Despite order, Sangrur college scraps BA course||Tribune News Service Sangrur, June 30 The office of the Director, Education Department (Colleges), through a letter directed the management committee of Akal Degree College for Women, Sangrur, to continue enrolment of students in BA 1st year. Two months ago, the management had decided to stop admissions to its BA course from the current year.  However, despite getting the letter, the college management is adamant on discontinuing the course from the current academic session.  The authorities have also directed the college management committee to submit the details of income from BA course and other self-financed courses from 1970 till date, details of property and grants received from the government and non-government sources and details of loan taken to run the college.  The authorities have told the management committee that they could not stop enrolment in the course on their own without any order from the Education Department.  Karanvir Sibia, president of the college committee, said they were compelled to discontinue the course due to a decline in the number of students. He said they would allow the BA II and III students to complete their degrees.  “We have received the letter from the Education Department and will reply accordingly. The number of students for graduation has gone down to 89. Our annual salary bill of unaided staff is Rs 40 lakh, while we are getting only Rs 6 lakh fee from arts students. Our annual losses have reached Rs 91 lakh as we are getting government aid for only eight posts, including principal and tabla player, and six ad hoc staffers, while the remaining staff is unaided. No authority can compel us to continue the course,” he said.  Sibia said they would restructure their courses and start more technical education courses to provide better education to students.  Akal Degree College for Women was started in 1970 by late Sardar Gurbaksh Singh Sibia. Later in 1977, it was covered under the 95 per cent Deficit Grants Scheme.  Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said they would not allow the closure of the course.  “The move will badly impact the education of girls in the area. I have received a letter from the CM where he has assured me to look into the matter. We will stage a protest if he fails to act,” he added.
01-07-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps RERA for ‘palpably wrong’ circular||Chandigarh, June 30Rapping the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority for passing a “palpably wrong” circular during the Covid lockdown period for extending the term of projects whose registration had expired long back, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed its operation.The Bench asserted that the circular “may even give protection to those promoters and builders whose registration may have expired long back”.The admonition by the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came on a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by Vinod Kumar through counsel Nitin Gupta. He was aggrieved by circular dated May 13, whereby RERA extended by six months the validity period of registration of projects.Appearing before the Bench, the counsel contended that ostensibly the circular was issued to give relief to projects whose registration was expiring by March 15. But even the term of projects, whose registration had expired long back, had been extended by six months by the virtue of impugned circular.He contended the power to issue circulars/notifications of such nature vested in the state government and not in the adjudicatory bodies. He added many small-time home buyers were suffering as builders had stopped work under the umbrella of the impugned circular.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta asserted the present circular had been issued by RERA, whose primary function was to adjudicate upon the disputes coming before it. Though Punjab Additional Advocate-General Sudeepti Sharma had vehemently taken a stand in favour of the promoters/builders and submitted that fault could not be found with the RERA order, the court was not impressed by the argument.Justice Gupta said the Bench failed to understand the need for passing an “omnibus order” giving protection to all projects in the state, particularly when the Act had a specific provision for entertaining applications on behalf of promoters/builders for time extension.‘Force Majeure’ clause (regarding unforeseeable circumstances that prevent someone from fulfilling a contract) could undoubtedly be invoked for the purpose. But, the applicant approaching the RERA would have to convince the authority that circumstances beyond his control forced him to discontinue with the project. The case will now come up in September last week.
01-07-2020||---||150 cases, Ludhiana worst-hit||Chandigarh, June 30With 150 fresh cases, including five deaths, reported in the past 24 hours, the state count of confirmed Covid cases has reached 5,568.Two deaths were reported from Amritsar and one each from Patiala, Ludhiana and Jalandhar. As per the media bulletin, 45 cases were reported from Ludhiana, 26 from Jalandhar, 22 from Sangrur, 11 from SAS Nagar and nine from Fatehgarh Sahib.With two more deaths, Amritsar’s toll has reached 43. The district has also reported seven Covid positive patients, with which its total count has reached 911. In Ludhiana, a 43-year-old man from Madhopuri lost his life today. He was tested positive and was admitted to the CMCH. Besides, 45 positive cases have been reported in the district. These include a 34-year-old pregnant woman from Amar colony, Bhamian Kalan. Also, seven new cases have been reported from the DMCH.Sangrur has reported 22 cases. Of these, eight are from Sangrur block, three from Ahmedgarh, two from Bhawanigarh, one from Kauhrian, one from Amargarh, two from Sunam and one from Malerkotla.
01-07-2020||---||SAD alleges insurance scam in Co-op Department||Chandigarh, June 30Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia today demanded a probe into an alleged insurance fraud perpetrated by the Cooperation Minister, while providing death cover to the Cooperation Department personnel in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Majithia said the Cooperation Minister, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, went ahead with a single bidder by not only overriding the recommendations of the Bid Committee, but also the General Finance Rules, 2017 of the Punjab Government, which mention that procurement from a single source can be made only if a particular firm alone is equipped to deliver the services. He said the government had even issued a letter in this context on May 8, three days before the contract was awarded to Go Digit.Refuting the allegations, Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, said, “The Akalis have become habitual of accusing me. They should utilise their time in public service and help the state government to combat the Covid-19 outbreak.”
01-07-2020||---||Conduct probe into missing ‘saroops’: Akal Takht to SGPC||Amritsar, June 30Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has directed the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to conduct a “transparent” probe into 267 missing “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib.Appreciating the move, ex-staffer of the SGPC, Kanwaljit Singh, who had spilled the beans, said a fair enquiry would be possible if it was done by a “Gursikh” panel out of the SGPC’s purview. Giani Harpreet Singh termed the incident as unfortunate. “I came to know about the matter through media. The SGPC has been directed to scrutinise missing ‘saroops’. Those found involved in this act will be held liable,” he said.Kanwaljit, who was responsible for maintaining the record of “saroops” said, “Justice can be done only if a panel of Sikh intellectuals headed by a retired judge conducts the probe. I don’t have faith in the SGPC’s enquiry.”He said, “High-ranking officials of the SGPC acted at the behest of their ‘political’ bosses. They got the ‘saroops’ issued verbally without putting recipients’ details on the record and deposit the requisite ‘bheta’.”Holding Kanwaljit solely responsible for the discrepancy, the SGPC had asked him to pay the damages to the tune of Rs 5.6 lakh as ‘bheta’. Kanwaljit claimed that at least 80 sets of holy scripture were burnt due to a short-circuit on May 19, 2016 at gurdwara Ramsar Sahib.Meanwhile, Rajinder Singh Mehta, senior vice-president, SGPC, had termed his allegations baseless and politically motivated. However, he admitted that around 14 “saroops” were damaged in fire.
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Kin of martyrs get job letters||The state government today handed over job letters to the kin of soldiers who had attained martyrdom, while fighting adversaries at different places.Revenue and Rehabilitation Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar gave appointment letters to Tanveer Kaur, wife of Major Ravi Inder Singh Sandhu, who lost his life during the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan on November 6, 2019 and Amritbir Singh, son of Inspector-cum-Company Commander, Raghveer Singh, CRPF-74 Battalion, who was killed during an encounter with Naxals in Sukma (Chhattisgarh) on April 24, 2017.Another appointment letter was given to Akwinder Kaur, wife of martyr Naik Maninder Singh, 3rd Punjab Regiment, who was killed on November 19, 2019 due to an avalanche in Leh. — TNS
01-07-2020||---||Terror module busted, 3 KLF members held||Chandigarh, June 30The state police on Tuesday claimed to have foiled a major bid of Pakistan-backed terrorists to target socio-religious leaders and disturb the communal harmony in the state with the arrest of three members of the Khalistan Liberation Front (KLF).The accused have been identified as Sukhchain Singh of Patiala's Sehra village, Amritpal Singh of Mansa's Achanak village, and Jaspreet Singh of Borewal Sohan, Majitha.State DGP Dinkar Gupta said the terror module, which was busted on Sunday, was operating in various parts of Punjab at the behest of pro-Khalistani elements based in Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the UK.The DGP said one .32 bore pistol and seven cartridges were seized from the alleged terrorists. Lovepreet Singh of Kaithal, an associate of the accused, along with other KLF members, had been arrested recently by the Delhi police.Gupta said the accused had come in contact with each other via social media. Amritpal Singh was instrumental in connecting and motivating Sukhchain and Lovepreet Singh in taking the dangerous agenda forward.Initial investigations show that the Pakistan-based handlers had invited the accused to Pakistan for planning the future course of action. One of the foreign handlers, based in Saudi Arabia, had promised to provide them shelter on the completion of their work.An FIR has been registered at Sadar Samana police station, Patiala, under Sections 13, 16, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.Gupta said the state police had busted nine terror modules this year so far.
01-07-2020||Our Correspondent
||BSF confiscates 11 kg of heroin||Ferozepur, June 30 Officers of the BSF from 136 Battalion today recovered 11.23-kg heroin near Shame Ke border outpost. The contraband is priced around Rs 55.25 crore in the international market. According to sources, the BSF personnel noticed movement of some suspects ahead of fencing along the zero line. The troops challenged smugglers, however, they managed to escape.  During search, three plastic cans containing heroin (11.230 kg) were seized. On June 24, 4.16-kg heroin worth Rs 20 crore was confiscated. This year, the BSF has recovered 244.01 kg of heroin along the border.
01-07-2020||Nawanshahr||Alleging torture, 22-yr-old ends life||A youth (22) of Nangal Shanga village here allegedly committed suicide last evening after making a video alleging harassment to his family by the police, sarpanch and Congress MLA Angad Saini. Victim Varinder Singh’s father Nirmal Singh reportedly had a spat with some villagers over the issue of getting contract for cultivation of panchayat land about 20 days ago. Following the clash, cross FIRs were registered. As the video went viral this morning, Akali leaders, led by Youth Akali Dal chief Parambans Singh Banti Romana, reached here and expressed solidarity with the family. They claimed that the youth had alleged in his dying statement that the police were acting at the behest of the MLA and the sarpanch.  Nirmal Singh said while no action was taken against the culprits, he was kept in custody for 24 hours. The YAD activists met Nawanshahr SSP Alka Meena and demanded action against the MLA. Romana said he had given an ultimatum to the police till tomorrow, failing which they would launch an agitation. The family refused to take the body for the last rites, saying that they would do it after action against the guilty. Nearly 150 villagers joined the family to lodge a protest. Meanwhile, MLA Saini termed the allegations politically motivated. “I have sympathy with the family, but it is wrong to blame me for no reason. The fact that the police had registered FIRs against both parties is itself a ground to prove that there has been no one-sided action. I request his family and villages not to give the issue a political colour.” — TNS
01-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Akali leader’s sons held in murder case||Both the sons of Swarn Singh Chanarthal, SAD district president, Fatehgarh Sahib, accused of murdering a Congress worker and injuring five others, surrendered in the court of CJM here today. However, their father, who had been nominated as co-accused under Section 120-B, is still at large. Both Balwinder Singh and Gurmukh Singh were sent to police remand till July 3. Harpal Singh, SP (Investigation), said both sons of Swaran Singh, along with their supporters, were involved in a clash over the possession of panchayat land. They killed a Congress worker and injured the sarpanch and four of his supporters.  He said five accused had already been arrested and two surrendered today. Now, only one out of the eight people named in the FIR and co-accused Swarn Singh were at large. — OC
01-07-2020||---||PRTC hikes bus fare by 6 paise per km||Patiala, June 30In the wake of huge losses due to the lockdown, the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) has hiked bus fares by 6 paise per km, which will increase its daily revenue by 15 per cent. The hike will come into effect from July 1.Now, the per km fare of an ordinary bus, HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) bus, integral coach and super integral coach will be 122 paise, 146.20 paise, 219.60 paise and 244 paise, respectively.The corporation was already finding it difficult to operate amid low occupancy and limited service. Besides there has been continuous hike in fuel prices over the past few weeks.Jaskiran Singh, Managing Director, PRTC, said of 1,125 buses, they were just plying 325. The corporation’s daily income had dropped to Rs 15 lakh from over 1 crore prior to the lockdown. He said, “The hike will only help cover the losses to a certain extent.”
01-07-2020||---||Interim bail for Sidhu Moosewala in firing case||Sangrur, June 30A local court today granted interim bail to Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu Moosewala in a case registered under the Arms Act at Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5. The next date of hearing has been fixed on July 15.Earlier, the court had granted interim bail to the eight other accused in the case.“The court has granted interim bail to Sidhu Moosewala and directed him to join police investigation. The court has fixed July 15 as the next date of hearing,” said Mahesh Goyal, Additional Public Prosecutor (APP).On May 4, a video had gone viral on social media, wherein the singer was seen shooting at a firing range in Badbar of Barnala district. Subsequently, the Dhanauala police, on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, registered a case against Moosewala and eight others under Sections 188 of the IPC, and 51 of the Disaster Management Act.Those who were booked included Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Balkar Singh; head constables Gagandeep Singh and Gurjinder Singh; constables Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and Karam Singh Lehal; and Inder Singh Grewal and Jang Sher Singh.On May 5, another FIR was registered against the accused at Dhuri Sadar police station, wherein Moosewala was seen firing from his own pistol at Laddai Kothi shooting range.On May 17, Sections 25 and 30 of the Arms Act were added to both FIRs registered against Moosewala and others. Later, the erring cops were suspended after cases were registered against them.
01-07-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin
||Demand for mobiles, tablets surges||Tribune News Service Bathinda, June 30 The Covid lockdown has hit almost every sector and led to huge losses. However, there is one business which remained largely unaffected during this period — the sale of mobile phones and tablets. Smartphones and tablets are changing how teachers teach and students learn during this pandemic. There has been a surge in the demand for second-hand laptops, mobile phones, Wifi routers and tablets in the market due to the trend of online classes and work from home. The demand for used laptops topped the list during the lockdown. With a ban on inter-state and inter-district travel, many buyers tried to find sellers from their respective districts. The rural areas have also seen a hike in purchase of electronic gadgets for online education.  Gurpreet Singh, a city resident, stated that he had three kids. Earlier, they did not have separate mobile phones, but he had to buy three second-hand mobile phones for their online studies. Another parent, Mitul Jindal, said he also purchased two new tablets for his kids, so that they could attend the online classes. Anil Garg, a mobile shop owner, said “The sale of mobile phones and tablets has seen a surge in the lockdown period due to online classes. Moreover, the demand for second-hand equipment was also high as it came in everyone’s budget”.  Meanwhile, Dr Vitul K Gupta, a health expert, said “Ideally, children below two years of age should not be exposed to gadgets. Children above two should not be staring at a computer screen for more than 30 minutes in one go”. They should take breaks every half-an-hour in case they need to sit longer, he added.
01-07-2020||Moga||Moga man injured as parcel blows up||A courier parcel exploded at Baghapurana town in Moga district on Tuesday, leaving one person injured. The man, identified as Phulli Ram Thakur (47), a resident of Mudki Road, Baghapurana, was the delivery man of the courier company. Preliminary investigation revealed that ‘explosive material’ was packed in the parcel, which was dispatched by a person named Deepika from Adrash Mohala, Nabha Gate, Sangrur. It was to be delivered to Nirbhai Singh at Gulab Singh Wala village. Two delivery men went from Moga to deliver the courier. When they reached Baghapurana, they stopped at the local franchise unit of the firm. One of the persons lighted a cigarette, which could have triggered the blast. Thakur got injuries on his arm and leg, while his associate Sonu had a narrow escape. The police did not rule out the possibility of ‘foul play’.  — TNS
01-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t regulate fee under Disaster Mgmt Act: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday made it clear that directives such as deferring or exempting the payment of fee could not be passed under the Disaster Management Act or the Epidemic Disease Act.The judgmentAllowing the schools to collect admission and tuition fee, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur asserted the Punjab Government directive on charging only the tuition fee was “not a factor to control the disease and may not technically fall within the ambit of Disaster Management Act, 2005, or the Epidemic Disease Act”.At the same time, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur said steps such as lockdown to control and reduce the risk definitely resulted in loss of business, work and earnings leading to financial crunch and hardships to many. As such, the state’s concern to mitigate the effects through temporary measures was not totally out of line.Referring to Advocate-General Atul Nanda’s arguments that courts could not interfere in policy decision, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur asserted that the writ was filed by unaided educational institutions receiving no help from the state. But they were required to pay salaries and maintain the institutions “without the corresponding right to recover the expenditure from their only source of income, i.e. the school fee from students”.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur added that schools not providing online education were still required to meet the expenses, including salary, building, electricity etc. As such, direction to institutions not imparting online classes against charging fee was “definitely discriminatory and arbitrary”.She said schools required basic tuition fee to maintain and fulfil their requirements and infrastructure lest they were forced to close down, which would not be in the interest of the state, the parents or the children.
01-07-2020||Our Correspondent||ASI, PSPCL clerk held taking bribe||Fazilka, June 30The Fazilka Vigilance Bureau today caught an Assistant Sub-Inspector red-handed while he was accepting a bribe of Rs 5,500.Raj Kumar, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Vigilance Bureau, Fazilka, said ASI Gurnam Singh, who was posted in the Excise Department, Guruharsahai, in Ferozepur district, allegedly demanded Rs 7,500 from the complainant, Gurmej Singh, a resident of Rai Uttar, for not registrating a case against him for recovery of illicit liquor from him.The Excise Department had conducted a raid in the village and recovered a small quantity of liquor from the possession of Gurmej Singh.The complainant allegedly paid the first installment of Rs 2,000 to the ASI and approached the Fazilka vigilance officials. They laid a trap and caught the ASI red-handed while accepting the remaining amount of Rs 5,500, near the Guruharsahai police station in the presence of witnesses. A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered.In another case, Balwinder Singh, a clerk posted at PSPCL, Jaito, Faridkot, was nabbed while accepting a bribe of Rs 2,000, on the complaint of Baldev Singh of Sada Patti village. The complainant approached the Vigilance Bureau and alleged that the clerk was demanding bribe of Rs 2,000 to help him in shifting his tubewell connection. A vigilance team laid a trap and the accused was arrested on the spot while accepting the bribe in the presence of two official witnesses. A case was registered.
01-07-2020||Faridkot||No buyer, farmer sets sugarcane crop on fire||Unable to harvest sugarcane during the lockdown, a farmer at Sadiq village of Faridkot on Tuesday burnt his standing crop worth over Rs 3 lakh.  In the absence of any sugar mill in the area, Jagtar Singh used to sell cane to juice sellers. But as they too were out of business for the past over three months, he had no buyers left at all. This led the distraught farmer to set his standing crop on fire. For the past four years, Jagtar and many other farmers in the area are growing sugarcane on two to four acres of their land, to sell it to sugarcane juice vendors. It gives them a handsome profit of up to Rs 2 lakh per acre annually.  Jagtar said “My standing crop had started to dry up. When I lost all options to protect it, I set it on fire. There are many other farmers in this area who grow sugarcane for vendors only, hoping to sell their crop at the rate of Rs 4 to Rs 5 per kg as there is huge demand for sugarcane juice with the advent of the summer season. But this time, the season opened with the lockdown, upsetting all their business calculations”. —TNS
01-07-2020||Arun Sharma||Chamkaur Sahib theme park to see light of day||Tribune News ServiceRopar, June 30After a long wait of 16 years, a theme park at Chamkaur Sahib will be opened for public this year. The foundation stone of the park was laid in 2004 to commemorate the tercentenary of the martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s elder Sahibzadas — Baba Ajit Singh and Baba Jujhar Singh — in the Battle of Chamkaur Sahib.On December 20, 2004, Capt Amarinder Singh, besides declaring Chamkaur Sahib as a subdivision, had announced a national memorial in the memory of the two elder Sahibzadas and 40 other Sikhs who had attained martyrdom while fighting the Mughals.Though the first phase of the project was inaugurated by Capt Amarinder in his previous tenure, but the work on the project was halted during the term of the SAD-BJP government. After the Congress came back to power in 2017, work on the theme park commenced again.Tourism and Culture Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said, “This theme park will be dedicated to the masses by the CM during the annual ‘Jor Mela’ this year. The galleries are being developed at a cost of Rs 33 crore.” He said Rs 16 crore had been spent on the structure and land acquisition.Channi said they would develop a musical park and a 60-foot Khanda and two swords would be installed on the complex, he said.The visitors would be introduced to the history of the Sikh Gurus in the first multimedia show, following which they would be shown the sakhi of martyr Bhai Jaita, who had brought the severed head of Guru Tegh Bahadur from Delhi. The next three shows would be dedicated to Guru Gobind Singh, which would be followed by an animated show depicting the Battle of Chamkaur Sahib.Other shows would portray the life of younger Sahibzadas, Battle of Muktsar, Zafarnama, Guru Granth Sahib installation and Baba Banda Singh Bahadur.Channi said Surjit Patar has been roped in for writing the scripts while Bollywood singer Sukhwinder Singh would recite poetry for the shows.
01-07-2020||
||Probe Covid patients’ charge: BJP||Sangrur, June 30 Alleging lack of required arrangements in isolation centres for Covid patients in the district, BJP leaders today submitted a memorandum to the DC and sought a high-level inquiry. Randeep Singh Deol, district president, BJP, Sangrur, said, “The state government has failed to provide the required facilities to Covid patients admitted in various isolation centers of Sangrur. We have submitted a memorandum demanding improvement of facilities and sought an inquiry. The DC has assured to look into the matter at the earliest.”
01-07-2020||---||ED attaches former DCC chief’s house in hawala case||Jalandhar, June 30Probing a case of alleged violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act against former DCC chief (Jalandhar rural) Sukhwinder Lally, the Enforcement Directorate today attached his house at Nangal Shama village on the Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur road.Sukhwinder Lally, who is the brother of former MLA from Adampur Kanwaljit Singh Lally, had reportedly bought a residential property in Canada worth $3 lakh. The ED had raided his premises in December. As per the ED officials, Lally could not reveal how he managed to own a property in Canada. The officials said as he could not prove any legal transactions, it was being considered that he had invested his funds there through hawala.Sukhwinder Lally lives in a plush house spread across 1 acre, which is worth Rs 2.01 crore. In his defence, Lally said, “I never invested in any property in Canada. It was a friend of mine, who bought a house there and used my name in the Power of Attorney for tax exemption. The house was bought in 2009-10. I last went there in 2012. My friend sold the house in 2013-14. I shared all details with the ED officials, but they were not convinced. I had been summoned on Wednesday and Friday last week. I have not received the notice, but I will seek legal recourse to save my house.”Sukhwinder Lally is into the business of brick-kilns and is considered to be close to former PPCC chief Partap Singh Bajwa. He is also the brother-in-law of minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. Lally’s nephew Mehtab Lally had recently won the Zila Parishad poll from Patara.Had bought property in Canada.
01-07-2020||Amritsar||Pursue cases of Sikh youths, SGPC told||After raking up the issue of a separate Sikh state “Khalistan”, Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh today directed the SGPC to pursue cases of Sikh youths who were arrested by the Punjab Police recently.Giani Hapreet Singh condemned the police for allegedly implicating Sikh youths on the false pretext of supporting Khalistan. “If Sikh youths are arrested on frivolous charges in the name of Khalistan, it is condemnable. The SGPC should pursue cases of innocent Sikh youths,” he said.On June 6, during the anniversary of Operation Bluestar, Giani Harpreet Singh had triggered a controversy by stating that every Sikh wanted a separate state and “if the government offers us Khalistan, what else do we need? We will accept it.” Later, he clarified that Sikhs can never be defined by the idea of Khalistan. —TNS
01-07-2020||Ludhiana||3,000 Ludhiana cops tested since April, 30 +ve||Since the death of ACP Anil Kohil due to Covid-19 on April 18, the Ludhiana police have so far tested 3,000 cops. Of them, 30 were tested positive. They included DCP Ashwani Kapur and SHO Arshpreet Kaur. Nearly 25 of them are still under treatment.Besides, 183 police personnel remained under quarantine. Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said: “Ever since the curfew was imposed in the state, the entire police force has been working in the forefront. During the course of duty, ACP Kohli fell prey to the virus. After his death, cops continued to act as frontline warriors, although with more precautions,” Agrawal said.DCP (Headquarters) Dr Akhil Chaudhary said to prevent the spread of the disease in the force, public dealing of cops had been reduced to bare minimum. “An online complaint system has been put in place for the convenience of both police personnel and the residents,” he said. —TNS
01-07-2020||AAP leaders booked for flouting norm during protest||Up in arms against farm ordinances||Muktsar: Gidderbaha AAP incharge Iqbal Singh and few others have been booked for allegedly flouting the social distancing norms while lodging a protest at Doda village, here, on Monday. The AAP leaders protested against the “anti-farmer” farm ordinances issued by the Centre, and criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC. TNS38-year-old dies of ‘drug overdose’Abohar: A 38-year-old daily wage earner died reportedly of drug overdose. Deceased Puran Singh was taken to the Civil Hospital on Monday evening, but he died. His father, Jagir Singh of Kandhwala Amarkot village, said his son used to take drugs in small quantities at his workplace, but on Monday when he returned home, he appeared to be under excessive influence of drugs. The deceased is survived by two daughters, a son and a wife. oc
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-Chief Secy Karan Avtar Singh is water body chief||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today approved the appointment of former Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh as Chairman of the Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority, days after the officer was replaced with 1987-batch IAS officer Vini Mahajan.Karan Avtar Singh, who handed over the charge to the new Chief Secretary on June 26, is on leave for two months. — TNS
01-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Nine new Covid cases surface in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 30Nine dischargedNine patients recovered and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The Civil Surgeon said there were now 25 active cases in the district.Nine new Covid-19 cases surfaced in the district on Tuesday, taking the tally to 120.The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, said of the nine new cases, two were close contacts of an already positive case of Jakhwali village, who was currently undergoing treatment at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, whereas three were family members of a positive case admitted to the PGI.Two NRIs, who were quarantined, also tested positive for the virus. Both had come from Kenya. One of them belongs to Chanarthal village, whereas another hails from Amloh.Dr NK Aggarwal said one accident victim, who was admitted to the PGI, was also found infected.Meanwhile, nine patients recovered and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. The Civil Surgeon said there were now 25 active cases in the district.
01-07-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court gives schools go-ahead to collect tuition, admission fee||Chandigarh, June 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ruled that all schools were entitled to collect tuition fee irrespective of offering online classes during the Covid lockdown period. Permission to collect admission fee henceforth was also granted, but the schools were restrained from recovering charges for any facility they did not spend money on.The court also asked the schools not to hike the fee for 2020-21 and adopt the old structure of 2019-20.Expenses GenuineThe management of each school shall work out its actual expenditure for the period the school remained closed and recover only genuine expenditure. Justice Nirmaljit KaurA Bench of Justice Nirmaljit Kaur said the pleas of parents facing hardships due to the lockdown would be considered sympathetically by the schools before deciding on either giving concession or exempting the entire fee, as the case may be. For this, the parents could file an application along with necessary proof about their financial status. “No parent shall misuse the concession by laying a false claim,” warned Justice Nirmaljit Kaur.In case of grievances following an adverse decision by a school on their plea, the parents were given the liberty to approach the regulatory body.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur also asked the schools to continue imparting online/distance learning to prevent education from being adversely impacted due to the “present or future lockdowns”.The directions came on a bunch of petitions filed against Punjab and other respondents by the Independent Schools’ Association, Chandigarh, and other schools through senior counsel Puneet Bali, Aashish Chopra and other advocates.
01-07-2020||Zirakpur||Crocodile, ostrich die at Chhatbir Zoo||Two animals have reportedly died at Chhatbir Zoo here.A 30-year-old crocodile died of a liver problem on Saturday morning, while a three-year-old ostrich died this morning.M Sudhakar, Field Director, Chhatbir Zoo, said the ostrich was seriously injured in a fight with a female ostrich in his cage. Since then, the injured animal was kept under observation of doctors, but it failed to survive, he added.The count of ostriches at the zoo has fallen to three. — TNS
