02-05-2020||---||Wife  of SGPC chief dies at Sangrur||Amritsar, May 2SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal was left bereaved when his wife Amarpal Kaur (59) died due to suspected heart attack on Saturday.Confirming this, SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said Amarpal Kaur was at her residence at Longowal village when she felt uneasiness at around 6 pm. She was immediately taken to local government hospital in Sangrur, but could not survive.It is learnt that Amarpal Kaur had suffered a mild attack. She was the younger sister of Dr Inderjeet Kaur, president of the All-India Pingalwara Society.Golden Temple head priest Giani Jagtar Singh, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, Takht Damdama Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, Takht Patna Sahib Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh, SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta and former SGPC president Kirpal Singh Badungar expressed their condolences with Longowal.
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab eases curfew hours in orange, green zones||Punjab government announced it was easing curfew hours in orange and green zones on Saturday, as the state looks at slowly easing lockdown rules imposed in the state over the coronavirus pandemic.   Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said shops in orange and green zones across the state will remain open from 9 am to 1 pm. The new timing will be applicable from Sunday.However, there would be no relaxations in red zones and containment areas, he said.The new curfew hours are two hours longer than currently given. Punjab’s curfew hours currently are from 7-11 am.The chief minister attributed the decision to requests to have curfew time changed because shops do not usually open before 9 am.“The issue also came up for discussion during the Cabinet meeting, and there was consensus that the timings should be changed in public interest,” an official spokesperson said.Capt Amarinder said anyone found without a facemask in public or not following social distancing protocol would be penalised.“The relaxations come with strict protocols, which the people need to follow,” Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said, adding that those found violating the curfew restrictions or otherwise disrupting the state’s law and order would be strictly dealt with.
02-05-2020||---||Push RT-PCR Covid testing to 6,000 a day by May 15: Amarinder to health dept||Chandigarh, May 2Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked the Health Department to ramp up the RT-PCR Covid testing facilities in the state to 6,000 a day by May 15, instead of the targeted 5,800 a day by May-end, while directing it to conduct its own tests on all returnees instead of going by the tests done in other states.Pointing to the large number of returnees had now tested positive, the Chief Minister said it was clear that Punjab could not rely on the tests conducted on its people stranded in other places by those respective states.Referring to the fact that several staffers at the Nanded gurdwara itself had now tested positive, the Chief Minister said with this the Akali claim, that there were no positive cases in Nanded and the pilgrims had got infected on the way back or on reaching Punjab, had been trashed.He once again asked the Opposition to stop indulging in petty politicking over such a grave issue.This was a crucial time in the state’s fight against Covid, the Chief Minister said during a VC meeting with the Council of Ministers, which took a series of decisions to scale up the state government’s coronavirus battle. Directing the Health Department to come out with a plan to advance its schedule for increasing the testing capacity, the Chief Minister stressed the need to be prepared for the worst. Captain Amarinder said he had already asked the Chief Secretary to coordinate with the central government to scale up the testing capacity to 20,000 a day, to cope with the influx of migrants and others expected to return to the state over the next few weeks in the wake of the new directives of the Government of India. The rapid testing would also need to be scaled exponentially, to at least 2 lakh, once it resumes, the Chief Secretary said.Amarinder told the Cabinet that he had deputed individual officers to coordinate with each state for facilitating the return of Punjabis.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu assured the Chief Minister that all pending testing reports would be cleared in the next day or two, to ensure that there is no delay in identifying and addressing positive cases. He said arrangements for increasing testing by roping in a private lab had also been finalized and 2000 samples from across the state had been sent to them today.Cabinet approves parole extensionIn view of the unprecedented situation prevailing in the state, the Cabinet approved extension of parole period beyond 16 weeks during epidemics and disasters, for those sentenced to 7 years or less. The Cabinet okayed suitable amendments to The Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners Act 1962, in accordance with the Supreme Court suggestion on longer paroles in the current extreme circumstances.Outsourced appointments cleared for GMCsTo further ramp up the state’s testing facility and medical preparedness in the Covid battle, the Council of Ministers cleared various appointments, on outsourcing basis, for critical posts at the Government Medical Colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot.The appointments, already approved by the Finance Department for six months, will enable the government medical colleges to appoint vital staff in the viral testing laboratories, isolation wards etc, to enable 24X7 functioning, said an official spokesperson.The Committee headed by Dr Raj Bahadur will decide and finalise the appointments for the posts of Specialist Doctors, Nurses, Ward Attendants, Technicians, Lab Attendants, apart from Directors and other.The Cabinet was informed that from the initial 3 testing facilities, the number of such centres in Punjab had gone up to 7, with the Dr Lal Path Labs also now allowed to conduct tests beginning today. The lab collected 2000 samples on the first day, from across the state.Ex-facto approval for 4300 GoGsIn another decision, the Cabinet accorded ex-post facto approval to the appointment of 4,300 Guardians of Governance (GOGS). The GoGs, part of the Chief Minister’s flagship scheme to gainfully employ ex-servicemen, have emerged as a powerful tool for the state government in the battle against Covid.Transfer of teachers from border areasThe Cabinet also agreed to amend the transfer policy of the School Education Department to allow teachers seeking transfer after 18 months of posting in the border areas, instead of the earlier 3 years, once new recruitments are completed. It also gave ex-facto approval to the exclusion of principal and headmasters from the transfer policy.
02-05-2020||Shiv Kumar||Maharashtra, Punjab at loggerheads after Nanded gurdwara staff test positive for Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceMumbai, May 2The authorities of Maharashtra and Punjab are at loggerheads after pilgrims returning home from Hazur Sahib Gurdwara, Nanded, tested positive for the Covid-19 virus.While officials in Punjab blamed their counterparts in Maharashtra for not screening the pilgrims for the virus before they were sent back, district officials in Nanded said the virus was brought to the town by drivers of buses, who arrived from the northern state.“The local authorities had arranged buses which ferried pilgrims to Punjab on April 23. Two drivers and an attendant had returned from Punjab on April 28 and had tested positive,” said Prashant Shelke, deputy collector, Nanded.According to Shelke, three rounds of check-ups were conducted on the pilgrims living in the gurdwara before they were transported home. However, they were only checked for symptoms of Covid-19 and no swab samples were collected from any of them, according to the official.The authorities have so far traced 13 close contacts of the three people, according to the official. The drivers and the attendant had partaken langar at the gurdwara and had come in contact with several ‘karsevaks’, added Shelke.The district authorities have been collecting swab samples of people associated with the shrine and their close contacts for the past few days. While 25 tests have come negative, 20 samples have tested positive. Results of 52 people are still to be received as on Saturday morning, according to the collector.So far, there are 26 cases of Covid-19 in Nanded, of which two patients have died.Officials are still trying to trace the contacts of people who came in contact with the 90 gurdwara staffers, who were attached to langar activities. It is not clear how many people were served by them over the past few days since names and contact details of people, who come to partake of langar, are not collected.According to district officials, a large number of migrants in Nanded partake of langar regularly following the closure of restaurants during the lockdown.The gurdwara has now been closed and langar services have been suspended from Friday, according to officials here.Reports from Punjab said as many as 130 pilgrims from Nanded, who were brought home in buses, have tested positive for COVID-19.
02-05-2020||---||SAD asks CM to bear cost of value cut on shrivelled grains||Chandigarh, May 2The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), today, asked Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to bear the cost of the value cut imposed on shrivelled grains in Punjab from the State Disaster Management Fund.It asked the state government to compensate farmers for extremely low wheat yields due to excessive rain in Patiala, Ropar, Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. The SAD also asked the Centre to review the value cuts imposed on the shrivelled grain keeping in view the losses suffered by farmers of the four districts due to unseasonal rain.Disclosing this in a statement here, former MP Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra asked the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government to pursue the case of removing value cuts aggressively with the Centre, and in the meantime, extend relief to farmers.Prof Chandumajra said farmers of the four districts had been served a double whammy. At many places in these districts, farmers had experienced yields of five to six quintals per acre against the average yield of 20 to 22 quintals per acre due to heavy rains in March and April, he added.“Due to this, wheat grain had shrivelled at these places. Though wheat is being procured now, farmers are being forced to accept a value cut of Rs 24 per quintal for 16 per cent shrivelled grain,” he added.The former MP said the Punjab government should take up the issue with the Centre and take permission for compensating farmers from the State Disaster Management Fund. “As much as Rs 6,000 crore had accumulated in this fund, and since farmers were also suffering due to a natural calamity, they should be compensated for the same,” Th former MP said.Prof Chandumajra said the process of compensation should start with ordering of ‘girdwari’ in the four districts to access the losses. If this was not done, the entire economy of the four districts, which was dependent on agriculture, would be affected seriously, he added.
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||219 new coronavirus cases pushes Punjab tally past 800||Punjab's coronavirus numbers swelled to 804 on Saturday, with 219 new cases being recorded over the past 24 hours.A vast majority of the new cases recorded on Saturday---about 194---were pilgrims who had just returned from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra's Nanded. Fourteen of the state's 22 districts reported new cases.The state's evening bulletin showed Amritsar recorded 52 new cases---the highest single-day rise recorded in any district in the state so far. Hoshairpur recorded 31 new cases, followed by Moga (22), Patiala and Ludhiana (both 21), Jalandhar (15), Ferozepur (9), Fatehgarh Sahib (6), Muktsar (3), SAS Nagar (2), Sangrur (1), Gurdaspur (1), Ropar (1), and Kapurthala (1), the state bulletin showed. Gurdaspur recorded a major spike in infections later in the evening, recording 24 more cases---a development that took the district tally to 29. All new patients were pilgrims, officials said.Jalandhar and Sangrur also recorded four more cases each.These cases have yet to be counted in the state's tally.On Ferozepur’s nine cases, six were labourers from Rajasthan. Of Fatehgarh’s Sahib’s six cases, one was a combine worker.Mohali reported two more cases, taking the district’s tally to 92.A 25-year-old woman from Desu Majra village and a 67-year-old man from Phase 10 tested positive.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said both reported flu-like symptoms.They are currently at the Covid Care Centre at Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital.Muktsar reported three more cases, taking the district tally to seven.A laboratory technician, a ward attendant at the health department and a driver of combine harvester tested positive, officials said.In Moga, of the 22 cases, one person had recently returned from Dubai. Four Asha workers also tested positive.Punjab has recorded 429 new cases in the past 72 hours alone. With 143 infections, Amritsar has replaced Jalandhar as the district with the highest number of cases. Jalandhar follows at 119, Ludhiana at 94, SAS Nagar at 93 and Patiala at 89.The state has recorded 20 deaths so far.The central government has declared Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala red zones, while Mohali and Amritsar are among the state’s orange zones.
02-05-2020||Our Correspondent||32 people test positive in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur; all are Nanded pilgrims||Hoshiarpur, May 2As many as 32 more people have tested positive for Covid-19. All of these are pilgrims who have returned from Nanded.Now, all 37 active positive cases in Hoshiarpur are pilgrims who have returned from Nanded.Also readTakht: Bid to malign SikhsSukhbir: Pilgrim evacuation plan botched upShow empathy for returnees: Pargat SinghDistrict epidemiologist Dr Shailesh said these pilgrims were quarantined in the facilities at Rayat Bahra Educity and De-addiction Centre in Hoshiarpur.These are from various villages in the district.The positive cases have been sent to the isolation ward.Meanwhile, the contact tracing is on at Narayangarh village of the subdivision from where a man who had returned from Nanded was found positive. He runs a grocery shop in the village.
02-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar ASI on Covid curfew duty dragged by youth on car's bonnet: Watch video||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 2An Assistant Sub-Inspector on curfew duty in Jalandhar was dragged on a vehicle's bonnet for a considerable distance on Saturday morning after he tried to stop a youth at a naka. The police has booked both the youth and his father for the offence.And most of this was recorded in a video.The policemen stopped a college student, Amol Mehmi (20), driving an Ertiga car, at the Milk Bar Chowk in Jalandhar.Also read:As ASI Mulk Raj stood in front of the car, other policemen enquired why the youth was out during lockdown. However, the youth allegedly drove off his car, carrying the ASI on its bonnet to a considerable distance and stopped only after other cops chased down the vehicle.The accused has been arrested after registration of a case at the police station division 6 under Section 307 of the IPC and relevant Sections of the Disaster Management Act.In Jalandhar, residents are permitted to venture out only from 7 am to 11 am in non-containment zones. No one is permitted to take out vehicles, which are bound to be impounded if driven in violation of the lockdown guidelines.Additional SHO Gurdev Singh said, "ASI Mulk Raj was on duty with other employees at Milk Bar Chowk. Since Mulk Raj's hand was on the bonnet, the youth suddenly drove the car. We indicated the youth to stop but instead he dragged the cop to a considerable distance and was stopped only after we chased him down."Police commissioner, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that an FIR under various Section of IPC, including 307 and Epidemic Diseases Act and 51 Disaster Management Act, has been registered against not just Amol but his father Parminder Kumar, who owns the car. He said that Jalandhar Commissionerate Police has a ‘zero tolerance policy’ against such acts against government officers deployed on curfew enforcement duties.Bhullar said that stern action would be taken against any individual indulging in such heinous crimes
02-05-2020||---||2 more test positive in Mohali; district toll reaches 94||Mohali, May 2Two more people have reported coronavirus positive in Mohali. The cases surfaced at Desu Majra village and in Phase 10, taking the total count in the district to 94.They are a 25-year-old woman from Desu Majra village and a 67-year-old man from Phase 10.Giving details, Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the woman lives in a paying guest accommodation and had already been quarantined as she had complained of flu-like symptoms.The 67-year-old man also had complained of flu-like symptoms.Their samples had been sent for testing which turned out positive on Saturday morning.  Both have been sent to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that till date 94 positive cases of coronavirus had been reported from the district of which 47 had surfaced from Jawaharpur village while 21 were Sikh pilgrims, including one from Ambala, who had returned from Nanded.He said 62 cases were active while 30 had cured and were kept at the quarantine centre in Sector 70. He said that as of now, 2,488 people had successfully undergone quarantine period while 745 are still under quarantine.
02-05-2020||---||Heavy rush witnessed during curfew relaxation in Bathinda||Bathinda, May 2The roads in the city were busy on Saturday morning as the district administration had given relaxation in the lockdown to allow people to purchase essential items.Shops selling grocery, bakery, optical, fodder, poultry products, spare parts, pesticides, cement, medical stores, milk chilling and collection centres will now remain open from 6-10 am beginning Saturday.The shopkeepers have clear instructions to maintain social distancing. The people thronged the Sirki Bazaar in large numbers.Beopar mandal state president Amit Kapoor said, "The state government has taken a wrong decision as liquor vends are allowed to run whereas many small traders are sitting at home. He said the district administration should have implemented rotational policy so that all traders who are facing huge losses by sitting at home for the past 40 days should have got a chance to earn livelihood.
02-05-2020||---||No laxity, anybody entering Punjab to be examined, says Captain||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 1Faced with a spike in Covid cases after the return of pilgrims from Nanded Sahib, Maharashtra, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today announced that anybody entering Punjab would be medically examined, if need be quarantined and then allowed to go home.Gurdwara sealedAurangabad: The authorities on Friday sealed Hazur Sahib gurdwara and stopped langar service, hours before Punjab reported that 91 more persons who had returned from the shrine had tested positive for Covid. The pilgrims had halted at Indore, one of the worst-affected cities. TNSThe announcement came through a televised address after the Opposition accused the state government of mismanagement, saying health guidelines had not been followed while bringing back the pilgrims from Hazur Sahib and many had now been found to be infected.“So far, 7,000 Punjab residents have been brought back — 3,525 from Nanded Sahib and 3,000 from Rajasthan. More will be arriving in the coming days,” the CM said. “Anybody entering the state will be thoroughly examined at inter-state border checkposts. I have received reports that people from Haryana and Rajasthan are trying to enter Punjab clandestinely to avoid being quarantined,” he said, even as he allayed fears on quarantine centres.Taking on the Opposition, he said it was no time to score brownie points. “There has been no mismanagement, as is being projected by the Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party. A further spike in Covid cases can be expected over the next few days as more people stranded in other states return home,” he added.
02-05-2020||Amritsar||Takht: Bid to malign Sikhs||
02-05-2020||New Delhi||3 Punjab, 2 Haryana districts in red zone||As the country entered the third spell of national lockdown to counter Covid-19 today, the Centre divided country’s 733 districts into red, orange and green zones for the purposes of containment and disease surveillance.Red zones in regionMinistry of Health advocated a “ruthless manner of containment” through contact tracing, testing and house-to-house surveys in the newly designated 130 red zone districts. The ministry told states through a letter that while they could add red districts to the list, they could not take them off the centrally designated hotspot list which would be revised weekly and earlier, if possible.As of today, there are 130 red, 284 orange and 319 green districts. The fresh segregation of districts came as India’s Covid count touched 35,365 with 9,064 persons cured and discharged and 1,152 deaths.In the past 24 hours, the country saw 1,755 new Covid cases and 77 deaths, the highest so far. The cure rate in the country, as of Friday, was 25.6 per cent. This has been steadily improving. The northern region is home to 10 red districts, 53 orange and 16 green districts with Chandigarh retained in the red zone.Punjab has three red districts Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana; 15 orange (SAS Nagar, Pathankot, Mansa, Taran Taran, Amritsar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Faridkot, Sangrur, SBS Nagar, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Moga, Gurdaspur, Barnala).In Haryana, the two red zone districts are Sonepat and Faridabad. Eighteen orange zone districts in the state are Gurugram, Nuh, Panipat, Panchkula, Palwal, Rohtak, Hisar, Ambala, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Jind, Sirsa, Yamunagar, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri.HP has no red zone district.In J&K, the four red districts are Bandipora, Shopian, Anantnag and Srinagar— TNS
02-05-2020||Lalit Mohan||Kangra patients denied entry into Pathankot||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 1With the authorities of Kangra district and Pathankot district of Punjab not honouring each other’s inter-state permits, people living in the border areas are at the receiving end.On Thursday, some patients from the Nurpur area of Kangra district were not allowed to go Pathankot despite the fact that they had valid permits issued by the authorities.Residents of the border areas of Kangra district are dependent on private hospitals in Pathankot for emergency and other health services.BJP MLA from Nurpur Rakesh Pathania alleged that Punjab police personnel posted at nakas in Pathankot did not allow a patient from his area to go to a private hospital despite the fact that he was being taken in an ambulance.Similar, many farmers who were living in Pathankot but had their land and orchards in Indora and Nurpur areas of Kangra district are alleging that the authorities of Himachal are not honouring inter-state permits issued by the Pathankot Magistrate and not allowing them to enter the state.Some businessmen from Pathankot who had their shops in the Jasur area of Himachal were also not allowed in the state when relaxation was given by the district authorities to open shops in rural areas. Sources here alleged that some influential people who were denied entry into Himachal might have influenced the authorities in Pathankot for the backlash and not honouring the inter-state permits issued by the authorities of Kangra district.In the recent past, the authorities in Kangra district had issued an advisory to patients against going to Pathankot for treatment on the plea that a doctor had tested positive for Covid-19 infection in the city.
02-05-2020||---||Punjab got only Rs 71 cr to combat virus: FM||Bathinda/Chandigarh, May 1Lashing out at the Union Government, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the state had received only Rs 71 crore for fighting Covid-19. Another Rs 4,854 crore received by the state included Rs 2,091 crore (SDRF, share in Central taxes on the recommendation of 14th and 15th Finance Commission), Rs 2,420 crore GST compensation, and Rs 272 crore, he claimed, adding that these were routine transfers under various schemes and it was the right of the state.Manpreet alleged that the SAD was making false claims that Punjab had received a huge grant from the Union Government as except Rs 71 crore under the National Health Mission, other funds had nothing to do with Covid-19. “As on April 1, the total outstanding GST dues were Rs 6,753 crore, out of which only Rs 2,366 crore has been received till date. The state is still awaiting GST compensation of almost Rs 4,400 crore for the period of December 2019 to March 2020,” the minister said, while talking to mediapersons after a symbolic protest against the Centre’s “apathy”.Manpreet said all precautionary measures have been followed for taking care of the pilgrims, students and labourers coming from other states. Urging the public to have sympathy with Covid-19 patients, he said as this disease could infect anyone, patients should not be looked down upon.Meanwhile, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Friday waved the Tricolor from his home to raise his voice against the “discrimination” by the Union Government against Punjab.
02-05-2020||Bathinda||Exempt masks, PPE kits from GST: Association||Admn seals Pathrela village in BathindaBathinda: The administration has sealed Pathrela village after two cases were reported positive. In all, 68 drivers of buses who had gone to bring the stranded pilgrims, students and labourers from Nanded, Kota and Jaisalmer have been kept in quarantine and their samples have been taken. Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “Pathrela village has been sealed as a precautionary measure and a gurudwara has been completed sealed. On reaching Bathinda, a group of pilgrims was kept there and after sampling, a patient had tested positive.” TNSVets protest ‘irregular’ promotionsChandigarh: The Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association on Friday alleged “irregularities” in the recent promotions of deputy directors, assistant directors and senior veterinary officers. Association president Sarbjeet Singh Randhawa said promotions had been decided even as seniority list was yet to be finalised. He said if the issue was not addressed, the association would take a tough stand. TNSPower staff contribute Rs 7.91 crChandigarh: The management, employees and pensioners of the PSPCL/PSTCL have contributed Rs 7.91 crore towards the CM relief fund. The management and employees, besides pensioners of both Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited, have donated their one-day salary/pension to the relief fund. TNS
02-05-2020||---||105 more +ve cases in Punjab, up 100% in week||Chandigarh, May 1All efforts of the state, which had so far been performing better on all parameters vis-à-vis national average, seem to have negated as it took just seven days for the Covid-19 cases to increase by 100 per cent. However, nationally, the number of cases doubled in 11 days.As per the media bulletin, with 105 fresh cases on Friday, the total count of Covid-19 patients reached 585. Of these, 48 were from Amritsar, 16 Jalandhar, 13 Ludhiana, six SAS Nagar, four Fazilka, and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala and Moga.In the past one week, 287 cases have been reported. On April 24, the total number of cases in the state was 298. However, the entire graph has been changed as 210 cases were reported in the last two days. Out of these patients, 169 are those who have either returned from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra or Kota in Rajasthan.With 16 persons testing positive in Jalandhar today, the district has become the first in the state to cross 100 cases. Six of the new cases are contacts of the city Mayor’s OSD. Two are returnees while another two are from the contacts of a previously positive patient.Barring these 10, the rest six are all new cases with no previous contact history. They are a 55-year-old woman from Basti Sheikh, a 19-year-old from Gujjarpal Nagar, a 21 year-old resident of a locality near DAV College, a 15-year-old youth of Sangal Sohal village, a 25-year-old man from Wadala Chowk and a 60-year-old woman from Model Town.Apart from one case reported in the media bulletin, 23 more positive cases of coronavirus were reported from Patiala. All new positive patients are Hazur Sahib returnees. With this addition, the total number of positive cases in Patiala, which was declared a red zone on Friday, rose to 89.In Moga, a resident of Ghalauti village in Dharamkot sub-division, who returned from Hazur Sahib, has been tested positive.As per the Health Department, so far samples of 23,176 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 18,222 were found negative and reports of 4,369 were awaited.
02-05-2020||Karam Prakash||Fearing Covid duties, candidates in Punjab delay joining government sector||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 1Not just residents, even doctors in Punjab are seemingly getting scared of Covid. A number of senior resident doctors, who were to join the Medical Education Department, are now avoiding a switch from private practice.Notably, of the around 100 selected candidates for the post of Senior Resident, only a few have joined the department till now. It has been learnt that even after a month of their selection, around six doctors joined the Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, the reason being they do not want to perform Covid duties, fearing infection.These are specialist doctors who are supposed to complete three-year service before becoming eligible for the post of Assistant Professor.One of the selected candidates, who is presently working at private hospital, said she had children and elderly at home and therefore, couldn’t take risk of joining a government hospital amid Covid. She said, “As we will be asked to perform Covid duties, I am thinking not to join the government sector as of now.”Another candidate, who is also working at a private hospital, said he had lesser risk of getting an infection at a private hospital because there was no suspected patient there.A senior official at Government Rajindra Hospital, pleading anonymity, said, “When we need them, they are not coming forward. Therefore, given the situation, the government should give incentives to doctors to make them join the department at the earliest.”Meanwhile, Dr Harjinder Singh, principal, GMC, Patiala, said, “It is too early to say they are not willing to join. Many could have applied for extensions or some candidates might not have got an NOC from their department.”
02-05-2020||---||In Ropar, 13 vends burgled in a month||Ropar, May 1Bacchus lovers are in a fix, as liquor vends haven’t opened since March 22, the day when lockdown was announced in the state.While many are able to procure it from the grey market, few others have resorted to stealing it from the liquor vends. During the last one month, 13 liquor vends here have reported burglary. Many contractors didn’t even bother to lodge a complaint, shrugging off the matter in view of meagre loss. The police have not made any arrest in this connection so far. Officials concerned cite poverty-driven alcoholics behind the crime rate.A vend at Khairabad village on the outskirts of Ropar town was targeted twice and reportedly booze worth Rs5 lakh was stolen from there. Similarly, 12 bottles of liquor were stolen from a vend at Jhungian village near Nangal. Other liquor vends which were targeted are situated at Ropar town, Bhangala, Kotla Nihang, Mal Mandi, Ghanauli, Saheri, Kamalpur, Barsalpur and Ajoli Mod villages. Ropar SSP said a majority of liquor vends made of tin sheets were a easy target for the miscreants. Before lockdown, workers at liquor vends used to stay put on the premises during night, however, due to clampdown, no one was allowed to stay the night at vends in view of their security. The only way to prevent losses to the vend owners was to shift their stock to a safer place, said the SSP.
02-05-2020||---||Woman jail inmate infected in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 1Panic gripped the inmates of Women Jail in Ludhiana after an inmate tested positive for Covid. She was shifted to the Civil Hospital’s isolation ward.As per Dr Neha, Bhajan Kaur of Sangrur was arrested by the Sangrur police in a drug case. She was lodged in the jail on April 28 and screened. But at that time, she showed no symptoms. Still, the authorities kept her in the isolation ward of the jail as a precautionary measure.Samples of 16 women, who were also kept in the isolation ward, are being taken. Jail officials and police personnel will also be tested.
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir: Pilgrim evacuation  plan botched up||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to apologise to the Sikh community for “mismanaging” the repatriation of pilgrims from Hazur Sahib. He also demanded sacking of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for not following health guidelines, which had led to a large number of pilgrims testing positive for Covid-19.The SAD chief alleged that it was unfortunate that the Chief Minister had failed to provide the needed leadership in this hour of crisis and botched up the entire repatriation operation. “The manner in which the government has failed the pilgrims is symptomatic of the way in which it has dealt with each section of society since curfew was imposed in the state”. “First the government allowed the pilgrims to go to their homes on April 24 and 25 and then issued a letter on April 27 directing that they should be quarantined and then only allowed to leave for their homes after due testing. Such mismanagement is directly responsible for the rise in Covid cases,” he alleged. — TNS
02-05-2020||---||Beekeepers’ sweet gesture, honey for Covid warriors||Jalandhar, May 1Expressing gratitudeThe Progressive Beekeeper Association, which has around 500 beekeepers as its members, has written to the Horticulture Department that it wants to honour the warriors by giving them mustard honey.Even though beekeepers in the state are suffering heavy losses due to the lockdown, they have expressed the desire to offer honey to frontline workers to boost their immunity.The Progressive Beekeeper Association, which has around 500 beekeepers as its members, has written to the Horticulture Department that it wants to honour the warriors by giving them mustard honey.They have asked for guidelines, which they need to follow. The association members said they would honour police officials, doctors, health workers and journalists.The request letter reads, “We too want to contribute and help those risking their lives to save others.”Narpinder Singh, president of the association, said once they got a go-ahead, the beekeepers in every district would start giving honey to the warriors. “We want to extend gratitude to those who are working day in day out,” he said.Vice-president of the association Jatinder Sohi said honey helped boost immunity. Director, Horticulture, Shailender Kaur said it was a welcome step and noble gesture.There are more than 3,000 beekeepers in the state and 1,800 metric tonnes of honey is produced annually. This time, the beekeepers are facing a lot of problems due to the lockdown. Most got stuck in other states like Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan where they transported bees.
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||No HC relief for cop in fake pass case||A cop, allegedly caught in the camera while collecting illegal gratification for issuing fake curfew passes during the ongoing curfew, has failed to get relief from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Justice Anil Kshetarpal today dismissed his plea for anticipatory bail in a corruption case registered against him.“A video to that effect had gone viral. The petitioner, at the relevant time, was working as a member of the disciplined force, that is the Punjab Police,” Justice Kshetarpal asserted while turning down his plea. The cop, Harjinder Singh, had moved the High Court against the state government for grant pre-arrest bail in FIR registered on April 4 under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 269 of the IPC at Patti city police station in Tarn Taran district.Justice Kshetarpal asserted the case of the prosecution in a nutshell was that the petitioner was seen collecting illegal gratification while issuing fake curfew passes during the curfew due to Covid. “Keeping in view the facts of the case, this court is not inclined to grant the benefit of pre-arrest bail to the petitioner,” Justice Kshetarpal concluded. — TNS
02-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||‘Harassed’ by cops, agents shut mandi in Malerkotla||Tribune News Service Malerkotla, May 1 As if the lockdown was not enough, the alleged misbehaviour of the Malerkotla police and the subsequent closure of the largest vegetable market of Punjab for two days, has multiplied the problems of vegetable growers of 84 villages.  Packaged vegetables are rotting in the fields of growers and they are willing to sell them at the rate of Rs 2-3 per kg. However, they are not able to find buyers. After a meeting on Friday, the agents have agreed to open the market from Saturday.  “Despite claims of the Punjab Government and issuance of passes to us, we are not able to supply vegetables. We go to the market after taking permissions but policemen have been misbehaving with us without any reason. We request the CM and DGP to look into the matter,” said Mehmood Akhtar Shad, president of the Farmers’ Federation, Malerkotla. Some other veggie growers said since the seeds of vegetable crops were costly and labour rates had been increasing, the input cost was always on the higher side. “Brinjal, cucumber, bitter gourd, ladyfinger and other vegetables are rotting in our fields, but we are not able to supply them as the government has not made required arrangements while cops have multiplied our problems. For the past two days, we have not supplied any vegetables,” said Bagga Singh, another veggie grower of the area.  “If cops do not mend their ways, we will lock the market,” said Mohd Shakeel, president of the Malerkotla Vegetable market. Superintendent of Police Manjit Singh Brar said the matter had been resolved.
02-05-2020||---||SAD decries use of flags by protesters||Chandigarh, May 1‘Pay Rs 11K to workers’SAD legislative wing objected to the manner in which the national flag was used by the Congress.It asked the government to pay Rs11,000 per month to workers in both organised and unorganised sectorsThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today condemned the state Congress for using the Tricolour for “partisan political purposes”.A meeting of SAD legislators presided over by Sharanjit Singh Dhillon was held here. The legislative wing objected to the manner in which the national flag was used by the Congress to lodge protests. They alleged it was a violation of curfew and destroyed the very atmosphere of oneness preached by the Congress. They pointed out that the party should have used black flags instead.The legislative wing also noted that more than Rs 2,000 crore was accumulated in the Construction Workers Welfare Board from the proceeds of labour cess. It said the state government should immediately start paying a relief of Rs 11,000 per month to all workers in both organised and unorganised sectors as per the minimum wage declared by the state. “This would be befitting tribute to our workers on May Day,” it noted. The wing said simultaneously Rs 6,000 should be credited into the accounts of all farm labourers and ASHA workers should be given Rs 750 per day.They also called for regularisation of all nurses who were working on ad hoc basis. The SAD legislative wing also demanded waiver of non-agriculture loans taken from cooperative banks. The legislators noted that waiver of these loans ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 would help the depressed sections of society. It also said that power and water bills of all domestic consumers should be halved and those of SC and economically weaker sections should be waived.
