02-01-2021||Chandigarh||15 more COVID deaths, 244 new cases in Punjab||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 5,364 with 15 more deaths on Saturday, while 244 fresh cases took the infection count to 1,67,012 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.There are 3,429 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, it said.Ludhiana reported 44 new cases, Jalandhar 42 cases and Patiala 28 cases, among the fresh cases reported in the state, the bulletin said.A total of 315 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,58,219, it said.Nine critical patients are on ventilator support while 75 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.It said that 39,37,741 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state. PTI
02-01-2021||New Delhi||Special trains of Western Railway affected due to farmer protest in Punjab||Owing to Kisan agitation in Punjab, train movement has been affected and hence, a few trains of Western Railways have been diverted on Saturday, according to the official.The press release was issued by Sumit Thakur, Chief Public Relations Officer of Western Railway.Train No. 02903 Mumbai Central - Amritsar Special departed on January 2, 2021 will be diverted via Beas - Tarn Taran - Amritsar instead of Beas - Jandiala - Amritsar.Train No. 02904 Amritsar - Mumbai Central Special journey commencing on January 3, 2021 will be diverted via Amritsar - Tarn Taran - Beas instead of Amritsar - Jandiala - Beas.Train No. 02925 Bandra Terminus - Amritsar Special journey commencing on January 3, 2021 will be diverted via Beas -Tarn Taran - Amritsar instead of Beas - Jandiala - Amritsar.Train No. 02926 Amritsar - Bandra Terminus Special journey commencing on January 3, 2021 will be diverted via Amritsar - Tarn Taran - Beas instead of Amritsar - Jandiala - Beas. — ANI
02-01-2021||Bathinda||PM has become arrogant, impervious to suffering of farmers, says Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal called Prime Minister Narendra Modi “arrogant” and said he had become impervious to the plight of farmers who continued to protest in the biting cold.Badal was addressing a large congregation at Takth Sri Damdama Sahib after a ‘bhog ceremony’ held to pay homage to twelve farmers from Mansa andBathinda villages who died in the ongoing protest. “God takes care of people who become filled with their own ego. They meet their end soon in the eyes of the people,” he said.His party, he said, had always supported farmer agitations, and that its governments in Punjab recognised the state could prosper only when there was peace and communal harmony.“All of Badal Sahab’s policies were aimed at ensuring this,” he said.His wife, former minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s indifference to the protesters had cost him and that his image had already taken a beating in India as well as the world.  “Time’s not far off when his chair would also be threatened,” she said, urging the prime minister to go to the protests sites to speak to them.“If the Prime Minister listens to the farmers sincerely, he would repeal the three agricultural laws,” she said, urging farmers’ unions to hold talks with farmers directly.SAD’s appeal comes at a time when the party, formerly an ally of the BJP at the Centre until it broke of ties over laws last year, faces criticism for not having done enough to prevent the laws from being passed.
02-01-2021||---||Buta Singh — Quintessential politician who sailed through turbulent years of Indian politics||New Delhi, January 2With his ear to the ground and eye on the national  politics, Congress veteran Buta Singh was the quintessential politician who sailed through the most turbulent years of Indian politics with deftness and diligence, and went on to become the virtual No. 2 in the Rajiv Gandhi government in the late 1980s.Singh, a prominent Dalit face of the grand old party and a staunch loyalist of Rajiv Gandhi, died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here on Saturday morning after being comatose for several weeks. He was 86.In a chequered political career spanning over five decades, Singh often found himself at the centre of major controversies, but he always found a way to bounce back.Born into a humble ‘mazhbi’ Sikh family in Mustafapur in Punjab’s Jalandhar district on March 21, 1934, Singh was a member of Lok Sabha for eight terms, held several positions in varied ideological dispensations at the Centre and became the Governor of Bihar in 2004.He rose to national prominence in the 1980s as he was the lone Sikh face in the Rajiv Gandhi cabinet in the period after the Operation Bluestar and the anti-Sikh riots of 1984. He succeeded P V Narasimha Rao as the home minister in 1986 and served in that position till 1989 when the Rajiv Gandhi-led Congress lost the election.Before Rajiv Gandhi, Singh was close to his mother and predecessor Indira Gandhi and held several positions in her government. He also played a role in selecting the Congress’s new poll symbol—“hand”—after the party split in 1978.But, Singh had to pay a price for his close association with the Gandhis and his positions in the successive Congress governments—he was excommunicated from the socio-religious order of the Sikhs in April 1985 for his role in the Operation Bluestar that caused damage to the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhism.Nearly 10 years after the events at the Golden Temple, he sought atonement and returned to the Sikh fold. In March 1994, he was granted pardon.Pictures of him undergoing the punishment of dusting shoes, washing dishes and sweeping floors at the Golden Temple and other gurdwaras, with a plaque around his neck declaring him a sinner, went viral at the time.He also had his fair share of controversies—over consecration of bricks for a Ram temple in Ayodhya in 1989 and over dismissal of many state governments during his tenure as home minister.As the Union home minister in 1989, Singh had a role in the consecration of bricks inscribed with Lord Ram that were brought to Ayodhya for the temple construction even when the land was disputed.Years later, he had to quit as Bihar Governor after the Supreme Court was critical of his role in recommending the dissolution of the state Assembly in 2005. He resigned in 2006.In his initial political life, Singh was associated with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). He joined the Congress in the early 1960s. He was first elected to the Lower House of Parliament in 1962 from Punjab. Later, he represented Rajasthan’s Jalore constituency in Lok Sabha.He switched over to the BJP briefly and became the Minister for Communications in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet in March 1998.He was indicted in the JMM bribery case in 1998 and had to resign as the Union communications minister thereafter.He, however, switched back to the Congress and was made the Governor of Bihar.A prominent Dalit leader, he started as the convenor of the All India Congress Committee’s (AICC) Harijan cell in 1973-74, after which he became the AICC general secretary in 1978.Singh became the Union deputy minister, railways in 1974 and the Union deputy minister, commerce in 1976. In 1980, he became the Union minister of state, shipping and transport and was also given the portfolio of sports (independent charge) in 1982.In 1983, then prime minister Indira Gandhi elevated him as the cabinet minister for parliamentary affairs, sports and works and housing.In 1984, he was made the Union minister for agriculture and rural development and in 1986, the Union home minister in the Rajiv Gandhi cabinet.Under P V Narasimha Rao, Singh was the Union minister of civil supplies, consumer affairs and public distribution from 1995 to 1996.He was appointed the chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) by Manmohan Singh in 2007. He held that post till 2010.Singh was instrumental in building and re-building many gurdwaras in the country and abroad, especially the Akal Takht, after Operation Blue Star in 1984. He was involved in the reconstruction of many gurdwaras in Delhi after the anti-Sikh riots of November, 1984.He was also the chairperson of the Asian Games organising committee when the competition was held in India in 1982. PTI
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Light rain in many parts of Punjab, Haryana; Hisar shivers at 2 degrees Celsius||The ongoing cold weather conditions continued to sweep Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, with Hisar in Haryana recording a low of 2 degrees Celsius.Many parts of both states also witnessed overnight rains.The areas that witnessed rainfall included Chandigarh (0.6 mm), Ambala (2 mm), Karnal (2.8 mm), Sirsa (0.6 mm), Ludhiana (0.4 mm), Patiala (2.2 mm) and Halwara (5 mm).Hisar’s low of 2 degrees Celsius was five notches below normal, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said here.Ambala, Karnal and Narnaul recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 5.7, 5.8 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively, while the minimum temperatures of Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa were 7.8, 4.7 and 7.7 degrees Celsius, respectively.In Punjab, Amritsar experienced cold weather conditions at 2.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, while Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective lows at 3.9 and 6.4 degrees Celsius.Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur recorded their respective lows at 3.7, 6.4, 6.1, 4.2, 5.2 and 3 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh recorded a minimum temperature of 6.1 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. PTI
02-01-2021||Amritsar/Muktsar||Farmers target BJP leaders across Punjab||On the completion of 100 days of protest against the three Central laws, farmers held protests against BJP leaders across the state today.In Amritsar, activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee staged protests outside the residences of BJP leaders.They held demonstrations in front of residences of Tarun Chugh, BJP general secretary, Shwait Malik; Rajya Sabha MP and a shopping mall-cum-multiplex in the holy city.The members also staged a protest in front of a multi-storey showroom, belonging to BJP leader and former minister Anil Joshi at Patti in Tarn Taran. The protesters burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some corporates.Normal traffic was disrupted as a large number of people had come to the town on the New Year for shopping. Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, a state leader of the committee, said the Union Government must repeal all three farm Acts.In Hoshiarpur, some youths today threw a trailer laden with cow dung in front of the gate of BJP leader and former Cabinet Minister Tikshan Sood’s residence in protest over his remark on the farmers’ struggle. The protesters also raised slogans against Sood. Meanwhile, BJP workers also reached the spot and started raising slogans in support of Sood. A police party led by the DSP reached the spot and defused the situation.According to information, around 11 am, 12 men holding black flags reached in front of Sood’s residence. They opened the gate of the house and unloaded a cow dung-laden trailer in front of it.Later, the police filed a case under Sections 452, 506, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC against Dal Khalsa leader Ranveer Singh Khalsa, alias Tohra, and 10 of his associates.Harcharanjeet Singh Dhami, former president of the Dal Khalsa, said Sood had incited the youth by uttering derogatory remarks against the farm struggle, which led to the incident.In Muktsar, farmers gheraoed BJP’s district block president Tarsem Goyal outside a government school at Ballamgarh village. The BJP leader and Muktsar SDM had gone there to donate notebooks and some other material to students.However, when they came out of the school, the farmers gheraoed the BJP leader and raised slogans. By that time, the SDM had left the venue.On this, Tarsem said, “I had gone to the school as a social activist and not as a BJP leader. Our NGO is working hard for the welfare of poor. It is unfortunate that farmers lodged a protest today. I was not even having any BJP flag or poster. The farmers are protesting against the Centre, but they lodged a protest against an NGO today.”
02-01-2021||Jalandhar||CM has no right to challenge Governor’s authority, says BJP||BJP leader and former Cabinet Minister Manoranjan Kalia today blamed the Congress for the “poor” law and order situation is the state. Kalia condemned senior Congress leaders’ criticism of Governor VP Singh Badnore’s summoning of the Chief Secretary and DGP.Kalia said BJP members and workers would protest in Ludhiana against Congress MP Ravneet Bittu’s recent statement tomorrow. Speaking to mediapersons here today, Kalia said, “If a Governor is exercising his constitutional rights, then no CM or state president has the right to challenge it. The right of the Governor to summon the DGP and Chief Secretary for the deteriorating law and order in the state was challenged by the CM and state Congress chief. They can’t do that. I condemn it.”Kalia alleged, “Congressmen Sanjay Jindal, alias Bobby, and Makhan Lal, along with other leaders, were involved in the hooliganism to disturb the Bathinda programme regarding Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi on December 25.” — TNS
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Protesters should not harass families of politicians: Capt||Taking a serious note of attempts by some protesters to forcibly enter homes of political leaders and workers in support of the farmers’ agitation, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said such actions went against the spirit of ‘Punjabiyat’ and could not be condoned.‘Hopeful of early resolution of stir’Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh greeted people on the New Year, and expressed hope of an early resolution of the peaceful farmers’ agitation. The CM stressed the importance of industry and communication for state’s progress and employment generation for childrenStrongly condemning such behaviour, the Chief Minister appealed to the protesters not to cause any harassment or inconvenience to families of political functionaries of any party by resorting to these kind of acts. Invasion of privacy of people would bring a bad name to the peaceful agitation of the farmers and defeat its very objective, he warned, exhorting protesters not to take the law into their hands in their fight for farmers’ rights.After months of showing exemplary restraint, and not indulging in any violence or lawlessness in Punjab, as well as at the borders of the National Capital, some protesters were losing restraint despite being categorically asked by their leaders to keep the protests peaceful, said Capt Amarinder. He urged the protesters to exercise restraint and express their solidarity with the farmers in the same spirit of self-discipline as had been demonstrated so far by farmer organisations and lakhs of their supporters.The Chief Minister warned that such attempts at forcible entry into the houses of any political functionaries, or picketing of their homes, had the dangerous potential of vitiating the atmosphere of peace and destroy the harmony amongst people of diverse castes, religions, communities, etc, which was contrarian to the Punjabi spirit of harmony and unity. “Politics has its own place, but we must keep the spirit of Punjabiyat alive,” he said.
02-01-2021||Sangrur||Illiteracy no bar, rural women excel in multitasking at home||Thanks to the ongoing Delhi protest against the Central farm laws, a majority of villages have new “multitasking managers” now. Though many of them are illiterate, tough circumstances have taught everything to rural women. Despite sending their male members to Delhi, rural women are keeping the protests going at 13 places in the district in biting cold.For many, it’s a first-time experience as apart from participating in protests and performing all household chores, they are also taking care of the fields, elders and boosting the morale of their husbands and sons to remain in Delhi till the rollback of laws.“Though my husband and mother-in-law were regularly attending the protests, it is the first time that both have gone to Delhi together. My son, daughter and I are at home. Since I could not compel my children to work in the fields as it would have affected their studies, I am taking care of everything fields, buffaloes and household chores,” said Balwinder Kaur while protesting in front of the house BJP leader Satwant Singh Punia at Gurdaspura village.Their day starts with the break of dawn and hard work goes on till late night. Many have visited Delhi while others could not go due to family compulsions.“I wanted to participate in the Delhi protest as it is a historic movement, but since my husband is already there, I could not go. We are requesting our leaders to call all women there at least for a day while the men should stay here,” said Parmjit Kaur, another resident.There are many who are happy to have got a chance of a lifetime. “Since my son and husband have been busy in the protest, I have visited the Sangrur main market twice for shopping, which was beyond imagination earlier,” said Malkiat Kaur, another elderly woman.Sangrur BKU block president Gobindar Singh said the role of women in the present agitation was no less than men. “The support of women has given immense strength to our protest,” he said.
02-01-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Villager alleges assault by SAD leader, aides||A resident of Ganduan village, Simarpreet Singh, has lodged a complaint with the Bassi Pathana police claiming that he was kidnapped and beaten up by an SAD leader and his supporters on Thursday night for his involvement in a protest against Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib recently.‘Charge baseless’Refuting the charge, SAD leader Jagdeep Singh Cheema said he was not aware of the incident. He said the allegation was part of a conspiracy against the SADHowever, SAD district president Jagdeep Singh Cheema has refuted the charges. In his complaint, Simarpreet Singh, who runs a mobile shop in Nagawan village, said when he was returning to his village last night, some unidentified persons blocked his car and dragged him out. After breaking the windows of his car, they forced him to sit in their vehicle. They first took him to Cheema’s house at Dubi Majri and then to a rice mill on Mairan Road. There, he was thrashed and forced to record an apology to Sukhbir regarding his protest. The video of the apologywas uploaded on social media, he said. Later, his family reached the rice mill and rescued him.Bassi Pathana SHO Manpreet Singh said the complainant had not yet recorded the statement. The SHO said after recording the statement, action would be initiated as per the law.Denying the allegations, Cheema said he was not aware of the incident. He said the charges were part of a conspiracy against Sukhbir and the SAD.He claimed that his opponents were behind the charges. — OC
02-01-2021||Moga||Moga women launch campaign to drum up support||Baghapurana women have launched an awareness campaign titled ‘Jago’ to mobilise support for the farmers’ agitation. Most of them are from sub-urban localities. They said women from urban areas were coming forward in support of the farmers.“Women from villages are already part of the agitation. It is difficult to mobilise women from cities. Their participation signals the changing mindset,” said one of the women who launched the campaign. She hoped that the New Year would take the farmers’ agitation to its logical conclusion.Baghapurana women said they would go to Delhi, make langar and sit on a chain fast. “Urban women were a little reluctant earlier, but they understood the issue when explained. We have been encouraging city women to protest against the controversial farm laws. It’s a question of survival of farmers. If they are hit, all others will be affected,” said Baljit Kaur of Baghapurana.
02-01-2021||Fazilka||Fazilka dharna enters 65th day||The farm organisations shifted the dharna venue from Shaheed Udham Singh Chowk to the district administrative complex here today. The farmers said earlier, they had been facing traffic snarls and shortage of space at Udham Singh Chowk so they shifted to an open space. Pargat Singh Chackpakhi, president, BKU (Ekta Sidhupur), said the dharna at Fazilka had entered the 65th day and would continue until their demands were met. — OC
02-01-2021||Jalandhar||To manage stubble, Jalandhar wheat growers opt for mulching||Scores of Punjab farmers have stopped burning the paddy stubble and adopted a technique called mulching, in which the stubble is used in fields and for sowing wheat.Experts say the technique doesn’t require costly machines and the input cost per acre is also quite less. Gyan Singh of Jairampur village used to burn paddy before 2017 but for the past three years, he hasn’t indulged in the practice because he found a new way of using the stubble in the field itself.The technique involvedWhen the paddy is harvested, the stubble is spread with the help of a reaper that prepares the field for wheat cultivation. Then wheat seeds along with fertilisers are sown and the fields are irrigated. Many farmers of Jairampur village in Kapurthala and Nusi village of Jalandhar, apart from those in other districts, are setting an example using the techniqueThere are many farmers of Jairampur village in Kapurthala and Nusi village of Jalandhar apart from other districts, who are setting an example. Gyan Singh grows wheat on his 35 acres.In the first year, he had sown wheat using this technique on only one acre and when he found the results to be satisfactory, he shifted entirely to mulching.“FIRs were being lodged against farmers for burning paddy residue, this is what prompted me to think of some other technique that will resolve the stubble problem and won’t cause any pollution,” Gyan Singh added.Kabal Singh of the same village said he had also started sowing wheat using the same technique three years ago and was seeing good results.Gurpreet Singh Dabrikhana, a farm expert, said the cost of production was lower as compared to other techniques. He claimed that at present, wheat was sown on more than 1 lakh acres in Punjab using this technique.“The yield of the crop using this technique is better. Also, 90 per cent of weed problem also gets resolved because of mulching,” he said. “In the first year when Gyan Singh grew wheat using the technique, 23 quintals per acre were harvested as compared to 16 quintals per acre using other techniques,” Dabrikhana said.Naresh Gulati, Agriculture Officer, Jalandhar, agreed that the technique was giving good results. “This requires low input cost, so small farmers must adopt such techniques, which will help them a lot,” he said.
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Pay panel term extended, new scales after February||The Punjab Government has extended the term of the Sixth Pay Commission for its employees and pensioners by another two months. This means the employees will have to wait for the new pay scales till end of February.The pay commission, headed by former Chief Secretary Jai Singh Gill, was supposed to give its recommendations by December-end.After an assurance to this effect was given by state Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, it was believed the new pay scales for employees would come into effect from January.However, citing that the report was not yet ready, the commission had sought an extension, following which the government granted it a two-month extension.This, however, has angered the employees, who have alleged the government was deliberately trying to delay the implementation of the new pay commission.
02-01-2021||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana||Relief from hefty bills during curfew, PSPCL to review cases||In the wake of widespread complaints of inflated bills from consumers during curfew/lockdown, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has decided to review these bills issued between March 23, 2020, and September 30, 2020, on the case-by-case basis.Case-by-case basisDuring the lockdown, most electricity bills were issued on an average basis.The PSPCL Chief Engineer (Commercial) said even though some shops/industries/institutions dealing with essential services were allowed to remain open, it had been decided to resolve the genuine grievances of the consumers on the case-by-case basis by taking into consideration the lockdown/curfew orders issued by the state government and respective district authorities.A PSPCL circular said, “Shops and industries were closed due to lockdown imposed by the state government. Therefore, the evidence regarding closure of consumer establishments due to curfew/lockdown may be collected by field officials from the authorities concerned on their own. Any evidence provided by the consumer, may also be taken into consideration after verifying its genuineness.”No subsidy for waterworks connectionsThe PSPCL has decided that from January 1, the power supply to waterworks of various urban local bodies (ULBs) will be charged at the relevant industrial tariff as per the policy of the state government. These will not be entitled to subsidy being availed of by industrial consumers.Further, the dispute settlement committees (DSCs) have been authorised to consider requests of consumers where bills were issued on the average basis in cases of defective/dead/burnt/stolen meters as per stipulated financial limits.The DSCs would decide the consumer request regarding the correction of bills after a careful analysis of the various government orders issued from time to time, as it involved huge revenue of the department, it said. The account may be reviewed for all categories of consumers (except DS) for the period from March 23 to September 30, 2020.The PSPCL has directed the field offices to consider energy consumption as zero of those commercial/industrial/other establishments (except domestic supply) which were closed for the complete period of lockdown, as per the government orders.For other categories, pro-rata energy consumption may be calculated based upon days and hours as allowed by the government during the lockdown as against the consumption of corresponding period of the previous year.
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cops showed humane face||A challenging year for the entire world, 2020 helped the Punjab Police undergo an ‘image makeover’. Often branded a “hard and brash” force, the humane face of the cops came to the fore as they went around providing food packets to the poor during the sudden lockdown announced to contain the Covid.THE YEAR AHEADThe police not only distributed 12 crore food packets to those in need, but personnel also gifted cakes on special occasions of those living alone during the lockdown.“Our personnel ensured they helped the needy. At times, they went a step further. They touched many hearts when they reached out to elderly living alone and celebrated their special days. My last year’s goal was to make the police show its humane face when the humanity was reeling under the pandemic,” DGP Dinkar Gupta told The Tribune.He said it was for first time that half of the state’s police force was out on the streets. “Almost 50,000 personnel were in the field, not only ensuring curfew implementation, but also providing food and help to people.”The chopping of Sub-Inspector Harjit Singh’s hand and subsequent “I am Harjit” campaign made the people look at the police sympathetically.The farmers’ stir posed another challenge. The situation required delicate handling so that the stir did not take a violent turn. “Farmers are still protesting at 123 places. There were many action and reaction situations. But the entire protest remained peaceful,” said the DGP.
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Will reach out to rebels: AAP leader||The Aam Aadmi Party is looking to consolidate its base by engaging with its rebel MLAs in Punjab and scouting for “Punjab-loving political talent” from other political parties.With the upcoming local body polls in the state being considered another test to check its popularity among urban voters, the AAP will be going all out to woo the masses and present itself as a viable third front.Other than the urban voters, the party is buoyed by the confidence reposed in them by state farmers protesting at the Delhi border. While all politicians have been shunned by the protesting farmers, AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal was the only to address them from a stage at the Delhi border.The party says it is all set to gather itself and be “battle-ready” for the 2022 polls. Raghav Chadha, the Man Friday of AAP supremo Kejriwal, who has just been appointed as the co-in charge of Punjab unit of AAP, says the party has learnt and strengthened itself after its electoral forays in Punjab in 2014, 2017 and 2019.“My personal assessment of Punjab is that people feel betrayed by the Congress, while the Akali Dal is still a discredited party. Therefore, people are looking at AAP with hope, and they feel the party has attained political maturity, especially when they see the good governance model we have provided in Delhi. We will do very well at the hustings in Punjab,” he says.Admitting the need to consolidate his party, Chadha says he will meet all rebel MLAs during his maiden trip to the state, which began today.Though Chadha remains non-committal on meeting Sukhpal Singh Khaira, he says they will give a public appeal to all people who want to serve in the best interests of Punjab, to join hands with them.
02-01-2021||Bathinda||Cong names three more for Bathinda civic body election||The Congress on Friday announced the names of three more candidates for the forthcoming Bathinda Municipal Corporation elections.Senior party leader Raj Nambardar’s son Vivek Garg has been fielded from ward 14, while former councillor Santosh Mahant will contest from ward 21. Party leader Parvinder Singh Sidhu’s wife Veerpal Kaur has been fielded from ward 9.With this, the Congress has announced candidates for 25 of the total 50 wards.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who held a meeting with party workers here, said candidates for the remaining wards would be announced soon. — TNS
02-01-2021||Amritsar||Murder convict flees Amritsar jail||A murder convict fled the high-security Amritsar Central Jail complex after pushing a guard on duty today.Baldev Singh of Mullechak village was clearing the vegetation in the outer cordon area of the complex when the incident happened.According to sources in the department, Baldev scaled the six-foot wall in the outer cordon before fleeing the jail premises. While a search was carried out in the nearby areas, he could not be traced.Baldev was arrested and lodged in the jail in 2010. He used to regularly go out on parole.A jail official said Baldev, along with several others, was tasked with clearing the wild growth in the outer cordon area today. During the cleaning, Baldev pushed a jail guard and scaled the outer wall. “We are submitting a complaint to the police,” said the official.Jail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh could not be contacted for comment.In February last year, three undertrials, including a rape accused and two brothers accused of theft and dacoity, had escaped by scaling the boundary wall after making a hole in their barrack wall by removing bricks. They were later nabbed. — TNS
02-01-2021||Bathinda||Goods worth lakhs gutted||Goods worth lakhs were destroyed after a tent house was gutted in the Partap Nagar area here on Thursday.Soon after the fire broke out, people in the neighbourhood tried to douse the flames but it rapidly spread through the premises.Owner Sanjeev Kumar Sachdeva said fire tenders were called in but by the time they could douse the blaze, it had done a considerable damage to the property.Sachdeva said: “We have suffered a loss of around Rs 70 lakh as items such as fans, mats, sofas, chairs, furniture and two small vehicles have been gutted.” — TNS
02-01-2021||Moga||ASI, two others held over illicit drug trade||The police have arrested Baljit Singh, an assistant sub-inspector of the special task force (STF), along with a woman and his driver on charges of financing illicit drug trafficking and harbouring drug offenders.The two have been identified as Karamveer Kaur, alias Kiran Kaur, and driver Jagat Narayan Jaggi.A police official said a criminal case under Section 27-A of the NDPS Act and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, had been registered against them.Soon after the arrest, the three were produced in the court of a judicial magistrate, who remanded them in police custody till January 4.One of the associates of the ASI, Gurmeet Singh, is at large and the local police have launched a hunt to nab him.Preliminary investigations suggested the ASI allegedly used his influence to fabricate cases against local resident Baltej Singh in cahoots with latter’s wife Karamveer Kaur, who was not enjoying good relations with her husband.They allegedly sold a plot, bought by Baltej, to a local politician and the money was reportedly taken by the arrested police officer.
02-01-2021||Amritsar||Hooch suspect’s property frozen||The Tarn Taran police have frozen the property of bootlegger and drug peddler Rashpal Singh, alias Shalu, (38) of Dhotian village falling under the Sarhali police station.He is one of the prime suspects in the hooch tragedy case last year. In all, 125 persons from Majha died. A majority of the victims was from Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala.SSP Dhrman H Nimbale said the police received the orders of freezing Rashpal’s properties worth Rs 1.6 crore from the competent authority. He said the police had confiscated over 200 gm heroin and 150 gm intoxicant powder from him in November 2014. A house is among the frozen properties.He said Rashpal and his brother Gurpal were booked for hooch tragedy. — TNS
02-01-2021||Patiala||Report delay upsets UK returnee||A UK returnee, who has been isolated at a government facility for the past six days, is upset over the delay in his Covid test result. The Health Department has sent the samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to confirm whether the patient is carrying a mutated virus or not.253 new casesChandigarh: In all, eight persons, including three each from Amritsar and Ludhiana, succumbed to Covid during the past 24 hours, while 253 new cases were reported. TNSTalking over the phone, the returnee said he was upset over the fact that six days had already passed, still he had no information about his test report.The 47-year-old patient has been isolated at the Rajpura Civil Hospital. The department had sent the sample to the NIV on December 27.The patient said, “I came here to spend time with my family and not to stay in isolation. I don’t have Covid symptoms. Moreover, I was tested in the UK before I came to India.”Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, Health, said, “We had a word with officials at the NIV, and they said test reports will take time. I don’t know when the reports will come.”
02-01-2021||Patiala||Vaccination dry run in Patiala tomorrow||To check preparedness, the Health Department has decided to conduct a dry run for the Covid vaccination in the district on January 3. The department has already identified three sites to conduct the exercise.The mock drill of the mass immunisation drive will be conducted at Government Medical College, Sadhbhavna Hospital and Community Health Centre, Shutrana. Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the prerequisites for the dry run would be completed by tomorrow. — TNS
02-01-2021||Bathinda||SSA non-teaching staff protest||Seeking regular jobs, they took out a march in the city and submitted a memorandum of demands to the office in charge of the Finance Minister.Deepak Bansal, president of the union (Bathinda unit), said, “We have been raising the demand for regular jobs for long, but the state has only made hollow promises.”The non-teaching staff employed under the SSA scheme include clerical employees, data entry operators, accountants, finance and legal assistants.
