02-09-2020||Satya Prakash||SC rejects Punjab police inspector’s petition against denial of bail||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 2The Supreme Court has dismissed an anticipatory bail plea of Inspector Baljinder Singh—former SHO of Khanna Police Station—who is accused of making three persons stand nude in his cabin and passing casteist remarks.“We are not inclined to entertain the Special Leave Petition under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. The Special Leave Petition is accordingly dismissed,” a Bench headed by Justice DY Chandrachud said.The accused Inspector had challenged the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s August 11 order rejecting his anticipatory bail plea.“As the Station House Officer, he is responsible for anything and everything that happens in his police station. From the evidence of SIT, it is evident that the police exceeded its mandate and tortured the complainant party. This is unacceptable in a society governed by the rule of law and needs to be dealt with a firm hand. Persons like the petitioner do not deserve any kind of discretionary relief at the hands of this court,” the high court had said dismissing his anticipatory bail plea.The accused had contended that the HC’s interpretation of facts and law was flawed as it failed to apply its mind and ruled against him without providing any valid reason.He had contended that the SIT exonerated him of four of the seven allegations and that he deserved benefit of doubt as SIT findings made no mention of any specifically attributable action on his part.During the hearing in the Supreme Court, his plea was opposed by senior advocate HS Phoolka on behalf of the complainant.Earlier, a Ludhiana Sessions court had on August 4 dismissed his anticipatory bail plea.A nine-second video of the incident had gone viral after nine months. When the video went viral, DGP Dinkar Gupta marked an inquiry to the IG (Ludhiana Range) in April 2020. An FIR was registered in this connection on July 4, 2020.The Sessions court had said Head Constable Varun Kumar’s version regarding indulgence of the SHO in the commission of the alleged offence cannot be straightway discarded at this stage.
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Delayed diagnosis of coronavirus behind Punjab’s high mortality rate: Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||On a day Punjab reported a record 106 fatalities due to coronavirus, the state’s Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said delayed diagnosis was the reason behind high mortality rate.Sixty-seven per cent of the COVID deaths took place as patients turned up at a health facility after suffering from suffering from severe symptoms, he said on Wednesday. These cases then become difficult to manage, leading to death, Sidhu said in a statement here.Punjab on Wednesday reported a new record 106 fatalities due to COVID-19, pushing the death toll to 1,618.The state had reported its highest single-day death figure of 56 on Tuesday.The minister has appealed to people not to risk their lives by delaying testing for coronavirus. The minister also asked the state police chief to initiate stern action against people spreading misinformation about testing and treatment of the disease.Pointing to reports received from districts about resistance to sampling and testing, the minister said even symptomatic persons with co-morbidities have not been reporting to health care facilities till the disease becomes acute.“This is the cause for maximum coronavirus deaths among patients with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney problems,” he said.Sidhu said over 50 per cent of the deaths in the state have been among diabetics.Sidhu said the delay in patients reporting at hospitals and health care facilities was on account of a false propaganda and fake news being spread by anti-social elements regarding testing and isolation of patients.These elements were even preventing health teams from organising sampling and screening camps, he said, adding that several cases have been registered against the Rumour-mongers across the state.In fact, there have been instances of medical teams being manhandled, he said.    In one such instance, a medical team that had gone to shift coronavirus patients to an isolation facility at Patran in Patiala was manhandled and when police tried to intervene, villagers attacked them, injuring two cops and damaging their vehicle.Such incidents have created an atmosphere of insecurity and lead to the lowering of health workers’ morale, said Sidhu.The minister appealed to people to help the state government combat the pandemic.He said in the absence of a vaccine, the only option was to follow the health protocols in letter and spirit. PTI
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sees record 106 coronavirus deaths||Punjab reported 106 new coronavirus deaths---by far the most deaths the state has reported thus far---the state’s COVID-19 bulletin showed on Wednesday.The number of deaths is almost twice the daily fatalities it had been reporting lately, and has taken the state’s death toll to 1,618.The state has also added 1,481 new COVID-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 56,989.Eighteen of Punjab’s 22 districts reported deaths on Wednesday, with Ludhiana leading the list at 18. Jalandhar (11), Amritsar (8), Bathinda (10), Faridkot (2), Fatehgarh Sahib (3), Fazilka (3), Ferozepur (5), Gurdaspur (8), Hoshiarpur (5), Kapurthala (5), SAS Nagar (9), Muktsar (1), SBS Nagar (1), Patiala (6), Ropar (7), Sangrur (2), and Tarn Taran (2) all reported deaths.All of Punjab’s districts reported new cases, with Ludhiana still having the highest infections at 242. Jalandhar (171), Patiala (160), SAS Nagar (112) and Bathinda (163) all reported COVID-19 cases in triple digits.Amritsar (99), Sangrur (44), Gurdaspur (25), Ferozepur (46), Moga (24), Hoshiarpur (18), Pathankot (24), Barnala (60), Fatehgarh Sahib (17), Kapurthala (25), Faridkot (56), Tarn Taran (27), Ropar (30), Fazilka (56),SBS Nagar (17), Muktsar (63), and Mansa (27) all reported new cases.Punjab has been seeing a significant rise in coronavirus cases since August---the state’s cases have risen over 250 per cent since the end of July.  The state has also added 1,332 deaths over that period---a 345 per cent rise.Punjab government expects the state’s COVID-19 cases to spike this month---its own projections show that the state’s COVID-19 cases would breach 1.10 lakh by the end of the month, with about 3,000 deaths.  Sixteen of Punjab’s 22 districts have over 1000 cases.Three districts with the highest number of cases---Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala---account for 43 per of the state’s infection total.Ludhiana alone accounts for nearly 20 per cent of the state’s total cases and 27 per cent of its deaths.About 27 per cent of the state’s cases are still active.
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rumours posing new challenge for Punjab health teams||Circulation of several social-media rumours, including alleged organ harvesting of coronavirus patients, have posed a new challenge for the Punjab Health Department as villagers in some places preventing the medical teams from collecting samples, officials said on Wednesday.Health authorities have appealed to the people not to fall prey to such canards and get themselves tested for early detection of the infection.Besides falsehoods about organ harvesting, such as kidneys, there are also "rumours" about poor facilities at government hospitals, and health workers and doctors getting paid for declaring persons positive for coronavirus, according to the officials.A few incidents in the past few days took place in Sangrur, Moga and other areas, where villagers resisted the entry of health teams for collecting samples, officials said.Some villages in Sangrur and Moga even passed resolutions declaring that they would not send anyone to government hospitals after the person tests positive and the patient will be isolated at home or a common place at the village, according to the officials."Rumours about organs being taken out and payment to the health staff for declaring people positive for the infection are being spread on social media," a Moga district official said.People are also scared as they think coronavirus testing is a difficult test, the official said.Moga district alone has witnessed seven-eight incidents, in which villagers expressed resentment against COVID-19 tests.Mohali civil surgeon Manjit Singh said some "anti-social elements" were trying to mislead people by spreading rumours and false information about coronavirus on social media.Health officials pointed out that an audio clip spreading rumour about organ harvesting and deaths of coronavirus patients at Mohali civil hospital was posted on online.Singh dubbed the alleged organ harvesting rumour "completely baseless", adding that the state authorities would take strict action against those who spread such falsehoods.The health authorities have lodged a complaint with the cybercrime cell of the Punjab Police in this matter.On some villagers insisting on not going to government hospitals, health officials said patients who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms had the option of home isolation.They are also regularly monitored through video calls by the health teams. The sampling was carried out to detect infection at an early stage, officials said.Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of coronavirus cases, with tally rising to over 55,000, including 1,512 deaths. PTI
02-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali adds four deaths, 160 new cases to COVID tally||Four coronavirus deaths and 160 new cases reported on Wednesday took the district’s tally to 89 deaths from 4,093 infections, officials said,Two of Wednesday’s four deaths happened at Chandigarh Hospitals.A 20-year-old woman died at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32---the youngest fatality of the day. A 49-year-old man from Dera Bassi who died at Chandigargh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research had pre-existing kidney problems.The remaining two---a 45-year-old woman with cancer and a 58-year-old woman from Phase 10 who was diabetic and had hypertension---died at Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital.Meanwhile, 43 patients recovered and were released from hospitals in the last 24 hours.    Mohali urban (55), Gharuan (31), Kharar (29), Dhakoli (33), Dera Bassi (6), Boothgarh (5) and Lalru (1) all reported new COVID-19 cases.Forty-four per cent cases are still active.Where Mohali standsTotal cases: 4093Active: 1822Cured: 2182Deaths: 89
02-09-2020||Bathinda||Maur Mandi's Astha Hospital de-empanelled||Meanwhile, Aastha Hospital located on Power House road in Bathinda has not been de-empanelled. Dr Gaurav Monga of Aastha Hospital, Bathinda, said his hospital was wrongly mentioned in news report. TNS
02-09-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar braveheart Kusum to get Rs 51,000||Thori said the administration would unveil mascot on the name of Kusum under Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao programme in Jalandhar to motivate other girls besides launching ‘Daadi ki Ladli’ an online competition, so that young girls can participate and share their stories regarding how their grandmothers support them.Also read: Man who attacked 15-yr-old girl sent to 3-day police remandThe best three girls will get cash prizes worth Rs10,000, Rs5,000 and Rs2,000, respectively. He said Kusum has made Jalandhar proud and she had become a role model for others. TNS
02-09-2020||---||2 more Punjab MLAs test Covid positive; total 35 infected so far||Chandigarh, September 2Two more Punjab MLAs, Randeep Nabha and Parminder Dhindsa, tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday.In all, 35 MLAs have tested positive for the virus in the state.Others who tested positive include Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Sham Sunder Arora, Ajaib Singh Bhatti, Madan Lal Jalalpur, Hardial Kamboj, Harjot Kamal, Pargat Singh, Manpreet Singh Ayali, NK Sharma, Rozy Barkandi, Gurpratap Singh Vadala, Nazar Singh Manshahia, Harinder Pal Singh, Manjeet Singh, Kulwant Singh, Principal Budh Ram, Dalveer Singh, Kanwarjit Singh, Darshan Singh Brar and Surinder Dabar Singh.Those who have recovered from the contagion include Dr Dharmvir Agnihotri, Amit Vij, Amrik Singh Dhillon, Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Sanjeev Talwar, Lakhvir Singh and Kulbeer Singh.
02-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Man who attacked 15-yr-old girl sent to 3-day police remand||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 1Cops have intensified the search operation of the second accused, who is still at large, a day after a 15-year-old girl fearlessly fought snatchers who tried snatching her mobile phone.Jalandhar braveheart Kusum to get Rs 51,000Investigation in charge, SI Jatinder Pal Singh, SHO police division number 2, said accused Avinash Kumar (22), alias Ashu, who was arrested yesterday, was summoned at the district court on Tuesday and has been sent on police remand for three days.Read also: Teenager gives snatchers a tough fight in JalandharBefore sending him on police remand, the cops took Avinash for his medical and Covid test, the reports of which will arrive in two days. Notably, Avinash is the main accused, who hit the victim with a sharp-edged weapon (datar) that injured her left wrist badly. He has been charged under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 379 B of the IPC.The other accused, identified as Vinod Kumar, is a resident of railway quarters and is still absconding.On Sunday evening, Kusum Kumari, in a bid to save her phone from being snatched, at Deen Dayal Upadhay Nagar, near Jalandhar-Kapurthala Road, gave a tough fight to snatchers and continued to fight until she got her phone back. Despite being attacked by datar multiple times, she didn’t let one of the snatchers go and finally got him arrested with the help of a few passersby. The entire incident was recorded in a CCTV camera, the footage of which went viral on the internet on Monday.She has been receiving appreciation from every part of the country and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar also announced to send her name for national and state level bravery awards.Kusum is presently admitted to a private hospital, which is providing her free treatment. Her father Sadhu Ram, who is a daily wage earner, said she would remain in the hospital for three more days and her injuries would recover after a month.In recognition of the exemplary courage and bravery shown by Kusum, DC Ghanshyam Thori has announced a cash award of Rs51,000 for her. Thori said the cash award would be given to Kusum by using Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds. He said women empowerment was all the more important for the development of the country and prosperity of its people, adding that this would help transform the destiny of the country in general and that of women in particular.District Programme Officer Gurminder Singh Randhawa said the mascot on the name of the braveheart Kusum would be unveiled soon, as the team of the department was in talks with her family.A day after the bravery reports of teenage girl Kusum appeared in the papers, Angad Dutta, Youth Congress president Jalandhar, along with other office-bearers met her at Joshi Hospital, where she was taking treatment.He lauded her courageous act to fight against armed snatchers. He said her story would be an inspiration to the youth and all others in society. He also assured the family that he would discuss the matter with CM Punjab Capt Amarinder Singh and with their PYC president Barinder Singh Dhillon for getting some scholarship for the brave girl of Jalandhar.Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia also inquired about the health of Kusum. He went to the hospital along with Dr Mukesh Joshi, Rajat Mohindru and Rajiv Walia.
02-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Golden Temple Mail completes 92 yrs of historic run||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 1The Golden Temple Mail, earlier known as the Frontier Mail, completed 92 years of its run as it chugged out of the Amritsar railway station on Tuesday.The then British Indian government had projected it as its glorious achievement for being the longest train link in the Indian subcontinent as it had its inaugural run on this day in 1928.Train was well known for Its punctualityThe Frontier Mail’s punctuality too was something to reckon with. It was generally believed that your Rolex watch might let you down, but not the Frontier Mail. The punctuality of the Frontier Mail was of such crucial importance to the fastidious British bosses that when on one occasion, in August 1929, exactly 11 months after its inauguration, the train arrived 15 minutes late, there was a big uproar among railway circles, with the driver being asked to explain the reasons for this ‘inexcusable’ delay.Earlier, the Bombay Baroda and Central India Railway Company in conjunction with the North Western Railway Company had introduced the Frontier Mail from Bombay to Peshawar via Delhi and Lahore on October 7, 1927.The Frontier Mail was formally renamed as the Golden Temple Mail in September 1996. The Frontier Mail is a mere shadow of its former glory today. Nonetheless, the train has an appeal and charisma that will live on in the hearts of its faithful passengers for a long time to come.SP Singh Bhatia, Heritage Officer of the Ferozepur Division, said initially the train was routed via Bathinda, Ferozepur and Lahore to Peshawar, now in Pakistan. But from March 1, 1930, it was routed through Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar. Since then this train has been running on the same route. After the Partition, the destination of this train was cut short and now the train terminates at Amritsar.“That was the time when the Frontier Mail could lay claim to being India’s fastest long-distance train, a fact that was highlighted in The Times in London in 1930, when it described the Frontier Mail as ‘one of the most famous express trains under the British Empire’.”The Frontier Mail’s punctuality too was something to reckon with. It was generally believed that your Rolex watch might let you down, but not the Frontier Mail. The punctuality of the Frontier Mail was of such crucial importance to the fastidious British bosses that when on one occasion, in August 1929, exactly 11 months after its inauguration, the train arrived 15 minutes late, there was a big uproar among railway circles, with the driver being asked to explain the reasons for this ‘inexcusable’ delay. A blemish indeed on the jewel in the BB & CIR crown. In fact, people used to set their watches with the arrival of this train at the station, said Bhatia.The train’s dining car was cooled by ceiling fans, white damask on the tables coupled with white napkins brought fineness in dining. Silver cutlery and exquisite crockery with crystal fruit platters were placed on each table, along with salt and pepper shakers. The table settings had to be perfect, with different forks and knives for each course.The Frontier Mail was one of the first trains in India to get an air-conditioned car running from 1934. However, he added, the air-conditioning system was basic, nothing like the thermostat-controlled power plants we see today.Elaborating on the air-conditioning system in those days, Bhatia said it used ice blocks, carried in sealed receptacles built beneath the car floor. These were replenished at several halts along the line. A battery-operated blower constantly blew air into these receptacles, and the cold air entered the insulated cars through vents.Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, Rajesh Aggarwal said efforts were being made to maintain the high standards of boarding and lodging in the train with the pantry cars serving an array of delicious dishes from the hygienic environment.
02-09-2020||---||Task of police to dig out truth, says SGPC chief Longowal||Amritsar, September 1The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is all set to initiate criminal proceedings against ‘erring’ officials held accountable for disappearance of “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib.Around 328 “saroops” were misappropriated after scrutinising the ledgers of 2013-14 and 2014-15. Besides over 125 “saroops” were feared to be compiled in an unauthorised manner and money realised as “bheta” was reportedly being pocketed.It was alleged that while staffers of the Publication Department and a few officials were pulled up, the influential ones managed to enjoy immunity. Another moot question that remained unanswered was the “whereabouts” of the unrecorded “saroops”.“We can only terminate or suspend the wrongdoers and we did that. Criminal cases were being registered against some of them soon. After that it will be the task of the police to dig out the truth of missing saroops,” SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said.Though the probe panel constituted by Akal Takht had indicted 16 officials and staffers of the Publication Department responsible for embezzlement of “saroops”, questions were being raised over the SGPC executive’s action pronounced on August 27 on the basis of the probe report. Longowal claimed that action was taken in an unbiased and transparent manner.“No erring official or staffer can be spared as the issue pertains to Guru Granth Sahib and religious sentiments. Of 16 officials pointed out by the probe panel, the name of both the chief secretaries — Harcharan Singh and Dr Roop Singh — was there. Harcharan Singh has been called up at Akal Takht with the then executive body on September 18. Dr Roop Singh, though he has resigned, cannot run away from his liability. The Publication Department was under him. He was negligent of overlooking the irregularities happened under his nose,” he said.To implement legal proceedings, the SGPC has formed a sub-committee headed by its general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami. Other members include Bhagwant Singh Sialka, Baltej Singh Dhillon and Mahinder Singh Gill.
02-09-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||50% loss in revenue hits Punjab hard||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1‘Salaries in a day or so’Though salaries of over five lakh employees for August were not paid on Monday, Finance Department officials said the salaries would be disbursed within a day or soLast month too, salaries of employees were released in a staggered manner. The monthly salary bill of the state is Rs2,303 croreWith the squeeze in grants-in-aid received from the Centre , unpaid Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation, besides the steep fall of over 50 per cent in its own revenue receipts, Punjab is facing its worst-ever financial crunch.The state has deferred all capital expenditure till the next fiscal and cut down its expenditure. Still, the government is finding it difficult to meet even its committed liabilities. Though salaries of over five lakh employees (including 1.5 lakh employees of semi-government agencies) for August were not paid today, officials of the Finance Department said they were arranging funds and salaries of all employees. “The salaries will be disbursed within a day or so, provided the departments they are employed in have submitted the bills to the Treasury. We will be meeting our expenses on salaries, pensions, interest payments etc. Generally, July-September is a period of low income for state,” a senior officer of the Finance Department said. The monthly salary bill of the state government is Rs 2,303 crore.Last month too, salaries of employees were released in a staggered manner. Even the frontline Covid warriors, doctors and health workers, were not paid salaries for July till the third week of August, while many employees of the Forest Department are still awaiting their salaries for July. Officials of the Finance Department said the reason for the delay was not cash crunch, but the inability of the respective departments to submit the salary bills to the Treasury.However, the officials admitted that the revenues, including tax and non-tax revenues, had failed to pick up since the re-opening of the economy. The dismal key financial indicators for the first quarter had shown little signs of recovery in July as well. It is learnt that while the grant-in-aid from the Centre fell by 32 per cent between April and June, the Centre had also not released GST compensation amounting to Rs 6,500 crore. The GST losses suffered in the first quarter of the fiscal was almost 60 per cent, loss in own tax revenue was 51 per cent and in non-tax revenue it was 68 per cent.
02-09-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||MRSPTU, Bathinda University clears Rs 2.50-cr tender sans approval||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 1An alleged violation has come to the fore in the tendering process of general order supplies at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), Bathinda.On June 6, 2019, the university had shortlisted two firms — Twenty First Century Techno Product Pvt Ltd and Bonton Technomake Pvt Ltd — which had submitted the tender offline and after the last date (August 14, 2018). Later, Twenty First Century Techno Product Pvt Ltd was allotted the tender.An online tender firm —Wipro Enterprises Pvt Ltd, Chandigarh, — had offered to give 39 per cent discount, if the order would be above Rs 1 crore. However, Twenty First Century Techno Products Pvt Ltd was given orders worth Rs 2.50 crore. The orders were divided into five parts to project it as the biggest discount, said sources.The Finance Department had allocated Rs 25 crore for MRSPTU for 2019-20, but on April 11, 2019, the department had released a letter stating that expenditure allocated in the Capital Budget could only be done if the Finance Department gives its approval. Neither the Finance Department nor the Technical Education Department had given any approval to the university.MRSPTU gave first supply order worth Rs 53.91 lakh to Twenty First Century Techno Products Pvt on November 20, 2019 and the order was supplied within 30 days. Later, Prof Mohan Paul Singh Issar, Vice-Chancellor, MRSPTU, had stated that payment of confirmed order had to be made from the university resources.The Tribune is in possession of documents, which show that on July 24, Registrar Prof Buta Singh Sidhu had proposed to constitute a four- member committee to look into the irregularities, but the VC overruled the proposal. The VC said, “When the work has not been executed, how can there be any wrongdoing.”
02-09-2020||---||Developed six months ago, Rs 50L Ropar park in a shambles||Ropar, September 1A riverside park, developed after spending over Rs 50 lakh merely six months ago, is in a shambles already for want of maintenance.The park was developed at a three-acre plot adjoining the site for Pincassia resort on the banks of Sutlej after clearing wild growth. Pincassia resort, situated on the outskirts of the town, was popular due to its prime location. It was demolished after the then SAD-BJP government handed it over to Alchemist Hospitality in 2009 to develop as a five-star resort on public private partnership (PPP) basis. Later, the company dragged its feet and the Tourism Department scrapped the contract and forfeited the security deposited of the bidder.In November last, the district administration took advantage of this scenic location and started developing the adjoining land. Two buildings already present on the site were earmarked to set up a restaurant and a studio for shooting films or song sequences, which could give a boost to tourism in the area. Because of its proximity to dense forests, visitors could also witness migratory birds and enjoy boating at the nearby boating club on the Sutlej.According to information, costly lighting work was also carried out in the park and carpet grass worth several lakhs of rupees was laid. Similarly, a large number of ornamental plants were planted after leveling the land before the park was opened for public on Republic Day.As no one bothered to take care of it, the park has been taken over by wild growth and almost all costly lighting work has been stolen or damaged by miscreants.Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said tenders were floated for maintenance work of the park twice. While no bid was received initially, the second time there was only a single bidder. Efforts were being made to revive the park, she added.
02-09-2020||Kulwinder Sandhu||Women self-help groups in Punjab struggle to repay loans||Tribune News ServiceMoga, September 1Dreams of lakhs of rural women in Punjab, who developed entrepreneurship skills to start their own businesses, have been shattered amid the lockdown due to Covid pandemic. They have been pushed into a debt-trap, with hardly any scope in the near future to come out of the financial crisis.Manjit Kaur, a resident of Rajeana village in the Moga district, took loan of Rs 1 lakh from three microfinance institutions by joining a self-help group (SHG) of 10 women to start a departmental store. But her business failed to take-off as the lockdown was imposed in March.The economic meltdown during the lockdown restricted the purchasing power of rural folk only to essential items. Therefore, Manjit did not find any customers for weeks. Ultimately, she had to shut her shop for the time being, waiting for the situation to normalise. Now, employees of the microfinance institutions are harassing her to pay the loan. “I have paid the principal amount and only four or five installments are left but the institution employees are threatening to slap a civil suite for recovery,” she said. “My business has almost collapsed amid the pandemic. How can I pay the installments,” she asked, while requesting the state government to help her.Over 1,000 women of this village in Baghapurana sub-division of the Moga district had taken loans for various works from such institutions by forming SHGs but none of them could repay the installments due to the economic meltdown.Karamjit Singh, president of the Punjab Students’ Union, who has extended support to the SHGs, said the microfinance institutions were charging an interest at 24 per cent to 36 per cent per year from these women and that too on compound interest, which was against the RBI guidelines.”
02-09-2020||---||Former MLA protests over sealing of marriage palace in Bathinda||Bathinda, September 1Irked over the sealing of his marriage palace, SAD leader and former MLA Sarup Chand Singla along with party workers today tried to gehrao Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal office in the city, but were stopped by the police on the way.SAD activists staged a protest in front of the barricades and raised slogans against the state government and Manpreet.Singla and his supporters alleged that his marriage palace was wrongly sealed in a bid to suppress his voice. He claimed he was not using the palace, had paid all the dues and informed officials of the Municipal Corporation of Bathinda (MCB) that till the time he didn’t get the NOC, he wouldn’t operate the palace. However, he alleged, the palace was sealed without any notice.On August 29, the MCB had sealed three palaces Jeet Palace, Kingfisher Resort and Skylark Resort as it claimed that these were operational without obtaining permissions from the various departments concerned.
02-09-2020||Batala||5 cops accused of murder dismissed||The police have dismissed from service all five policemen involved in the murder of Gurmail Singh, alias Pappy, on August 30. The five cops were dismissed under Article 311 of the Constitution.The Batala police had arrested the cops, along with a local, after they had shot dead Gurmail Singh who is also the brother-in-law of Excise Inspector Amarpreet Kaur.Those dismissed are ASIs Ranjit Singh and Baljit Singh, both posted in Amritsar city traffic, Head Constables Avtar Singh and Balkar Singh, and Surinder Singh, a cop deployed in VIP security wing.A spokesperson said the police personnel were dismissed from service for grave misconduct, involvement in criminal acts, tarnishing the image of the Police Department and lowering the morale of the police during the Covid-19 pandemic.Batala SSP Rachpal Singh said a local court had sent the accused on a three-day police remand till September 3.“I visited the family of Gurmail Singh today and assured them all help. I also told them that there will be absolutely no laxity in investigating the case,” he said. — TNS
02-09-2020||---||3 armed men loot Rs 4 lakh from Western Union office in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 1Three armed men looted Rs 4 lakh from the office of Western Union near Samrala Chowk here today. Shakti, owner of the office, said three bike-borne robbers came to his office around 6 pm.While a man stood near the motorcycle, two masked men entered the office. They pointed a weapon at him and asked him to hand over the cash and other valuables.The robbers also attacked Shakti with a sharp-edged weapon due to which he suffered serious head injury.After assaulting him, they snatched Rs 4 lakh cash and fled. The owner immediately informed the police.The incident was reportedly captured on the CCTV cameras installed there. The police are scanning the footage to get clues about the robbers.The Moti Nagar police have registered a case against unknown persons and began a probe to trace the robbers.It was the second incident reported in Ludhiana on Tuesday. In the morning, Rs 2.80 lakh was looted from a 75-year-old man outside a bank on Gill Road. The man had gone to the bank to deposit cash of a firm where he was working. When he about to enter the bank, one armed man pushed him and snatched the bag containing cash.
02-09-2020||---||Man arrested for daughter’s ‘honour’ killing in Moga district||Moga, September 1In a case of “honour” killing, a 17-year old girl was allegedly killed by her father over illicit relations at Chuhar Chak village in Moga district.The police have arrested the girl’s father and booked him on the charges of murder and destroying evidence. The girl was studying in Class XI and was missing since last night.Her body was found floating in the village pond. Local divers fished out the body. The body has been sent to the district hospital for the post-mortem examination. Since there were no injury marks on the body, the exact cause of death is yet to be ascertained.Preliminary investigations revealed that the father of the girl has confessed that he had killed his daughter because of her illicit relations with a local youth, a police officer said. After killing the daughter, he threw her body in the pond.
02-09-2020||---||Shop owner wins Rs 1.5-crore Punjab state lottery||Chandigarh, September 1Dharam Pal, a sweet shop owner from Mandi Kalanwali (Sirsa), won the first prize of Rs 1.5 crore in the Punjab State Rakhi Bumper-2020.He said he had been buying state lottery tickets for the last 13 years but he had won the prize for the first time.The bumper draw was held on August 20. He was informed by the Lotteries Department on August 21 that he had won the first prize of Rs 1.50 crore.He said this amount would be a great help to provide the best higher education to his children.
02-09-2020||Faridkot||Cong leader booked in assault case||In a four-month-old incident of an alleged attack on a local resident, the police today registered a criminal case against the Youth Congress district president and a Zila Parishad member under Sections 342, 323, 506 of the IPC. Gurlal Singh Pehlwan was booked after an inquiry by an SP-level officer in Faridkot found him prima facie guilty of criminal action.Ravi Verma, a resident of Faridkot, had complained to the police on May 10, accusing Gurlal Singh, his associates Khushwant Singh, alias Marshal, and Shavinder Singh, alias Jassi, of entering his house and beating him up. — TNS
02-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Sarpanch, 11 others booked for murder||Abohar, September 1Twelve persons, including a sarpanch, have been booked for killing 25-year-old Babbar Singh and injuring two others of his family, reportedly due to an old enmity, at the Patrewala village, 20 km from here, on Saturday night.In an FIR registered on the statement of the victim’s brother Davinder Singh, who is recovering at the civil hospital here, the police have booked village sarpanch Gurwinder Singh, Kulwinder Singh Babbu, Surinder Singh Saipu, private medical practitioner Varinder, Jaspreet Singh Bota, Surjit Singh, Ram Krishan, Mukhtiar Singh, Giani Mohinder Singh, Gurmeet Singh, Gora and Raju.Preliminary investigations reportedly indicated that at least three persons in police uniform, along with nine others, wielding sharp-edged weapons and firearms, barged into a house at 11 pm and allegedly killed Babbar Singh aka Babbi.They also assaulted his mother Issar Kaur and Davinder when they tried to intervene.The accused fled when some villagers responded to cries for help.
02-09-2020||Fazilka||Nine injured in clash over waste water in Fazilka district||Case against whistle-blower: Cops claim it was a typoRopar: After the case of Ropar police booking Bachittar Singh, who had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against ‘gunda tax’, was highlighted, the Ropar SSP, Akhil Chaudhary, today claimed it was a typo. Chaudhary said Bachittar Singh had lodged a complaint of illegal mining against a few people. On August 24, a criminal case was registered on his complaint at the Kiratpur Sahib police station. However, his name was entered as the accused, rather than the complainant, inadvertently. TNSBarnala woman suffers severe burnsBarnala: A woman has suffered severe burns in Thikriwal. “Lavdeep Kaur has suffered burns at her in-laws house in Thikriwala. She was admitted to a hospital in Patiala. Later, doctors referred her to the PGI, Chandigarh. We will take action on the basis of her statement,” said Barnala Sadar police station SHO Baljit Singh. TNS
02-09-2020||---||Scholarship scam: Senior Central officer to conduct ‘inquiry’||Chandigarh, September 1Audit of Rs 1,056 cr too on the cardsA SAD delegation meets Union Minister Thawar Chand Gehlot in Delhi, claims assurance from him of an audit of Rs1,056 crore sent to the Punjab Government for disbursement as scholarship to Dalit studentsThe Union Ministry for Social Justice and Empowerment will depute an officer of the rank of Chief Secretary or even senior to probe the SC scholarship scam and has assured to conduct an audit of Rs 1,056 crore sent to the Punjab Government for disbursement as scholarship to Dalit students.This was claimed by a delegation of senior SAD leaders and legislators which met Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawar Chand Gehlot in New Delhi and submitted a memorandum to him in relation to the scam.The delegation said the minister had given them this assurance after learning that the Punjab Government had entrusted the inquiry into the scam to the state Chief Secretary. It said the minister also assured of considering recommending a CBI inquiry into the entire issue.The delegation also handed over the report of the State Additional Chief Secretary who blew the lid off the scam and brought the role of Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot under scanner over irregularities. Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Prakash was also present on the occasion.Led by SC wing president Gulzar Singh Ranike, the SAD delegation told the Union Minister they didn’t expect the probe ordered by the CM to be free and fair. Another delegation member, Pawan Kumar Tinu, sought a mechanism to ensure fair disbursal of SC scholarship funds to the tune of Rs 309 crore.
02-09-2020||---||Stir against Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in Muktsar||Muktsar, September 1The AAP today staged a protest outside the District Administrative Complex, seeking the dismissal of Social Justice Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over the alleged scholarship scam.Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Jaito MLA Baldev Singh, along with others, handed over a memorandum to the district administration in this regard. They claimed that the scam had brought out the “true picture of the Congress government.”“The state government is unable to find the records of the SC scholarship scheme, thus the minister should be dismissed,” they said.In a statement yesterday, party MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Baljinder Kaur questioned Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh that what was the “compulsion or helplessness” which was preventing the ruling Congress from taking action against a corrupt minister.The AAP leaders said unless Dharamsot resigned , a fair probe was impossible.
02-09-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Scholarship scam a making of two regimes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1The alleged scam in the disbursal of SC post-matric scholarship scheme funds to educational institutions has previous SAD-BJP regime and the current Congress dispensation that came to power in 2017 under scanner.Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot is in the eye of storm after a departmental probe questioned his role in the disbursal of funds which violated the Finance Department’s instructions, while the Congress is arguing that the scam has its roots in the previous regime.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has already assigned a thorough investigation into the case to Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, as there was a dispute between the minister concerned and the Social Welfare Department’s Additional Chief Secretary.Information accessed by The Tribune reveals that it was disbursal of Rs 248.11 crore out of the Rs 303 crore, which was released in three parts by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in February 2019 and March 2019, that has come under scanner. The Centre had released the payment on the basis of the reimbursement claims received from the Social Welfare Department for fiscal years 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 when the SAD-BJP was in power.“As the audit of the scam in the disbursal of the scholarship funds during the previous Akali government was underway, the Union Ministry started releasing the pending dues in 2019,” said sources in the government.In the departmental probe report submitted to the Chief Secretary on August 24, the disbursal of Rs 248.11 crore is under the scanner. Of this, the department disbursed Rs 39 crore to “ghost” institutions as the records of the distribution of the amount are missing. Another Rs 16.71 crore was wrongly disbursed to private educational institutions despite the Finance Department during its audit pointing out recovery of Rs 8 crore from the institutions which had been illegally given the scholarship amount.Posers for government
02-09-2020||New Delhi||Region’s share in cases less than 5%||The northern region is putting up a good fight against Covid-19 with Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh’s burden in the national disease load standing at less than 5 per cent as of Tuesday.Eight months into the pandemic, these five states together make up 4.52 per cent of India’s 36,91,166 Covid cases and 4.50 per cent of the national toll, which is 65,288 as of today.“States in the northern region are holding up good. Once new recoveries outstrip new infections the disease graph will start to slide,” said a Health Ministry source. — TNS
02-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC for probe into land acquisition for IAS-PCS officers’ society road||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1Just about two months after the state government was asked to explain why the acquisition of land for a road to Punjab IAS-PCS Officers’ Cooperative Housing Building Society Limited was being carried out at public expense, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the state through its Chief Secretary to consider ordering a probe into the acquisition.Taking up the matter, the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi also asked the state to consider getting the matter inquired through its independent agency to unveil the real motive and purpose of the acquisition.The directions came on an application alleging that the second approach road to the residential society at state expense was mala fide exercise of power by influential officials of the state government. The Bench was hearing arguments on landowner Gurmeet Singh’s plea for restraining the respondents from laying down the road through his land in Mullanpur Garibdass for alleged public purpose of constructing another approach road. His counsel contended that a 22-foot-wide approach road to the residential society was already in existence.The Bench observed the society was getting connected to a 30-metre master plan road. The additional entry point at an electric substation was only to give exclusive and direct approach to society land, “adding to the advantage and value of their land with direct access to the major Chandigarh-Kurali road”.The Bench asserted the sequence of events and the statements of facts notified and declared in public documents adequately demonstrated and raised a founded suspicion that action of the department concerned, in garb of public purpose, was an exercise with oblique motive to favour and benefit the society.It was first attempted on the society’s expense and then at public expense. The additional entry point at electric substation appeared only to be catering to the society. “All this while, the Punjab IAS-PCS Officers Housing Society (by a longer distance) and other housing societies were getting connected through the master plan road...”The Bench added the compulsory acquisition exercise appeared to have been done at the costs and expense of the public exchequer and public purpose has been used as a tool to achieve private purpose. “In all the manoeuvres, the sufferer is the poor farmer whose prime piece of land is sought to be acquired and the public exchequer paying for acquisition to benefit a powerful lobby.” Fixing the case for October first week, the Bench also called for report of inquiry, if any conducted.
02-09-2020||Mohali||Sumedh Singh Saini’s anticipatory bail plea dismissed||In a big setback to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, a local court today dismissed the anticipatory bail application in an alleged kidnapping and murder case of Balwant Singh Multani.“Applicant Sumedh Singh Saini is guilty of a heinous crime and does not deserve extraordinary relief of anticipatory bail. His custodial interrogation is necessary to further investigate into the matter,” observed Additional District and Sessions Judge Rajnish Garg, while dismissing the bail application.Saini was apprehending arrest in the case after the SIT added murder offence under Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against him. The Section was added after two co-accused turned approvers and deposed against Saini of being an eyewitness to the alleged inhumane torture of Multani at Sector 17 police station.Saini was given protection from arrest till final disposal of the bail application.Earlier, former Inspector Jagir Singh and ASI Kuldep Singh, also co-accused with Saini, became approvers and were granted pardon in the case. Then, another person who was in the lockup along with Multani also became an approver. Saini and six other police officers were booked in a 29-year-old case of alleged abduction, torture and stage-managed elimination of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani.Balwant, the victim, was accused of carrying out an attack on Saini when he was the Chandigarh SSP on December 11, 1991. He, along with Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar, a convict in the Delhi bomb blast case, and two others, was booked but the police later claimed Balwant escaped from the custody of Qadian (Gurdaspur) police. — TNS
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sees steep increase of 37.5% in suicides||Ranked 16th in number of suicides in the country, Punjab still has to worry on that front due to a steep increase in the cases.As per the NCRB report, Punjab figured second in the category of significant percentage-wise increase in suicides in 2019 over 2018 with 37.5 per cent rise.From about 1,714 cases in 2018, the state reported 2,357 cases in 2019. Punjab was only second to Bihar which recorded 44.7 per cent increase. — TNS
02-09-2020||---||Punjab jails fare badly in NCRB report||Chandigarh, September 1Punjab prison system needs urgent correctional measures as the state has topped in the number of human rights abuse complaints in the country, besides being among the top three states in the categories of jail escape, parole jump, custodial suicide and unnatural deaths, said the NCRB Report-2019.The report released on Monday in New Delhi said as many as 180 prisoners complained to the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) in Punjab, followed by Madhya Pradesh (64) and Maharashtra (45) in 2019.The report said with 103 (out of 180) pending complaints of human rights abuse, Punjab was on the top in the country as per the pendency of complaints list. Punjab is second on the dubious list of unnatural deaths in the jail with 20 cases. As many as 29 such incidents were reported in Uttar Pradesh jails while West Bengal reported 12.The state is also second in the country in the number of suicides in the prisons. Of the total 116 suicides in the country, Uttar Pradesh reported the highest number (20) followed by Punjab (13) and West Bengal (11) during 2019.The state was third in incidents of escape from police custody. Highest of such cases were reported by Uttar Pradesh (25) followed by Maharashtra (17) and Punjab (14). The state was, however, fourth in relation to re-arrest of the escapees. During the year 2019, a total of 468 persons escaped from lawful custody and 231 persons were arrested again.In 2019, only one firing incident in a jail was reported from Punjab, in which, one inmate died. Punjab figured high in number of release of undertrials and on parole. Punjab released 8,116 undertrials followed by 6,822 in Rajasthan. Of the 205 prisoners who jumped parole, maximum absconders were reported by Rajasthan (48) followed by Gujarat (41) and Punjab (35).
02-09-2020||Sangrur||Residents oppose tests at Sangrur tehsil office||Officials at Sangrur tehsil had been allegedly compelling residents to undergo Covid-19 tests before registration of their sale and purchase deeds and other official works.“Senior officials at the tehsil are forcing residents to get tested for Covid to get their work done. It’s a strategy adopted by officials to mint money from people who refuse to undergo tests,” said Gurdev Singh Tunga, district vice-president, BKU (Lakhowal).He filed a complaint with DC Ramvir Singh. “People visit the tehsil for official work after spending a lot on paper work. The staff is refusing to conduct work. The government should order a probe into it,” he said.Another resident said the decision has sent locals into a tizzy.Tehsildar Rajpal Singh Sekhon denied that his staff had sought money and said the SDM Office had deputed a medical team for testing at the tehsil. “Tests are essential to check spread of the pandemic. We are just asking residents to get themselves tested. They are levelling baseless allegations to avoid testing,” he said.The DC said, “I have directed the staff at the tehsil office that tests should be done after convincing residents. We cannot force people to undergo tests. I will look into the matter.”— TNS
02-09-2020||Manav Mander||Cops in Ludhiana turn plasma donors after recovery||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 1Police personnel, who have recovered from Covid-19, have come forward to help those fighting the disease by donating plasma. So far, four cops have donated plasma.Sub-Inspector Jatinder Kumar, posted at Thana Shimlapuri, ASI Dinesh Kumar, posted at special branch of the Police Commissionerate, Constable Harish Sharma and Havildar Davinder Singh, posted at Thana Sadar, have donated their plasma so far. Apart from them, 53 more cops have shown their willingness to donate plasma.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said 298 cops had contracted the virus, of which 192 had recovered. “The cops are on frontline duty since day one and many got affected. But they never lose hope and have now come forward to help the public. The general public should also come forward to donate plasma,” he said. Any serious patient in need of plasma therapy can contact PCR number 78370-18500, he added.Constable Harish Sharma said, “After recovering, we have joined back our duties and now we are donating plasma to help others.”
02-09-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Once hotbed, Malerkotla sees high recoveries||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 1The efforts of residents have started showing positive results as Malerkotla is fighting back Covid-19. Only three positive cases are left in the block while remaining have got cured. The authorities are taking samples daily as residents have started responding positively to the call for testing.“We are thankful to local NGOs, religious leaders and others for supporting our campaign and today, we have only three active cases in the Malerkotla block. Initially, the town had maximum number of deaths and cases as residents were unwilling to get themselves tested, but we are hopeful that it will become Covid-free in the coming days,” said Ramvir, Deputy Commissioner, Sangrur.After facing resistance from locals, on July 17, senior officers first paid obeisance at the local Haa Da Nahra Gurdwara, the mosque near Sirhindi Gate and at Hanuman Temple and launched a massive awareness drive in the block, in association with religious and social representatives and volunteers of various organisations.The administration also deputed 100 prominent personalities from various religions as ‘rehnuma’ (guides), who have been working in various parts of the block, distributing masks and making the residents aware about preventive measures to contain the spread of the virus and motivate them for testing.Till date, Malerkotla has seen 374 Covid-positive cases, out of which 352 have been cured, 19 have died while three are still active. The Malerkotla block has two isolation centres, one at Malerkotla for L 2 patients and another at Bhogiwal for L 1 patients.Vikramjit Singh Panthey, SDM, Malerkotla, said: “Apart from visiting various congested areas, we are also conducting sampling in all industrial units of our area. Though there are many who are still unwilling for testing, our efforts are going on to convince them.”
02-09-2020||---||60 doctors contract virus in Faridkot medical college||Faridkot, September 1After 60 doctors, nurses and paramedics of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) in Faridkot contracted Covid-19 in the last two weeks, around 300 doctors of the medical hospital today asked the authorities to provide them safety equipment and security. The Registrar of the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) issued orders to replace the officiating principal of the medical college. At present, more than 200 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at the GGSMCH.On Monday, the Medical Superintendent of the GGSMCH had demitted his office due to inadequate infrastructure and equipment to deal with rising number of patients at the hospital.Fearing threat to their life from attendants of Covid-19 patients, the doctors asked the Registrar of the BFUHS to post a security guard outside every Covid ward in the hospital. Overstretched due to long working hours, the doctors said duty hours of resident doctors should be fixed and they should be provided health cover.The doctors said online consultation should be done away with as it was adversely affecting their efficiency due to messaging on mobile phones. They demanded that patients on ventilator support, including those requiring non-invasive ventilation, should be admitted to Covid ICU rather than putting them on ventilators in general wards. They said hostel kitchen had been non-operational for the last three months and asked the authorities to resume the services.The doctors said at least two Group IV employees should be posted in each ward and an ambulance driver should be available round-the-clock.
02-09-2020||---||59 more casualties take Punjab toll to 1,512||Chandigarh, September 1There seems to be no respite from Covid-19 as the state reported 1,522 fresh cases and 59 deaths in the past 24 hours.With these, the state toll has reached 1,512 and the number of cases has risen to 55,508.As far as deaths are concerned, Ludhiana reported maximum 13 deaths, followed by Jalandhar (8), Amritsar (7), Patiala and Ferozepur (5 each), Fatehgarh Sahib and Kapurthala (4 each), Bathinda (3), Barnala and Faridkot (2 each) while Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Moga, Pathankot and Tarn Taran (1 each). At present, there are 15,849 active cases while 38,147 people have recovered from the disease so far.Ludhiana remained the worst affected district with 216 cases, followed by SAS Nagar (211), Jalandhar (158), Patiala (120), Amritsar (111), Faridkot (110), Gurdaspur (104), Bathinda (64) and Muktsar (60). At present 464 patients are on oxygen support and 70 are on ventilator support.
02-09-2020||Chandigarh/Pathankot||SIT to probe attack on Suresh Raina’s kin in Punjab||The Punjab Police have set up a special investigation team to probe the murderous assault on the family of international cricketer Suresh Raina’s paternal aunt at Thariyal village in Shahpur Kandi area of Pathankot on the night of August 19. Uncle, cousin dead This comes on a day when Raina, who left the IPL midway in the UAE to return home, demanded a thorough probe into the killing of his uncle and a cousin allegedly by robbers. The cricketer made the appeal on the Twitter and tagged CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Raina’s uncle Ashok Kumar died on the spot while his son Kaushal succumbed to his injuries on Monday. Three other family members were injured and the condition of Ashok’s wife Asha Rani was stated to be critical.Though initial investigations suggested the attack had the signature of criminals belonging to a de-notified tribe (‘kale kacchewale’ gang) that often operated along the Punjab-Himachal border, the SIT had been mandated to examine all possible angles, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.A police official said the robbers scaled the wall of the victims’ house and climbed onto the roof before attacking the family. Around 35 suspects from Himachal and UP had been identified on the basis of similar crimes in the past. Raids have been carried out in Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar. Six labourers working with Ashok had been interrogated. — TNS
02-09-2020||Vishav Bharti||Amid Covid, Punjab TB drive takes a hit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1Amid the pandemic, the Tuberculosis Control Programme in Punjab seems to have gone for a toss as the number of both newly diagnosed patients and those already under treatment has come down significantly.As per state’s TB cell, the number declined by at least 30 per cent. The target to diagnose new patients between January and July was 41,999. However, just 29,579 patients could be traced.Government hospitals with 74 per cent target achievement fared better than the private ones, which could meet 60 per cent of the target.The state had been doing well on this front till February. However, March onwards the patients stopped coming forward. From an average of 5,000 patients a month, it came down to 3,000 in April. The situation remained more or less the same the following months.“Due to the fear of getting infected, patients stopped coming to hospitals, which has badly hit the programme,” said Dr Jastej Singh, incharge, state TB Control Programme.
