03-04-2020||Chandigarh/Bathinda||Coronavirus: Punjab reports nine new cases, tally now 57||Punjab’s tally rose to 57 with nine more cases being reported on Friday, officials said.Three of the six cases came from Amritsar, three from Mansa, two from Mohali and one each from Ludhiana and Ropar.Mansa and Mohali both reported cases that were connected to a recently-held religious congregation in the national capital. These are first cases in the state in connection with Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation in Nizamuddin Markaz mosque last month---an event that authorities fear could lead to spiralling of coronavirus cases in the country.In Mohali, two people who recently attended a religious congregation in the national capital tested positive.    Later in the day, Mansa Deputy Commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal said three people who had been at a mosque in Budhlada sub-division tested positive and had been moved to an isolation ward at the civil hospital in Mansa.Six other people who had accompanied them have been quarantined at ITI at Budhlada district although they tested negative, authorities said. Of Amritsar’s three cases, two are associated with Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, a former Hazoori Ragi of the Golden Temple who died of a cardiac arrested on Thursday after he tested positive for coronavirus, Amritsar’s Civil Surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal. Authorities await reports of three other people---all relatives---associated with the Padma Shri awardee.The third is an unconnected case: a shopkeeper who had neither travelled anywhere recently nor had visitors from abroad---probably the first such instance in Punjab, said Dr Johal. This case has alarmed authorities, who have quarantined his relatives and had taken their swabs for testing.Punjab’s latest media bulletin shows 1,381 of 1,585 samples sent for testing came back negative. Authorities are awaiting results for 153. One has been discharged so far.Seven districts have so far reported cases---19 from SBS Nagar, 12 from Mohali, seven from Hoshiarpur, five each from Jalandhar and Amritsar, four from Ludhiana, and one from Patiala. No decision on extending curfewPunjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on Friday that any extension to curfew beyond April 14 will be given after a thorough review.Singh said he was personally monitoring the situation, and that he while he could give a date for lifting restrictions, he said they would remain in place as long as it took to save lives and prevent the spread of the virus in the state.Any decision on lifting or extending the curfew /lockdown in the state will be taken in the light of the situation that exists at the time. It would depend entirely on how things are then,” he said.“If things improved then there would be no need for such tight restrictions. However, if the situation takes a turn for the worse, there would be no option with the government but to continue with controls, either through curfew or lockdown or any other necessary means,” Capt Amarinder said.Fund releasePunjab’s Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management Department has released Rs. 53.43 crore as emergency fund for district administrations, a spokesperson from Chief Minister’s Office said on Friday.  The funds, released to deputy commissioners, have been charged to the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), the spokesperson said.
03-04-2020||Mohali||Covid-19: People should not have opposed cremation of ragi Nirmal Singh's body, says Punjab minister Balbir Sidhu||Moved by the incident that took place on Thursday in which cremation of the body of renowned ‘Ragi’ and Padam Shri Nirmal Singh was opposed owing to his demise from COVID-19, Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu made an appeal to the public not to panic as cremation of coronavirus positive patient’s body does not pose any additional threat.Sensitising the public, the crematorium and burial ground staff, he reiterated that the cremation has no adverse effects if proper protocols are adhered to.So much so that the even the ash does not pose any risk and can even be collected to perform the last rites, he added.He said as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the crematorium and burial ground staff need to ensure hand hygiene and use of masks and gloves.Besides, the viewing of the body by unzipping the face end of the body bag (by the staff using standard precautions) may be allowed, for the relatives to see the body for one last time and religious rituals such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water and any other last rites that does not require touching of the body are allowed.But, the bathing, kissing, hugging of the body is not allowed and the funeral and burial staff and family members should perform hand hygiene after the cremation.Apart from this, large gathering at the crematorium and burial ground should be avoided as a social distancing measure, he cautioned.Meanwhile, strongly condemning the denial of permission to cremate the mortal remains of Nirmal Singh Khalsa on Thursday, MLA from Jalandhar Cantt Pargat Singh said it was a black spot on the entire humanity.In a statement issued here on Friday, the MLA said this was an inhuman and unfortunate incident which had shattered every human being across the world.He said that this type of incident in Punjab, which is the land of great Gurus and prophets, was totally unimaginable.Pargat Singh said it was against the basic philosophy of Sikhism which has shown us the way of religious tolerance, humanity and compassion.The MLA said this incident has bruised the psyche of every individual in general and every Sikh in particular.He said it was unfortunate that at a time when eyes from across the globe were rolling tears on demise of the learned scholar, people here in Punjab were busy in denying land for his cremation.Pargat Singh said this has exposed the myopic mindset of some individuals before the world.
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab considering doorstep wheat procurement where needed||Even as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) conceded the Punjab Government’s request for release of Rs 22,936 crore against CCL for April 2020, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday asked the state Agriculture and Food Departments to work out ways to procure wheat grain from within the villages that are located more than 1-2 km away from mandis.The Chief Minister reviewed the Rabi harvesting and procurement arrangements through a video conference, and directed officials to minimise the exposure of the farmers to Covid-19, press statement issued by the government said.He also gave direction to get rules amended to provide payment to farmers through arhtiyas, saying that any changes in the system, including direct bank transfers, should be put in abeyance under the current circumstances. The system of direct transfer was to be commenced from this season.To check hoarding, a committee of senior officers was set up to monitor essential supplies. He directed Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta to take strict action against those hoarding material.Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh said that supply of essentials was being maintained, with 35-40 per cent of the usual truck strength still operational. More trucks would be permitted to bring in supplies in the coming days.While an Uber-like system of pooling farmers to distant Mandis on the lines of the suggestion made by the Prime Minister could be considered, the Chief Minister said he was open to a proposal for ‘doorstep’ kind of procurement of grain if comprehensive modalities could be worked out.While around half the villages were located close to mandis, and curfew passes could be issued to farmers to visit mandis in small numbers at a time, for the villages far away, the Chief Secretary suggested sending officials to handle the procurement. Arhtiyas, who currently undertake bagging of the grain, could be entrusted with the task of handling it in the village itself.A final decision would be taken in a couple of days.Agriculture Secretary Vishwajit Khanna said incentives for staggered marketing, which the state government had already suggested to the Centre, could go a long way in checking crowding at mandis. A total of 1.8 lakh metric tonne of wheat was expected to be procured this year. Harvester combines would be allowed to operate in the fields April 15 onwards.Khanna said in case the West Bengal government, which had ordered closure of jute mills till April 6, did not open the same, the shortage of bales in Punjab would be met through PP bags, which were currently under production.Arrangements were also in place for sanitisation and distribution of masks to procurement agency staff and farmers (through arhtiyas), Khanna said, adding that segregation and marking was being done at the mandis to maintain social distance.As many as 1,498 clusters of the migrant labour had been formed in all districts, besides to 162 shelters/relief centres.
03-04-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports two coronavirus cases in connection with Nizamuddin event||Mohali reported two more coronavirus cases in the district---both believed to be related to a religious congregation in Delhi that has become the latest source of COVID-19 scare.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in a tweet that authorities were now trying to trace the contacts of the two who tested positive on Friday.“2 more positive cases in the district, had attended religious congregation at Delhi. In isolation. Contacts being traced. Contacts of positive case in Jagatpura - 48 sample negative, 3 awaited. Contacts of other positive cases - 14 sample negative, 5 awaited,” Dayalan’s tweet said.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that one case came from Mauli Baidwan and the other Sector 68 in the district. A third person has been home quarantined.This would be Punjab’s first reported coroanvirus cases in connection with the Tablighi Jaamat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. This also takes the number of cases in the district to 12.Punjab’s latest media bulletin meanwhile shows that the state reported six new cases on Friday. The state has reported five deaths so far. .The daily bulletin shows 1381 of 1585 samples sent for testing came back negative. Authorities are awaiting results for 153. One has been discharged so far.
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Local firms chip in to manufacture protective gear, N-95 masks, low-cost ventilators in Punjab||At a time when life-saving equipment are much in demand due to their short supplies, several companies in Punjab have come forward to manufacture protective gear and low cost-ventilators for medical professionals and patients to combat deadly coronavirus.More than 20 companies including technical textile makers in Punjab are in the process of developing and producing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) bodysuits, N-95 masks, three-ply masks and low-cost ventilators, officials said.At least three companies have even managed to secure necessary approvals for producing PPE body suits from the SITRA (South India Textile Research Association) Coimbatore and several others are in the process of sending their samples for nod, they said."Three companies — JCT Mills, Phagwara; Evershine, Ludhiana and Navyug Laminates, Ludhiana have got approvals for making PPE suits and a few others have got their samples ready for testing," Punjab Additional Chief Secretary (Industry & Commerce) Vini Mahajan told PTI here on Friday.The state industry department is actively engaged with industry players for extending all help including arranging low-cost finance to them for making life saving products in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak."This is an excellent example of partnership between the industry and the  government and the industry is responding very well. A public sector company has placed an order of 10 lakh pieces with JCT Mills for PPE bodysuits," revealed Mahajan adding that the state government was acting as a facilitator.JCT Mills has a capacity to manufacture 10,000 PPE coveralls per day while Evershine and Navyug have 5,000 and 150 pieces per day, respectively, said Punjab Director (Industries) Sibian C."This is a godsend opportunity, and we will give our best shot," said Vishal Aggarwal of Evershine, a company which is into making garments.        Among those companies which are into developing N-95 masks is Hoshiarpur-based industrialist Harbhagat Singh. He said, "We are in the process of developing N-95 masks as per government specifications and hope that the samples will get clearance from the testing lab in Gwalior."        Singh said his company is into the business of making masks but for industries into making chemicals and batteries etc. As many as nine industrial units have been identified for manufacturing triple layers masks, said Sibian C.        A few industries have also come up with the idea of making low-cost ventilator -- a mechanical bag valve mask ventilator -- given the fact that there was acute shortage of this life saving equipment.        Mohali-based Andel India, a biotechnology equipment maker, is developing a prototype of a low-cost ventilator. "We have proposed to make this user-friendly low cost ventilator at a price of Rs 5,000 a unit and it will be equipped with battery backup," said company's MD Anu Bhutani."I thought what can we do for our country at this moment and then this idea came up," said Bhutani.A state-owned Punjab Alkalies & Chemicals Limited is manufacturing Sodium Hypochlorite that can be used for the purpose of sanitisation or disinfection of streets, official said. PTI
03-04-2020||---||D-Mart-Dhillon Group donates Rs 5.05 cr to Punjab CM Covid relief fund||Chandigarh, April 3The D-Mart-Dhillon Group has donated Rs 5.05 crore to the Punjab Chief Minister Relief Fund to fight Covid-19.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh welcomed the donation as a gesture that will contribute significantly to the state’s battle in the current crisis.Appealing fellow Punjabis to contribute generously to the state government’s efforts to mitigate the crisis, Capt Amarinder thanked D-Mart's Kewal Singh Dhillon, Karan Dhillon and Kanwar Dhillon for their contribution.
03-04-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus: Jalandhar residents have a rare view of snow-capped mountains||The Jalandhar residents woke up to a phenomenon, which most people said they had seen for the first time in their lives.Perhaps, because of cleaner air, because of negligible traffic, and factories that are not working owing to the 11 days of the curfew imposed to check the spread of coronavirus, the residents could now see the snow-clad Himalayan ranges. People could see the view from their rooftops with naked eyes, which could be of Dhauladhar range from Kangra area in the adjoining state of Himachal Pradesh.While the Dhualdhar’s mountain ranges lies at a distance of 213 kilometers from Jalandhar—the towns like Chintpurni and Palampur are at a distance of 92.3 km and 174.8 km, respectively from Jalandhar.Greeted by the spectacle – residents took to their roofs clicking photographs and videos of the mountains.Some termed it a miracle of nature.Around noon, the residents began sharing the pictures and selfies of this rare scene on social media. Several of them went live on Facebook to share their excitement. Those who had DSLR cameras had an option to take sharper views.The residents of Hoshiarpur had already been posting pictures of snow-capped mountain ranges for the past few days, but such a sight was visible from Jalandhar on Friday as perhaps the atmosphere became clearer.As families began climbing up on rooftops to gaze at the first-in-a-lifetime scene, some elderly women were seen worshipping the skies with folded hands and muttering: “When we could not go to shrines like Chintpurni, Jwala Ji and Chamanda Devi during Navratras, God has enabled us to pay obeisance to the Goddesses from here and offer our prayers sitting at home”.Harpal Kler, a resident of Jalandhar, said, “As I set out from home early this morning and started on Pathankot highway, I could see the entire range of snow-covered mountains in front of me. It gave me such a nice break from the otherwise monotonous routine these days.”Kler, who runs a bio-medical laboratory in the city, added, “It is for the first time these days that I could wear a white shirt for two consecutive days to work and not get even a speck of dust on it. Even my wife laughed saying she did not have to scrub the collars. I really feel that we must have a 10-day lockdown in the country to breathe easy and enjoy some whiff of fresh air”.Harbir Singh, Senior Environment Engineer, Punjab Pollution Control Board, Jalandhar, said: “Since our offices and machinery are shut these days and staff is not coming to work, we cannot share any AQI values. Several people have been sharing pictures of the view from their places with me since morning and it surely is a rare view because of cleaner air.”Elderly residents said it was almost after a generation that the mountains have been visible in the city.Amarjit Singh, a resident of Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar, said, “Our elders said they used to see mountains from the rooftop. But we have never witnessed this spectacle in our life. It is a magical sight for us. At least in my life, I have never seen such a view from our rooftops. It goes to show that if a month of restraining can ensure such a view then we must make it a habit of exercising environmental restraint.”Social media was also flooded with photographs of eager residents sharing snow-covered peaks from their houses, rooftops and terraces.Senior Environmental Engineer, PPCB Jalandhar, Harbir Singh said, “The lockdown has dramatically improved the air quality in the city. We can see that restricted traffic, as well as restricted activity in the industries emitting pollutants into the air, can work wonders for the environment. Normally, the movement of traffic, dust levels and the generation of industrial emissions are so high that it takes a toll on the air quality. Amidst the COVID lockdown, this has been made possible providing a much-needed break for the environment. The lessons we can take away from this is that if industrial and traffic activity is regulated – the environment begins to breathe.”  Dr Rajinder Kaur, Associate Professor, Environmental Science, Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar, said, “The dramatic dip in air pollution is brought in with the lockdown. At homes and on our rooftops to we see an increased variety of birds od rare breeds which were previously not being seen. The visibility of stars in the sky has also increased to a level we used to see only in our childhood. While the lockdown like conditions isn’t feasible for development and economy – taking a cue from this – the strict implementation of environmental, traffic and industry regulation laws, however, can ease the environment greatly even after the lockdown.”
03-04-2020||---||Punjab citizens can now use Cova app to order grocery, other essentials||Chandigarh, April 3Punjab citizens can now use the government’s unique COVA App to request for delivery of essential goods and grocery amid the COVID-19 clampdown.The government has expanded the App to cover such delivery, thus reaching out more effectively to the people amid complaints that many of the delivery contact numbers were being found unavailable, busy or invalid by many citizens. The vendors were also finding it difficult to deal with the high number of incoming orders and deliver to the right addresses.Under this initiative, the App, available on Android PlayStore and iOS AppStore, will facilitate delivery of grocery and essential goods, as notified by the government, through local vendors.The feature has been built into the App with support from Uengage Services Private Limited, who has worked pro bono with the government team on this initiative, according to Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Governance Reforms and Public Grievances.The move is aimed at helping citizens access essential services during the lockdown easily, while also enabling vendors maintain the supply and deliver to people’s homes with appropriate passes.This module shall enable the vendors register themselves as suppliers and enlist their delivery executives for passes. This shall also empower the district administration to approve/reject the vendor, and also act as a monitoring authority if a complaint is registered by the citizen on the grounds of overpricing or adulteration.The citizen shall only need to select his/her location and the App shall populate the nearby vendors. The citizen can place an order on the App itself and pay post-delivery of the items.This is an additional feature in the App which was already providing solutions to help citizens access authentic information, report gatherings, access medical advice from doctors. It may be recalled that the interactive citizen mobile application was launched by the Punjab Government through its innovative Digital Punjab Team.The Department of Governance Reforms and Public Grievances has received positive feedback from users and hopes that the utility of this App and citizen’s experience improves with this feature, said Vini.
03-04-2020||Jalandhar||Covid-19: In Jalandhar, a wedding in the times of curfew||Jalandhar-based artist Neha Mahajan says she had dreamt that her ‘Mr Right’ would come riding a horse and take her home after a gala ceremony which was attended by her friends and family. But owing to curfew restrictions imposed by the government to check the spread of coronavirus, all the meticulous planning that she had been doing for the nearly the past three months went haywire. Only her parents and two sisters could be a part of the wedding solemnised today at Sangat Singh Nagar gurdwara here this morning.The family availed curfew passes from the administration only for five persons. As they reached gurdwara, groom Ramandeep Singh, a sculptor-cum-businessman, along with his four family members came from Mansa. The families brought along with them dispensers of hand sanitizer and face masks, besides other goodies meant for exchange.The families said that all the bookings of the banquet hall, caterers, flower decorators, parlour etc had to be cancelled as Neha’s parents and her in-laws decided that they would not postpone the marriage and would hold it in a simple way as per the government restrictions. “Even my maternal uncle could not reach here from Chandigarh for the bangle ceremony and our local acquaintance played that role last evening. I now somehow believe that fate is all-powerful and it is ‘he’ who ultimately decides how things will eventually turn out to be. Ever since we got engaged in December, we had been doing all the planning, which came of no use at the end. Also, I have begun to believe that no-frills marriage is the best way to get wedded and I have enjoyed it thoroughly”, said Maqsudan locality-based girl who is a fine art postgraduate and has served as a lecturer in a local college.On no chances of honeymoon or even local outings, the couple said, “We have no problem with that. We are mentally prepared to stay at home. Since both of us will not be able to go to work, we will enjoy each other’s company and spend more time with the family”.
03-04-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana & Rajmeet Singh||We have planned three levels of care centres, says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Covid-19||Occupied with updating Netizens on the current status and briefing them on measures being taken by his government to battle the deadly virus, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh, in an email interview with The Tribune reporters Sanjeev Singh Bariana and Rajmeet Singh, spoke on government preparedness to tackle Covid-19 and the challenges ahead.Excerpts from the interview:What is your real-time assessment of the spread of Covid-19 in the state?The situation is continuously evolving. At present, there seems to be no community transmission in Punjab. But given the fact that there are variable factors beyond control (as evident from the migrant exodus in Delhi and the Nizamuddin incident), it is difficult to predict anything. The large NRI population that arrived in Punjab over the past one month or so adds to the problem. By mid-April, we should be ready with 5,000 isolation beds along with the necessary manpower, and we plan to scale it further over the next month or so, may be to even 20,000 isolation beds.Does the government plan to go for rapid testing?There has been a more than 220 per cent increase in testing since March 24 but it is still only 0.004 per cent of Punjab’s population (2011 census). Shortage of kits and equipment is a major obstacle but we are now aggressively focusing on augmenting capacities by procuring kits externally and internally.Many local organisations have come out with indigenous kits which will be tested and approved on priority.What’s the state’s strategy if the spread reaches the third stage?We have planned three levels of care centres. Level 1 is critical care under which all Covid patients would be sent to HDU (High Dependence Units) and ICU at government medical colleges. Level 2 will cater to patients with mild symptoms admitted in isolation facilities with a bed capacity of around 5,000. Level 3 will cover patients with very mild symptoms. We plan to convert college hostel buildings into Covid care centres, if need be. At any given time, we have plans to take care of more than 25,000 infected persons.How effective have measures been to prevent the exodus of migrant labour?Migrant labourers are mainly concentrated in Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib, with Ludhiana alone accounting for more than 50 per cent (12 lakh). Apart from sealing the state borders, we are engaging with the labourers to persuade them to stay back. Senior officials across districts are working in close coordination to ensure they are provided shelter and food. Shelter homes have been built and rations are being supplied. Religious organisations, NGOs and industry owners are pitching in. Radha Saomi centres have been identified for housing the labourers.We have asked the industry and brickkiln owners to shelter the migrants on their premises without compromising on the safety protocol. They have been allowed to run their units with the help of these labourers.How do you plan to revive the state economy?Our immediate focus is utilising all possible resources to provide medical care. I have asked the Finance Minister to come up with a contingency plan. We have approached the Centre regarding the release of pending GST arrears, CCL etc in addition to a financial package to fight the pandemic.As far as industry is concerned, the state has deferred payment of electricity and water bills and property tax. The government has already notified Industrial and Business Development Policy, 2017, which provides attractive incentives. State GST refunds will be cleared on time so that the industry has the necessary finances for revival.With harvesting season round the corner and shortage of labour in mandis, how will you come to farmers’ rescue?We have decided to delay harvesting and extend the purchase season by two months. Procurement will begin on April 15 and continue till June 15. My instructions to the DCs and police are clear – Covid-19 protocol is to be strictly adhered to. They are working with the farmers to create awareness and secure their support.All efforts will be made to ensure social distancing during procurement. Farmers will be issued tokens so that they arrive in mandis on the dates specified. I have advised the State Mandi Board to work out a system for mandi-wise procurement to avoid crowding. Biometric authentication and swipe cards have been done away with to prevent infection.What about Covid positive cases with no travel history or contact with any NRI?We have a strategy to identify, test and isolate the 95,000-odd NRIs and foreign returnees who landed in Punjab in the past few weeks, apart from the 55,000-odd travellers whose names have been shared with us by the Centre. We are working round the clock to trace the contacts of NRIs who arrived in the past 4-6 weeks. The contacts too will be tested and quarantined/isolated.
03-04-2020||---||After Ragi’s demise, residents take curfew seriously||Amritsar, April 2Panic gripped the city after the demise of Ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa. Residents now prefer to stay indoors. As no case of coronavirus was reported till Wednesday, they thought there was no threat of community spread in the city. They were not convinced with the advisories of the government to stay indoors.The death of Ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa shocked the public, as he was a prominent personality and people used to listen to his Shabad Kirtan on television. Now, residents have started feeling the threat of community transmission and obeying the advisories.The city witnessed less movement of general public on Thursday compared to the past few days. Gurpreet Singh, a cop on patrolling duty, said: “Now, there is panic among residents after the death of Ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa. Earlier, they were not taking the curfew seriously. We can’t visit every street to implement the curfew. The residents should feel the threat of community spread.”Meanwhile, the police also increased patrolling to implement curfew in the city. The cops deployed on nakas are not allowing anyone without curfew passes. The police have also issued challans, registered cases and impounded vehicles.There was no official relaxation in the curfew, but shopkeepers in streets and mohallas were still seen selling goods. The police warned all such grocery stores, dairy owners and vegetable fruit vendors to stop such activities or face action. Sandip Singh, a resident of Majitha Road, said: “I used to go for morning walk even during curfew. On Thursday, cops warned me to stay at home. It seems the police are now strict in implementing the curfew.” Meanwhile, the administration officials claimed that door to door delivery of essential items was functional and everything was now streamlined.
03-04-2020||Anandpur Sahib||Takht Kesgarh Sahib diwan hall turns into relief camp||
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Disinfectant sprayed in 11,769 villages||
03-04-2020||Our Correspondent
||Rural school to shelter migrants||Abohar, April 2 The district administration today earmarked a school at Gumjal as the first shelter in the area for migrant labourers who have been affected due to imposition of curfew following the Covid-19 outbreak. Notably, Gumjal is located near the Abohar-Sriganganagar border where many stranded Punjabis from Gujarat and migrant labourers had to stay recently for a day for health screening and other formalities. Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh announced that Government High School, Gumjal, would be used as a shelter for the affected labourers.  Those who want to stay will inform the nearest police station, then the cops will arrange vehicle for their transport. School headmaster Dev Chauhan has been told to arrange drinking water and maintain sanitation.   PSPCL officials have been directed to ensure uninterrupted power supply.
03-04-2020||
||No relief for kin of ‘PoW’, HC disposes of petition||Chandigarh, April 2 For almost half a century Jagraj Singh’s family has hung around for news about his well-being from across the border. The wait for the Army man’s family, it appears, will continue with little relief coming their way even after moving the Punjab and Haryana High Court for securing his release after his “capture” by the Pakistani forces in the 1971 war. His daughter Paramjit Kaur had sought directions to the Union Government and other respondent to take up the matter regarding the whereabouts of the petitioner’s father. Paramjit Kaur told the High Court that Jagraj Singh had served the 102 Engineer Regiment. But he was erroneously presumed to have been killed in action in the 1971 war. The Bench was further told that a letter to this effect was issued to his widow, the petitioner’s mother. Paramjit Kaur’s counsel added that the petitioner, however, received information that Jagraj Singh was, in fact, captured by the Pakistan Army and he was confined in a jail in Pakistan. It is further stated that Jagraj Singh, as per some information received by the petitioner, was further handed over to the authorities of Saudi Arabia and was reportedly jailed in Oman. Taking up the matter, the High Court asserted it was brought to the court’s notice that a civil writ petition involving a similar issue was disposed of in November 2019. It was specifically observed that directions could be issued by the High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution and that too without verifiable facts available on record, as far as the issue of the Central Government taking up the matter with government of Pakistan was concerned. It could, however, be said that the Central and the state governments would keep their eyes and ears open in the search of the person thought to be languishing in a jail in Pakistan through diplomatic channels. The High Court added that the counsel for the petitioner was unable to deny that the matter was identical. “Keeping in view the facts and circumstances, this writ petition is disposed of with the similar observation that in case, any reliable information is received by the Central or state government, in respect to the whereabouts of the petitioner’s father, needless to say, necessary action shall be taken”.
03-04-2020||Muktsar||Granthi tied with chain, thrashed||The granthi (priest) of a gurdwara at Kuraiwala village in Gidderbaha sub-division was allegedly tied with a chain and thrashed by some residents on Thursday.The victim, Chamkaur Singh, claimed that the attackers wanted to take the control of the gurdwara where he had been serving for six years. The police have started probing the matter. —TNS
03-04-2020||---||BBMB sets up isolation wards||
03-04-2020||Sangrur||Aspiring teachers put off protest||
03-04-2020||---||SMO gets show-cause notice for negligence||Ludhiana, April 2Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga has written to Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Civil Hospital, Dr Ravi Dutt to question about the delay in the treatment of Amarpura resident Covid positive patient. She later died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. A notice has been issued for delay in starting her treatment and defying orders of the Punjab Government to start the treatment at priority.In the notice issued, Civil Surgeon said on March 29, Amarpura based resident was referred to the Civil Hospital, wherein she was referred to ESI Hospital. The ESI Hospital again referred her to the Civil Hospital which referred her back to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where she ultimately died the next morning.The civil surgeon has asked the SMO why the patient was not attended at the first stance and was repeatedly referred to other hospitals. “This is violation of the order issued by the state government which says that any patient who has symptoms of Covid should be attended with utmost emergency and the government is providing free of cost treatment to such patients.Taking action, the SMO has issued show-cause notices to 11 hospital staff including doctor on duty in isolation ward, emergency medical officer, and staff nurses on emergency duty for negligence in treating the Amarpura resident. He has also sought explanation for the same.Meanwhile the family of the deceased claims that the patient was under treatment at Civil Hospital’s emergency OPD since March 24 and the hospital did not get her tested for Covid.SMO Ravi Dutt had earlier said he would have to check the records to know if she was taking a treatment earlier also. Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said samples of patients suffering from acute respiratory syndrome were sent for testing. Show-case notices have been sent for delaying the treatment.
03-04-2020||Ropar||Cops’ families join relief ops in Ropar||While cops are on duty most of the time to enforce lockdown and provide food to poor across the country, the family members of the police personnel in Ropar have come forward to take the responsibility of preparing face masks and packets of dry ration for the poor.Nearly 30 such families have already prepared 800 masks and 3,300 packets. — TNS
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||AAP demands monetary aid for health staff||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded that the Capt Amarinder Singh government should immediately announce monetary package for those fighting the battle against the Covid pandemic on the frontline. In a statement issued from party headquarters, Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema, while lauding the role being played by the unsung heroes of the society, including government, private doctors, healthcare workers, police personnel, sanitation workers and others, said the state government should immediately announce a special monetary package for them. It cited the example of Delhi government which had announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 1 crore each to the next of kin of any healthcare staffer fighting the battle. — TNS
03-04-2020||---||Pension on doorstep of beneficiaries||Chandigarh, April 2Rs 186 crore to be distributedAround Rs186 crore is to be distributed as social security pension among the beneficiaries for the month of March. The banks have been asked to deploy business correspondents to distribute the pension from door to door.To ensure that the 24 lakh beneficiaries of the social security pension scheme stay indoor during the curfew, the state government has directed the banks to disburse the pension at the doorstep of the beneficiaries in villages.Around Rs 186 crore is to be distributed as social security pension among the beneficiaries for the month of March. The banks have been asked to deploy business correspondents to distribute the pension from door to door.It has been pointed out that given the inability of beneficiaries to reach banks/ATMs, the Chief Minister today directed the DCs to ensure disbursement of social security pension, old-age pension and benefits to the various categories of beneficiaries through business correspondents instead of direct bank transfers.Cabinet Minister Aruna Chaudhary said the pension would be distributed in April first week. The pension for January and February has already been disbursed. Among the beneficiaries are 16.58 old-age pensioners.
03-04-2020||GS Paul||No drugs, addicts throng rehab centres||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2Call it a blessing in disguise. The narcotics supply is apparently getting dried up due to Covid-19 curfew restrictions. Consequently, there has been a multifold increase in drug addicts getting themselves registered at the outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) centres in the Majha region.However, the concept of social distancing to combat the Covid-19 spread was found to be overlooked.In Amritsar, there are total 10 OOAT centres and an estimated 250 additional drug dependants had approached these centres in the past few days. Serpentine queues at the window of Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, are a testimony to it. Dr PD Garg, professor at GMC’s department of psychiatry, said there was a spurt of 15-20 per cent patients at all 10 OOAT centres, including at Verka, Ajnala, Manawala, Baba Bakala, Lopoke, Chaugawa and Central Jail here.“The major reason is that drug supply is disrupted due to the curfew. That’s why other than regular patients with withdrawal symptoms, we have been receiving new patients, along with those who had undergone treatment earlier but again started taking drugs,” he said.The addicts develop abnormal symptoms if they do not get their daily dose of drugs they are hooked to. To satiate their craving, they are administered buprenorphine and nalaxone through the OOAT centres. The Punjab Health Department has arranged enough stock of these medicines for the next two months.However, a patient Ajay Kumar from Chheharta, said, “I had to walk down 10 km to the GMC to get medicines as the centre near my house refused to provide me the same.”Clarifying, Dr Garg said unlike medical officers, the take-home medicine for 15 days could be given only under the prescription of GMC’s designated psychiatrists. When asked about overlooking of social distancing norms, he said, “Actually, the markings had been removed. We will get it done.”Tarn Taran, which is considered as the hub of drug addicts, too witnessed rise of drug dependants but fortunately, social distancing is being maintained here.Dr Jaspreet Singh, medical officer in charge, Bhagupur drug rehabilitation centre, said around 350 fresh patients had been registered in around 13 OOAT centres in Tarn Taran, which was a 15 per cent increase.
03-04-2020||Aman Sood||Amid Covid crisis, Sanaur ashram hit by fund crunch||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 2In a dingy corner, 30-year-old Hina waits for her brunch. She will be given food only twice a day now, but she is not complaining. All she does is to keep staring at the door in the hope that someone will bring her something to eat, but she cannot speak her mind.Over 225 inmates, a majority of them orphaned children, mentally retarded, handicapped, old-aged and destitute, at the Sanaur’s All-India Pingla Ashram have been left to fend for themselves ever since the Covid curfew started. With the lockdown and curfew hours, the ration and cash donations have stopped completely.The mandatory fruits and tea with biscuits have also stopped. The ashram also runs a school for children of poor people who live in slums. It also takes care of patients who are abandoned by civil hospitals due to unavailability of attendants.“I do not know till how long I would be able to manage the affairs as there is no help coming from the administration or local residents. For the past 10 days, local supplies donated by residents everyday has almost stopped and even the cash donations have stopped,” says caretaker of the ashram, Baba Balbir Singh. “I have exhausted all my means and now I am left with ration for three days to feed 225 inmates, a majority of them who cannot even eat themselves,” he said.“Sometimes, hospitals send us patients having maggots in their wounds. We look after them too. Even those roaming on streets and others who are left abandoned in hospitals are left with us. I never say no to anyone,” he says.At present, the ashram facing a fund crunch and needs roughly Rs 30,000-40,000 daily to run the affairs. “We have not paid salary to the teachers for the past two months. If this continues, we may have to close the ashram soon,” he said.The government should direct the Health Department to send a team of doctors every week to check the inmates and provide them treatment.Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh said he would ask the Sanaur Executive Officer to visit the ashram and ensure that food and other essential items were supplied. “We will also take care of their sanitisation needs,” he added.
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Migrants taken care of, Capt Amarinder Singh tells AICC chief||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has assured Congress president Sonia Gandhi that the state did not have any problem so far as migrants are concerned in the light of Covid-19 lockdown, as he had directed the industry to absorb all such labourers stranded in the state at this critical juncture. Capt Amarinder said extensive arrangements had been made by the state to provide food and shelter to the migrant labourers, who could not leave the state in view the nationwide restrictions and sealing of borders. The issue was raised by the Congress president during a CWC meeting held through videoconferencing to take stock of the situation and formulate a strategy for the party to play a strong role in this hour of crisis. Capt Amarinder said the state government was taking all steps to address the issues arising out of movement of migrant labour back to UP and Bihar. The issue has been contained due to timely intervention and “we are making all arrangements for their food and shelter”, he added. In response to the concern expressed by Sonia on the arrangements for farmers in view of the onset of the harvesting season, the CM said arrangements were being made to ensure smooth operations with strict maintenance of social distance protocols.  On a large number of NRIs returning from abroad, he said the state had so far been able to contain the spread of the disease through intensive tracing and surveillance. — TNS
03-04-2020||---||Won’t allow any gathering: CM Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, April 2On Baisakhi festRegarding the Baisakhi celebrations, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said he had directed the Chief Secretary to discuss the matter with the SGPC. He said he would also talk to the Takht Jathedar.Taking a tough stand on the issue in the light of the Nizamuddin incident, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday completely prohibited all gatherings, including religious, in the state. He said the state government would impose a total ban on all congregations, irrespective of the religion involved.He said he would talk to Akal Takht Jathedar. He also directed the Chief Secretary to discuss the matter with the SGPC, in view of the upcoming Baisakhi festival.The Chief Minister also ordered 21-day quarantine for all those who had returned to the state from Nizamuddin (Delhi) since January and asked the police and administrative officials to move aggressively to track, trace and isolate all such people. He directed the police and health officials to constitute special teams to track and follow up on those who had returned to Punjab from Nizamuddin.Capt Amarinder was discussing and reviewing the current situation through a video conference with DCs and other senior officials of the civil administration and police department.Meanwhile, DGP Dinkar Gupta said some 200 persons from Punjab had visited Nizamuddin and returned at different times, with 12 districts believed to be affected. They were being tracked, along with some from others states who had come to Punjab for Tabligh Jamaat work.Health Secretary Anurag Aggarwal informed the Chief Minister that the department had so far received a list of 125 such persons.
03-04-2020||---||Punjab's health machinery fully ready: Chief Secy to PM||Chandigarh, April 2Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh on Thursday assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state’s health machinery was fully geared to battle the Covid-19 outbreak in the coming days.He was participating in a video-conference convened by the PM with all Chief Ministers on Covid. CM Captain Amarinder Singh could not attend the conference due to the CWC meeting.Karan Avtar Singh, along with DGP Dinkar Gupta, informed the PM that elaborate arrangements had been made to control the Covid spread in the state. He also pointed out that strict enforcement of curfew was being ensured by the civil and police administration so that the people stay at home and observe health protocols, while maintaining social distancing.The Chief Secretary told the PM that the Chief Minister was personally monitoring the entire situation across the state and all DCs had been directed to ensure supply of essential commodities and services so as to minimise the hardships faced by the people. Besides, a Group of Ministers, headed by the Chief Minister, had been constituted to take stock of the situation on day-to-day basis.A state control room had also been set up to review the preparedness and address all issues related to the pandemic.Regarding the medical treatment, the Chief Secretary informed Modi that the state government had roped in tertiary care centres and hospitals to provide healthcare facilities to the suspected as well as infected patients. As many as 1,380 beds and 101 ventilators have been earmarked in Government Medical Hospitals at Faridkot, Amritsar and Patiala for taking care of Covid patients.
03-04-2020||Jalandhar/Sangrur||116 with Tablighi links quarantined||Following the Centre’s direction to track down all participants of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, the district administration today managed to locate whereabouts of 116 such persons in the state.  Eighteen of them had arrived here in the last week of February for religious activities and had travelled in different mosques of the town.  In Kapurthala, 30 persons who had attended the congregation have also been quarantined in their homes.  In Sangrur, the Civil Surgeon said they had received a list of total 16 persons of the district. — TNS
03-04-2020||---||Ragi's cremation: Panicky villagers lock Verka village crematorium||Amritsar, April 2Netizens flay actMany on social media platforms condemned the protesters of Verka village, saying their villages would not have objected to the cremation of such an eminent personality.Much to the dismay of large sections of society, hundreds of residents of Verka village on the outskirts of the city flouted curfew norms to protest against the administration for its plan to cremate Padma Shri recipient and former Hazoori Ragi of Darbar Sahib Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa at the village cremation ground. The administration later had to cremate the deceased near the Fatehgarh Shukarchak road late in the evening.The administration had decided to cremate him at Verka considering the fact that the other two cremation grounds — Durgiana Mandir cremation ground and Shaheed Baba Deep Singh cremation ground — had four to five bodies already awaiting cremation.The ground at Verka village is at a comparatively secluded place. However, Verka residents led by Congress councillor Harpal Singh locked the entrance gate of the cremation site in the afternoon. Later, towards the evening as the police administration deployed extra force to deal with the situation.Many on social media platforms condemned the protesters and said their villages would not have objected to the cremation.The Verka residents, however, said they respected Khalsa and would even build a memorial for him but he should be cremated at an alternative site which was away from residential areas.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said the alternative cremation site was also provided by Verka villagers. He said cremation was not done in the city due to safety concerns.
03-04-2020||---||Tested +ve, former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple dies||Chandigarh, April 2Padma Shri recipient and former Hazoori Ragi of the Golden Temple Nirmal Singh Khalsa today passed away. He was tested positive for Covid-19 yesterday. With his death, the total number of casualities due to the deadly virus has reached five in the state.Also read:Khalsa died of sudden cardiac arrest at Government Medical College, Amritsar, early this morning. Health officials stated that he was put on ventilator last night.Meanwhile, the GMC test reports have cleared that six out of nine persons, family and members of Khalsa’s jatha and his immediate contacts, have tested negative for coronavirus. However, they would still be kept under observation.The administration has already sealed Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar and Tej Chowk areas in Sultanwind where Khalsa resided. The Health Department has also home quarantined four doctors who attended to Khalsa, while reports were awaited.Meanwhile, another case has been reported from Hoshiarpur district. The patient has a family history of foreign travel. A 58-year-old male, who is resident of Pansara village of Hoshiarpur, has been shifted to Government Medical College, Amritsar. According to hospital officials, he suffers from diabetes and his condition is critical. With this fresh case, the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases has reached 47 in the state.As per the Health Department, samples of 1,434 suspected cases were sent for testing, of which 1,236 were found negative and reports of 151 were awaited. A total of 47 have been found positive from seven districts. The state has reported five causalities so far. The positive cases comprise 19 from SBS Nagar, 10 Mohali, seven Hoshiarpur, five Jalandhar, three Ludhiana, two Amritsar and one Patiala.
03-04-2020||Sangrur||Volunteers help panchayats seal villages in Sangrur dist||Amid the rising Covid cases in the country, many panchayats in the Sangrur district, with the help of youth squads, have sealed the entry and exit points of their villages. After the sealing of their neighbouring villages, others have also started following, while the police have also been encouraging the same.Official sources in Sangrur told The Tribune, that till Tuesday, the district had not seen even a single positive case of coronavirus and the samples of all 11 suspects tested negative. Panchayat members are confident that by sealing their villages, they will be able to check the spread of infection.“From the last two-three days, we were discussing sealing our village to prevent the spread of infection. After taking the consent of all, we have sealed all four entry and exit points. We are allowing the entry and exit for emergency purposes only,” said Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Dhandoli village. Residents of many other villages have also set special ‘nakas’ while youngsters, with sticks and sanitisers in their hands, have been involved in thorough checking. Apart from checking the antecedents, they have also been offering sanitisers. “Though majority of residents have enough quantity of milk, wheat and other items, but there are few Below Poverty line (BPL) families, which need urgent help from the government. We have requested authorities for quick help. We have sealed all seven roads coming to our village from other sides,” said Gurpreet Singh, Sarpanch of Kohriyan village. — TNS
03-04-2020||---||Law enforcers double up as relief providers in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 2When young girls Syna and Nisha of Rajasansi baked fresh cookies for SI Manmeetpal Singh and his staff for helping their family with essential goods, the policemen couldn’t control their emotions. With teary eyes, they ate the cookies gifted to them and packed with the slogan ‘Baked for the Brave’ written on them.The police officer and his staff were a part of the recently formed village police officers’ squad that has become the human face of Punjab Police which otherwise had to wield the ‘lathi’ to ensure people stayed indoors in the fight against Covid.A heart-warming story of Head Constable Jitenderpal Singh, village police officer of Muchhal, in Amritsar, has surfaced wherein a newly born was not well and needed immediate medical attention. Jitenderpal rushed to the spot. Assisted by one his village volunteers, he took the baby along with his mother to the Civil Hospital, Amritsar. He ensured proper medical care for the baby. The video of the incident went viral on the social media platforms.With a 21-day lockdown in force, the young khaki-clad village police officers of the Punjab Police have become instrumental in providing the needy with food, shelter, medicines and emergency services. Going beyond the call of duty, they are working day in and day out to prevent the spread of Covid-19 by ensuring the implementation of the lockdown, DGP Dinkar Gupta said.“They follow a two-pronged strategy. One, enforcing curfew in the neighborhood by means of loudspeaker announcements, social media groups and roping in youth volunteers from the respective villages and two, establishing door-to-door supply of essentials through a list of volunteers such as youths, doctors, drivers, philanthropists and so on,” he said. The officers are effectively utilising various social media platforms to disseminate curfew-related guidelines in their allocated villages. They ensure that local people are well aware of the pandemic, its causes, spread and preventive actions to be taken. Through loudspeakers, they even warn the people against any curfew-related violation. To maintain the supply chain of the essential commodities, they have been tasked to list out local volunteers to distribute cooked food (langar), dry ration, medicine and other essential goods. Some of the officers even raised the slogans such as “main haan volunteer” and “main haan vehicle volunteer” to encourage more volunteers to join through social media handles.
03-04-2020||---||Police team formed for crackdown on fake news in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 2‘Onus on group administrators’DGP Dinkar Gupta said the responsibility of false posts would be on the admins of WhatsApp groups, and therefore, they should cooperate with the police in identifying those elements which want to usurp their groups for personal agendas.The state police have set up 21 open jails in the state and will notify more in coming days. Besides, crackdown on those spreading fake news has also begun.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the police have arrested 600 persons and registered 200 FIRs for violation of curfew imposed to check spread of coronavirus. “We have set up open jails to avoid mingling of these persons with inmates at existing jails,” he said.Cracking down on those spreading fake news on the Covid-19 crisis, Gupta on Friday announced the constitution of a special team to monitor all social media platforms as well as to identify and take action against anyone found to be circulating false news.The team would be headed by an ADGP-rank officer to be stationed at police headquarters, the DGP disclosed, directing all district police chiefs to take prompt action against those spreading false news. He pointed out that under the Disaster Management Act of 2005, which has now been promulgated all over country to deal with the crisis, it was an offence to spread false news.He said the onus of spreading false news would be the admin of WhatsApp group, and therefore, group admins should cooperate with the police in identifying those elements who want to usurp their group for their personal agenda.Gupta appreciated the prompt action taken by the Patiala Police in registering a criminal case against some resident for circulating false and alarming news on WhatsApp. He also appealed to the public to be wary of those trying to use the present crisis for propagating their own agenda. Meanwhile, the relief operations being carried out by the police personnel were intensified and more than two crore food units (meals and dry ration) were provided to the needy in association with gurdwaras, NGOs and volunteers on Thursday.
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ensure smooth harvesting, Punjab CM tells DCs||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the deputy commissioners to take all necessary steps to ensure hassle-free harvesting and marketing of wheat amid the continuing Covid-19 and curfew restrictions in place in the state. During a review meet via videoconference, the Chief Minister asked the DCs to ensure seamless farm operations and maintenance of the supply chain of food at the field level. The CM said a detailed advisory had already been issued by the agriculture and farmers welfare department in this regard. Elaborate arrangements were being made to harvest and procure every single grain of wheat, Capt Amarinder assured the farmers. — TNS
03-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Worrisome: Gurdaspur govt hospitals have no ventilators||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 2State has just 150-200 functional ventilatorsThe condition of Gurdaspur district is symptomatic of the entire state where, according to a conservative estimate, just 150-200 ventilators are in operation. Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq has sent an SOS to MP Sunny Deol who has agreed to provide two from his MPLAD funds. Both these ventilators will be installed at the Batala civil hospital.Punjab is staring at the ghastly scenario, wherein it will face an acute shortage of ventilators in case of a full blown up Covid epidemic. In extreme cases of Covid, ventilators become a necessity for the survival of patients.In Gurdaspur district, no government hospital has such a machine and if an outbreak actually occurs, patients will be at the mercy of private hospitals.Dubai-based construction magnate Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi has donated two such machines which are expected to be delivered to the Gurdaspur civil hospital in a day or two. The philanthropist has promised to deliver more after the first lot is installed. So much so, civil surgeons are sending official communications to him asking for help.Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq has sent an SOS to MP Sunny Deol who has agreed to provide two from his MPLAD funds. Both these ventilators, whenever they arrive, will be installed at the Batala civil hospital.The condition of Gurdaspur district is symptomatic of the entire state where, according to a conservative estimate, just 150-200 ventilators are in operation. Doctors say if Punjab faces the worst case scenario, thousands will be needed and even these may well fall short. Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, a Batala based surgeon, says if things get worse hundreds could show up at hospitals in the need to be hooked up to machines. “The problem is that there will not be enough ventilators for everyone, forcing doctors to make impossible calls about which lives to save and which not to,” he said.Dr Nijjar, in his capacity as chairman of the Gurdaspur planning board, said although the situation in Gurdaspur district was normal till yet, still the state government should release funds for adequate ventilators.Experts say even if there are enough such machines, they will be left grappling with yet another problem: Whom to put on them and whom to turn away.“A ventilator could well mean the difference between life and death for patients. But where are they in the first place? Covid is sure to shred to smithereens the tall claims made by successive State and Union government from time about providing top class healthcare facilities to its citizens,” maintained a Gurdaspur based doctor not willing to be quoted.
