03-05-2020||Patiala||Amid coronavirus, district administration surprises quarantined boy with birthday cake in Patiala||The coronavirus pandemic couldn’t play spoilsport in the birthday celebration of a 10-year-old boy – who was alone and quarantined.In fact, the district administration went the extra mile to make the Jaskeerat Singh’s birthday a memorable one.In a heart-warming gesture, district administration officials surprised 10-year-old Jaskeerat Singh, who had been quarantined at the Dukhniwaran Sahib Gurdwara, with a cake on his birthday.This was the first time that Jaskeerat had to celebrate his birthday without his family members.Notably, the grandparents of Jaskeerat are admitted to isolation facility after they have been tested positive for coronavirus on their return from Hazur Sahib.He had gone Hazur Sahib with his grandparents while his parents are in the village.Amid scare of the coronavirus spread, officials paid a surprise visit to the boy. He cut the cake and the officials sang the birthday jingle for the young one.Not only this, but the officials also gave chocolates and candies to Jaskeerat.  District administration officials informed that tehsildar Ranjit Singh—along with police officials Mangaljeet Kaur and Gagandeep Singh—made all the arrangements.Dr Kiranjot Kaur with her paramedical staff went into the quarantine facility to celebrate the birthday.  Moved by the sweet gesture, the grandparents thanked the district administration officials and management of the gurdwara for the surprise.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets ICMR nod for plasma therapy on COVID-19 patients||The Punjab government on Sunday said it has received the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approval to undertake clinical trials for plasma therapy on COVID-19 patients.The trial is expected to commence shortly, Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said.The hospitals which have partnered to undertake the clinical trial of convalescent plasma therapy are the government medical college in Amritsar and Patiala, Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot, Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research at Amritsar, the Christian Medical College and Hospital, the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and Satguru Partap Singh Hospital in Ludhiana.The therapy involves infusing patients suffering from COVID-19 with plasma from recovered patients.The inter-institution coordination would be done by principal investigators who would also ensure that the entire trial is conducted in strict accordance with the ICMR protocol at each institution, a government release said. — PTI
03-05-2020||Aman Sood||Punjab farmers resort to stubble burning, 84 cases reported so far||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 3Farmers of Punjab have again resorted to stubble burning after the harvest season. Over 84 incidents of stubble burning were recorded by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC), Ludhiana.In 2019, the state recorded over 8,500 incidents wherein wheat straw was burnt in fields.According to experts, the number of such incidents is expected to rise till May end. Farmers’ outfits and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) had appealed to farmers to avoid stubble burning amid COVID-19 crisis this year, but it seems this had little effect on farmers, and stubble burning incidents have been on the rise since past four days.A total of 15 cases of stubble burning were recorded in Bathinda, followed by 10 in Sangrur and nine in Mansa. After every wheat harvesting season, farmers utilise leftover crop in fields for fodder and the rest is burnt.However, the comparative analysis for 2018, 2019 and 2020 shows that till May 2, stubble burning has slowed down considerably from 806, 162 and 77, respectively.The data compiled by The Tribune reveals that Punjab saw as many as 80,879 cases of stubble burning in 2016 (post wheat and paddy), while the number dropped to 43,814 in 2017, only to rise again to 50,479 in 2018. Maximum challans were issued in 2018 and a fine of Rs 1.37 crore was also levied on defaulters. However, only Rs 19 lakh could be collected.“Erring farmers, backed by politically inclined farmers’ unions, refused to deposit the fine and even took officials hostage when they were approached in that connection. Investigation in many cases is still pending as farmers’ unions have threatened agitation if their members are harassed,” said an official.Due to lacking political will, the DCs concerned are yet to expedite steps to recover penalty.Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) is between ‘satisfactory to moderate’ category in Punjab, following the decrease in industrial emissions and also vehicular traffic.“We are continuously monitoring the situation and also creating awareness. Some stubble burning incidents are reported in some parts,” said member secretary Karunesh Garg.On Saturday, AQI in Punjab was 98, a little higher from the past few weeks. Amritsar and Jalandhar stood at 110 and 108, respectively, while Khanna noted AQI of 84 and had the cleanest air in Punjab.
03-05-2020||---||Panel formed for implementation of 4-9-14 scales for RMOs||Chandigarh, May 3Punjab Rural Development Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has said the state government is contemplating implementation of 4-9-14 scales for the RMOs and regularisation of Pharmacists and Class-IV employees associated with them. The minister said the Medical Officers, Pharmacists and other employees associated with healthcare in rural areas are doing exemplary work in fight against Covid-19.On the directions of the Minister, a three-member committee has been constituted to look into the matter and present a well documented report to Director, RDP covering all its aspects. The Committee shall comprise of the following members Sh Sanjeev Garg, Deputy Director – Chairman, Mr. Kuldeep Singh Banwait, DCFA – Member and Deepak Ohri, Section Officer – Member.The committee shall present its draft report to the Director on Monday i.e May 4 by noon and shall submit its final report by Tuesday, i.e May 5 by noon. The committee is required to consider implementation of 4-9-14 scale of pay for RMOS and Regularisation considering increase in financial load, overage and ineligible employees and relevant basis, like policy, guidelines, rules etc of Government of Punjab and Salary Enhancement for Pharmacists and Class IV employees.
03-05-2020||Ludhiana||Kapurthala man among two COVID-19 patients to die in Ludhiana’s DMCH||Two patients diagnosed with coronavirus died at Ludhiana’s Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, officials said.One of the two patients was a 65-year-old man from Kapurthala.  The second patient was a 62-year-old woman from Basti Jodhewal in Ludhiana.They had both tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, DMCH Medical Superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said. Both had pre-existing health conditions---the woman had heart problems and the man had hypertension.The development takes Ludhiana’s deaths to five and Kapurthala’s to two.Eom
03-05-2020||Ravi S Singh||Rashtriya Sikh Sangat expresses concern over comparison between Nanded pilgrims & Tablighis||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 3The RSS-affiliate, Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, on Sunday, expressed concern at alleged attempts by some quarters to draw a “false” and  “moral equivalence” of the conduct of members of the Tablighi Jamaat with the Sikh pilgrims from Punjab, who had tested positive for COVID-19 on their return from Nanded Sahib to the state.It has directed its Punjab leaders to visit families of the pilgrims, which are scattered across the state, to provide them with all possible help. It has also sought a report from the Punjab unit, in which they have asked the leaders to incorporate the circumstances under which the pilgrims got infected.Notably, the Punjab and Maharashtra governments are indulging in a blame game with regard to pilgrimage of the devotees. The sangat has urged the governments that efforts at this juncture should be to provide relief to the families.“The sangat urges Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to provide support to the affected families to reconstruct their livelihoods,” Rashtria Sikh Sangat national president Gurcharan Singh Gill said, adding that since the pilgrims were compelled to remain immobile in Nanded for about 40 days, it deigned on the Maharashtra government to volunteer help to them.Gill said a perfidious comparison was sought to be drawn between the “irresponsible” conduct of the Tablighis, and their deliberate flouting of government’s guidelines in taking part in the congregation in Delhi, with the Sikh pilgrims.“The pilgrims had already reached Nanded before the lockdown, and were compelled to stay put there as per government’s guidelines. They returned to Punjab under the watch and surveillance of the government machinery, including subjecting themselves to clinical tests,” the president added.“On the other hand, the Tablighis’ conduct smacks of subterfuge and wilful violation of the law. They scattered to various parts of the country incognito and remained incommunicado compelling the authorities to go on a wild goose chase,” Gill added.Gill said the design of “vested interests” appears to be inspired with an ulterior motive aimed   to attenuate the questionable conduct of the Tablighis.“Have they any justification regarding Tablighi head Muhammad Saad Kandhalvi giving the sermonic call to the Tablighis to flout the lockdown and social-distancing norms, and invoking religion to buttress his move?” Gill asked.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab state toll plazas to resume operations from May 4||State toll plazas in Punjab will be reinstated from May 4, officials said.Except for exempted categories, everybody passing through the state toll plazas will have to pay the toll, officials said. The National Highways Authority of India has already restarted toll plazas on national highways 15 days ago.Toll plazas had been temporarily suspended in March after Punjab, and then central government, gave lockdown orders to halt the spread of coronavirus.Punjab has been under curfew since.Both central government and states are looking at ways to slowly restoring some services while continuing to keep areas that have coronavirus cases under restrictions.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder announces financial aid for Punjab martyr, mourns sacrifice of 5 security personnel||Expressing shock and grief over the loss of five security personnel in North Kashmir’s Handwara region, Chief Minister on Sunday mourned the sacrifice of the bravehearts, while announcing a job to a family member with Rs 10 lakh financial aid to the next of kin of NK Rajesh Kumar, a soldier who hailed from District Mansa of Punjab.As news of the martyrdom of the four Indian Army soldiers and one J&K policeman came in the morning, an anguished Captain Amarinder joined the nation “in saluting the bravery and valour” of the martyrs, and prayed to God to “grant strength to their families in this time of grief.”The five security personnel, including an Army Colonel and a major, were killed in an encounter with terrorists, who had taken some civilians' hostage in a house.The Chief Minister described it as a ghastly and cowardly act by the terrorists, who continued to be pushed in by Pakistan from across the border despite the whole world, including the two nations, currently engaged in a bigger war against the COVID-19.While terrorism could not be condoned at any time, resorting to such an act at a critical time like this showed a total lack of shame on the part of Islamabad, which seemed hell-bent on exploiting the opportunity for their gains, said Captain Amarinder.But India would not take such attacks on its security personnel, he said, warning that notwithstanding the COVID-19 battle at hand, nobody should make the mistake of trying to take advantage of our country’s perceived vulnerability at this difficult time.Meanwhile, extending his heartfelt condolences to the family of Naik Rajesh Kumar of 21 RR (Rashtriya Rifles, parent unit 3 GUARDS), who hailed from village Rajrana in tehsil Sardulgarh of Mansa district, the Chief Minister said his heart went out to them.He announced financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh to the next of the kin of the martyr, including Rs. 5 lakh as ex-gratia and Rs. 5 lakh in lieu of plot, in addition to a government job to one eligible member of the victim family, as per the state government’s existing policy.The body of the martyr will arrive in his village on Monday where he would be cremated with due honours, keeping the COVID-19 safety protocols in mind, said an official spokesperson.
03-05-2020||Nawanhshar||Nawanshahr reports 62 new positive cases, district tally now 85||Some 62 people tested positive in Nawanshahr in a span of 24 hours---the biggest single day spike in a district that was the first to register a coronavirus case.Nawanshahr, a district that now goes by SBS Nagar, now has 85 cases, of which 66 are now active.Some 130 more pilgrims are under institutional quarantine at two places in the district--- Rayat Bahra institute and a community health centre in Behram.Ninety-five percent of the cases---62---are pilgrims who just returned from Nanded in Maharashtra. Others in the active count are a truck driver and his two contacts.The district reported its first case in March, when a 70-year-old man who returned from a trip to Germany and Italy tested positive hours after his death. The development led to 19 more cases from the district.Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani: “Four people who returned from the pilgrimage had been kept at civil hospital initially, of whom one had tested positive. Some 62 returnees have tested positive in the district in all,” he said.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab has conducted 20,000 RT-PCR tests so far: Govt||The Punjab Government on Saturday completed a milestone in its fight against Covid, with the total number of RT-PCR tests crossing the 20,000 mark, even as the state geared up to add more lab and testing facilities in the days ahead.Good capacity increased by the Medical Education Department and the Health Department has helped the state scale up its testing to 1500 a day, which Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has further directed to be ramped up to 6,000 a day by mid-May, to cope with the rush of migrants and other Punjabis expected to return home in the coming days.The increased testing has led to an exponential increase in the Tests Per Million, said ACS Vini Mahajan (IC and DGR&PG), disclosing that the state had tested 10,000 samples by April 25, and thereafter successfully conducted an additional 10,000 tests in just 7 days to complete 20,000 tests by May 2.To further increase the testing capacity in the State, a proposal has been sent to GoI to set up 4 new labs in the District Hospitals at Barnala, Roopnagar, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur. Additionally, a proposal to procure 15 TruNaat machines has been moved, and the state is also considering to start the CBNaat testing in Patiala and Faridkot, said Mahajan.The Department of Health & Family Welfare has also set up 225 Flu corners have been set up across the state in District Hospitals (DH), Sub-Divisional Hospitals (SDH), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and Primary Health Centres (PHCs), for enhanced surveillance. Of these, 225 Flu corners, 22 DH flu corners, 41 SDH, 45 CHCs and 3 PHCs in the state are collecting samples for RT-PCR testing. Further, said Mahajan, to facilitate the screening, 379 Rapid Response Teams (RRTs), comprising Medical officers/Multipurpose Health Workers/Staff Nurses have been deployed to conduct active surveillance and identification of people with Influenza-like Symptoms(ILI) or Severe Acute Respiratory Illness through house-to-house visits. The state has made use of innovative testing techniques such as the use of Mobile Sample Collecting Kiosks, Pool Testing etc, and as on April 30, 5,788 pooled samples had been tested.All the medical personnel have been given proper training to ensure a smooth sample collection process. All required protective gear, such as PPE Kits/N95 masks have been provided to all healthcare works to ensure their complete safety. To facilitate the screening, 379 Rapid Response Teams (RRT), comprising of Medical officers/Multi-Purpose Health Workers/Staff Nurse have been deployed to conduct active surveillance and identification of people with Influenza-like Symptoms(ILI) or Severe Acute Respiratory Illness by house-to-house visits.The State has made use of innovative testing techniques such as the use of mobile Sample collecting Kiosks, Pool testing etc. Pool testing has been started in the state to enhance the testing capacity. 5788 pooled samples have been tested as on 30th April 2020.Mahajan, who heads the Health Sector Response and Procurement Committee (HSRPC)  set up by the government to assist and guide the Departments of Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education and Research with management activities under COVID-19, said protective equipment was being provided to all the healthcare workers to ensure their complete safety. As on 28th April, there are 26697 PPE kits and 85709 N 95 mask in stock. It may be noted that with 4 N95 masks manufacturers and 22 PPE kit manufacturers in the state receiving Government of India approval, the state is comfortably placed on getting these requirements met. Other members of the Committee are Anirudh Tiwari PSF; Anurag Agarwal PSHFW; D.K. Tiwari PSMER; Rahul Kumar MD NHM; Ravi Bhagat Spl. Secy DGR&PG, along with medical experts Dr K. K. Talwar, Adviser to Govt of Pb. Med Education & Health  (Former Director PGI Chandigarh); Dr Raj Bahadur VC BFUHS; and Dr Rajesh Kumar (former HoD SPH PGI). The Centre for Policy Research, Clinton Health Access Initiative and global experts are working with the Committee to prepare a scientific testing strategy for the state, apart from guiding on ramping up capacities.Further, inspection and supervision committees have been set up and operationalized from Medical Colleges to Level 2 and Level 3 COVID-19 Care facilities. It may be noted that 85 facilities with 28340 beds have been identified for COVID Care Centers across the State for asymptomatic to mild case-patients, and these will receive medical support from the Health Department. 3000 beds under Level 2 facilities are being operationalized directly by the Health Department in Phase 1. Phase 2 is planned to operationalize another 2000 beds under Level 2. Similarly, 387 ICU/HDU beds and 131 ventilator beds are being earmarked for COVID requirements.
03-05-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||33 test positive for coronavirus in Bathinda in a single day||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 3A steep hike in Covid-19 patients was reported in the Bathinda district as 33 more tested positive on Saturday night, taking the total number of cases in the district to 35 so far.Meanwhile, a 28-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient from Maur Khurd passed away. He had returned from Jaisalmer in Rajasthan and was undergoing treatment at the Faridkot Medical College. His test report is yet to come and his family members have claimed that if his report returns positive, they will not take his body to their home.Bathinda has also become a Covid-19 hotspot and has been named as a red zone. This has led to panic amongst the residents who are raising questions on the poor management of the state government in bringing back pilgrims from Nanded Sahib. They claimed that they should have been tested before leaving for Punjab and even on their arrival they should have been kept in quarantine at government centres, instead of sending them home for quarantine.In Mansa, three more positive cases have been reported. All of them are pilgrims who returned from Nanded Sahib. With these cases, the total toll of cases reported in Mansa has gone up to 16. Four have been cured.On Saturday night, test reports of 126 persons came back, from which 33 were positive. In the last four days, 335 samples were sent for testing, but testing has been slow. However, the health department had sent the reports of 99 persons to a private lab for testing.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said: “There is no need to panic as all the cases reported in Bathinda are persons who came from outside (Nanded) and they were all kept in government quarantine centre.”
03-05-2020||Aurangabad||Two Punjab returnees among three new coronavirus cases in Nanded||Three more people, including two drivers who returned from Punjab, tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra's Nanded district on Sunday, an official said.With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Nanded has gone up to 29, he said."This morning, three persons tested positive for coronavirus. Out of them, two are drivers who returned from Punjab after providing a vehicle service," Nanded's civil surgeon Dr Neelkanth Bhosikar said.The third new patient is a female from Deglur Road area of Nanded, he said in a release."Now, the number COVID-19 patients who returned to Nanded from Punjab has gone up to five," the official said.The total number of COVID-19 cases in Nanded has now reached 29. Two of these patients died during treatment, the release said.On Saturday, 20 pilgrims currently residing at Nanded's Gurdwara Langar Sahib tested coronavirus positive.After this, Nanded Guardian Minister Ashok Chavan said the possibility of the drivers, who had ferried pilgrims from a gurdwara in Nanded to Punjab in buses, spreading the coronavirus infection among them cannot be ruled out. PTI
03-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Gunfire near US gurdwara triggers panic, 5 detained for shooting at squirrels||Police in Californian city of Tracy went into an alert mode after reports of "bullets flying around a Gurdwara" reached the sheriff's office on Friday evening.Officials said the San Joaquin County Sheriff received calls around 6:30 pm reporting a person was shooting from a property off Hansen Road in the direction of the Gurdwara off Grant Line Road.Responding Tracy police officers detained five people at the scene.***UPDATE TO THE EARLIER SHOTS FIRED INCIDENT IN TRACY***A total of 5 firearms were recovered; 3 rifles and 2 handguns. Three Hispanic male adults were cited for negligent discharge of a firearm. Attached is a picture of the weapon used today. pic.twitter.com/svarSjHwZ1  After further investigation, the sheriff office said that they discovered a few family members were shooting at ground squirrels. Some rounds had ricocheted off the ground and flew towards the temple.No injury was reported, but windows of cars were shot out.Shots fired in the direction of the Sikh Temple in Tracy shortly after 630 pm turned out to be neighbors shooting at ground squirrels. No injuries reported, only some property damage. Investigation ongoing. pic.twitter.com/PUiWMwBtKJ
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: In steepest rise yet, Punjab registers 332 infections in one day; case tally now over 1,100||Punjab's coronavirus tally rose to 1,103 cases on Sunday, with the state reporting 332 in a span of 24 hours----its steepest rise yet.Sixteen of Punjab 22 districts registered new cases.Amritsar registered the highest number of COVID-19 cases for second day in a row---the district recorded 75 infections in a span of 24 hours, a development takes the district tally to 218.Amritsar has recorded 208 new cases in less than a week.Six districts---Amritsar, SBS Nagar (62), Hoshiarpur (46), Muktsar (43), Bathinda (33), Gurdaspur (24)---accounted for 85 per cent of Sunday’s cases.Ludhiana (16), Ropar (9), Fatehgarh Sahib (4), Sangrur (4), Jalandhar (4), Ferozepur (2), Mansa (3), Barnala (2), SAS Nagar (2)  Patiala (1) all recorded new cases.In Patiala, a 75-year-old woman tested positive for coronavirus. She had returned from Hazur Sahib. District health department informed that she was being shifted to the isolation ward.Patiala Civil Surgeon informed that out of 45 samples taken yesterday, only one tested positive. In the meanwhile, two corona positive patients, who recovered, were discharged on Sunday.Punjab’s numbers have swollen exponentially over the past week: 65 per cent of Punjab's 1,102 cases have been recorded in the past five days alone.Amritsar now has the most number of cases at 218, followed by Jalandhar (124), Ludhiana (111), SAS Nagar (94), Hoshiarpur (88), Patiala (86), SBS Nagar (85), Muktsar (50), Bathinda (35), Gurdaspur (30), Ferozepur (29), Moga (28), Pathankot (25), Mansa (16), Fatehgarh Sahib (16), Tarn Taran (14), Ropar (14), Kapurthala (13), Sangrur (11), Faridkot (6), Fazilka (4) and Barnala (4). The seven districts with the highest number of cases---Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, SAS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Patiala and SBS Nagar---account for over 75 per cent of Punjab's cases.   Death toll risesLudhiana, Ferozepur and Kapurthala reported deaths from Covid-19.Ferozepur recorded its first death from the virus. The deceased has been identified as a resident of Ali ke village, and was being treated at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College after he tested positive a few days ago, officials said.Two people died at a hospital in Ludhiana, one of whom was an elderly man from Phagwara in Kapurthala. Both were admitted to Ludhiana's DMCH Hospital and tested positive for the infection on Saturday.The man from Phagwara was 65 years old and was a resident of Palahi village, officials said.Pagwara district administration said health teams would collecting swab of his primary contacts for testing.This takes Kapurthala's death tally to two from 14 infections.The deaths in Ludhiana have yet to be added to the state death toll, which currently stands at 21.
03-05-2020||Saibal Chatterjee||Punjab in Rishi Kapoor’s veins||Hindi cinema of the 1970s and 1980s, the two decades that saw Rishi Kapoor at his peak, rarely, if ever, sought geographical or cultural specificity in the stories that it told. The Mumbai movie industry catered to a pan-Indian audience. In the films that it produced, therefore, it refrained from placing its characters in a defined ethos. On the stray occasions that it did, the manner of doing so was strictly superficial.Kapoor, a Punjabi by birth, was a youth icon whose appeal transcended linguistic boundaries. Several of the major directors that the hugely popular actor worked with had roots in Punjab but they did not always set their films in the state. His illustrious father, Raj Kapoor, who launched his career as a lead actor in 1973 by casting him in the super-successful Bobby, was born in Peshawar, North West Frontier Province.Lyallpur in undivided Punjab was the birthplace of H.S. Rawail, with whom the actor did 1976’s Laila Majnu. And Yash Chopra, who cast Kapoor in the multi-starrer Kabhie Kabhie in 1976 and went on to do other films with him, including Chandni (1989), was born in Lahore. But with Rishi Kapoor, they did not ever make a trip back to their roots.Making of a starIt wasn’t until the mid-1980s that Kapoor played a role in a film that was located wholly in Punjab — Sukhwant Dhadda’s Ek Chadar Maili Si. Adapted from Rajinder Singh Bedi’s Sahitya Akademi Award-winning Urdu novel of the same name, the social drama wasn’t a box-office success. But all these years later, the film stands out as a shining example of a piece of formidable literature that was effectively brought to life on the big screen with the aid of great performances from the actors and outstanding cinematography.Ek Chadar Maili Si, which had outstanding performances from Hema Malini and Rishi Kapoor as a mother of four and her younger brother-in-law in rural Punjab whose relationship undergoes a transformation when the former’s alcoholic husband (played by Kulbhushan Kharbanda) is killed in a case of mistaken identity by the brother of a sexually assaulted girl.The film deserves to be rediscovered by audiences. It ranks among the four best screen adaptations of works by Punjabi writers, alongside Chandraprakash Dwivedi’s Pinjar (based on Amrita Pritam’s celebrated novel), Mani Kaul’s Uski Roti (a 1969 film adapted from a Mohan Rakesh short story) and Rajendra Bhatia’s Pavitra Paapi (1970), based on Nanak Singh’s novel of the same name. The last-named film came into existence at the insistence of Rawalpindi-born Balraj Sahni, a great admirer of the writer’s literary output.In the context of Rishi Kapoor’s career, Ek Chadar Maili Si, set in pre-Independence Punjab, is a marked departure. It was the only literary adaptation that the actor was ever a part of. The film allowed him to traverse the entire gamut from a happy-go-lucky youngster in love with a bubbly nomadic girl (Poonam Dhillon) to an emotionally conflicted man who, under the pressure of social custom, is required to marry his sister-in-law, who is more than 10 years older than him.Ek Chadar Maili Si was a sharp critique of the practice of chaadar daalna, which was prevalent in parts of Punjab. Kapoor’s interpretation of the character of Mangal contained the seeds of his evolution in the new millennium as an able character actor who played a wide range of roles with panache in films such as Do Dooni Char, Kapoor & Sons, Mulk and Agneepath.In Habib Faisal’s Do Dooni Chaar (2010), Kapoor is a Punjabi middle-class mathematics teacher Santosh Duggal, who lives with his family in a cramped apartment in Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar. The teacher depends on a rickety scooter to get him around town but he nurtures the hope of buying a car someday. Do Dooni Chaar was a slice-of-life drama enlivened by Kapoor’s chemistry with his real-life wife Neetu Singh, with whom he was reuniting on the screen after a long hiatus. The film revealed the actor’s ability to play down his starry qualities and flesh out a completely believable middle-aged Delhiite.The patriarch arrivesAround the same period, Kapoor had two films that had him in the role of a Punjabi patriarch — Sadiyaan (2010) and Patiala House (2011). In the former, helmed by Raj Kanwar, who directed Shahrukh Khan’s debut film (Deewana, 1992) and also launched the career of Priyanka Chopra (Andaaz, 2003), Kapoor is Rajveer, the head of a Lahore-based family who, in 1947, flees across the newly drawn border with his wife Amrit (Rekha). In the house they move into, Amrit finds a boy abandoned by a Muslim family that has left everything behind to escape the Partition riots. Rajveer and Amrit raise the foundling as their own son. He grows up as a Sikh boy Ishaan. On a trip to Kashmir, he falls in love with a Muslim girl. The latter’s family rejects his proposal for marriage. When Rajveer and Amrit get wind of the development, they decide to reveal that Ishaan is actually a Muslim boy.Sadiyaan was a box-office failure, but Nikhil Advani’s Patiala House, loosely inspired by the life and career of English left-arm spinner Monty Panesar, who was addressed by his fans as the Sikh of Tweak. The film had Kapoor in the role of an ageing turbaned Sikh Londoner who cannot reconcile himself with the idea of his son (Akshay Kumar) playing for England. His father eventually relents: it takes an imitation of Lala Amarnath’s unusual bowling style — a short run-up and delivery off the wrong foot — to bring the old man around. The climax was a doff of the hat to Lala Amarnath’s iconic status in Indian cricket history. Kapoor had played another London-based turbaned Sikh with customary aplomb in Imtiaz Ali’s Love Aaj Kal. His character, hotelier Veer Singh Panesar, gives life-altering tips to the protagonist, played by Saif Ali Khan, on matters of the heart. Veer narrates his own love story set in the 1960s, with Saif also playing the old man’s younger avatar.A different actThe last phase of Kapoor’s acting career, during which he played his age, allowed him to explore human foibles and frailties with greater leeway than his stint as a romantic hero afforded him. It wasn’t surprising that directors opted to use the emotional warmth that his screen persona exuded by casting him as an avuncular Punjabi gentleman who could be cantankerous when things did not go his way.Be it the temperamental Bhajanlal Bhalla in Umesh Shukla’s All is Well (2015), the impish 90-year-old Amarjeet Kapoor in Kapoor & Sons (2016), the larger-than-life Guggi Tandon in the romantic comedy Patel Ki Punjabi Shaadi (2017) or the standoffish long-time Old Delhi resident Raj Mathur in Leena Yadav’s Rajma Chawal, Kapoor gave his all to every role he played, revealing his amazing versatility and adaptability.Punjabi cinematographer-filmmaker Manmohan Singh (whose credits as director of photography include the epochal 1981 Punjabi film Chann Pardesi, besides Lekin…, Maachis, Chandni, Betaab and Dil to Pagal Hai) cast Kapoor opposite Tabu in the romantic drama Pehla Pehla Pyar (1994) but the ethos of the film was indeterminate.One of Kapoor’s last films, Jhootha Kahin Ka, was directed by Punjab’s very own Smeep Kang. It was, however, a Hindi-language comedy-drama that did not have much do in a direct sense with Punjab. But Kapoor, as always, stood out in an ensemble cast.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Compensate farmers for value cut: SAD||205 prisoners freed to decongest jailsMoga: The district administration of Moga released at least 205 prisoners and undertrials, who were facing petty criminal cases as per the directions of the Supreme Court. The move was taken to decongest the state prisons as a precautionary measure in wake of Covid. The Chief Judicial Magistrate of Moga, Bagicha Singh, said 106 convicts and 99 undertrials had been released on parole and bail, respectively, from the sub-jail of Moga and modern jail of Faridkot. TNSWedding at club, president bookedMuktsar: The Malout police have booked Anu Ahuja, president, Citizen’s Club, Malout, for booking the club for a wedding held on April 26 in violation of the curfew imposed in view of Covid crisis. Police officials said a large number of people had gathered at the venue. A case under Sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused, who is yet to be arrested. Further investigations are on. TNSHarsimrat seeks stipend for med internsChandigarh: Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has demanded a stipend of Rs15,000 for interns of Gian Sagar Medical College, Banur, asking the state and the Central governments to ensure their grievances were addressed. In a letter written to the Union Health Minister as well as Secretary of the empowered group on public grievance and suggestions, Harsimrat apprised them of the financial problems being faced by the interns of Gian Sagar Medical College. TNS
03-05-2020||---||6 health workers among 187 +ve; tally 772||Chandigarh, May 2With 187 new Covid-19 cases reported today, the state count has reached 772. The bigger worry now is that frontline health workers have also started getting infected. The cases reported positive today include four ASHA workers from Moga, a laboratory technician and a ward attendant at a community health centre at Doda in Muktsar district.Of the fresh cases, 53 were reported from Amritsar, 31 Hoshiarpur, 22 Moga, 21 each from Patiala and Ludhiana, 15 Jalandhar, nine Ferozepur, six Fatehgarh Sahib, three Muktsar, two SAS Nagar and one each from Gurdaspur, Sangrur, Ropar and Kapurthala.With 53 new cases, Amritsar district now has the maximum number of Covid patients. With 133 active cases at present, the district has so far seen eight recoveries and two deaths. Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said medical teams deployed at quarantine centers were regularly monitoring the health of quarantined persons.Besides Amritsar, a major spike was seen in Hoshiarpur after 31 persons tested positive for Covid-19. All these are pilgrims who had returned from Nanded. At least 32 such persons have been quarantined at various centres since their return from Nanded. The tally of Covid-19 cases has reached 44 in the district.Another alarming rise in the number of cases was reported from Moga. According to health officials, 22 new cases came to the fore on Saturday, taking the total to 28. A senior official said 17 of them were Nanded returnees and four ASHA workers. One NRI, who had come from Dubai, has also tested positive.In Muktsar, a laboratory technician, a ward attendant at a health centre at Doda village and a combine harvester driver who had returned from Rajasthan to Doda village tested positive today.In the last one week, 464 cases have been reported. On April 24, the total number of cases in the state was 298. However, the situation turned grim in the last three days as 397 cases have been reported since Thursday.As per the health department, so far samples of 24,868 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 19,316 were found negative and reports of 4,780 were awaited.BOXDistrict-wise casesCases Confirmed DeathsAmritsar 143 2Jalandhar 119 4Ludhiana 94 4SAS Nagar 93 2Patiala 89 1Hoshiarpur 42 1Moga 28Ferozepur 27Pathankot 25 1SBS Nagar 23 1Tarn Taran 14Mansa 13Kapurthala 13 1Fatehgarh Sahib 12Muktsar 7Faridkot 6Sangrur 6Gurdaspur 5 1Ropar 5 1Fazilka 4Barnala 2 1Bathinda 2Total 772 20BoxTotal tested samples 24,868Negative 19,316Reports Awaited 4780Positive cases: 772Cured: 108Deaths: 20
03-05-2020||Saurabh Malik
||High Court bars entry of advocates, public||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 2 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today banned the entry of advocates, their clerks, law interns and the general public inside its building till further orders, while further streamlining the process of hearing matters through videoconferencing in view of the Covid outbreak. An order issued on Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha’s behalf by Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry said: “All types of cases, in which there is an urgency, shall be entertained by the High Court. However, the urgency shall be determined by the nominated Bench through mentioning keeping in mind the prevailing extremely volatile situation, curfew, lockdown, hotspot area and containment zone in Chandigarh and surrounding areas of Punjab and Haryana.” The order, making it clear that mentioning would be allowed to be made to the Judges for determining whether a particular matter warranted hearing, is in sync with the demand of lawyers and marks a clear-cut departure from High Court’s directives issued in the initial days of restrictive functioning. Making the system more flexible to accommodate more cases, the order added that the required number of the Division and Single Benches would be nominated by the Chief Justice as per the requirement and requests for a particular day.
03-05-2020||Patiala||Specialist doctors to get Rs 5,000 a day||Amid the pandemic, the state government is going to pay Rs 5,000 honorarium per day to any specialist doctor who volunteers to perform Covid duty. The initiative is said to have been taken to increase the workforce to fight the onslaught of the virus. A letter written by the Director, National Health Mission, Punjab, has already been issued to all Civil Surgeons in this regard.Consequently, Civil Surgeons across the state have been directed to hire staff to increase the preparedness for future.A specialist doctor, who holds a post-graduation degree in medicine, chest, TB or anaesthesia will get Rs 5,000 per day while an MBBS doctor Rs 3,500 per day. Similarly, an Ayurveda officer will get Rs 2,000 while a staff nurse Rs 1,000 per day for performing Covid duties.Besides, the department will also be recruiting staff to ramp up testing facilities in the state. The laboratory technicians will be roped in at Rs 1,000 per day. A ward attendant, who could be asked to shift the bodies, will be hired at Rs 750 per day.The Civil Surgeon in each district will be hiring the staff on a first-come, first-serve basis. Youth would be given preference in the hiring process, officials said.Parvinder Sidhu, Director, National Health Mission, Punjab, said, “We have already received many applications of doctors who are ready to volunteer. District-wise mapping of doctors is underway.” — TNS
03-05-2020||Faridkot||Stuck for 40 days, Japanese youth quarantined||A Japanese youth stuck in the state for over 40 days was placed under quarantine in the Officers’ Club by the Health Department here on Saturday. The administration came to know about Ryoma Tanaka today after he reached Faridkot from Pathankot along with a local youth. Rajan Kumar, a youth of Balbir Basti, Faridkot, informed the district administration that he had met a ‘helpless’ tourist when he was on the way from Pathankot to Faridkot on Friday. The Japanese youth said after visiting Kolkata, Mumbai and Chamba in Himachal Pradesh, he got stuck in Pathankot when the lockdown was announced. His flight back home was cancelled indefinitely. After a month of stay in a hotel in Pathankot, he ran out of money. Rajan said the tourist met him near Pathankot and begged for help. “Not bothering about the consequences, I asked him to accompany me and stay in my home in Faridkot. However, I was duty-bound to inform the district administration about him,” Rajan said. “We have also informed the Japanese Embassy about him,” said Paramdeep Singh Khaira, Subdivisional Magistrate, Faridkot. — TNS
03-05-2020||Nakodar||2 held for bid to run over ASI||The police on Saturday arrested two persons and booked three women on charges of attacking a police party on Friday. SHO Lakhvir Singh said the accused had been identified as Amarjit Singh and his brother Karamjit Singh, residents of Jhugian village. He said he received a call from a police party that a car driven by Amarjit Singh was signalled to stop but he tried to run over Assistant Sub-Inspector Ashwani Kumar. — OC
03-05-2020||
||Shops to open from 9 am to 1 pm in green, orange zones||Chandigarh, May 2 Shops, including liquor vends, will open in green and orange zones across districts from 9 am to 1 pm from tomorrow. There will, however, be no relaxations in red and containment zones. The decision to change the timings from the current 7 am to 11 am has been taken in response to requests from people in various districts to open the shops after 9 am, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said after the issue came up for discussion during today’s Cabinet meeting. He asked the Chief Secretary to issue necessary directives to DCs to notify the changes. Officials in the Excise and Taxation Department said though the green light to open liquor shops had been given from tomorrow, it might take at least a couple of days to coordinate with the Deputy Commissioners to identify the liquor shops that could be open in green and orange zones, other than containment pockets. Amarinder has also directed the police to come down heavily on those found violating the curfew restrictions or otherwise disrupting the state’s law and order.  The Chief Minister also made it clear that the government would make all possible arrangements to bring back people from other states, and facilitate those stranded in Punjab, to return home.
03-05-2020||---||SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal’s wife passes away||Amritsar, May 2Shiromani Parbandhak Gurdwara Committee president Gobind Singh Longowal’s wife Amarpal Kaur (59) died at a Sangrur hospital this evening.Confirming this, SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said she felt uneasiness around 6 pm and was rushed to the hospital, but could not survive.It is learnt that she had suffered a mild attack. She was a teacher and the younger sister of Dr Inderjeet Kaur, president of All India Pingalwara Society.
03-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||Students given rotten wheat under Mid-day Meal Scheme||Tribune News Service Sangrur, May 2 Students of a government-aided senior school reportedly received rotten wheat from the authorities.  As per information, the authorities of Islamia Kamboj Senior Secondary School (IKSSS), Malerkotla, reportedly distributed rotten wheat among 50 students under the Mid-day Meal Scheme.  When the students reached home with packets of rotten wheat, the parents of a student filed a complaint with the administration.  “The wheat they gave to our children is unfit for consumption. Despite having a fresh stock, the  teachers deliberately did this. We fail to understand why rotten wheat was given when they have fresh supplies,” said the father of a student. Another parent said: “The government should get the supplies checked at the state-level. Our supplies were changed, but I am not sure if this was done in other places too.” A parent said: “The school staff distributing the ration too should be held accountable.” SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey confirmed that poor quality wheat was given to the students. “I pulled up the school authorities and sought explanation,” Panthey added.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Won’t take pay cuts: Govt employees||Employees have opposed the move of the state government to reduce their salaries.  Following an emergency meeting called by the Sanjha Mulazam Manch, its coordinator Sukhchain Khaira said instead of encouraging the government employees “who are at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, the government is burdening them with financial cuts, leaving the ministers, MLAs and officers out”. It was pointed out that instead of cutting the cellphone allowance of the employees, the telephone allowance of Rs 15,000 per month being paid to the ministers, MLAs and MP should be withdrawn. There was no justification for paying that much when all telephone companies were providing unlimited calls and data in just Rs 2,000 per month, he claimed. In view of the financial crisis, the appointment of OSDs, advisers, chairmen and others be cancelled. They  rejected the recommendations to freeze the DA. —TNS
03-05-2020||
||Deol: Chalk out strategy to bring back stranded||Chandigarh, May 2 Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol, in a letter to the Minister of External Affairs, S Jaishankar, has sought instructions for the officials concerned to form a common strategy/policy  for repatriation of citizens stranded abroad. He said precautions should be taken at all levels while bringing back the stranded Indians. The MP said: “A large number of Indians, including students and tourists, have been stuck at various places with limited resources for over a month now. They are away from their near and dear ones and facing financial problems too.”  He said: “The stranded citizens are concerned over the rising number of Covid cases and feel they will be safe here.” “I have been approached by a number of residents from my constituency. Most of them want their loved ones back,” he added.
03-05-2020||---||Punjab to scale up testing to 6,000/day||Chandigarh, May 2The role of the state Health Department came under the scanner over the delayed RT-PCR Covid tests of Nanded returnees. The matter was discussed during the Cabinet meeting held via videoconferencing today.The state has witnessed a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, with 292 returnees testing positive. It was pointed out that many pilgrims lodged in special camps are yet to be tested.Focus on migrants’ screeningCM Capt Amarinder Singh told the Chief Secretary to coordinate with the Centre to scale up the testing capacity to 20,000 a day to cope with the influx of migrants and others expected to return in a few weeks.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh told his Cabinet colleagues that he had directed augmentation of the Covid testing facilities in the state to 6,000 a day by May 15, instead of previously targeted 5,800 a day by May-end.On large number of pilgrims testing positive, the Chief Minister said it was clear that Punjab could not rely on tests conducted on its people in states where they were stranded.The Chief Secretary was asked to coordinate with the Centre to further scale up the testing capacity to 20,000 a day to cope with the influx of migrants and others expected to return over the next few weeks.Rapid testing would also need to be scaled up to at least 2 lakh a day, the Chief Secretary said, adding that Baba Farid university had been told to explore the feasibility of setting up a testing facility in Jalandhar for which the government was allocating Rs 1 crore.Cabinet decisionsPvt lab roped inFrom initial three testing facilities, the number of such centres in Punjab has gone up to seven, with Dr Lal PathLabs also allowed to conduct tests. The lab collected 2,000 samples on Saturday.Parole extension clearedThe Cabinet approved extension of parole period beyond 16 weeks for those sentenced to seven years or less, for which it cleared amendments to the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners Act, 1962.Outsourced appointmentsThe Council of Ministers cleared various appointments of vital staff via outsourcing in the viral testing laboratories and isolation wards at medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot.Approval for 4,300 GoGsEx-post facto approval was given to the appointment of 4,300 Guardians of Governance. The Cabinet agreed to amend the transfer policy of the education department to allow teachers seeking transfer after 18 months of posting in border areas.
03-05-2020||Sahnewal MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon feels the devotees arriving from a hotspot area as Maharashtra should have been handled smartly by the government.||Punjab Govt failed to handle Hazur Sahib devotees smartly||"Sending the devotees home initially and later calling them back clearly shows the mismanagement on the part of the Punjab Government which has added to Covid figures," says Dhillon.The state government should have made prior arrangements and taken preventive measures by issuing precautionary directives to the Health Department in this concern."When the SGPC had offered all its serais and medical facilities of Guru Ram Das Hospital for devotees returning from Hazur Sahib, why was the government bent upon harassing, humiliating and starving the pilgrims?" he asked.Unfortunately, the role of the SGPC in fighting Covid-19 has been overlooked ever since. The Punjab Government should adopt the ration distribution policy of Haryana where NGOs have been roped in for the task. The uneven distribution in Punjab has multiplied the woes of the needy. The non-blue card holders have got no support from the government."Special concern should be shown towards the farming community. Maximum passes should be issued to minimise their agonies. Norms should be relaxed for paddy sowing as the shortage of manpower and other resources is bound to hit sowing. Regular supply of electricity in the rural areas during the paddy season should be ensured," he says.Keeping in view the present scenario, it would not at all be wise to relax the lockdown. Our medical facilities are not robust enough to handle emergencies, says Dhillon.— As told to Lovleen Bains
03-05-2020||---||Railways uses lockdown to remove bottlenecks||New Delhi, May 2The Railways has used the lockdown period for executing some complex and long-pending maintenance works like re-modeling of the railway yard and redoing tracks where a train can switch to another track. Several bridges have been repaired and among the many tasks, the long-disused foot overbridge at Ludhiana has been removed.Machinery at workAround 500 modern machines along with overhead equipment maintainers have worked regularly to complete overdue maintenance of 12,270-km track.In Ludhiana, 100-year-old twin foot overbridges had been closed to passenger use since 2014. However, dismantling of the old bridge, which had overhead electric supply line running under it, meant closure of 10-12 hours for several days, which was not feasible on the New Delhi-Amritsar route.Apart from ensuring supply chains, the Indian Railways executed these long-pending maintenance works during the lockdown when passenger services were suspended due to Covid, the Railways said in a statement.The Railways focused on several long-pending overdue maintenance works requiring traffic block of long durations. These works were pending for several years and were posing as severe bottlenecks.
03-05-2020||Jalandhar||ASI dragged on car’s bonnet, youth arrested||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) on curfew duty was dragged on a car’s bonnet for around 600 m after he tried to stop a youth at a checkpoint here on Saturday.ASI Mulkh Raj escaped unhurt. Car driver Anmol Mehmi (20), a college student, was nabbed by the police. Signalled to stop at a police checkpost, Anmol tried to speed away, dragging the ASI on the car’s bonnet.He stopped only after other policemen chased the vehicle, additional SHO Gurdev Singh said. A video clip of the incident went viral on the social media.Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said an FIR under various sections of the IPC, including 307, Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act had been registered against Anmol and his father Parminder Kumar, who owns the car.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||300 Hazur Sahib returnees +ve||Punjab’s efforts to fight the pandemic seem to have suffered a setback with pilgrims returning from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra accounting for over 300 cases — almost half of the the total 772 cases in the state.In all, 4,046 pilgrims have returned from Hazur Sahib. Of them, 337 have tested positive for Covid-19. On April 25, as many as 80 buses were sent to bring back 3,200 stranded pilgrims.The buses came back with over 4,000.Those in the first batch were reportedly sent home without undergoing any test. Later, eight were found infected. Subsequently, the state government called them back for testing. But the harm was already done.At least 300 pilgrims have tested positive in the past three days. Amritsar district, after the arrival of the pilgrims, reported 40 cases on May 1. According to Cabinet Minister OP Soni, over 500 pilgrims have been tested so far. — TNS
