04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police crack Rs 14.5 lakh Ludhiana dacoity with arrest of mastermind and 4 accomplices||In a coordinated operation, Punjab Police have solved the Rs 14.5 lakh Ludhiana gambling den dacoity case with the arrest of the absconding mastermind Neeraj Sharma alias Ashu, along with his four accomplices, including a woman, from Mandi Gobindgarh.Neeraj Sharma, who has several criminal cases of dacoity, robbery and attempt to murder registered against him over the last ten years, was also absconding in a June 2020 attempt to murder case near Shingar cinema, Ludhiana, said the DGP.The gang was hatching similar dacoities/lootings in Mandi Gobindgarh and Hoshiarpur, which have been averted with their arrest, disclosed Punjab Police DGP Dinkar Gupta.They were planning to rob four kg gold from a goldsmith in Hoshiarpur, Gupta added.One .32 bore pistol and 15 live cartridges have been recovered from their possession along with one i20 car.The operation was led by SSP Fatehgarh Sahib Amneet Kondal in close coordination with Ludhiana police led by SP Counter-Intelligence Rupinder Kaur Bhatti.Apart from Neeraj Sharma, others arrested have been identified as Mandeep alias Mana, Deepak alias Manna, Gurwinder Singh alias Gindi and Navdeep Kaur alias Pooja.A criminal case under sections 399, 402 of the IPC and 25 Arms Act has been registered against them in PS Gobingarh Mandi.Mandeep Singh, a proclaimed offender who was initially arrested in October 2017 by OCCU Patiala, has 13 criminal cases registered against him including attempt to murder and carjacking.He was bailed out in 2019 and was absconding since January 2020. He fled away from the spot of encounter at Mehalpur, Hoshiarpur in March 2020 and his associate Varinder Shooter was neutralised by Punjab Police.He had snatched an Innova car from Sultanpuri Lodhi in 2017 and one Creta car from Hoshiarpur in February 2020. Another accused Deepak, who runs a garment shop, has admitted to his involvement and taking share of Rs 1 lakh from the total 14.5 lakhs. He has revealed to have given two .32 bore pistols to Puneet alias Mani Bains. His car was being used in different crimes and the same has also been recovered from him.Two more persons who are convicts in NDPS case namely Gurinder Singh and Navdeep Kaur have been arrested in this connection. Ginda has been convicted for 10 years rigorous imprisonment in a NDPS case in Sri Muktsar Sahib district. In a separate case, Punjab Police have also arrested criminal Bhuvnesh Chopra alias Ashish Chopra from Yamuna Nagar, Haryana, and one .32 bore pistol along with 12 cartridges have been recovered from him.A criminal case had been registered against him at PS SSOC, Fazilka under the Arms and NDPS Act.Bhuvnesh Chopra was also wanted by the SAS Nagar police in murder case of Inderjit Singh Sidhu which took place on September 7, 2019 at Kurali.Bhuvnesh and Happy had fired indiscriminately at Inderjit Singh in which he had succumbed to his injuries.
04-09-2020||---||Punjab reports 1,498 fresh COVID-19 cases, 49 deaths||Chandigarh, September 4A total of 1,498 COVID-19 positive cases and four deaths surfaced in Punjab on Sunday, taking the state tally to 60,013.Jalandhar reported the maximum number of cases at 210 followed by Ludhiana and Patiala at 184 each, SAS Nagar (138), Gurdaspur (108), Bathinda (101), Amritsar (92), Faridkot (71), 58 each from Moga and Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur (57), Kapurthala (43), 36 each from Muktsar and Sangrur, Fazilka (34), Barnala (21), Mansa (20), Pathankot (13), Fatehgarh Sahib (12), SBS Nagar (10), Tarn Taran (7) and Ropar (5).The state has 15,731 active cases while 42,543 patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals in the state.Of the 60,013 cases, the maximum number of cases have been reported from Ludhiana (11,494), Jalandhar (7,389), Amritsar (4,508), Sangrur (2,358), Patiala (6,917), SAS Nager (4,317), Gurdaspur (2,644), Pathankot (1,402), Tarn Taran (884), Hoshiarpur (1,748), SBS Nagar (790), Ferozepur (2,016), Faridkot (1,410), Muktsar (1,137), Fatehgarh Sahib (1,179), Moga (1,597), Bathinda (2,759), Kapurthala (1,433), Ropar (979), Fazilka (1,056), Barnala (1,272) and Mansa (724).Meanwhile, with 49 more deaths reported, the death toll in the state has climbed to 1,793. The 49 deaths are reported from Amritsar (5), three each from Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib and Hoshiarpur, two each from Gurdaspur and Ropar, one each from Bathinda, Faridkot, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga, Sangrur, Tarn Taran, Jalandhar (4) and SAS Nagar (6).Of the total deaths, Ludhiana has reported 474, Jalandhar (192), Amritsar (183), Sangrur (93), Patiala (183), SAS Nager (99), Gurdaspur (62), Pathankot (24), Tarn Taran (36), Hoshiarpur (56), SBS Nagar (20), Ferozepur (40), Faridkot (19), Muktsar (11), Fatehgarh Sahib (40), Moga (27), Bathinda (39), Kapurthala (67), Ropar (23), Fazilka (18), Barnala (21) and Mansa (12).Meanwhile, 1,272 more patients were cured and discharged today. They include 245 from Ludhiana, Jalandhar (97), Patiala (95), Amritsar (66), Sangrur (34), SAS Nagar (44), Pathankot (28), Hoshiarpur (67), Muktsar (47), Mansa (3), 21 each from Fatehgarh Sahib and SBS Nagar, 11 each from Ferozepur and Fazilka, Kapurthala (14), Barnala (45), Bathinda (100), Gurdaspur (218) and Tarn Taran (5).
04-09-2020||Patiala||20 female inmates test COVID-19 positive at Patiala Jail||About 20 woman jail inmates tested COVID-19 positive at Patiala Central Jail on Friday.Out of the 20 infections, Amritpal Kaur, who was arrested by Mohali Police under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Arms Act, had tested positive for the deadly disease.Apart from them, two jail staff members have also tested positive for coronavirus.Health Department has informed, that random samples were collected from the female ward. The inmates who tested positive have been isolated in jail premises.Besides them, a male jail inmate has also tested positive.Health Department also said that barrack wise sampling was underway to detect and isolate positive cases.
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||No more putting of posters outside Covid patients' houses in Punjab: Govt||COVID patients in home isolation in Punjab will no longer have to suffer the fear and stigma of social isolation resulting from posters affixed at the entrance of their homes.In a major step towards mitigating the stigma attached to the pandemic, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday rescinded his government’s earlier decision of putting posters outside the houses of COVID patients under home isolation or quarantine. Where posters were already affixed may be removed, he directed.The move is aimed at minimising the stigma resulting from the affixing of such posters at the front doors of such patients, thus also negating the fear of testing, said the Chief Minister, once again appealing to the people to come out for early testing, diagnosis and treatment of COVID. The psychological trauma which patients were seen suffering as a result of these posters, which were meant to protect neighbours and others of such patients, was defeating the very purpose, he said, adding that these posters were actually found scaring people away from testing.The undesirable and unintended consequences of these posters included social isolation and stigma, leading to anxiety and prejudices against the patients. People would refrain from getting tested to avoid this stigma instead of extending support and community to the patients and their families, which had prompted a rethink on the decision of affixing posters, said Captain Amarinder Singh.The Chief Minister urged the people to continue taking all necessary precautions and follow all applicable guidelines for home isolation/quarantine notwithstanding the removal of the posters. Violation of these guidelines is a punishable offence under the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and IPC, he pointed out.The Chief Minister said his government was committed to ensuring the health and well-being of every person, and the community had an important role to play in this fight. They can do so by providing support, motivating and encouraging behavioural change that can help avoid the transmission of the disease and in preventing any rumours about the disease or its treatment, he said, calling for a collective fight against the pandemic.It may be recalled that the Government of Punjab had recently allowed Home Isolation for asymptomatic/ mildly symptomatic COVID patients, who did not suffer from any co-morbidities, as per the protocol of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and recommendations of ICMR. In fact, as the number of cases in the state continued to rise, home isolation for these patients was actively advocated and facilitated, with constant monitoring by Local Health Authorities. The monitoring was aimed at ensuring the best possible care for such patients in terms of environment, diet etc. and also to make sure that L3/ L2 beds were available for those who needed them. To make the community aware and act as a check on possible violation by the patient of the home isolation guidelines, posters indicating that a positive patient was under home isolation were being affixed on the front door of the house.
04-09-2020||Satya Prakash||SC dismisses plea by Punjab, 5 other states to review order allowing NEET, JEE amid Covid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 4The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a petition filed by six Cabinet ministers from as many non-BJP-ruled states seeking review of its August 17 decision giving the go-ahead to JEE-NEET examinations. "No case for review is made out,” said a Bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan, Justice BR Gavai and Justice Krishna Murari rejectingthe petitioner ministers’s plea wanting the top court to reconsider its decision declining to postpone NEET-UG and JEE (Mains) examinations amid COVID19 pandemic.The decision was taken in an in-chamber "hearing by circulation" where no lawyers were present.The August 17 verdict was delivered by a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra who demitted office on Wednesday.The six ministers from Punjab, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Jharkhand have sought postponement of JEE-NEET exams scheduled for next month.They had filed the petition in their individual capacity, their counsel Sunil Fernandes said.The petitioners are Balbir Singh Sidhu (Punjab), Moloy Ghatak (West Bengal), Dr Rameshwar Oraon (Jharkhand), Dr Raghu Sharma (Rajasthan), Amarjeet Bhagat (Chhattisgarh), Uday Ravindra Saman (Maharashtra).As per the public notices issued by National Testing Agency (NTA) -- which conducts the tests, JEE (Main) April 2020 is scheduled from September 1 to 6, while NEET-UG 2020 exam is scheduled for September 13.The petitioners had requested the top court to reconsider its August 17 decision on conducting JEE-NEET examinations, highlighting the fact that 25 lakh students will cumulatively appear for the two exams at a time when COVID19 cases have crossed 3.31 million. They said the decision failed to balance the competing but equally important aspects of conducting the exams and safety of students , ie, their right to life as mandatory safeguards had not been ensured during the tests.The Supreme Court had on August 17 rejected a petition seeking to postpone JEE (Main) and NEET-Undergraduate exams scheduled to be held in September, saying a precious year of students “can't be wasted”.“Life has to go on...Life has to move ahead. A precious year of students cannot be wasted,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra had said, adding that students' career “cannot be put under jeopardy for long”.
04-09-2020||New Delhi||SC rejects Sajjan Kumar’s bail plea in 1984 anti-Sikh riots case||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a bail plea of former Delhi Congress leader Sajjan Kumar who is serving a life sentence in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.“This is not a small case... We cannot grant you bail,” a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told senior advocate Vikas Singh, who represented Kumar.The Bench – which also included Justice AS Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanium – also declined his plea for hospitalisation, saying his medical reports suggested he didn’t need to be sent to a hospital.As Singh contended that it was a faulty judgment and testimonies of witnesses were completely reversed, the top court said his appeal against the Delhi High Court’s judgment convicting him in the case will be heard when the court reopened for in-person hearings.On behalf of riot victims, senior counsel HS Phoolka opposed Kumar’s bail plea, saying he was being looked after properly in the jail.Earlier, the court had refused to give him interim bail on May 13 this year after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had submitted that “it’s a case genocide and he was leading a mob.”Kumar (73)—who had sought interim bail on the ground of his poor health conditions—is in jail since December 31, 2018, when he surrendered after being convicted and awarded life imprisonment by the Delhi High Court in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.He has challenged the Delhi High Court’s verdict of December 17, 2018, that awarded him life imprisonment for the “remainder of his natural life”.The case relates the killing of five Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment’s Raj Nagar Part-I area of southwest Delhi on November 1-2 in 1984, and burning down of a Gurudwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court judge recuses from hearing bail plea of Sumedh Singh Saini||Justice Suvir Sehgal of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday recused from hearing the anticipatory bail application filed by former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance and murder case. Earlier, Justice Amol Rattan Singh had recused from the case. As of now, there are no interim protection orders in Saini's favour. A file will now be put up before the Chief Justice for listing before another Bench.Also read: Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini underground, Z+ security not pruned: Punjab GovtIn his anticipatory bail application running into more than 280 pages, Saini had submitted that the court of Mohali Additional Sessions Judge Monika Goyal initially granted bail to the petitioner. Four more police officers were subsequently granted bail and the nature of allegations were considered in both orders.But Mohali Additional Sessions Judge Rajnish Garg, while deciding the application for bail after addition of murder offence under Section 302 of the IPC, reviewed the finding as well as the observations recorded by Judge Monika Goyal in her earlier order dated May 11 on every count.This, his counsel HS Deol submitted, was impermissible in law. He submitted the only reason given by the presiding officer was that the present bail application has been “filed after addition of offence under Section 302 of the IPC as certain more evidence has been collected by the investigating agency”.
04-09-2020||Vijay Mohan||As monsoon nears end, water level in Punjab, Himachal dams remains below normal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 4As the monsoon moves towards its withdrawal phase, the water level in key reservoirs in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh remains below normal. The rain received in the region this season, while falling within the range defined as normal, is below the long period average.The availability of water in dams is 24 per cent below normal in Punjab and 10 per cent below normal in Himachal Pradesh. This is not only noticeably below last year’s levels but also less than the average storage of the past 10 years.The total storage capacity in Punjab is 2.34 billion cubic meters (BCM) out of which the present storage is 1.36 BCM, revealed the data released by the Central Water Commission (CWC) on Thursday.Himachal has a storage capacity of 12.48 BCM with the present storage being 9.32 BCM.According to the India Meteorological Department, rain in Himachal Pradesh till September 3 has been 17 per cent below the long period average during the current monsoon season that began on June 1.In Punjab and Haryana, the shortfall is seven per cent and five per cent respectively for this period. Deviation up to 19 per cent from the average is considered as normal.The water level in Bhakra Dam that lies on the Sutlej river in Himachal was recorded at 505.40 meters on Thursday against the maximum level of 512.04 meters. This translates to the current storage being 74 per cent compared to 88 per cent at this time last year and an average of 84 per cent over the past 10 years.At Pong Dam on the Beas river in Himachal, the water level was 418.98 meters against the upper limit of 423.67 meters. At present it is holding 75 per cent of its total water capacity as compared to 89 per cent last year and the 10-year average of 83 per cent.Both these dams are controlled by the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB).Following unprecedented inflows into the reservoirs last year due to freak weather events which led to heavy release of excess water, BBMB sources said that this year the water levels were being deliberately kept low so as to create a buffer to cater to any such events.Thein Dam, which is located on the Ravi in Punjab, had water reaching up to 514.25 meters against the maximum limit of 527.91 meters. Storage at this dam at present is just 58 per cent compared to 87 per cent last year and the average of 76 per cent over the past 10 years.
04-09-2020||Amritsar||Resolve issues concerning Darbar Sahib Ragis: Sewa Singh Sekhwan||In a press release issued today, he stated that Gobind Singh Longowal, president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandak Committee, and the management of Gurdwaras were the main culprits for all this. He added that the ongoing controversy between Ragis and the head Granthi was uncalled for.Sekhwan has also requested Giani Harpreet Singh, Jathedar of Sri Akal Takht Sahib to intervene in this matter without any delay and make efforts to restore the historical dignity of Sri Darbar Sahib. He said the sangat was concerned about the issue of Ragi Singhs in the Golden Temple and other Gurdwaras. TNS
04-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Braveheart’s hospital room a cynosure of all eyes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3Room number 115 at a private city hospital has become a cynosure of all eyes. Reason: Braveheart Kusum is receiving treatment here.Editorial: Fighting for her phone: Jalandhar girl shows grit, determinationJust enter the hospital and you don’t even have to name Kusum, just say the girl who…, and the hospital staff directs you towards the room where Kusum (fondly called Neha by her parents) is getting treatment for the past four days, after she was attacked by two bike-borne youths by a datar, following which she gave them a tough fight. Such is her admiration, that she has become famous because of her bravery.Meet the man who came to Kusum’s rescue first‘Feeling special’Kusum has become everyone’s favourite. Everybody in the hospital knows about her and with bigwigs coming to meet her and interviewers around, Kusum shares: “It’s a special feeling.”“Mujhe itne bouquet aur flowers mil gaye hain ki yaad bhi nahee kis kis ne die,” she shares. “I have been getting several calls on a daily basis from my friends. Even my classmates have dedicated songs and poems for me,” she said.‘Scared of injection’On being asked if she was worried about her arm that was attacked with a sharp weapon, the fearless girl replied: “I wasn’t worried about anything else, but the pain of injection gave me the chills! I did not lose my calm when I was attacked, but I have to admit, when I saw the injection, I was scared.”She doesn’t want to remember what happened with her that day. “Jo ho gaya vo ho gaya, main uske bare mein sochna nahee chahti, achhi baton pe dhyan de rahi hu. (What happened has happened, I don’t even want to think about it. I am focusing on only good and positive things), the small wonder expressed.Accused still on the runJatinder Kumar, SHO division number 2, said Avinash Kumar (22), the accused who was arrested, has again been sent to one-day police remand. He is the main accused, who hit the victim with a sharp weapon and her arm was injured badly. He has been charged under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 379 B of the IPC.The other accused, identified as Vinod Kumar, is a resident of railway quarters. The SHO said his parents were no more and he doesn’t stay at one place and keeps on changing location, which is why it was getting difficult for the police to nab him. “We have already raided his relative’s home, but he wasn’t found anywhere,” the SHO said, adding that both accused had met in the jail and that is how they started doing snatchings together.
04-09-2020||Aman Sood||3 months on, ED files case, will probe role of distilleries||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 3Over three months after an illicit liquor unit was sealed by the Punjab Police in Ghanaur, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) registered a case on Thursday.It will look into the politician-smuggler nexus, if any, and the role of legal and illegal distilleries that minted money, hiding actual profit figures. A formal ED case report has been lodged with the Jalandhar zonal office, said sources.The modus operandiFudging quantityDistilleries allegedly produced more liquor than permitted during the Covid-19 lockdownLow-grade liquorIt was packed in bottles faking expensive brands and sold at the original priceIllegal sale at vendsAuthorised dealers illegally sold the bottles at vends and evaded tax, said sourcesThey say the 12 FIRs lodged in the scam, including in Ghanaur, Mohali, Rajpura and Khanna, have also been attached. The case will probe alleged irregularities by politicians, distillery managements, liquor traders, smugglers and excise and police officials. The flow of money made through shady deals will be probed too.The ED reportedly received little cooperation from the police and excise officials. It had sought details of FIRs, raids, arrests and probe reports in the past two years. A letter seeking information to the Excise Department on June 15 went unanswered. Letters to the Patiala SSP (June 6 and 12), Mohali SSP (June 17) and the Ludhiana (Rural) police (June 18) met the same fate.Sources said liquor from Punjab was allegedly smuggled to Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, among other states, which could not have been possible without political patronage.The recent spurious liquor tragedy in three Majha districts that killed more than 120 persons too is under the ED scanner.The ED will proceed as per the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and summon all accused, said sources.
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab saw 34 deaths a day in August||The number of Covid-19 deaths reported in Punjab during August was around three times higher than the total such deaths reported between March and July this year.The state reported first Covid-19 case on March 8 and the first such death on March 18. According to the state Covid cell, 386 deaths occurred between March 19 and July 31. However, 1,067 persons died due to it in August (34 persons a day). March saw four Covid deaths, while the number went up to 16 in April, 25 in May, 99 in June, 242 in July and 1,067 in August. The first three days of September have seen 237 deaths. — TNS
04-09-2020||Bathinda||Protesters seek revival of old pension scheme||SFJ’s Rs3,000-grant offer alarms intel agenciesMoga: Intelligence agencies are alarmed over secessionist group Sikhs for Justice’s announcement to give Rs 3,000 monthly grant to farmers who are defaulting on loan payments. The agencies are trying to find out the SFJ's source of funds. A senior intelligence official said a special desk had been set up to keep an eye on SFJ activities. TNSDr Karamjit first VC of Guru Nanak Dev Open varsityChandigarh: Dr Karamjeet Singh has joined as the first Vice Chancellor of the Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University. He has been appointed for three years. TNS‘iRakhwali’ mobile app to save environmentChandigarh: The state government has decided to induct common people as 'Greenery Saviours' to further strengthen its drive to preserve the environment in the state. The state Forest Department has announced to launch a dedicated app 'iRakhwali' in this regard, said Forest Minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot. TNSIcons to be part of poll campaignChandigarh: The state Chief Electoral Officer is launching an awareness drive, wherein icons belonging to various fields are being roped in to create an impactful communication with public. A virtual meet was held on Thursday in which icons of all 22 districts interacted with Madhvi Kataria, Additional Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab. TNS
04-09-2020||Abohar||Punjab Govt to Abohar Municipal Corporation: Fix responsibility in plot scam||The state government has directed the Abohar Municipal Corporation to fix financial responsibility of three former executive officers in “Nai Sadak commercial plot auction scam”. The letter marked as “urgent and date bound” gives the MC a seven-day time. The Retired Municipal Employees Welfare Association had last month informed the department that former executive officers—Bhushan Singh Rana, Jasbir Singh Dhaliwal and Bhushan Aggarwal— were allegedly responsible for causing a loss of Rs 71.57 lakh, Rs 3.95 lakh and Rs 1.07 lakh, respectively in the scam, which had surfaced in 2010.Rana had allegedly slashed rate of interest for delayed payments of instalments in sale of commercial plots from 18 to 1 per cent. — OC
04-09-2020||---||Eight Sangrur cops retired compulsorily||Sangrur, September 3After identifying deadwood in the Sangrur police, the authorities concerned have compulsorily retired eight cops.As per sources, the eight police personnel include a senior constable, three Head Constables (HCs), three Assistant Sub-Inspectors (ASIs) and a Sub-Inspector (SI).“Lack of discipline is the main reason, but some cops have been facing the FIRs. Compulsory retirement has been done as an immediate punishment under Rule 3 (1) of the Punjab Civil Services (Premature Retirement) Rules 1975 after issuances of three months notice,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity.The authorities have also served notices to two more Head Constables for the compulsorily retirement.As per sources, a special committee of senior officers of the Sangrur police had scrutinised service record of cops in the district. The committee also took feedback about performance of policemen from their immediate seniors.Absence from duty during court hearings, protests and frequent drinking during duty hours, were primary reasons behind the compulsory retirement.Sangrur Senior Superintendent of Police Dr Sandeep Garg said, “Cops who had been retired compulsorily were habitual absentees and their performance was very poor. We had started to scrutinise performance of cops on the directions of the Director General of Police,” said the SSP.
04-09-2020||Abohar||Abohar resident ‘tortured’ by policeman, probe marked||A farm worker was admitted to the Civil Hospital on Wednesday evening after he was allegedly tortured by a policeman at the Wahabwala police station here.Jagrup Singh of Kala Tibba village said he was taken to the police station by Head Constable Raj Kumar allegedly at the behest of his employer Kapil Chaudhary of Rajanwali village. In the police station, he was tortured, Jagrup claimed.His mother Mango Devi said the family took Jagrup to the hospital from the police station. The SSP has directed DSP Avtar Singh to investigate the matter.Jagrup’s wife Sandeep Kaur, who is also under treatment, alleged her husband had thrashed her under influence of liquor. Head Constable Raj said he had simply intervened to protect Jagrup’s wife. — OC
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University final-year exams from September 17||Panjab University (PU) will conduct final year examinations of last semester classes from September 17 to 30. This has been confirmed by highly placed sources.A meeting of the standing committee for conducting examinations and charging fee was chaired by the PU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, today. Sources confirmed that it has been decided to conduct the examination in blended (online/offline) mode for four hours duration, which includes downloading question paper and attempting answers and uploading scanned copy of answer sheets on designated email IDs.Examination to be of four-hour durationSources said, “It has been decided that the duration of the examination will be four hours. The set-up includes one hour for downloading examination paper, two hours for attempting answers and one hour for uploading scanned answer sheet. It has aslo been proposed that a student, if unable to upload the answer sheet, may submit it at the nearest centre/college or send it by speed post at the address provided within the stipulated time. Earlier, the standing committee had requested the Vice-Chancellor (VC) to call the Syndicate meeting for taking any decision on conducting final-year examinations. However, considering the urgency of the matter, the VC decided to chair the meeting of the committee today.“As per the time given by the UGC we have to conduct these examinations this month only. All universities have to conduct examinations before September 30. So, it has been decided to conduct examinations from September 17 to 30,” said a committee member while seeking anonymity.“The exam duration will be of four hours wherein students have to download examination papers, scan answer sheets and send these at designated emails. Helpline numbers will be provided to students. Special focus will be on students from far-flung areas. All details will be disclosed soon,” the committee member added.Meanwhile, a PU spokesperson denied receiving any such information till the filing of this report. “The meeting was held today, however, there is no official confirmation about date of examinations,” the PU spokesperson added.When contacted regarding any decision on exams, Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examinations, said, “Cannot confirm any information unless I get in writing.” Meanwhile, another official, who did not wish to be named and was present at the meeting, confirmed the development. The official is also a member of the standing committee.All entrance tests scrappedIt was also decided to scrap all entrance tests keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic. “It has been decided to scrap all entrance tests, including the test for the five-year and three-year law courses and others. The decision has been taken while taking into consideration the fact that no other university has conducted entrance tests in the ongoing pandemic,” said a committee member.“In order to run their shops, owners of a few coaching institutes have approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for conducting examinations. However, the constitutional committee has decided to scrap all entrance tests,” he added.
04-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Family of ailing 20-year-old Adampur footballer pins hope on AIFF||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3Busy rearing his herd of cattle at Chumo village of Adampur here, Razaak Ali does not show any sign of worry about the fate of his son and football star Anwar Ali. It was found last year that the 20-year-old football sensation has a congenital heart disease. The All-India Football Federation is to decide his fate in competitive football in the next 10 days.“Allah will take care of Anwar. When the whole country is praying for him, why should I worry?” says Razaak.“The biggest solace for me is that a Kolkata-based hospital, where Anwar has undergone some medical tests, has given him clearance. So, on the basis of this report, the AIFF may also give him the go-ahead,” says his father.Decision in 10 days Razaak says, “We never knew Anwar had a heart disease. He has never shown any signs of fatigue. He started playing when he was barely eight and has played quite a few international events. Anwar has undergone so many medical tests but this problem never surfaced. We were shocked when he was diagnosed with this disease by a Mumbai hospital. We were told that he has the disease since childhood. When he stayed with us during the lockdown, we did not notice any slackness in him even after rigorous exercise. As soon as Minerva Academy, Chandigarh, opened two months ago, he left for his training.”He says last month, his son came home for a few days, but soon left for Kolkata to take part in a training camp ahead of a tournament starting there on September 20.Asked if he felt that the decision could impact the financial prospects of the family, Razaak says, “Surely... but we are very optimistic. Though Anwar has been in the game for the past few years, he has been doing especially well on the financial front for the past two years.”
04-09-2020||---||Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini underground, Z+ security not pruned: Punjab Govt||Chandigarh, September 3More than 60 persons from the CRPF, Punjab Police and Chanidgarh Police continue to be posted for the security of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, who is reportedly on the run fearing arrest in the 1991 Multani murder case.Though Saini’s wife has, in a communication to DGP Dinkar Gupta, complained that the security personnel had been withdrawn, a police spokesperson said not a single guard from the police or paramilitary force had been withdrawn.Police sources said the Z+ security besides a cook and a gardener given to Saini and his family was reviewed last week and a month ago. “The Punjab Police, Intelligence Bureau and the Chandigarh Police reviewed his security at the highest level and no decision to prune it was taken,” said a senior official.The security guards are stationed at Saini’s house in Sector 20 here along with a bullet-proof car, a Jeep equipped with jammers and an escort car. The whereabouts of Siani and his family were not unknown as they have reportedly gone underground after a Mohali court rejected his plea for an anticipatory bail in the Multani murder case.Raveen Thukral, media adviser to the Chief Minister, in a statement said Saini had gone underground.A Punjab Government spokesperson said, “The fact of the matter was that Saini seemed to have left his Chandigarh residence without Punjab Police security personnel and security vehicles, thus jeopardising his own safety. The security vehicles can still be seen outside his Chandigarh residence, where the personnel are waiting for his return.”The letter written to the DGP by Saini’s wife, who also seemed to have disappeared from the residence, appeared to be an attempt to strengthen his claim for grant of anticipatory bail in the murder case, the spokesperson said.
04-09-2020||Rajmeet Singh||‘Pressure’ on minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot to give up Social Welfare portfolio||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3Even as the state government is learnt to have stepped up its efforts to bail out Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the SC post-matric scholarship scam, pressure is building on the lawmaker from within the Punjab Congress to relinquish his charge of social welfare till he is cleared of the taint.Already, the anti-Dalit narrative being built by the Opposition, especially in the Doaba region, has left the Congress leadership worried.Scholarship scam: AAP stages protestBathinda: AAP members staged a protest against the state government and demanded that Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot be sacked for his alleged role in the scholarship scam. TNSSome Cabinet colleagues of Dharamsot, who did not wish to be named, said, “Volunteering to give up the social welfare charge till the pendency of the inquiry will not only boost the image of the government but will also go in Dharamsot’s favour. He can still remain a minister. The party had ordered an audit of bungling that occurred during the Akali regime, but now, we have to prove ourselves to the people.”Senior Dalit leader from Majha Raj Kumar Verma said the Congress government should take the initiative to punish those behind the bungling of funds meant for SC students. He also blamed the Akalis for the scam.Expressing concern, some Dalit MLAs are learnt to have taken up the issue with PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar.Jakhar said the Chief Minister had sought a report from the Chief Secretary and had already stated that there was no question of protecting or shielding anyone. MLA Sushil Rinku said there should be no leniency in acting against those involved in the wrong disbursal of funds. “A proper and transparent investigation should be done and the inquiry should reveal who has been benefited,” he said. With the Opposition parties gunning for Dharamsot’s resignation, Dalit politics in the Congress has heated up. Sources said Dharamsot could lose his berth in the event of a Cabinet reshuffle.
04-09-2020||Vijay C Roy||Hit by pandemic, traders switch to ‘kirana’ stores||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3Dealing in fabric retail business for the past 45 years, Ludhiana’s Opesh Gupta had never seen a slump in the business that he witnessed during the Covid pandemic. Left with no choice, he diversified and opened a departmental store dealing in dry fruit and spices two months back, seeing a surge in the demand for these products.Opesh is not a lone example. Many traders in Punjab and Chandigarh have already diversified and opened ‘kirana’ stores. Amid the pandemic, except for grocery, medicine and vegetables, the demand for other merchandise came to a standstill. So, many of them either closed down their businesses or are on the verge of shutting them down.Besides dealing with items of daily need and being less labour-intensive, it’s the margin hovering between five and 25 per cent (depending upon the product) which is propelling the growth of ‘kirana’ stores.According to estimates, many such stores have already come up and hundreds of departmental stores are in the offing in Chandigarh and Punjab.“We were dealing in fabric, suits and saris. Like other sectors, we were also affected as the demand for these items came to a standstill during the lockdown. Sensing an opportunity in dry fruit and spices, we diversified into the segment two months back,” Opesh Gupta said.Similarly, Satish Gupta from Ludhiana closed his hardware manufacturing unit and opened a departmental store dealing in healthcare products as there were many takers for health-related products such as immunity boosters.Chandigarh-based Aamit Goyal, who runs a software firm, opened a departmental store at Aerocity in Mohali.“Our departmental store was scheduled to be operational by the end of this year. However, amid a surge in the demand for groceries, we expedited the project and opened it in July,” Goyal said.“It’s an open secret that during the pandemic, only two businesses did well. One was the local ‘kirana’ stores and the other was the chemist shops. We receive queries from small businesses almost on a daily basis expressing their keenness to shift to food or grocery-related products as there is a lot of hassle in opening a chemist shop because of the need to get regulatory approvals,” said the president of the Confederation of All India Traders, Punjab Chapter.
04-09-2020||Faridkot||Behbal Kalan firing case ‘approver’ records statement in court||A day after the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Behbal Kalan and Bargari firing incidents approached the District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, with a request to pardon the prime accused, Inspector Pardeep Singh, as he wanted to turn approver in the case, he appeared before the Duty Magistrate to give his statement under oath today.Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Chetan Sharma started recording the statement of Pardeep Singh at 4.15 pm today. On the SIT’s request for an early hearing in the case, the accused-turned-approver was allowed to appear before the court today. — TNS
04-09-2020||---||Covid effect: GST collections drop 31% during April-Aug||Chandigarh, September 3The gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue collections for Punjab stood at Rs 987.20 crore during the month of August 2020 against Rs 1,014.03 crore for the corresponding period of the last year, thus registering a decline of 2.64 per cent.Notably, taxpayers had been provided relief in filing of returns for the previous months due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Further, taxpayers with a turnover less than Rs 5 crore in the previous year continue to enjoy relaxation in the filing of returns till September 2020.Rs 3,630 cr COLLECTEDAccording to a government spokesperson, the gross GST revenue collections for the period of April to August stood at Rs3,630.48 crore in comparison to Rs5,266.06 crore for the same period last year, thereby denoting a fall of 31.05 per cent.According to a spokesperson of the Punjab Taxation Commissioner’s Office, the gross GST revenue collections for the period of April to August stood at Rs 3,630.48 crore in comparison to Rs 5,266.06 crore for the similar period last year, thereby denoting a fall of 31.05 per cent. The spokesperson said the projected revenue for the month of August was Rs 2,403 crore against which the state had collected Rs 987.20 crore that corresponds to approximately 41.08 per cent of the projected revenue. Thus, an amount of Rs 1,415.8 crore is awaited for the month of August. Further, Rs 6,965 compensation is due for April to July.In addition to the GST, Value Added Tax (VAT) and Central Sales Tax (CST) collections stood at Rs 539.44 crore in August whereas these were 394.14 crore for the month of August in 2019, thus indicating an increase of 26.78 per cent.The VAT and CST revenue collections for the period of April to August are Rs 2,032.75 crore in comparison to Rs 2,397.15 crore for the same period last year. As a result, they showed a decline of 15.20 per cent, the Taxation Commissioner added. If GST, VAT and CST are put together, tax collections during August this year stood at Rs 1,526.54 crore against Rs 1,408.17 crore in August 2019.
04-09-2020||Amritsar||First batch of yatris leaves for Hemkund Sahib||The maiden batch of pilgrims today set out for Gurdwara Sri Hemkund Sahib from Gurdwara Gobind Ghat in Uttarakhand.The annual pilgrimage was suspended in the wake of the Covid crisis, but it was later announced that it would restart on September 4.Meanwhile, an ‘akhand path’ bhog was performed at Gurdwara Gobind Ghat after which 100 pilgrims led by ‘Panj Pyaras’ started their journey to Gurdwara Gobind Dham. They will reach their final destination tomorrow, which is 6 km away.“The ‘parkash’ (installation) of Guru Granth Sahib at the ‘diwan’ hall of Hemkund Sahib has been scheduled for September 4 at 9 am in the presence of ‘Panj Pyaras’. The maiden ‘ardas’ will be performed after the ‘Sukhmani Sahib’ prayers,” said Seva Singh, manager. — TNS
04-09-2020||---||Excluding Punjabi from J&K Bill unfair: Punjab ministers||Chandigarh, September 3Cabinet ministers Charanjit Singh Channi and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today flayed the Centre over the exclusion of Punjabi from the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill. They said it was another attack on the federal structure of the country.Review move: SGPCTaking cognisance of the exclusion of Punjabi from the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, the SGPC has asked the Centre to review the move. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal appealed to the MPs from Punjab to raise the issue in Parliament.They termed the move “anti-minority” and said the BJP-led Modi government and the Shiromani Akali Dal, which was a part of the NDA government, was equally responsible for the move. The ministers said Punjabi was the part and parcel of the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir before the abrogation of Article 370.They said Punjabi was popular among a large population of Jammu and Kashmir and the move had hurt the sentiments of lakhs of Punjabi-speaking people in the UT. “The Government of India has taken an extreme step. It has caused resentment among the minorities of not only Jammu and Kashmir, but also of Punjab,” one of the ministers said.“Countries like Canada and UK have given due recognition to Punjabi at the international level, but in the country of its origin, the BJP-led NDA government has done this shameful act,” he added.
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centre’s nod to 18 road projects in Punjab||Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today announced that the Centre had approved construction of 18 road projects comprising 1,000-km roads in Punjab after she and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal took up the issue with Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari.In a statement here, the Union Minister said three new road links of the Delhi-Amritsar- Katra four-lane expressway had also been approved. Harsimrat said the approved projects included the Delhi-Katra expressway portions in Punjab, including the Patran-Nakodar, Nakodar-Gurdaspur and Nakodar-Amritsar stretches. “Detailed project reports are being made with regard to all the projects. Work is likely to start within a year,” she said. — TNS
04-09-2020||chandigarh||Badal misleading farmers on agri ordinances: Sunil Jakhar||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar today accused former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal for misleading farmers on the issue of Central ordinances related to agricultural reforms. He said Badal was adopting double standards on the issue.Earlier, Badal had said Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar had promised the SAD in writing that the minimum support price (MSP) system of crops would continue. He said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was misleading farmers by spreading rumours on agriculture ordinances. — TNS
04-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can file fresh bail plea if drug not psychotropic: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3The controversy around the criminal liability of possessing buprenorphine injections under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act continues.As a result, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has stated that an accused would be entitled to file a fresh petition for grant of regular bail in case a Division Bench held that buprenorphine was not a psychotropic substance, its possession was not an offense and punishment under Section 22 of the NDPS Act was not attracted. Buprenorphine is a derivative of an Opioid alkaloid and is a more potent and longer lasting analgesic than morphine.Taking up one such matter, the High Court asserted there was a conflict between the judgements as to whether the possession of buprenorphine injections would constitute an offence under the NDPS Act and the rules framed there-under.The High Court stated that the matter had already been referred to a larger Bench in the case of Anil Kumar alias Nehla versus the State of Punjab on October 1, 2018. The case, last heard on January 13, was adjourned for further hearing in April. But the matter could not make headway as the High Court went into restrictive functioning mode following Covid outbreak. The case is now listed for November third week.The issue was once again raised before the High Court after a woman filed a petition seeking regular bail in a drugs case. Her counsel contended that the petitioner had been falsely implicated. The Bench was told that 14 injections each of buprenorphine and Avil were allegedly recovered from the petitioner and that too without following the mandatory provisions of the NDPS Act.Her counsel denied the allegations. But he added that Rule 66 of the NDPS Actwould be applicable, even if the allegations were believed to be true. It allowed any person to possess up to 100 doses of the said psychotropic substance without any prescription from a registered medical practitioner.The High Court asserted that the accused had a history of conviction for 10 years in a case and was already facing trial in another for recovery of 20gm of heroin.“Consequently, the petition for grant of regular bail stands dismissed. However, it is held that the petitioner would be entitled to file a fresh petition for grant of regular bail in case the Division Bench decides the reference holding that buprenorphine is not a psychotropic substance,” the High Court added.
04-09-2020||Manav Mander||Instead of Covid test, Ludhiana doctors prescribing costly CT scan||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 3Private medical practitioners in Ludhiana district are reportedly prescribing expensive CT scan to patients instead of the Covid test.Besides the standard Covid test, infection can be detected through the CT scan and X-Ray and is normally done on patients under intensive care.Such patients go unnotified and the Health Department remains unaware of their status. Taking note, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma has directed all radiologists to provide the Ludhiana Civil Surgeon complete information about patients whose CT scans show symptoms of Covid infection. “In view of larger public interest and to save lives, all radiologists of Ludhiana have been directed to give necessary information to the Civil Surgeon,” said the DC.Dr Ramesh, district epidemiologist, said it was unfortunate that amid the pandemic, some practitioners were thinking about minting money from patients. He said Covid could be detected through the X-Ray and CT scan. “Instead of the Covid test, patients are being prescribed the costly CT scan. The reason is the commission doctors get by referring patients to radiologists. They get no such benefit by prescribing the Covid test,” he said.A patient said he approached a doctor after developing fever. “The doctor asked me to go in for CT scan. When I tested positive for Covid, he said I should self-quarantine. He said it was convenient and painless, unlike the Covid test, and the patient does not have to visit hospital for review,” he said.Dr Anakvir Singh, a city-based radiologist, said doctors were prescribing CT scan to those patients who had mild symptoms just to save the time it takes to go through the standard test. “There are some cases where emergency surgeries need to be conducted and that is why patients are prescribed the CT scan instead of the Covid test. The result of the CT scan is as accurate as the standard test,” he added.
04-09-2020||
||Now, panchayats withdraw resolutions against Health Department||Sangrur, September 3 At a time when Health Department teams have been facing resistance in villages over Covid-19 tests, a reverse trend has started in Sangrur, with many panchayats announcing support to testing of  villagers. According to information, Badheshe, Nathoheri and Bahadurpur   panchayats had passed resolutions against villagers undergoing Covid tests. Now all three panchayats have withdrawn their resolutions and announced to support the Sangrur administration in this regard. “To prevent the spread of virus, our village will fully support the administration,” said Avtar Singh of Bahadurpur village. Apart from this, Banbhaura and Kasampur have also announced their support to Covid tests. “The Malerkotla SDM had called a meeting of area panchayats on Wednesday. He assured us that the Health Department will fully cooperate with us. We will keep Covid-positive patients in our village school and not shift them to hospital,” said Sukhdeep Singh Goldy, sarpanch, Banbhaura village. Malerkotla SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey said under the Panchayati Raj Act, the administration could take action against panchayats that were opposing the Health Department. “Hopefully, there will be no action as all panchayats have announced to support the campaign of the government for sampling after we assured them full cooperation,” said the SDM. With 54 more persons testing positive in Sangrur district today, the number of active cases has reached 299. With death of one more local resident, the toll has reached 91 in the district. Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ramvir said after some miscreants spread false information about forcible shifting of Covid-positive patients to hospitals, some panchayats had started opposing the testing.
04-09-2020||---||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh warns AAP against spreading rumours||Chandigarh, September 3Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today warned his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal against trying to exploit the Covid crisis to instigate people in Punjab’s villages, which have witnessed a spurt of fake news and provocative videos, at least one of which was found to have emanated from abroad, most likely Pakistan, and propagated here allegedly by a worker of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterCriminal conspiracyThere is a clear case of a deadly criminal conspiracy against the people of the state who are already suffering due to Covid.AAP’s Amrinder Singh has been arrested and being questioned to ascertain who motivated him to circulate the post to mislead the people into believing that organs of dead patients were being removed by the Health Department.The Chief Minister said the video/post allegedly propagated by the AAP worker was seen to be exhorting and provoking people not to cooperate with the health authorities, thus endangering the health and safety of the citizens of the state.“Such rumours are provoking a section of the community to resist proper medical care which needs to be provided to all Covid-affected citizens. This is a clear case of a deadly criminal conspiracy against the people of the state who are already suffering due to the pandemic,” Capt Amarinder said.
04-09-2020||Vishav Bharti||Punjab saw 34 deaths a day in August||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3August proved to be a fatal month for the state as the number of Covid-19 deaths reported were over three times higher than the fatalities reported between March and July.The first case was reported in the state on March 8 and 10 days later, on March 18, the first casualty due to Covid took place. Since then, 1,690 deaths have been reported due to the virus. But August proved to be the worst month as around 1,100 people succumbed to the virus.As per the data compiled by the state's Covid cell, between March 19 and July 31, just 386 deaths were reported. However, 1,067 persons died due to it in August (34 persons a day). In the month-wise breakup, March witnessed four deaths, in April the number rose to 16, while in May there were 25 deaths. However, the number started swelling after June, when 99 deaths took place. In July, the number was 242 and in August there were 1,067 deaths.Even in terms of cases, over 36,000 cases were reported in August, which is more than double the cases reported between March and July combined. At present, the death rate in the state is 2.39 after 100 confirmed cases. It is much higher than the national average as well as that of the neighbouring states.Meanwhile, 1,527 fresh cases and 73 deaths were reported on Thursday. With these, the total toll has reached 1,690 and the number of cases has peaked to 58,515.As far as the deaths are concerned, Ludhiana reported 18, followed by Kapurthala 10, Jalandhar seven, Patiala, Ferozepur and Moga five each, Amritsar four, Ropar three, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Sangrur and Hoshiarpur two each, Bathinda, Fazilka, SBS Nagar, SAS Nagar and Tarn Taran one each.Infected Doctors cry apathyFaridkot: Doctors who have tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday objected to the “apathetic attitude” of the authorities as they were not served food in the Covid ward at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital. In a Facebook post, a doctor alleged that on Thursday, 12 of her colleagues got infected by the virus while performing duty in the isolation ward. All were admitted to the hospital. The doctor said, “On Wednesday night, they received the dinner in almost empty plates. And on Thursday, no breakfast was given till 11 am.” TNS
04-09-2020||---||Nod for free walk-in tests in govt hospitals||Chandigarh, September 3In order to combat the Covid-19 outbreak, the government has decided to allow free walk-in testing in the government hospitals and mobile vans. Similar testing method will be adopted in private hospitals with charges not exceeding Rs 250.People who want their results immediately can opt for rapid antigen tests while RT-PCR tests will also be carried out. The government will explore similar arrangements for rapid antigen tests by pharmacists/chemists.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the government will provide training and kits to private hospitals and doctors to conduct tests, which will be allowed on the basis of Aadhar card and mobile numbers, without any questions asked or need for “parchis”.“As results of rapid antigen tests will be available in 30 minutes, this will lead to substantial increase in testing and early diagnosis,” she said.“Those who test positive through rapid antigen tests or are symptomatic, but negative can be tested again through RT-PCR test for confirmation,” said the Chief Secretary.She reviewed the situation with the Deputy Commissioners (DCs) and Civil Surgeons of Patiala, Bathinda, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Mohali. The Chief Secretary asked the DCs to explore rapid antigen tests at private hospitals and pharmacies/chemist shops, at a nominal cost. She instructed that 104 helpline no. should provide real-time availability of beds in the districts. She directed the Civil Surgeons to ensure adequate supply of Oxygen cylinders.Mahajan further asked the DCs to review city-wise or area-wise positivity rates to identify hotspots. All the districts should have reasonable projections at hand for the month, she said. The Chief Secretary asked elected representatives to reach out directly to the people to clear their misconceptions related to the pandemic.Health secretary Hussain Lal underlined the need for extensive sampling and testing in five worst affected districts, including Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali and Amritsar.
04-09-2020||---||Pink bollworm destroys  cotton crop in Bathinda||Bathinda, September 3Around 100 acres of cotton crop has come under pink bollworm attack in Jodhpur Romana village in Bathinda district. Farmers alleged that cotton bolls were disposed of after removing fibre by cotton factory units, which resulted in infestation by the bollworm.Dr Sukhdev Sidhu, Joint Director (plant protection), Agriculture Department and Dr Vijay Kumar, Principal Entomologist, PAU (Ludhiana), and Dr Paramjit, Director, PAU (Regional Centre, Bathinda) visited the affected areas to take stock of the situation today Aggrieved farmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Mansa), gheraoed the officials who visited the affected fields. The officials inspected cotton factories situated adjacent to the infested fields and also held a meeting with owners of seven cotton units.7K acres waterlogged in FazilkaFazilka: Cotton and paddy crop on around 7,000 acres has been damaged due to stagnant rainwater in six villages in Jalalabad. Rainwater and overflowing Bamb seepage drain water entered the fields nearly 20 days ago, which has not been drained out by the administration so far. OCGurmeet Singh, who had taken land on a lease, said, “My crop has been severly affected. I had been spraying pesticide every alternate day to save the crop from bollworm attack, but it has barely helped.”Dr Bahadur Singh, Chief Agricultural Officer, Bathinda, said, “After conducting the survey, the department will start spraying insecticides to prevent further spread of pink bollworm attack. We will ensure round-the-clock surveillance of the area to minimise the damage.”
04-09-2020||Mukerian||Mukerian martyr Subedar Rajesh Kumar cremated with full military honours||Subedar Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Kalichpur Kalota village of Mukerian, who was martyred in Pak firing near the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district yesterday, was cremated at his native village today evening.The last rites were performed with full military honours, during which the martyr’s 11-year-old son lit the pyre. An Army contingent arrived with the mortal remains of the Subedar and gave the final farewell. Before the martyr’s body arrived in the village, youths stood along the National Highway holding the Tricolours and raised slogans. Youth then led the funeral procession on their motorcycles. People of the village showered flowers on the funeral procession from their rooftops.District Commissioner Apneet Riyait, on behalf of the district administration, paid homage to the martyr while Mukerian MLA Indu Bala did so on behalf of the state government. Representatives of various political and social organisations, administrative and police officers were also present. Rajesh is survived by his elderly parents, wife Anita Devi, daughter Riya (13) and son Jatin (11). — OC
04-09-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht questions NRIs over PDF file of holy script||Akal Takht has questioned Canada-based Sikhs Ripudaman Singh Malik and his associate Balwant Singh Pandher about how and from whom they had procured the pen drive having PDF file of Guru Granth Sahib text.Both of them had published the holy scriptures without obtaining any permission, which had created an uproar among the Sikh community. Akal Takht had given them 15 days to furnish their reply.After the intervention of Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, the NRIs had submitted around 35 copies of the ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib and the printing machinery with the management of Guru Nanak Sikh Gurdwara, Surrey, British Columbia. As per directions, the panj pyaras also got the ‘saroops’ inspected before issuing a receipt to Malik and Pandher. Sources said the exercise was done as they feared sacrilege by tampering with the holy text by some mischievous elements.Canada-based British Columbia Gurdwara Council had issued them a notice for violating the Akal Takht directives by printing Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’.Akal Takht has authorised the SGPC and the DSGMC to have exclusive legal rights to print ‘saroops’, in order to prevent “blasphemous” acts by private publishers. — TNS
