05-06-2020||---||Coronavirus: Four more test positive in Mohali||Mohali, June 5Mohali reported four new coronavirus cases---a development that took the district tally to 127.Three of the four were contacts of already diagnosed cases and one was classified as a new case, district authorities said.A 61-year-old tested positive in Sector 70. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that three patients from Sector 78 were the wife, mother and father of an already diagnosed patient from Sector 78 with a travel history of Delhi. All four new cases have been admitted to the Covid Care Centre in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.  Also on Friday, a 33-year-old Non-Resident Indian from Dera Bassi was released from Gian Sagar Hospital.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the district now has only 20 active cases. Mohali has reported three deaths from COVID-19.
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab security agencies on alert ahead of Operation Blue Star anniversary||Security agencies were put on alert in Punjab and vigil increased in and around the holy city of Amritsar, around 250 km from state capital Chandigarh, ahead of the 36th anniversary of Operation Blue Star on Saturday.Operation Blue Star was carried out by the Indian Army at the Darbar Sahib complex between June 1 and 8, 1984.Despite coronavirus restrictions, Punjab Police, paramilitary forces and intelligence personnel have been positioned at sensitive places across Amritsar, particularly in the congested walled city area where the Darbar Sahib, popularly known as Golden Temple, complex is located.Every year, prayers are held at the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikh religion, by radical Sikh organisation Dal Khalsa to mark the anniversary of the Army operation carried out to flush out heavily-armed terrorists from inside the complex.As for threats to peace due to observance of Operation Blue Star anniversary, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Friday that nobody would be allowed to disrupt the peace of Punjab, which had lost 35,000 lives during the dark days of terror."No Punjabi wants this," he said, adding that it was only a handful of anti-India elements that continued to try and provoke people in the name of Khalistan every now and then.The banned US-based Sikhs For Justice had given a call to the Sikhs in Pakistan to reach Kartarpur Sahib in Narowal district on June 6 and perform 'ardas' (Sikh prayer) there as the Punjab government has allegedly "deployed forces to stop the Sikhs in (Indian) Punjab".--IANS
05-06-2020||New Delhi||Maximum temperatures hover below normal in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi||The maximum temperature in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi continued to hover below the normal limits on Friday.The national capital witnessed more rains on Saturday which kept the mercury several notches below normal, the weather department said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, which received rains in the evening, recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, six notches below the normal, the meteorological department said.In Haryana, Ambala’s maximum settled at 33.2 degrees Celsius, six notches below the normal, while Karnal recorded a high of 33 degrees Celsius, six degrees below the season’s average.Hisar’s maximum settled at 37.1 degrees Celsius, five notches below the normal, while Narnaul registered a high of 34.8 degrees Celsius, eight notches below the normal.Amritsar in Punjab recorded the maximum temperature at 35.8 degrees Celsius, down five notches against normal limits.Ludhiana registered a maximum of 35.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the normal, while Patiala’s maximum settled at 34 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal limits, the MeT office said.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for Delhi, recorded 1.2 mm rainfall.The weather stations at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road gauged 21.7 mm and 0.6 mm precipitation.Winds gusting up to 50 kilometres per hour swept across the city.             Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said an active western disturbance affecting northwest India and moisture incursion due to Cyclone Nisarga led to rains.He also said the region is not likely to witness a heat wave till June 15.Cloudy weather and light rain is expected on the weekend too. The maximum temperature is expected to remain below the 40 degrees Celsius-mark till June 10, Srivastava said.Thereafter, moisture-laden easterly winds due to probable low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal will bring rains in Delhi-NCR on June 12 and June 13, he said.The MeT department said the minimum and maximum  temperatures will hover around 36 and 25 degrees Celsius in the city on Saturday. PTI
05-06-2020||---||SIT formed to probe illicit liquor trade, smuggling in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 5The Punjab government on Friday announced it will set up a special investigation team to probe the illicit sale and smuggling of liquor during the coronavirus lockdown.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said the three-member SIT will be headed by Water Resources Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and undertake thorough investigations into the racket."We will check every distillery and we will see what was their stock position. We will come to know everything," Singh said during a video conference with the media here.He said that such large-scale illicit sale of liquor and smuggling from other states could not have been possible without involvement of "some insiders".A full-fledged probe would be conducted by the SIT to ascertain all facts, including complicity of excise department officials, he said.All those involved, including the kingpins, will be identified and arrested, the chief minister added.The Congress-led government has been under fire from the opposition for alleged liquor smuggling and sale of illicit liquor during the lockdown period.The Shiromani Akali Dal had alleged that the liquor mafia in league with some Congress leaders and legislators had caused a loss of Rs 5,600 crore to the state exchequer by allowing liquor from distilleries without payment of excise duty.Asked to comment on the possible involvement of the official machinery in the alleged seed scam, the chief Minister said the matter was being probed by the SIT- headed by an additional director general of police-level officer.He said the Punjab Agricultural University had produced nearly 3,000 quintals of PR 128 and 129 varieties of paddy seed on trial basis, whereas 30,000 quintals had been sold in the open market to farmers by unscrupulous dealers.This clearly indicated that spurious seeds were also mixed to these new varieties to fleece innocent farmers and the SIT would get to the bottom of the scam, he said. PTI
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Will contest 2022 Punjab Assembly elections, says Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday reiterated his intention to contest the next Assembly elections in the state, but said the decision on leading the party rested with the Congress president.He said Navjot Sidhu was very much a part of the Congress.At a video press conference, the Chief Minister said though he had initially termed the 2017 polls as his last election, he had subsequently, on the persuasion of his party colleagues, announced his decision to contest the 2022 elections, and there was no change in that stance.In response to a question on roping in Prashant Kishor for shaping the Congress poll campaign in 2022, the Chief Minister said the former had responded positively to his request."Kishor has said he would be quite happy to come and help," said Amarinder Singh, clearing the air on this count, amid media reports that Kishor had said no to handling the Congress campaign in the state.Quipping that he is often surprised by what he reads in newspapers, the Chief Minister said he had discussed the matter with party interim chief Sonia Gandhi, who had left the decision (of hiring Kishor) on him.He had also taken his party MLAs into confidence, and 55 of the 80 members of the legislative assembly were in favour of bringing in Kishor to handle the campaign, said Amarinder Singh.While showing his willingness to support the Punjab Congress, Kishor had denied that he was in any talks with Navjot Sidhu or the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) with regard to the 2022 Assembly elections, Amarinder Singh further said, in reply to a query.Describing Kishor as a family member, the Chief Minister said he had ruled out any association with either Sidhu or AAP, contrary to speculation in the media, and contrary to any claims on this count by Arvind Kejriwal.On Sidhu's interactions with the Congress leadership, Amarinder Singh said Sidhu was very much a part of the Congress and had been in touch with the party high command in that capacity.Amarinder Singh said Sidhu or any other Congress member who had any concerns on any issue could come and talk to him.Investigations in the Bargari and other sacrilege cases were in progress but "we cannot just put people behind bars without following the due process of law," he said, referring to Sidhu's purported critical remarks on the issue.Many challans have been presented in the Bargari case, but the state government cannot interfere in the work of the courts, he added.IANS
05-06-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur: Father commits suicide after girl 'elopes'||After a ward attendant of the local civil hospital allegedly committed suicide last night, Sangrur police have registered an abetment to suicide case against Punjab State Scheduled Castes (SC) Commission member, her husband and their three sons.The deceased took the extreme step after his daughter allegedly eloped with the son of the commission member.Deceased Sanjeev Kumar allegedly consumed poison on Thursday after he failed to trace his 27-year-old unmarried daughter, who had eloped with the son of the commission member on Tuesday.   Kumar breathed his last at Rajindra Hospital Patiala while his family members along with neighbours protested at Mahavir Chowk, Sangrur, by placing his body on the road and demanding the arrest of all accused at the earliest.“We have registered a case under sections 306 IPC against commission member Poonam Kangra, her husband Darshan Kangra and their three sons. The wife of the deceased has alleged that the accused had been threatening to marry her daughter forcibly with their son. After his daughter disappeared from home, she alleged that he took the extreme step,” said Satpal Sharma, DSP Rural Sangrur, who pacified the protesters with an assurance to arrest the accused at the earliest.  DSP Sharma said that special teams have been conducting raids to arrest all five accused at the earliest.But Darshan Kangra and his wife have denied the allegations,“Both the boy and girl, who eloped three days back are adults. We are also trying to trace them, but my political opponents have instigated the family of the girl and got a false case registered against us,” they said.
05-06-2020||---||Man held for carjacking in Patiala||Patiala, June 5The Patiala Police claimed to have solved the carjacking case in which the accused had shot at the car owner and fled away with his vehicle on the Patiala-Samana road on Tuesday. Police has identified the accused as Gurpreet Singh.Gurpreet is supposedly linked to Gurvinder Singh alias Guri, who is lodged in the Ambala jail in case of looting and murder of a jeweller.Gurpreet was nabbed by the Samana Police and CIA staff on Thursday, two days after the incident, the police said.Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said Gurpreet has revealed that he was acting on the directions of Gurvinder Singh. “He told the police that he was directed by the jailed accused on phone to steal a car.”The incident has raised questions about how an accused lodged in Ambala jail was directing robberies in Punjab.SSP Sidhu said the police, along with the stolen car, had also recovered a country-made pistol used in the crime, which according to Gurpreet was provided to him by one Happy Singh.Mandeep Singh alias Raman, a resident of Dullar village in Samana, was grievously injured when an unidentified person after asking for a lift had shot at him and fled away with his car on the Samana-Patiala route in the afternoon hours of Tuesday.Later, the police had registered a case of robbery against an unidentified person, while Mandeep was taken to a hospital, where he is under treatment.Police managed to nab Gurpreet along with the Brezza car.He will be produced in court and we will secure a police remand for him, said the police, adding that Gurvinder Singh would also be questioned.Police are also looking out Happy Singh.
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||'Punjab will fight': Capt Amarinder Singh opposes Centre's 'so-called' agriculture reforms||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday rejected the "so-called reforms" announced by the Government of India for the Agriculture sector, as yet another brazen attempt to erode and destabilise the country’s federal structure, and warned that it could pave the way for disbanding the MSP regime as well as the foodgrain procurement regime, triggering unrest among the state’s farmers.Also read: Will contest 2022 Punjab Assembly elections, says Amarinder SinghPresident promulgates two ordinances to boost to rural trade, agricultureOn illegal sale of liquor during the lockdown period, the CM said an SIT has been set up to probe the entire matter related to illegal smuggling of liquor from distilleries. The involvement of excise officials and the kingpins in the smuggling of liquor without paying the government fee would be probed.Read more: Experts question timing of agricultural reformsCabinet approves amendment to Essential Commodities ActLeft parties pitch for rescinding of Ordinances related to farm sectorCabinet approves big farm reformsStrongly opposing the Centre’s move to suppress the rights of the states, as enshrined under the Indian Constitution, the Chief Minister said: "Punjab would fight any steps on the part of the Government of India to weaken the federal structure of the country through such direct and detrimental interference in the well-established agriculture produce marketing system of the state".Such a measure, he warned, shall severely and adversely impact the food security of the nation, which Punjab’s hard-working and selfless farmers have sustained ever since the green revolution.Pointing out that the federal structure of India envisages well-defined roles and responsibilities for the Centre and the states, Captain Amarinder said that under the Constitutional framework, Agriculture is a State Subject, and the Union Government has no powers to make any legislation to deal with the dynamics of agricultural production, marketing and processing. These are state matters, which individual states are best placed to handle and manage, he said, describing the"Farming Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020" as a highly ill-conceived move on the part of the central government.Asserting that the move would damage Punjab, the Chief Minister said during a video press conference that the Centre’s habit of taking sudden decisions and forcing them on states, without taking their views into account, was violative of the very federal framework of the state.In a statement, the Chief Minister further said that such actions of the Union Government during the COVID-19 pandemic crisis can have serious economic, social and law and order consequences. The farmers will not gain but will suffer at the hands of traders due to the legislative change, he said. He further pointed out that the Centre had not even created any dispute redressal mechanism, and had not consulted the state governments, which would be left to handle the consequences of this hasty action.Terming the legislation as a cruel joke on the farming community, whose interests have been continuously ignored by the NDA-led central government, the Chief Minister said that far from ushering in an era of much-needed reforms in Agriculture, the announcements are a clear and concerted design to undermine the systems and processes that are holding the sector together.Citing the well-oiled agriculture produce marketing system in Punjab, the Chief Minister said it had served the state well, standing the test of time, for 60 years. The state has in place a well- developed state-of-the-art infrastructure, both for open marketing of produce and its seamless transportation from the farm gates to mandis and godowns.At present, the entire trade of agriculture produce is carried out within the notified markets/mandi yards through a system licensed under, "The Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961 (APMC Act),” which allows farmers to bring their produce to the Mandis, where buying/ selling of the produce is conducted in a transparent manner and payment to the farmers is ensured, the Chief Minister pointed out.Further, he said, the State Government has already made necessary amendments to the Punjab APMC Act to provide for setting up of regulated Mandis even in the Private Sector for specific produces. In fact, he said, sale/purchase worth about Rs. 80000 crore is transacted annually in Punjab’s Market Yards, which effectively support 65% of the State’s population that is dependent on agriculture and agro produce.As such, there is no further need of a Central Law to interfere with already the existing well-established marketing system in Punjab, asserted Captain Amarinder, warning that any move to interfere with this well-entrenched system has the potential for triggering unrest in the State as it will badly hit farmers, especially small and marginal farmers.
05-06-2020||Bathinda||Haryana officials conduct sting operation at private hospital in Bathinda over sex determination test||A raid was conducted at Indrani Hospital, Bathinda, over a complaint on sex determination test on Friday.The raid was conducted by a health team of Sirsa, Haryana, along with the police and another health team from Bathinda Civil Hospital.After the officials received a complaint, a trap was set up, where a woman was sent in as a patient for the test.The raid is in progress, and officials are checking the records.Dr Rajesh Chowdhary, a health official from Sirsa, said: "Civil surgeon, Sirsa, got a complaint, that a gang is active in the region, which conducts sex determination test, after which a team was constituted and a trap was laid and the deal was fixed with an agent at Rs 42,000 and today agent took them to Indrani Hospital in Bathinda, where the doctor told them about sex after conducting the test".Dr Atin Gupta, the owner of Indrani Hospital, refuted the charges said that it was an attempt to "tarnish their image" as no such illegal test has been done in the hospital.Further, he claimed that on Friday morning he got a call from his hospital that police official from Haryana had come, after which he arrived and talked to the officials. The CCTV footage was also shown to the officials.
05-06-2020||London||British Sikh MP calls for Operation Bluestar inquiry in UK Parliament||British Sikh Opposition Labour Party MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi called for an independent inquiry into the extent of the involvement of the then Margaret Thatcher-led British government in Operation Bluestar in June 1984.The UK's first turbaned Sikh member of Parliament, who raised the issue in the House of Commons on Thursday to mark 36 years since the Indian Army's operation at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, also called for a debate on the issue.“This week marks 36 years since the then Indian Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, ordered her abhorrent attack on the most revered Sikh shrine, the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar,” Dhesi said.“Despite recent revelations and given the huge demand from within the British Sikh community and the support of the Labour party and other Opposition parties, an independent inquiry to establish the extent of the Thatcher government's involvement in the attack has still not been held,” he said.Leader of the Commons, Jacob Rees-Mogg, responded on behalf of the government to describe it as an “important anniversary”.“I have every confidence that Margaret Thatcher, one of the greatest leaders this country has ever had, would always have behaved properly,” said Rees-Mogg.The demand for an inquiry arose a few years ago when it emerged that British military advice was given to Indian forces prior to the Operation Bluestar.The then British Prime Minister, David Cameron, had ordered an internal review into this discovery, which led to a statement in Parliament declaring that Britain's role had been purely “advisory” and the Special Air Service (SAS) advice had “limited impact” on the Operation Bluestar. PTI
05-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Visas stuck, colleges launch short courses||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 4As thousands of students who were planning to go abroad for their studies are stuck here, colleges in Doaba are expecting higher enrolments this session.To attract students, most colleges here have started online registration in advance. And many of them have even launched one-year skill-based programmes.Deadline for meritorious schools extendedTake the example of CT Group of Institutions. It has started one-year courses in networking management and hospitality.“Students, who have cleared IELTS, won’t be able to join colleges in Canada or other counties for at least a year. So we have started short courses. Today, students want short, crisp and to-the-point programmes rather than traditional degrees,” said Manbir Singh, Managing Director, CT Group of Institutions.He is hopeful of the enrolment rising slightly.Anshu Kataria of the Aryans Group of Colleges has his reservations on this. “The Canadian government made some relaxations recently, which makes me wary. Canada may allow Indian students to study online for a year. If this happens, the admission in my colleges will be affected,” he said.There are, however, some college principals who are least hopeful of students staying back and taking admission in local colleges.“The students are restless to go to Canada. As they have made up their mind to study abroad, even the Covid-19 outbreak cannot stop them from going. My college offers short courses in cosmetology and sound technology, but no Canadian aspirant will take admission in these programmes,” says Dr Sucharita, principal, Apeejay College.DAV Institute of Engineering principal Dr Manoj Kumar agrees with her. “There is no point giving admission to a student who has taken admission in a foreign college. If we do so, a student with no foreign plans will miss out on a seat. We don’t want that. A serious student will remain with us for the entire duration of the course and generate revenue for us, while a Canadian aspirant will leave the course in between.”
05-06-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin
||Amid curbs, IELTS hubs lose sheen||Tribune News Service Bathinda, June 4 Immigration and IELTS centres across the state have started losing sheen due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Facing heavy losses since the lockdown was imposed in March after the outbreak, owners of many IELTS and immigration centres have started vacating their rented accommodation.  In Bathinda, around 90 per cent of the 200 centres are operating from accommodation having a high rent. Many centres have started firing staff to cut losses while some have vacated the rented premises. Some of the institute owners are in talks with building owners to waive the rent. Apart from this, even the paying guest (PG) owners have also been hit hard. There are around 250 PG accommodation in and around the Ajit road. These housed a large number of students coming from the Malwa region and adjoining areas of Haryana and Rajasthan. Now, these PGs have also been lying closed for the past two months. With many foreign countries, including Canada, imposing travel restriction, the students, who were preparing for the IELTS exam or who had received their visas, have been left in the lurch.
05-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court admits ‘mistake’, recalls order||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4A day after the Punjab and Haryana High Court in its order asserted that an alleged contemnor had pleaded innocence and claimed trial after he agreed that charge was read over and explained to him, the Bench today recalled the order saying it was an “inadvertent mistake”. The Bench also attributed the mistake to videoconferencing.The alleged contemnor was not present before the Bench during the course of hearing. But the order finalised and uploaded on the High Court website on June 3 asserted in question-answer form that the charge was read over and explained to him and his answer was in affirmative.Another question posed to the alleged contemnor was: “Whether you plead guilty or claim trial?” The order recorded his answer: “I do not plead guilty and claim trial.”The case pertains to an employee of the subordinate judiciary, who uploaded videos on YouTube lambasting judicial officers and allegedly made statements in the media without previous sanction of the competent authority.Harmeet Singh had initially joined Ludhiana sessions division as a clerk. He was posted at Jagraon due to administrative convenience, but allegedly kept exerting pressure to transfer him back to Ludhiana. The Bench had asserted it would be in the interest of justice, if proper charge was framed against him.The recalling order today said: “The aforesaid order dated June 3 was passed presuming that the respondent would come present in person and the contents of the chargesheet would be read over and explained to him. On account of the prevailing pandemic, Covid-19, the presence of either the advocate or the respondent could not be ensured.”
05-06-2020||---||SAD, BJP seek probe into liquor scam||Chandigarh, June 4The SAD and BJP today demanded an independent inquiry into the Rs 5,600-crore revenue loss incurred by the state in the liquor scam. The parties also decided to fight the “excesses being committed by Congress leaders on Punjabis”.Sharma to head BJP disciplinary panelThe state BJP on Thursday set up a disciplinary committee and appointed party leader Vinod Sharma as its chairman. The members include Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina (Amritsar), Dilbagh Rai (Hoshiarpur), Sita Ram Sharma (Abohar) and Prem Gugnani (Sangrur). TNSIn a meeting of the SAD-BJP coordination committee, jointly presided over by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and state BJP president Ashwani Sharma, it was decided to meet Governor VP Singh Badnore to present a memorandum to demand independent inquiries into the liquor, seed and ration scams, and to seek release of cane farmers’ dues.The leaders alleged that the government had tried to cover up the liquor scam by striking a compromise between the Chief Secretary and the group of ministers who had been exposed by the former. The meeting also took note of the interstate ramifications of the Rs 4,000-crore seed scam under which farmers had been duped by being supplied spurious seed of PR-128 and PR-129 paddy varieties.
05-06-2020||---||Day after protests, Soni justifies hike in MBBS/MD fee||Chandigarh, June 4The government has reasonably increased the fees in medical colleges of the state, claimed Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Prakash Soni, in a press statement released here today.He said the Punjab Government had earlier revised the fees of medical colleges in 2010 and 2015, which was much higher than the current increase. He said the Opposition parties were raking up the issue for political gains.Soni said the then SAD-BJP government had increased the fees by 98 per cent in 2010 and 225 per cent in 2015, whereas the Congress government had increased it by only 77 per cent.He said the increase was much needed and in this regard the Punjab Government had asked the advisory committee on medical education, headed by Dr KK Talwar, to examine the matter and after thorough scrutiny, the department had recommended a fee hike.Besides, it had also come to their notice that due to the inflation, the burden on government colleges had increased manifold. He said the state spent at least Rs13-14 lakh per annum on the education of an MBBS student.The minister said the fee for the entire MBBS/MD course in private health institution was many times higher as compared to government colleges. “We have also taken several steps to bring uniformity in the fees of private institutions,” the minister said.Dr Inderjeet to be GADVASU VC.
05-06-2020||Jalandhar||DC orders probe into death of pregnant woman||Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma has ordered a probe into the death of 19-year-old pregnant woman, who died late on the night of May 31 after traversing three government and four private medical facilities in Adampur, Jalandhar and Amritsar.  The DC’s orders have come in the wake of a report published by The Tribune in one of its columns. The woman, who was referred to Amritsar medical college, died three days later after returning to Jalandhar civil hospital. The expecting couple had travelled to seven different hospitals, but in vain.  On Thursday, city-based activist Surinder Saini wrote to the DC, demanding a probe into the matter.  Initially, report of the postmortem conducted at local civil hospital said it was a case of intra-uterine death. The DC said, “A probe has been ordered into the case. Given her medical background, IAS Shena Aggarwal, CEO, Smart City Project, will conduct the probe. We have asked that a report be submitted at the earliest.”— TNS
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC permits ordinary filing of cases||Streamlining further the process of hearing cases during the pandemic, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today opened its doors for ordinary filing of cases. The decision is in sync with the demand of the advocates and is being construed as first step towards normal functioning of the courts once the circumstances permit. Available information suggests the lawyers would now be able to file cases even where urgency is not involved. The filing would be physically as well. The filing since March following the Covid outbreak was by and large being done through the virtual mode with stress on cases involving urgency. The order by Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha through Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry indicates that civil and other cases, such as regular second appeals, could now be filed and scrutinised over a period of time to pave way for their hearing once normal functioning is resumed. — TNS
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kishor, Bajwa on agenda at CM meet||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today met AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs incharge Asha Kumari and PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar over lunch here on Thursday. The agenda revolved around the implementation of poll promises made by the Congress in 2017, hiring poll strategist Prashant Kishor for the next Assembly elections and restructuring the PPCC. The meeting was held in the backdrop of the CM asking his political secretary to take opinion of MLAs on hiring of the strategist. “The talks are in a premature stage. The CM has to take the final call on the issue,” said a party source. An aide of the CM, associated with the PPCC, is against hiring Kishor. He says the importance of the leaders will diminish due to his style of functioning. The source said regular utterances by Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa aimed at the CM were also discussed. It is, meanwhile, learnt that the central party leadership was upset over the state Congress not taking it into confidence before starting talks with Kishor. — TNS
05-06-2020||---||Govt labs to test private hospital samples for free||Chandigarh, June 4In a move that has raised eyebrows, the government has decided to offer free testing facilities for Covid-19 samples sent to it by private hospitals, clinics and laboratories. The samples will be processed in government laboratories, but the private laboratories can charge maximum Rs 1,000 for each sample.Who all can be tested by pvt hospitalsIn a communication sent to all civil surgeons, the Director, Health Services, said the decision would help in containing the spread of the pandemic. The Department of Health and Family Welfare has decided to conduct RT-PCR tests on samples sent by empaneled private hospitals/clinics and private laboratories for free. The civil surgeons will empanel private hospitals/clinics and laboratories.However, as per the communication, the private hospitals, clinics and laboratories should have a separate isolated area for the suspected Covid-19 patients where samples will be taken. The person taking samples will wear personal protective gear.Apart from this, the private hospital shall arrange the required logistics and collect samples, pack and send these to the nearest government health facility as per protocol. "The samples sent by empaneled private hospitals/clinics shall be tested free at government labs," the communication said.As per the communication, the private hospitals/clinics availing this facility shall not charge more than Rs 1,000 from patients for sample collection. Besides, the communication said no emergency procedure, including deliveries, should be delayed for lack of test.
05-06-2020||Ludhiana||103 units making PPE kits in state||Industry Minister Sunder Sham Arora today said migrant labourers, who had gone to their native places after the lockdown was imposed, were keen to come back to Punjab.  Keeping this in mind, the state government has requested the Central Government to run a special train so that they could come back and rejoin the jobs at the earliest. Arora said two buses, carrying migrants, would reach Hoshiarpur tomorrow.  Talking to The Tribune, Arora said Punjab was the lone state where 103 units got the Centre’s approval to make the personal protective equipment (PPE), which were being supplied all over the country. “Hindustan Latex Limited has given orders worth about Rs 302 crore to almost 18 companies in Punjab to make the PPE kits. We have written to the Chief Ministers of various states to inform them that they can place orders for PPE kits and masks in Punjab,” said Arora. — TNS
05-06-2020||---||High power rates for Golden Temple irk SGPC||Amritsar, June 4The state government’s move to hike tariff for power supplied to the Golden Temple has irked the SGPC. The shrine, which has an average usage of 7-8 lakh units per month, does not have to pay for consumption up to 2,000 units.Earlier in April, the tariff was hiked by 12 paise per unit and now, another 5 paise per unit has been levied.SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said in May 2019, Rs 5.94 per unit was being charged. “In April 2020, it was hiked to Rs 6.06 per unit. Now, another 5 paise per unit hike has been imposed, putting a burden of around Rs 4-5 lakh per month on the committee,” he said.While the average consumption is 7-8 lakh units per month, during the summer months, the usage rises to 9-10 lakh units. The complex is illuminated on Gurpurbs, Diwali and other pious occasions.Dr Roop Singh said the SGPC had been assisting the state government in its fight against Covid-19 by offering its infrastructure and food for the needy. “The government has rewarded us in lieu of extending a helping hand. We will ask the Chief Minister to justify the hike,” he said.‘Akhand path’ to observe Bluestar anniversaryThe SGPC has initiated an “akhand path” for the commemoration of Operation Bluestar anniversary and Parkash Purb of Guru Hargobind Sahib at Akal Takht on Thursday. Both occasions fall on June 6. SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal appealed to the devotees to refrain from gathering in large numbers inside the Golden Temple complex, keeping in view the social distancing norm. TNS
05-06-2020||Sangrur||12 Sangrur cops face compulsory retirement||The local authorities have served notices on 12 policemen of various ranks, asking them to take compulsory retirement, triggering indiscipline among the officials concerned. The move comes after the service records of the cops were scrutinised to identify the dead wood among them. Names of six more cops are also under the scanner of a special committee, which is led by Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg. Sources said the cops, who were facing compulsory retirement, include one senior constable, three head constables and seven assistant sub-inspectors  and one sub-inspector. The SSP confirmed the news and said 12 cops of various ranks had been issued notices. — TNS
05-06-2020||---||Accused tests positive, 51 Barnala cops quarantined||Chandigarh/Barnala, June 4The health authorities in Barnala have put 51 policemen of the district under quarantine after a Malerkotla resident, who was arrested three days ago, tested positive for Covid-19. The authorities have started tracing the contacts of the patient.Sources said those put under quarantine included an SSP, SP, ASP, DSP, CIA incharge and his staff, Mehal Kalan police station SHO and his staff.“The report of the accused came positive today. Since he has been in custody, we have put 51 cops under quarantine. We have formed special teams for more contact tracing,” said Dr Gurwinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, Barnala. Cops said the accused was arrested three days ago following a joint operation by the CIA and Mehal Kalan cops from Malerkotla.“He was arrested with 12,500 habit-forming tablets. As many as 51 policemen, who had come in his contact, have been quarantined,” said Sandeep Goel, SSP, Barnala.Meanwhile, 39 fresh cases were reported in the state today, taking the count to 2,415.As per the media bulletin, 15 cases were reported from Amritsar, followed by Ludhiana (6), Jalandhar and Pathankot (4 each), Bathinda (3), and Fazilka, Muktsar, Ropar, SBS Nagar, Sangrur, Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur (1 each).In Jalandhar, a pregnant woman was among the four new positive cases. She belongs to Lamma Pind. A 55-year-old from Tagore Nagar and a 29-year-old from Preet Nagar, both having influenza-like symptoms, are among the new patients.Another pregnant woman tested positive in Malout where the number of patients has increased to three. The health officials have appealed to the residents to strictly follow the government’s guidelines, as the pregnant woman has no travel or contact history.
