05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Four more Covid deaths, 211 new cases in Punjab||Four more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Punjab, pushing the death toll to 5,404, while 211 fresh cases brought the infection count to 1,67,652 on Tuesday, according to a medical bulletin.The state has 2,983 active cases of the novel coronavirus, the bulletin said.Among the fresh cases in the state, Mohali reported a maximum of 36, Patiala 25 and Ludhiana 23.The number of recoveries rose to 1,59,265 after 293 more coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, according to the bulletin.Three critical COVID-19 patients are on ventilator support while 84 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 39,88,705 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
05-01-2021||---||Farm bodies decide to intensify protest against agri laws||New Delhi, January 5A day after the latest round of negotiations between Government of India and the conglomerate of farm bodies failed to bear the fruit, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha announced intensifying protests against the farm laws.Social activist Yogendra Yadav who chaired the meeting on Tuesday aimed a dig at the establishment saying it is very clear to them that Government was not serious.“One can gauge the seriousness when a minister asked us at the last meeting whether we were serious to get all the laws repealed,” Yadav said.Read also: Farmers’ protest: BJP leaders from Punjab meet PM ModiKothi no. 793, Tikri border, his new addressFirm on their demands, farmers brave cold, rain as talks with govt remain deadlocked“So we have decided to intensify our protests starting with the tractor march on January 7 where farmers will get on the eastern and western expressway. It will be a dress rehearsal for our tractor march on January 26,” he added.The farm bodies had already announced a calendar of protests before the January 4 meeting. Further, the farm bodies have also decided to gherao members of Parliament from the ruling alliance and burn the copies of farm laws on Makar Sankranti and Lohri.
05-01-2021||Satya Prakash||Multani Murder Case: SC puts off hearing on Saini's plea for quashing of FIR to Feb||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 5The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked Punjab Government to file a copy of the chargesheet against former DGP SS Saini as it put off the hearing on his plea for quashing of the FIR against him in the Balwant Singh Multani murder case to second week of February.The top court has already granted anticipatory bail to Saini in the case, “considering the fact that the impugned FIR has been lodged by the brother of the deceased after a period of almost 29 years from the date of incident”.The former Punjab DGP has challenged a Punjab and Haryana High Court order which had turned down his plea seeking quashing of the FIR and stay on further investigation in the Multani murder case.On Tuesday, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Saini, urged a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan to stay further proceedings in the case even as senior counsel Dushyant Dave opposed it on behalf of the complainant.Terming it a “very serious case” which involved charges of kidnapping and murder, Dave sought to highlight that the accused was facing certain other murder charges as well.On behalf of the State of Punjab, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium and Vikas Singh informed the Bench that a chargesheet had been filed and summons had been issued to the accused.The top court asked the Punjab Government to file a copy of the chargesheet along with additional documents after Subramanuim and Vikas Singh said all facts and material should be before the court in view of the sensitivity of the matter. The Bench posted the matter for further hearing in the second week of February.Earlier, the matter was adjourned as the impugned order of the High Court was not on record.Saini had moved the Supreme Court challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court order dismissing his plea for quashing of the FIR in the 1991 Multani murder case.Multani – a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation – was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack.Saini’s troubles started in May when he was booked at a police station in Mohali along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. Murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.Saini is also facing trial in a Special CBI Court in Delhi along with three others for alleged abduction and disappearance of automobile businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver Mukhtiyar Singh in 1994.
05-01-2021||Nawanshahr||Three of family commit suicide in Nawanshahr||Three members of a family allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance in Malpur Arkan village here, police said on Tuesday.The bodies of Jit Ram (80), his wife Channo Devi (78) and their daughter Yamuna Devi (42) were found on a bed in their house, they said.After not seeing them since Monday evening, the neighbours along with some villagers entered the house from the rooftop of an adjoining building on Tuesday, and found the bodies, police said.According to villagers, the elderly couple had fixed the marriage of their daughter on January 10. But she did not want to get married as she wanted to serve her aged parents, they said.Station House Officer (Sadar) Sarbjit Singh said the bodies have been sent for post-mortem. PTI
05-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers’ protest: BJP leaders from Punjab meet PM Modi||BJP leaders from Punjab on Tuesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi here amid protests by farmers at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new agri laws for nearly six weeks.BJP leaders Surjit Kumar Jyani, who is also a former Punjab minister, and Harjit Singh Grewal met Prime Minister Modi at his residence.Jyani was chairing the BJP’s Kisan Coordination Committee for interacting with farmers in Punjab last year on the three farm Bills which at that time had not been passed by Parliament.Grewal was also a member of the committee.Talking to PTI, Grewal said their meeting with Prime Minister Modi was about Punjab related issues, but did not specify further.The meeting between the BJP leaders and Modi came a day after another round of talks between the government and agitating farmers remained inconclusive. — PTI
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Share details of vested interests who want to sabotage company, Punjab government tells Reliance||Punjab government on Tuesday claimed the task of state agencies to further protect the assets of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited would become easier if the petitioner-company was to share information on alleged “vested interest” involved in sabotaging and damaging its network infrastructure.The submission came as the Punjab and Haryana High Court issued notice of motion to the State of Punjab.Taking up the company’s petition for action against efforts by “vested interest and miscreants" to completely sabotage and damage its network infrastructure, Justice Sudhir Mittal also issued notice to the Union of India, the Department of Telecommunication and the State Director-General of police. Justice Mittal fixed the case for February 8 after the counsel for the respondents sought time.The notice to Punjab and the DGP was accepted by State counsel Diya Sodhi. For remaining respondents, it was accepted by Addititional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain, Saigeeta Srivastava and Gurmeet Kaur Gill.  Responding to the contentions raised in the petition, Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda submitted the petitioner-company was itself admitting action for protection of its assets. Accompanied by Additional AG Rameeza Hakeem, Nanda added the State has deployed 1019 patrolling parties in 27 districts and appointed 22 nodal officers to prevent further damage. The State was carrying out the duty enjoined upon it by the Statutes. The impact of the farm laws’ agitation by the farmers on 1300 affected towers had been removed and these were now functioning, Nanda submitted.Appearing for the petitioner-company, senior  counsel Ashok Aggarwal submitted Punjab Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property Act, 2014, was enacted to prevent damage to public and private property. But preventive mechanism was not provided. As such, damage to petitioner’s properties could not be prevented despite the enactment. “The State needs to evolve a mechanism for fulfilling the purpose behind the Act,” he added.
05-01-2021||GS Paul||Sidhu does 'chai pe charcha' at Amritsar tea stall; targets NDA govt over 'pro-corporate' policies||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 5Amritsar’s famous Giani Tea Stall on Cooper Road here had an expected guest on Tuesday morning with senior Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu landing up at the iconic spot for a “Chai pe Charcha” session with those already present there.Discarding the chair offered by the stall owner, Sidhu preferred sitting on one of the wooden stools on the adjoining lane on the roadside and insisted on having tea served to customers in ‘glassi’ (glasses) instead of cups. The passersby, especially the morning walkers, stopped for an interaction with the cricketer-turned-politician.Sidhu obliged them with an opportunity to click selfies.The former minister enquired about their well-being and patiently listened to their grievances before taking on the Union Government for allegedly favouring the big capitalists and looting the common man.“Today, the farmers are fighting not only for their own cause but for the rights of every Indian. The farmers are the flag-bearers of our fight for rights. We must support them. How could they trust the government’s word-of-mouth assurance which could not fulfil its constitutional commitment under the GST to pay Punjab an increment of 14 per cent every year?” he said.Citing stats, Sidhu claimed that the total debt upon the Government of India in 67 years (1947-2014) was just Rs 54 lakh crore, whereas under the BJP rule, it got escalated to over Rs 70 lakh crore between 2014 and 2019. "If you divide by 67 years, the debt upon India rose by Rs 74,000 crore annually, meaning Rs 6,200 crore per month. Since 2014, debt upon India has risen by approximately Rs 7 lakh crore every year, means Rs 60,000 crore every month. “Consequently, they have increased the burden on every common Indian by ten times. The biggest burden on life is debt, that’s why the traders and farmers have been put under pressure, leading them to commit suicides,” he said.In 2014, he claimed, the Centre brought a 5:25 scheme that implied that the loan that was supposed to be paid back in five years could be done in 25 years. “But, it was designed to benefit the big corporate houses only as it was applicable only for loans above Rs 500 crore. The common people do not know about these tactics, that’s why I am here to expose the Centre’s nefarious designs. These loans are generated through public sector banks that offer common man’s savings, recurring deposits or fixed deposits. Now, in the name of solving outstanding non-performing assets, the government has been allowing corporates to open banks," he said. Sidhu said the government is run with common man’s money and every Indian has to pay back through taxes and the GST and demonetisation has broken the backbone of common traders and consumers.“What is the government doing with your taxes? It is taking away your hard-earned money and handing over the state resources to a few powerful capitalists. We should not become mute spectators in democracy. We should unite and every Indian has to become political to fight for their rights”, he said.As someone from the gathering asked Sidhu to come out to lead Punjab and "hit sixes for them", Sidhu replied, “ I am always there to empower the voice of the people and encourage each one of you to come forward to fight for rights."
05-01-2021||Aman Sood||Punjabi singer Shree Brar arrested for promoting gun culture in controversial song||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 5Patiala police on Tuesday booked and arrested Punjabi singer and lyricist Shree Brar on the charges of promoting violence and gun culture in a song he had uploaded on social media.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said a case under Sections 294 (sings, recites or utters any obscene song), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the IPC had been registered against the singer, along with other artists in the song. Duggal said the song “Jaan” by Barbie Mann, featuring Shree Brar, was released in November and had been promoting gun culture in the youth.“Following a complaint, an FIR was registered and the singer has already been arrested. More raids are on to nab the other artists featuring in the same song,” the SSP said.Earlier in February, Punjab police had registered a case against Punjabi singers Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, aka Sidhu Moosewala, and Mankirt Aulakh for allegedly promoting violence and gun culture in a song uploaded on social media.Sources said Shree Brar was picked by a CIA police team of Patiala following the controversial song.In the video, the singer is shown to have trespassed into Nabha police station in Patiala and rescue an arrested accused by pointing a weapon at the duty officer.“Such glorification of guns and hatred will not be tolerated,” warned the Patiala SSP.
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court issues notice to Punjab, Centre on Reliance Jio plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Punjab government and the Centre on a plea filed by Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd, seeking action against "miscreants" damaging its telecom infrastructure and forcibly closing its stores in the state.During the ongoing agitation by farmers against three farm laws enacted by the Centre, over 1,500 mobile towers in Punjab have been damaged.Reliance Jio, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd, on Monday, submitted in its plea that "vested" interests are engaged in spreading "false rumours" against it and that the petitioner, its parent company and its affiliates had no plans to enter corporate or contract farming.Justice Sudhir Mittal has issued notice of motion for February 8, according to Aashish Mittal, the counsel for Reliance Jio.The company has made the state of Punjab through its chief secretary, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of Telecommunications and the Punjab Director General of Police as respondents in the matter.In the civil writ petition, Reliance Jio has also sought appropriate directions to respondents for investigation into the “well-orchestrated and sustained disinformation campaign” being carried out by vested interests and miscreants against it.In the petition, the company has stated that in the past few weeks, its over 1,500 telecom towers were damaged or rendered inoperative by miscreants crippling its mobile network in Punjab.A number of its centres and stores were also forcibly closed by miscreants by using “illegal force and intimidation,” it submitted.The petitioner submitted that its subscribers were being forced to port to other networks, while its employees were being subjected to grave threat to life and forcibly prevented from serving subscribers in the state.According to the petition, vested interests inimical to the petitioner and its parent company Reliance Industries, are engaged in spreading false rumours to the effect that the petitioner and its affiliates were somehow a beneficiary of recent legislation passed by Parliament governing marketing of agricultural produce.In a statement, Reliance said it "has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them”.The company also sought constitution of a competent authority under the Punjab Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property Act for the assessment of losses caused to it. PTI
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures stay above normal in Punjab, Haryana||The cold weather condition continued in Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday even as minimum temperatures stayed above normal levels in most parts of the states.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its minimum temperature at 14 degrees Celsius, nine degrees above normal, an official of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said here.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded minimum temperatures at 13 degrees, 12.2 degrees and 15.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 13.7 degrees, 12 degrees, 13.1 degrees, 13 degrees, 12.7 degrees and 10.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.In neighbouring Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 14.3 degrees, 12.8 degrees and 15.1 degrees Celsius, up to eight degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa were 12.5 degrees, 14 degrees, 8.8 degrees and 14.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.The places in Punjab and Haryana which witnessed rains in the past 24 hours included Amritsar (7.8 mm), Pathankot (10 mm), Bathinda (3 mm), Gurdaspur (1 mm), Ambala (0.2 mm), Hisar (7.9 mm), Karnal (5.8 mm), Narnaul (43 mm), Rohtak (21mm), Bhiwani (7.8 mm) and Sirsa (7 mm), the IMD added. PTI
05-01-2021||Sangrur||Woman, 2 minor daughters found dead in Punjab's Sangrur||A woman and her two minor daughters were found dead in their home in Saron village of Sangrur district, the police said on Tuesday. SHO Sadar police station Sangrur Rakesh Kumar said that Monday evening they recovered the bodies of Anshnoor Kaur (4), her sister Virasat Kaur (2.5) from the bed of their room while their mother Baljit Kaur was found hanging with the fan of their room. “It seems that first, she murdered both her daughters and later committed suicide. But without thorough investigations, we could not confirm anything. We have placed both bodies in Sangrur civil hospital and called the parents of the deceased. After recording the statements of her parents, we would take further action,” said the SHO. “The deceased woman used to stitch clothes while her husband works as a carpenter. We are conducting thorough investigations,” said DSP R Satpal Sharma.
05-01-2021||Fazilka||Pak man crosses border, held in Fazilka||Akali leader joins AAPChandigarh: Tarsem Singh Bhinder, member of Akali Dal’s core committee, along with his associates joined the AAP on Monday. Besides, former senior vice presidents of SAD Bhupinder Singh Sandhu, Maluk Singh and Satnam Singh Khalsa also joined the party. Bhinder said he had joined the party after seeing the Kejriwal government’s work for farmers. TNSGive papers: SGPC to pilgrimsAmritsar: The SGPC has initiated the visa process for pilgrims aspiring to visit Pakistan to attend the first centenary event of Sri Nankana Sahib massacre at the birth place of Guru Nanak Dev. The pilgrims have been asked to submit their passports by January 15 at the SGPC office in Amritsar. TNSTeachers’ union joins strikeSangrur: Members of the TET and ETT Pass Union have started indefinite protest in front of the Sangrur DC office, while members of five unions, under the Sanjha Unemployed Morcha, have been sitting on a hunger strike in front of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla’s residence. TNS
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Scheduled Castes panel: Act against erring institutions||The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes today directed the state government to take legal and administrative action against those educational institutions in the state that were not awarding degrees to SC students under the scholarship scheme.Tejinder Kaur, Chairperson, Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission, said in a statement, “It has come to my notice through newspapers, besides complaints to the commission, that many educational institutions haven’t been awarding degrees and other original documents to SC students studying under the scholarship scheme.”She said the government had been asked to cancel the affiliation of erring educational institutions and register criminal cases against such institutions. — TNS
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Sobha Singh work used with noble intent: Punjab Govt||A day after Gurcharan Kaur, daughter of painter Sobha Singh, expressed resentment over “unauthorised use of a painting” of Guru Tegh Bahadur by the Punjab Government in its 2021 calendar, the government today said it had been used with “noble intent” and not for profit.“A spontaneous outpour of contributions by people from all walks of life during the 550th Parkash Purab celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev encouraged the Department of Information and Public Relations to collect best artistic content befitting the stature of celebrations to mark the Parkash Purab of Guru Tegh Bahadhur.“In its noble intent, the department failed to seek formal permission for depiction of the paintings, which was admittedly a mistake,” said Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, Secretary of the department, in reply to the painter’s daughter. The Secretary assured her the painter’s artwork would not be associated with the Parkash Purab celebrations.Gurcharan Kaur had sought compensation for the economic loss caused by the move since prints of the classic work could not be sold. — TNS
05-01-2021||---||In Punjab, record procurement amid lockdown||Chandigarh, January 4Food, Civil Supply and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today said the state saw a record foodgrain procurement last year despite the lockdown.While 127.11 metric tonnes (MT) of wheat was procured in the rabi season, 202.78 MT of paddy was purchased in the kharif season.Taking precautions in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state had set up nearly 4,400 additional temporary purchase centres in the two procurement seasons.Speaking at a press conference, Ashu said Punjab would not allow traders from other states to sell wheat in the mandis here. He said the department was preparing a strategy to curb the practice.“It is principled stand taken by the Legislature against the Central farm laws. We did the same thing with traders bringing paddy from outside to sell in Punjab mandis,” he said even as the amendments to the Central laws passed in the Vidhan Sabha are yet to get approval from the Governor.Setting the agenda for the implementation of scheme under the National Food Security Act for 2021, Ashu said the department planned to start sending customised SMSs to beneficiary families informing them about their entitlement so that they could draw ration on time.He said the inter-state portability of ration distribution had been implemented under which migrants from other states, on arrival in Punjab, could avail their entitlement of ration from fair price shop of their choice.
05-01-2021||---||Reliance moves High Court over damage to infrastructure||Chandigarh, January 4Facing disconnect of sorts following farmers’ protests against farm laws, Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, claiming that neither the petitioner-company nor parent company Reliance Industries Limited and its affiliates had any plan, even in future, to enter corporate or contract farming.In its petition, yet to come up for hearing, the petitioner-company claimed they had immense regard for the hard work of the farmers and were committed to do everything to empower them in letter and spirit.Seeking the High Court’s intervention, the petitioner-company sought directions to the State of Punjab and other respondents to take action against efforts being made by vested interests and miscreants to completely sabotage and damage its network infrastructure and the centres and stores of the petitioner-company and its affiliates. Their counsel Aashish Chopra said some vested interests started a disinformation campaign, alleging the laws were passed to confer benefit on select corporates. The petitioner was in no manner connected with the laws.‘No plan to enter contract farming’Reliance Jio has claimed that neither the petitioner-company, nor parent firm Reliance Industries Ltd and its affiliates have any plan to enter corporate or contract farming.
05-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Kothi no. 793, Tikri border, his new address||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 4“My kothi no. is 793 at Tikri border,” Jarnail Singh, an elderly farmer from Abohar, tells his co-villager over the phone to find him there when he visits the protest site. Jarnail is putting up at Bahadurgarh-Mundka Metro pillar no. 793.Similarly, other protesters from Punjab and Haryana have made Metro pillars their new abode ever since the protest started on November 27 last year. They are calling their acquaintances to the protest site by mentioning the pillar number. Pawandeep Singh of Fazilka district, who is putting up under pillar no. 794, said: “Given the Centre’s adamant stance, we are ready for a long haul. We have made available all facilities required for our comfortable stay.”Pillar no. 813, where a number of youths from Haryana are staying, has become a famous hangout.“Besides food and beverages, hookah has also been made available. Farmers gather here every evening,” said Virender Hooda of Rohtak.
05-01-2021||---||Protest outside Manpreet Singh Badal’s office||Bathinda, January 4Activists of Sikh Sadbhawna Dal staged a protest in front of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal's office in Bathinda today and demanded action against those responsible for missing "saroops".Amarpal Singh Faridkot, Activist, Sikh Sadbhawna DalMissing ‘saroops’: stir on until justice doneUntil missing saroops are found and those responsible punished, we will continue to gherao residences of ministers and legislators of the state government.They organised a symbolic kirtan at the protest site to "awaken" the state government from its "deep slumber" and punish those responsible for the missing 328 "saroops".Amarpal Singh Faridkot said: "The police have failed to take required action against members of Shiromani Committee as the state government and the Akali Dal are jointly responsible for the loss. Until missing saroops are found and those responsible not punished, we will continue to gherao residences of ministers and legislators of the state government."
05-01-2021||---||Give sacrilege files to police: Punjab and Haryana High Court to CBI||Chandigarh, January 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the CBI to hand over all case diaries and papers related to sacrilege cases to the Punjab Police within a month.Capt Amarinder Singh, CMFollow orders: CMIt’s high time the CBI listens to the court and hand the case files back to the state so that the perpetrators of the crimes are brought to justice. The Congress govt has been fighting the CBI high-handedness for over two years now. The ruling came during a hearing on the plea of one of the accused in the 2015 Faridkot sacrilege incidents, Sukhjinder Singh. He had challenged the probe being undertaken by an SIT of the Punjab Police on the ground that the CBI was already seized of the investigation.Hailing the verdict, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said it was high time the CBI listened to the courts and handed the case files back to the state so that the perpetrators of the crimes could be brought to justice.He said his government had been fighting the CBI “high-handedness” for more than two years, but the agency had failed to follow various directions and orders of the courts.Asserting his commitment to bring the cases to their logical conclusion, the CM said the agency should respect the verdict of the judiciary and stop overreaching the courts at the behest of its political masters.
05-01-2021||---||Punjab cops get remand of 4 pilfering whiskey||Amritsar, January 4The Punjab Police today produced the four suspects allegedly involved in the inter-state pilferage of imported blended whiskey racket in a local court, which remanded them in three-day police custody.11 villages oppose liquor factoryThe suspects were caught red-handed by the police and the Excise Department team while pilfering whiskey into smaller drums from two tankers on the Chabal road in Tarn Taran. They were identified as Dharminder Singh, Chamkaur Singh and Manohar Singh, all residents of Tarn Taran, and Sarvan Singh of Sue Wali Havelian in Sanghna village. Their fifth accomplice, Gursharan Singh of Sanghna village, however, fled the scene.Following preliminary interrogation, the police have launched a manhunt to nab those who received the pilfered liquor for dilution and further sale. “We have identified two persons in Amritsar to whom the suspects used to supply the liquor,” said a police official privy to the investigation, adding raids were on to nab them. The police did not share the names as it could hamper the probe.Acting on a tip off, the police along with excise officials had confiscated two tankers containing 42,000 litres of three-year-old blended grain scotch whiskey worth Rs 2 crore here yesterday. The liquor was meant for United Spirits Limited’s distillery at Khasa and was imported from foreign consignor Diageo Brands BV in Amsterdam, Netherlands. It had arrived at the Nhava Sheva port in Mumbai.Preliminary probe suggested the accused were to pilfer the liquor in 200 litre drums, which would further to be sold at Rs 10,000 per drum.
05-01-2021||Aman Sood||For Rs 1K/day, Ludhiana firm cleared spurious milk samples||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 4An initial probe into the illegal milk unit that allegedly manufactured adulterated milk using poultry feed as an ingredient to double the quantity suggests the two accused arrested in the case gave milk company employees a bribe of Rs 1,000 per day for approving the samples. The idea to use poultry chicken feed as an ingredient to double the quantity of milk was allegedly floated by Supreme Dairy, a Ludhiana-based unit, employees.It has come to light that the two accused were into dairy business for over five years. The police today booked two Supreme Dairy employees — Umesh and Pritam Singh — in the case.“Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet, main accused, had 52 customers and were running a dairy business for five years. Two years ago, they signed an agreement with Supreme Dairy in Ludhiana, under which they supplied full-fat milk to the firm,” said Jaswant Singh Mangat, Samana DSP. “The accused had all machinery needed in the business,” he said.“Harpreet had signed a 16-year agreement with the company and was collecting milk from nearby villages. He would double the milk quantity by mixing it with poultry feed. The idea to add poultry feed in milk was given to him by Supreme Dairy employees,” said Mangat.The two Supreme Dairy employees named in the FIR today would transport the milk and check adulteration. “They would accept Rs 1,000 per day and not report adulteration to company officials,” he said.
05-01-2021||---||Villagers to send 20 quintal ‘pinnis’ to Delhi||Faridkot, January 4Milk is brewing in gigantic pots in a sprawling kitchen of the Nirmal Dera at Golewala village of Faridkot. Men and women have been working in turns to cook for the past three days.While residents of the village, having four panchayats, are contributing about 5,000 litres of milk daily, more than 100 residents are boiling milk in open pans to make ‘khoya’ or ‘mawa’, a dairy product.This ‘khoya’ will be used to prepare over 20 quintals of ‘pinnis’ for the farmers who are protesting on Delhi borders.“We Punjabis have a habit of consuming ‘khoya pinnis’ in the winter. So when our brethren are sitting on Delhi borders for the past month, braving this bone-numbing cold, we are sending them ‘khoya pinnis’ to help them deal with the weather,” said Manpreet Singh Dhillon, sarpanch of the village.Over 200 farmers and youths of Golewala village have been camping on Delhi borders for over a month. This village has some prominent farm leaders — Binder Singh Golewala, Gurmeet Singh, Master Lal Singh — of three ‘kisan’ unions. As all these leaders have mass following in the area, many farmers and youth of Golewala village are camping near Delhi.Baba Harpreet Singh, head of the Nirmal Dera, said villagers were contributing milk and other ingredients to make ‘khoya pinnis’ and a team of youth from the village would take these to Delhi in the next two days. “We are running the kitchens in the dera round the clock,” said Naseeb Singh, another sarpanch in the village.Meanwhile, residents of Dhulkot village in Muktsar, under the banner of the Nirol Sewa Organisation, are making ‘pinnis’ and ‘sarson da saag’ for farmers protesting. Kala, a member of the organisation, said, “We are sending 50 quintals of ‘pinnis’ and ‘saag’ for our brothers.”
05-01-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||To fuel stir, ex-Army man foots diesel bill||Tribune News ServiceDhariwal (Gurdaspur), January 4Cash-rich Punjabis and NRIs of Majha have propped up a Gurdaspur-based ex-Army man as their frontman to anonymously pump in massive doses of funds to sustain the farmers’ agitation.Goldy Manepuria, Ex-army manTie-up with stationsI have tied up with almost all fuel stations on the 120-km highway. Whenever a tractor needs diesel, all owner of the pump has to do is call me and I deposit the money in his account.Goldy Manepuria has also, rather inadvertently, sparked off a Twitter spat between actor Swara Bhaskar, who praised his efforts, and a TV news anchor, who called him “a fake Army man” and asked the Army to check his credentials. Hailing from Manepur village, Manepuria is the go-to man for farmers travelling to the Capital. He ensures that every tractor-trailer gets fuel from petrol pumps located on the Pathankot-Gurdaspur-Batala national Highway. The onus of picking up the tab is on him.“I have tied up with almost all fuel stations on the 120-km highway. Whenever a tractor needs diesel, all owner of the pump has to do is call me and I deposit the money in his account,” said Manepuria. Ever since December 16, when the first tractor was refueled, the man has made a Dhariwal-based pump his home. He is aided by Kanwalpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh.He says the maximum rush was seen on December 24 and 25, when farm leaders had given a call that 250 trailers from Majha should reach Delhi. On all other days, 60 to 80 vehicles on an average are provided diesel.“We spend Rs 4,500-Rs 6,000 on fuelling one tractor. Most of the protesting peasants have small landholdings. I myself own just two acres…I can feel the pain of my brethren. The purpose of life is not to be happy. It is to be useful, to be compassionate. Members of my community are sitting there in biting cold. To me, a community is like a ship. Everybody ought to be prepared to take the helm,” he said. He is not willing to reveal the names of his benefactors “because they themselves want to work incognito”. Manepuria said he was livid when the TV anchor cast aspersions on him. “I uploaded a video informing him that I have served at the China border in freezing cold. I also invited him to leave the comfort of his TV studio and brave it out with my brothers in Delhi,” he added.
05-01-2021||Sangrur||Trust offers free education to deceased farmers’ kids||Acknowledging that financial aid given by the government was insufficient for the families of all deceased farmers, members of the Sant Attar Singh Gursagar Mastuana Trust have decided to provide free education to all children of the deceased and extend other help also.The trust runs various institutes to provide education in pharmacy, physical education, computer science, management, science, arts and commerce. It also runs an academy affiliated to the CBSE till Class XII.‘Centre must help’“The farmers, who lost lives during the agitation, are our martyrs as they have laid down their lives to save the farming of Punjab. We have decided to provide free education and all possible help to their families,” said Lehra MLA Parminder Dhindsa, who is a trust member and former minister. His father and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa is the chairman of the trust.Parminder today visited Lidhran village and met the family of Shamsher Singh who died at the Delhi border on Sunday. Since Lidhran is near Mastuana, the trust has announced giving a job to the next of kin apart from providing free education and other financial help.“Around 20 children of farmers, who committed suicides due to debt, have been studying for free here. Our members will visit the families of deceased farmers in the coming days to make them aware of the free education here,” said Jaswant Singh Khaira, secretary of the trust. — TNS
05-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Will cancel FIR in dung dump case, say Hoshiarpur police||Hoshiarpur, January 4Farmers’ organisations today held a dharna at the District Administrative Complex (DAC) demanding cancellation of the FIR lodged against youths for throwing cow dung at BJP leader Tikshan Sud’s residence in protest against a controversial statement made by him against the agitating farmers.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal held a meeting with leaders of a 15-member joint struggle committee formed by various farmer organisations. After the meeting, the delegation of farmers, along with SP Raminder Singh, Tanda DSP Daljit Singh Khakh and DSP Gurpreet Singh Gill and other officials, reached the dharna site. The SP announcedthat the FIR registered against the youths would be cancelled, after which the dharna ended.Earlier, farmers demanded immediate cancellation of the FIR lodged by the district police under pressure from the BJP. They said their dharna would continue till their demand was met. They said a case should be registered against Sud for abusing and threatening them.
05-01-2021||Sangrur||Back from Delhi protest, 2 more farmers die||Farmer Gurcharn Singh from Bakhopir died last night at his house after returning from the Delhi protest. He was a member of the BKU (Dakaunda). The union has demanded financial aid for the family of the deceased.“Gurcharn had been participating in the protest since the beginning. After facing health problems, he came back last evening and died at his house. The Punjab Government should give financial aid to his family,” said Gurbhajan Singh, a BKU (Dakaunda) leader.Gurdarshan Singh (43), a farmer from Roorkee village in Fatehgarh Sahib, died due to illness during the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi. His son Gurinder Singh said Gurdarshan had been protesting in Delhi for the past five days. His health deteriorated due to the chilly weather. His companions brought him to the village yesterday. He died today due to a sudden heart attack.Gurinder said that the state had lost another promising farm leader only due to the arrogance of the Modi government, which was not heeding to the demand of the protesting farmers to repeal the laws. He said the farmers were ready to make any sacrifice for their cause. — TNS/OC
05-01-2021||---||Won’t ally with BJP even if laws go: SAD||Bahadurgarh, January 4Almost a decade after his father Parkash Singh Badal said that the tie-up with the BJP in Punjab would continue as long as he lived, his son and incumbent SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today made it clear that “there would never be any future alliance with the saffron party now even if it rolled back the controversial farm laws”.Faces farmers’ ireHe said “the current situation had arisen due to the arrogance” of the Prime Minister. Earlier, addressing a congregation at Gurdwara Sahib Patshahi Nauvi Bahadurgarh, Sukhbir said: “Under no circumstances SAD will be part of the BJP either at the Centre or in the state. The BJP has backstabbed us and Punjab and there will be no looking back at our ties ever again, even if the farm laws are withdrawn,” he said. “Despite opposition to the farm ordinances immediately after they were promulgated, the PM announced he would not budge, come what may. It is this attitude which has made the farmer agitation stronger,” he said. He accused the Centre of misusing the position of the Punjab Governor by summoning officers for explanations to Raj Bhavan following complaints by the BJP.
05-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Doaba women to form committees, hold door-to-door campaign against laws||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 4Women from the Doaba region will now act as a catalyst in the ongoing protest against the farm laws. A group of women farmers under the Kirti Kisan Union has decided to increase the participation of women in the stir. From Tuesday, women farmers will visit various villages in Doaba and garner support to form committees.Gurbaksh Kaur, farmerWill lend support to protestersWe will start from our homes early morning and come back in the evening. We are not going to sit back quietly. We are going to fight along with our brothers.The committees will not only include farmers but also women belonging to all sectors and areas. The group will start from Nawanshahr villages and go to every household and organise meetings to make people aware of the farm laws.Villages that will be covered on the first day are Swajpur, Asmaanpur and Ramraipur in Nawanshahr.Farmer Surjit Kaur from Jadla in Nawanshahr said since the talks with the government were not giving any positive result, it was clear that farmers would have to remain there for a long time.“So, it is important to strengthen the protest by increasing the number of women in the movement,” she said.On January 18, the women will be making their presence felt by holding protests at the local level and on January 26, they will accompany the farmers in tractor-trailers.Gurbaksh Kaur, another farmer from Sahaabpur village, Nawanshahr, said till now, women from the Malwa region were taking part in huge numbers, but now, women from Doaba will also make their presence felt.“We will start from our homes early morning and come back in the evening. We are not going to sit back quietly. We are going to fight along with our brothers,” she said.“We are self-employed. We do farming and earn a living. The farmers don’t get their dues and now, the government has forced these laws on us. History tells us that women have managed to give thrust to movements, which is why we will fight too,” she said.
05-01-2021||Sameer Singh||Farm stir triggers threefold rise in purchase of cotton on MSP in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 4The ongoing farmers’ agitation has significantly altered the procurement dynamics of cotton this season. As per the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), a record purchase of produce has been made on the MSP this season in Punjab.26.5L quintals liftedAs per the data procured by The Tribune from the CCI Punjab office, there has been a threefold increase in the procurement of cotton by the government agency this season as compared to the previous season, which, as per CCI officials, is likely to increase further (till April). Procurement by private players, on the other hand, has dwindled this year.The data procured from the CCI has revealed that the government procurement agency has purchased 26.5 lakh quintals of cotton (2020-21) in Punjab this procurement season till the first week of January as against 7.5 lakh quintals procured during the previous season (2019-20) around the same time, thereby registering more than threefold increase in procurement by the government agency in a gap of just a year.Former Agri Dept OfficialRipple effectIt’s clearly a ripple effect of the ongoing agitation. The government procurement agency, in a bid to avoid the wrath of the agitating farmers, has made record purchase this year.Talking to The Tribune, Neeraj Kumar, General Manager, CCI, Punjab, said, “We have procured over 85 per cent of the total cotton produce arriving in mandis across the state till now as against 35 per cent during the previous season (2019-20). In total, the CCI has purchased 26.5 lakh quintals of cotton so far as against 17 lakh quintals during the previous season.”While CCI officials are attributing the record increase in procurement by the government agency to altered market-driven forces this season, experts have been linking it to the farmers’ agitation.A retired senior official of the Agriculture Department said, “It’s clearly a ripple effect of the ongoing farmers’ agitation over the contentious farm laws. With the MSP being one of the major sticking points of the stir, the government procurement agency, in a bid to avoid the wrath of the agitating farmers, has made record purchase this year. And it’s the cotton farmers who have directly benefited from it, as majority of them have received an MSP between Rs 5,725 and Rs 5,665 per quintal.”A string of protests was held by cotton farmers during the previous season. They had alleged that the CCI had failed to enter in a sizable number of mandis for procurement as a result of which private players stepped in to purchase the produce on rates way below the MSP.
05-01-2021||GS Paul||Amid bird flu scare, alert at Harike, other wetlands||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 4Taking precautionary measures in view of the death of thousands of migratory birds in the Pong Dam lake on the Beas in bordering Himachal Pradesh due to bird flu, the state Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation has sounded an alert in the wetlands of Harike Pattan (Tarn Taran), Keshopur Chhamb (Gurdaspur), Nangal, Rupnagar and others.No casualty has been reported in this part of the region but the possibility of the disease reaching the wetlands cannot be ruled out.Nonetheless, teams of the Wildlife Department and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) are keeping round-the-clock vigil at the Harike wetland, the confluence of Sutlej and Beas.At Harike, around 55,000 birds had arrived as per the census between September and December 14, 2020. Besides migratory birds such as goose, duck, pochard, gull, tern and migratory raptor, Harike attracts several local species such as painted stork, rufous-vented prinia, eurasian eagle owl, Jerdon’s babler, etc.Similarly, the fortnight census conducted till December 30 at Keshopur Chhamb suggested arrival of 21,466 birds there.Gitanjali Kanwar, WWF specialist in aquatic biodiversity, wetlands and rivers, observed the situation was quite serious. Asked if it could pose threat to other aquatic creatures such as rare Indus dolphin or gharial that survive in waters, she said: “An alarming rise in deaths is concerning and requires a serious follow-up”.Harike Range Officer Kanwaljit Singh said “weltland mitras”, a group of individuals who provide extra information about the birds or aquatic species and habitat, and local riparian residents had been roped in to keep an eye on any abnormal behaviour of water fowls.“The idea is to keep as many eyes on suspicious activity as possible. They have been told to report back if fresh bird carcasses are found. Our teams have been keeping a watch 24x7 on a rotational basis. Similarly, veterinarians have been engaged in preventive care of the birds,” he said.
05-01-2021||---||Rs 550-cr virology centre to come up in Mohali||Chandigarh, January 4To conduct research on viral diseases such as Covid and swine flu, the Punjab Government is all set to establish a state-of-art advanced virology centre in Mohali.Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Prakash Soni said the centre would come up at a cost of Rs 550 crore, in which virology education, research and testing facilities would be provided. “This project is being funded by the ICMR,” he said.He said the centre would be a boon for early diagnose of viral diseases. “In the wake of Covid outbreak in March, there was no facility to test samples of suspected corona patients as earlier such samples used to be sent to Pune for testing,” Soni said.Besides virology centre, he said soon a burn unit would be started at Rajindra Hospital Patiala and a trauma centre would also be set up.He said the state-of-art cancer centre was being set up in Amritsar at a cost of Rs 120 crore, which would be ready by 2021. “The centre will have a capacity of 150 beds. Similarly a separate department of virology would be started at Government Medical College, Amritsar,” he added.He said three new medical colleges would soon be started in the state at an initial cost of Rs 1,000 crore. “The medical college in Mohali will start this year. Two upcoming medical colleges in Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala have been sanctioned and will be started in 2022,” Soni said.He said the government had procured equipment worth crores of rupees from abroad to test Covid samples at state government hospitals. Soni said 21,000 tests per day were being conducted in three labs of government medical colleges of the state, besides 5,500 tests were being conducted daily in four new labs (two in Mohali, one each in Ludhiana and Jalandhar), taking total tally of RT-PCR tests per day to a total of 26,500.
