06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab relaxes curfew timings, shops to remain open from 7 am to 3 pm||Shops in Punjab, except those in coronavirus containment zones, can now open at 7 am and operate until 3 pm as the state government increased the curfew relaxation time.Earlier, the government had allowed opening of shops from 9 am to 1 pm."The state government has now decided that the shops will remain open from 7 am till 3 pm," as per an order issued by the Punjab Home Affairs and Justice department.District authorities shall ensure that there is no overcrowding and social-distancing is maintained as advised, said an order issued by the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Satish Chandra.Banks shall continue to open for public dealing work only from 9 am till 1 pm, but are allowed to carry out their non-public dealing office work as per their requirement, said the order.There is, however, no relaxation in containment zones, it said. PTI
06-05-2020||Kolkata||Quarantine photo contest won by Sikh in Kolkata||Rawel Pushp, a Kolkata-based Sikh journalist, has received the first prize in a mobile-photography contest organised by a Hindi journal here.The photo taken by Pushp of a specially-abled person in Kolkata seeking alms from people while wearing a mask in accordance with the government instructions has fetched the first prize in the “Quarantine Mobile Photography Contest” organised by Hindi journal “Sadinama” published from Kolkata.Pushp (69), whose parents had come to India from West Punjab (Lasuri village in Falia tehsil of Gujrat district) following the partition in 1947, is also a poet.His works include “Purbi Bharat Di Panjabi Kobita”, a collection of poems written by Pushp in Punjabi language.
06-05-2020||Toronto||COVID-19: Sikh doctors in Canada take ‘extremely difficult decision’ to shave beards||Two Sikh doctor brothers in Canada have made an “extremely difficult decision” to shave off their beards, an article of faith in Sikhism, so as to wear the medical-grade protective masks necessary to treat patients suffering from the deadly coronavirus in the country, according to media reports.Also read:First Hindu youth joins Pakistan Air ForceMontreal physician Sanjeet Singh-Saluja and his brother Rajeet, a neurosurgeon at the McGill University Health Centre’s (MUHC) Montreal General and Royal Victoria hospitals, decided to shave their beards after consulting with religious advisers, family and friends, the Brantford Expositor reported. “As a Sikh man, his beard is an important part of his identity but it was impeding his ability to wear a mask. After much thought, he made the difficult decision to shave his beard off,” the MUHC said in a statement. “We could choose not to work, but in a time when healthcare workers are falling sick, we would be adding stress to an already taxed system. We could decide to simply refuse to see COVID-19 patients until viable protection is available to us, but that goes against our oath as physicians and against the principles of SEVA,” he said in a video posted on the MUHC website. “It was an extremely difficult decision for us, but one that we felt was absolutely necessary in this time of need,” Singh-Saluja said. “It’s a decision that has left me with much sadness. This was something that had been so much part of my identity. I look at myself in the mirror very differently now. Every morning when I see myself, it’s a bit of a shock,” he was quoted as saying by the Montreal Gazette. “Originally when my brother and I did this, my brother wanted to keep it very quiet and didn’t want any publicity,” Singh-Saluja said, adding that “We still have a really hard time with it,” he said.Singh-Saluja has dealt with all sorts of outbreaks over the years, but the coronavirus is in a class all its own, and hence the necessity for the N95 mask now. “But because COVID-19 has become so rampant in our community, it just wasn’t feasible anymore (not to wear a N95 mask). There are so many people coming in. I felt I just couldn’t sit on the sidelines. This was an exception to the rule, so we had to do what we had to do to help out,” he said.His brother Rajeet was in a similar predicament and would no longer have been able to operate on COVID-19 patients, the report said.Healthcare workers are coping with the acute shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) across the world. Canada is facing major medical gear shortage as many countries have restricted exports.The total number of coronavirus cases in Canada has reached 62,035 with 4,043 deaths, according to the health authorities.The country’s hardest-hit provinces are Ontario and Quebec. PTI
06-05-2020||Ravneet Singh||Migrant workers reach Patiala railway station without registration||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 6Migrant workers gathered at the Patiala bus stand and railway station on Wednesday morning to board the special Azamgarh-bound Shramik train.Though only the 1188 people who had registered for the journey on the government portal are supposed to leave for Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, many migrant workers reached the railway station with having registered first, thus leading to chaos.Due to a lack of information about the registration process, even people who wanted to travel to other states showed up. The officials however made it clear that only those who had registered would be allowed to board the train.Jamal and Hatifa reached the bus stand, which is a transit point before the train journey, with their four children only to return dejected. They wanted to go to Azamgarh but had failed to register on the government portal. “We don’t know how and where to register. We came here to earn money in November last year and are now forced to return because of no work. We have even lost what we came here with,” Jamal said.Chaand, a resident of Dhanbad in Jharkhand, reached the railway station without registration. “Local leaders told us to reach the railway station today but the security personnel told us to register on the portal first. I am poor and uneducated. They should register us here only and let us go,” Chaand said.Additional commissioner, excise and taxation, Shawkat Ahmad Pare, who is overlooking the process, said, “We have sent messages for their registration. The migrants are in touch with their state governments as well and are duly being informed about registration and other processes. Some of them are trying to use messages sent by the administration to their neighbours and friends who have registered on the portals to board the train but we can’t allow them to travel. They have to register first.”The administration is screening and conducting medical examination of all the migrants. Those reaching the bus stand are asked to produce identification cards and checked for fever or other symptoms on the spot. They are then taken in buses to the railway station.Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit said, “We have made all provisions for their departure. They are being screened and provided health check-up certificates.”The train will not stop anywhere in between Patiala and Azamgarh railway stations.
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amid stand-off with contractors, Punjab excise dept orders starting home delivery of liquor only during lockdown||Amidst a stand-off with the liquor contractors over starting home delivery of liquor, the Punjab Excise and Taxation Department on Wednesday issued orders for starting home delivery “only during the period of lockdown”.The orders, which now give May 7 as the new date for opening of all liquor vends in non-containment areas of Punjab, say that a maximum of two litres of alcohol can be delivered at home, but Punjab Made Liquor (PML) has been exempted.Earlier, the government had proposed that the home delivery of liquor would be done till 6 pm (vends will be open only from 9 am to 1 pm).The new orders issued by the Excise and Taxation Department say the time for home delivery of liquor will be decided by the respective deputy commissioners in each district.The new rules framed for the purpose say each licensing unit (called group) can designate only two persons for delivery of liquor, who will be issued a card by the district excise officials.Even the vehicle that a person can use will have to be notified and to allay fears of contractors that the scheme of home delivery could encourage liquor smuggling, the government has made it mandatory for these delivery boys to carry cash memo of the liquor he has to deliver.Other than this, directions have also been issued for maintaining social distancing amongst employees as well as customers queuing up outside the vends.All liquor contractors who have deposited 50 per cent of their licence fee have been allowed to start operations, while others who have not done so have been asked to deposit 50 per cent of the fee before they can start operations.Contractors who had deposited all their taxes till March 23 (when the curfew began) have been allowed to resume operations and others have been told to clear all pending taxes within two days of starting their operations.
06-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Third train with migrant workers departs from Jalandhar for Lucknow||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6A third Shramik special express train carrying 1200 migrant workers left from Jalandhar to Lucknow on Wednesday. This was the third train withn 24 hours that left the city for transportation of migrant workers to their native places. The state government paid the entire expenditure worth Rs 5.22 lakh of the train. The migrants were transferred from various transit points at Balle Balle farms, Khalsa Senior Secondary School and Guru Nanak Dev University college via buses to the city railway station. A team of the health department was deployed to ensure the medical screening of every passenger boarding the train. The administration officials said that more such trains would be leaving for Lucknow, Varanasi, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj (Allahabad), Sultanpur, Katni (Madhya Pradesh), Jharkhand in the coming days.
06-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Covid-19: First batch of migrants reach home 'empty-handed'||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6The first batch of migrant workers from Punjab reached Daltonganj, Jharkhand, on Wednesday morning after completing a day-long journey in a Shramik special express.The happy and cheerful migrants informed The Tribune that they slept peacefully in the train as there was no worry at all. This time, it was an altogether different journey for them like they had never experienced before. But this is also the first time that they returned their homes "empty-handed" as they couldn’t get anything for their children and family which they would always do every year. The workers informed that they were still at the Daltonganj station and that checking was being done properly and they were waiting desperately to meet their families.“We are happy that we are home, but there is a regret that we couldn’t buy anything for our families because of the lockdown and less money. My children would certainly be happy on seeing us back but their eyes will silently search and long for some gifts,” Joginder (29) said.On their way back home, the migrant workers shared with each other their stories of sufferings during the pandemic. Surender informed that the moment the train started, many of them dozed off and they had not experienced such sound sleep in last two months.When the train reached the destination, Surender said that the feeling of returning home this time could never be expressed in words. “Earlier, I used to go home with toys or other things to eat for my four children, but this time, I’ll meet them without any gift. But I know that they understand the situation and this time they will be happier,” Surender said.Asked when they would come back, they said that when the trains would start properly and when the lockdown was lifted, they would come back. Sanjay (31) said that this time they have gone to their homes just to meet the families and there is no other important works to be done. “We’ll be back soon, wishing for the situation to get normalised,” Sanjay said.
06-05-2020||Kuldip Bhatia||Covid-19: 2 more trains from Ludhiana take migrants back home||Ludhiana, May 6Nearly two thousand more migrant workers and their family members on Wednesday departed for their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. One ‘Shramik special’ express train carrying 945 passengers left at 11am for Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh while another train left for Daltonganj in Jharkhand at 1pm, according to government officials.All passengers were screened and brought to the railway station in buses with five teams of officials in each bus.A ‘Shramik special’ train to ferry some 900 migrant workers had left for Prayagraj (UP) at 10pm on Tuesday.
06-05-2020||New Delhi||Paying for migrants to return home, Rs 870 a ticket: Amarinder||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Wednesday told the meeting held by Congress President Sonia Gandhi that the Railways were charging Rs 870 a ticket to take migrants to their native places and the state government was paying the amount.All Congress-ruled states said arrangements were being made to ensure migrants returned home free.Pegging the April revenue shortfall for the state at 88 per cent, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said with all tax revenues dried up and only 1.5 per cent of the industry currently operational, Punjab was facing a difficult financial situation, which was compounded by absence of aid from the Central government.Participating in a video conference of chief ministers of Congress-ruled states with party president Sonia Gandhi, along with Dr Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi, Capt Amarinder shared his state’s Covid containment strategy and the roadmap for economic revival.During the meeting, Sonia asked the chief minister to convey her congratulations to the farmers of Punjab for a smooth procurement season, with the latter disclosing that more than 100 lakh MT had arrived in the mandis already, and the entire procurement process was expected to be completed by mid-May.States assured Sonia Gandhi that they had decided to pay for the travel of migrant labourers and had asked the Railways for special trains.Punjab CM said that Rs 35 Crore had been set aside and Railways was charging Rs 870 per ticket, which the state was paying.Singh on Wednesday said that the state had set up two committees, one to strategise on how to come out of lockdown and another on economic revival.Singh made the remarks during Congress President Sonia Gandhi's interaction with the Chief Ministers of Congress-ruled states on the management of COVID-19 and the post-May 17 challenges.“Concern is people sitting in Delhi are deciding on classification of zones without knowing what’s happening on the ground,” added Singh. Also read: ‘Centre should let the CMs do what they know best’: Capt Amarinder SinghAddressing the CMs, Gandhi asked what criteria the government would adopt to continue or discontinue the lockdown.“After May 17th, what? And after May 17th, how? What criteria is GOI using to judge how long the lockdown is to continue?” she asked.Former PM Manmohan Singh, who also joined the web meeting, seconded Gandhi and said, “We need to know, as Soniaji said, what will happen after lockdown 3.0?”Speaking first Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot demanded a stimulus package.He said, “Until an extensive stimulus package is given, how will states and country run? We have lost Rs 10,000 crore of revenue. States have repeatedly requested PM for a package but we are yet to hear from GOI.”Capt. Amarinder Singh says, “We have set up two committees, one to strategise on how to come out of lockdown & other on economic revival.”“Concern is people sitting in Delhi are deciding on classification of zones without knowing what’s happening on the ground.”  Live updates:Gandhi also thanked farmers, particularly of Punjab and Haryana, for “ensuring food security by bumper wheat crop, despite all odds.”Puducherry CM SV. Narayanasamy says, “Government of India is deciding on zones without consulting the States and this is creating anomalous situation. People sitting in Delhi can’t tell the States, No State or CM is consulted. Why? PM isn’t saying a word on economic package for States.”Manmohan Singh says, “Sonia Gandhi has already pointed out. CMs need to deliberate and ask as to what is the strategy of Government of India to get the country out of lockdown?”Rahul Gandhi says, “The central piece of strategy to fight covid is to protect the elderly as also those who are diabetic and with heart condition.”Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel says, “States are facing dire economic crisis. They need to be provided immediate assistance.”“Chattisgarh is one state where 80% of Small Industries have restarted & nearly 85,000 workers have returned to work.”Former minister P. Chidambaram said,"States are bleeding in terms of finances but no money is being allocated by GOI. A number of newspapers have brought out the unavailability of finances with States.”Senior Congress leader Veerappa Moily said, "Strategy to declare lockout or come out of it hasn’t been stated at all by Prime Minister or changed at all.”
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab procures 100 lakh metric tonne wheat amid pandemic||In a record 20 days, Punjab has procured 100 lakh metric tonne wheat, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Wednesday."We have completed procurement of more than 100 lakh metric tonnes of wheat," he informed in a tweet."Additional 35 lakh metric tonne is expected to be procured in the coming days. I congratulate farmers, arthiyas and all government departments for making this possible," he added.Punjab, which contributes 30-35 per cent wheat to the national kitty, is expecting to harvest about 185 lakh tonne and the market arrival is likely to be about 135 lakh tonne, amounting Rs 26,000 crore, officials said.The minimum support price (MSP) of wheat is Rs 1,925. IANS
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Corornavirus: Punjab reports 2 fatalities, 75 new cases||Punjab reported 75 new coronavirus cases and two fatalities in a span of 24 hours----a development takes the state's COVID-19 tally to 1,526 and death toll to 27.Moga (28), Tarn Taran (16), Amritsar (13), Patiala (2), Mansa (2), Barnala (1), Muktsar (1), Gurdaspur (1), Fatehgarh Sahib (3), SBS Nagar (1), Sangrur (2), Fazilka (1), Ferozepur (1), Bathinda (1), Hoshiarpur (1) and Jalandhar (1), all reported new cases, Punjab's evening COVID bulletin showed.     Jalandhar and Patiala both reported deaths. A 29-year-old man from Jalandhar's Qazi Mohalla died at Chandigarh's Post Graduate Institue of Medical Education and Research, where he was admitted. A death summary from the hospital showed he had pre-existing health problems---chronic kidney disease and hypertension. The development takes Jalandhar's death toll to five. Also in Jalandhar, a 59-year-old man who was employed at Guru Nanak Mission Hospital tested positive. This takes the district's infection tally to 135.A 39-year-old man died of coronavirus in Patiala on Wednesday, taking the district's death toll to two. The patient was taken to Government Mata Kaushalya hospital in the morning, where he was declared brought dead. Health authorities said his samples were taken on Tuesday and lab reports on Wednesday confirmed he had coronavirus. Patiala Health authorities said that rapid response teams had reached his residence to isolate his family members and other high-risk contacts. Additionally, Patiala reported one another coronavirus case---a pilgrim.Patiala reported four more cases later in the day, but these haven’t been added to the Punjab’s Wednesday tally.Of Patiala’s five cases, one was a 19-year-old from Nabha. Two other cases were from Rajpura---a hotspot---and two from Patiala city.There appeared to be a general dip in Punjab's reporting of cases. Of 75 cases it reported, 36 were pilgrims, six were migrants, and 19 were contacts of previously diagnosed cases. Moga district reported 28 new cases, taking the district's case tally to 56. At least two residents of the Moga district were admitted to hospitals outside the district.Twenty people were pilgrims who recently returned from a pilgrimage to Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra's Nanded and their family members. Seven were contacts of already diagnosed patients, the bulletin showed.Authorities are awaiting information on one patient. More than 1,400 samples had been taken in the district for testing. Authorities said that they were still waiting for results of 700 people and were conducting random testing.Amritsar reported 13 new cases, 12 of who were pilgrims. The new cases take Amritsar’s count to 231.Tarn Taran reported 16 new cases, seven of whom were contacts of already diagnosed casesFerozepur and Fazilka both reported one case, both Nanded pilgrims. Ferozepur’s tally now stands at 43 and Fazilka’s at 39.Muktsar each reported one new case.Mohali case tally now stands at 96, although this has yet to be added to the official tally.Muktsar district reported a new case, taking the district's case tally to 65.Sangrur reported two new cases, taking the district tally to 87.Hoshiarpur’s one new case took the district tally to 89.Amritsar has the most number of cases in Punjab at 231, followed by Jalandhar (134) and Ludhiana (124).   Health department collects 22 coronavirus samples from Patiala Jail After an inmate tested coronavirus-positive, the district health department on Wednesday collected 22 samples from Patiala Central Jail. The health team collected the samples of inmates and jail officials who had come in contact with Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, a gangster. Jaggu, who was lodged at Patiala Central, was taken to Batala on a production warrant, where he tested positive on Tuesday. In the wake of his result, a team—led by district epidemiologist Dr Sumeet— visited the jail on Tuesday. They traced the contacts—who had already been in touch with the gangster—before he left for Batala.The inmates and staff of Patiala Central Jail are said to be on the risk of infection.
06-05-2020||---||Following old rivalry, two men murder sarpanch in Patiala||Patiala, May 6A village sarpanch in this district was assaulted and done to death on Tuesday night.The 32-year-old sarpanch of Passiana village was attacked with swords, police said. He was rushed to Government Rajindra Hospital, where he was referred to the PGI Chandigarh, where he was declared brought dead. Bhupinder Singh was reportedly backed by the Congress.Sources said he was attacked by two jail inmates who were out on parole. The attackers reportedly belong to the same village.The police said old rivalry led to the attack.Police have reached the village and started investigations.
06-05-2020||---||Dentists roped in to ramp up Covid-19 testing||Patiala, May 5To ramp up Covid-19 testing, the District Health Department has decided to rope in dentists and laboratory staff. Following the strict directions from the State Health Department to expedite Covid-19 testing, the District Health Department today imparted training to the dentists and laboratory staff about the whole testing process, including how to take a sample of a suspected patient.ENT Specialists Jaswinder Singh and Parsun Kumar along with District Epidemiologist Sumeet Singh and Microbiologist Swati imparted training about the RT-PCR sample collection technique during a training session at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital today.The experts also apprised the attendees about the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits as per the infection control guidelines.Divulging details, Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said the Health Department would increase the testing in coming days. He informed the department was already conducting Covid-19 tests at the district hospital, three sub-divisional hospitals and Government Medical College. However, the department would now start testing at community health centres at Dudhan Sadhan, Patran, Ghanaur and Bhadson. The new centers are on the outskirts of the district.With these new centers in the periphery, suspected patients would not be referred to the earlier testing centers, thereby, reducing the burden on hospitals, opined the experts.He said, “Now, we will start testing at the block level. We have already formed 14 teams, including two mobile teams, to ramp up the testing.”
06-05-2020||Major FMCG companies and retailers witnessed supply chain disruptions during the phase 1 and 2 of lockdown. However||Markfed witnesses record sales during lockdown||Kindly brief us about your operations?Our turnover is around Rs 14,000 crore. The major part of revenue comes from wheat and rice procurement which is around Rs 11,000 crore. The remaining Rs 3,000 crore comes from trading of fertilisers, BT Cotton seeds, edible products (pulses, sugar, wheat flour, mustard oil and ready-to-eat items) under the brand name “Sohna” in India as well as from exports. We also have an agrochemical plant.To what extent your operations have been affected due to the lockdown?We have not been affected due to the lockdown, primarily being a government corporation. We have been running our factories and units during the lockdown. and our supply chain was never disrupted.Amid lockdown, how has been the demand for your products?Lockdown came as a blessing for us as the demand for our products increased manifold. Markfed, being a Punjab government entity, didn’t face any supply chain disruptions. Secondly, as soon as the lockdown was announced, we focused on running our all five factories meant for edible products and agrochemical unit, as they were covered under essential commodities.Which products witnessed significant demand?On a routine basis, we sell around 80 tonnes of wheat flour per month in Punjab and Chandigarh. Because of the lockdown, we sold around 210 tonnes of flour in a month. Similarly, the sale of pulses rose from seven tonnes to 210 tonnes. The sale of sugar also increased by 30 times. Mustard oil sales almost doubled to 206 kilolitres.What kind of strategy did you devise to tap the demand?We started door-to-door delivery. We hired vehicles to start the service across Punjab and Chandigarh. Then we started getting orders from Facebook also. We have also tied up with Zomato and Swiggy for delivery of groceries in the tricity. Soon, it would be extended to other cities of Punjab also.Don’t you think the sales increased because people started buying in large quantities?Yes, to some extent. Suppose a customer used to buy groceries for 15 days earlier, after the lockdown, people started buying more due to uncertainty about the future. Moreover, we expanded our reach through home delivery. From rickshaws to trucks, we deployed every mode to tap the demand.How lockdown has affected your exports?Definitely, our exports have been affected. Normally, we export around 10 containers of edible products such as wheat flour, oil, pulses and ready-to-eat products (worth Rs 2 crore) every month. We have a huge export market in the US, Canada, Gulf countries, Australia and some European countries. Initially, during the first month of the lockdown, exports were nil. However, from April 15, it picked up, but we are still exporting 50% as there is lockdown in many countries.What are the lessons learnt from the pandemic?The biggest challenge is not to disrupt supply challenge. Deploy new marketing strategy and keep on ramping up production to meet the demand.
06-05-2020||Mahesh Sharma||SHO helps pregnant woman reach Rajindra Hospital in Patiala||Mandi Ahmedgarh, May 5City SHO Amandeep Kaur turned angel for a Muslim family of Dehliz Road as she got their pregnant daughter-in-law admitted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where she was blessed with a baby boy“Allah answers all prayers made during the month of Ramzan, so we pray for the brightest future of SHO Amandeep Kaur who saved our daughter-in-law’s life as well as our grandson’s life, whom we would dedicate to the service of society through the Punjab Police,” said Abdul Hamid, father-in-law of the woman, said.The family said on March 30, all hospitals in the region refused to admit their pregnant daughter-in-law Razina as her platelet count was too low. The family had lost all hopes due to the situation owing to curfew and lockdown as officials at the office of the Executive Magistrate had declined to issue them a curfew pass for the whole day.With the help of a social activist, Aman Afridi, the family had sought the intervention of DSP Karamnveer Singh, whose emergency call was responded by SHO Amandeep Kaur.“We called the police at 5.15 pm and the SHO, accompanied by her staff and an ambulance, was at our door at 5.40 pm,” said Yameen, husband of Razina. The family heaved a sigh of relief when cops deployed by the SHO accompanied them and facilitated admission of Razina at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where she struggled for life for four days and delivered a baby boy.The family is thankful to the Almighty who sent Amandeep Kaur as his messenger and helped them in admitting Razina to the hospital. Yameen regretted that his family had to spend two days in corridors of Rajinder Hospital as the hospital refused to admit her. “Why have you come here, go to hospitals at your own town,” doctors had told the family earlier.Amandeep Kaur said she had performed her duty while rescuing the woman in distress. “Instead of trying for getting them issued curfew pass, I deputed my staff for expeditious and safe shifting of the patient to the designated hospital,” said Kaur.
06-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Immunity-booster homeopathic medicine given to frontline workers||Nawanshahr, May 5As per the advisory issued by the government, the district Homeopathic Department today handed over immunity-booster homeopathic medicine Arsenic 30 to local MLA Angad Singh to be given to police personnel and sanitation workers who have been fighting against Covid-19 as frontline warriors.Dr Madhu Dutta, district homeopathy officer, along with Dr Hardeep Singh, Dr Harjinder Singh, Dr Amrinder Singh and Dr Neha Soni, while handing over the medicine to the MLA stated that a dose of medicine should be taken on an empty stomach for three days consecutively in the morning."After taking the medicine, there should be no intake of food or liquid for at least 30 minutes. After taking the medicine for three days, the dose could be repeated after a gap of 10 days. It will help in boosting the immunity against the Covid-19," they said.MLA Angad Singh while lauding the efforts of the District Homeopathy Department said he would also take the medicine as prescribed and give the same to the frontline warriors who had relentlessly been helping the people who were in distress. The Covid warriors are in great need of immunity booster doses.
06-05-2020||---||CM sanctions Rs 35 cr for migrants’ return||Chandigarh, May 5After persistent efforts of the state, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have agreed to allow ‘shramik special trains’ to enable homecoming of their natives from Punjab.The state’s efforts will give impetus to outward movement of migrant workers, as persons registering with the state government to return to their states almost touched 10 lakh on Tuesday evening. Among these, nearly 9 lakh migrants are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar alone.While Uttar Pradesh has agreed to run six trains in the first batch to ferry its natives, Punjab officials are in touch with the Bihar government to facilitate the travel as it is a large exercise, right from contacting, screening and seating the passengers. Two trains to Prayagraj and Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh, one train to Daltonganj (Jharkhand) and another train to Katni (Madhya Pradesh) have been scheduled for tomorrow.Following Congress president Sonia Gandhi direction to party’s state units to fund the train fare of migrants, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has sanctioned Rs 35 crore to the Deputy Commissioners. At least 60 per cent of the sanctioned amount has been given to Ludhiana, 12 per cent to Jalandhar and others as per requirement.“Each train with 1,200 passengers will cost nearly Rs 7 lakh. Running 500 trains would cost around Rs 35 crore,” said officials coordinating the train trips.Six trains to up
06-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Anxiety, cheer as workers head home after 2 months||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 5It was a sleepless Monday night for migrant labourers who waited for nearly two months to go back to their families in Jharkhand. They stayed awake to reach the railway station on time to board the Shramik Express, which chugged off to Daltonganj, Jharkhand, today.They got a message from the district administration at 11.30 pm and reached for medical screening at three centres set up by the administration at 5 am while the train left around 1 pm.Sitting in the train as it left for its destination, an elated Surender Yadav while talking to The Tribune over the phone said his family, including four children and wife, were in Jharkhand while he was living in Jalandhar all alone. “Bachhe roz phone karte the, rote the ki aa jao. Jaise hi pata chala ki jana hai, unhe phone kia (My children would cry daily for me and ask me to come back. The moment I received the message, I called them),” he said.Sanjay, another migrant worker, said, “We couldn’t sleep. There was excitement and fear. We were just praying that everything goes smoothly and we reach the railway station on time.”
06-05-2020||
||193 Pak nationals cross over to Wagah||Attari, May 5  In all, 193 Pakistani nationals, who were stranded in India in the wake of Covid-enforced lockdown, today returned to their homes via the Attari-Wagah joint checkpost.  The GOI facilitated the repatriation of Pakistani citizens who had come here to visit different parts of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Among the returnees include a 41-member Pakistani jatha, which had gone to Raipur on a religious trip.  It was the third group of Pakistan nationals to have returned to their home since the lockdown came into force on March 23.  Earlier, 49 Pakistanis in two batches were repatriated to their homeland via the border. A similar gesture from the Pakistan Government to repatriate Indian citizens is awaited. Reportedly, around 250 Indians are stranded in Pakistan, including Sikh pilgrims and students. The returnees had to undergo the mandatory medical test to obtain green signal to cross the border. As per the directions of the government, only those with sound health will be allowed to cross the border and after reaching the other side of the border, the returnees will have to undergo self-isolation. The authorities had asked the returnees to reach on the morning of May 5, but many reached a day prior i.e. on the evening of May 4. They weren’t allowed to enter the ICP before the scheduled time.
06-05-2020|| 
||Class X pupils of govt schools take online test||Chandigarh, May 5 In a first-of-its-kind initiative in the government education sector in Punjab, the “Ghar Baithe Shiksha” programme has got an overwhelming response, especially from class X students, who will be appearing for their board examinations in March 2021. The online classes for the students studying in government schools were started days after lockdown was imposed in the entire state.  A brainchild of Krishan Kumar, Secretary, Education, the programme was launched across the state via google drive app, booking space on radio channels and even using group messaging services. In the beginning, the initiative drew a lot of flak, as people felt that not every student had a phone to access the classes. However, data available from the Education Department shows that almost all 1,85,643 students enrolled in class X in the state’s government schools began to take the classes.  To check the efficacy of the new medium of education, the department decided to conduct examinations.
06-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Contractors refuse to reopen liquor vends, want fee cut||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 5Uncertainty prevails over the opening of liquor vends in the state with contractors raising a banners of revolt. They say they won’t open the vends till the government allows them relaxation in the payment of licence fee.There are nearly 5,800 liquor vends in the state, which were to reopen on Wednesday. Amid parleys with the Excise and Taxation Department, that continued till late in the evening, liquor contractors in various districts told the officials that the vends would not be opened till the time the government changed the excise policy. They are demanding that the clause regarding the fixed quota of liquor they are supposed to lift each month should be done away with for the remaining duration of the lockdown period.Varinder Sharma, Ludhiana contractors’ representative, said the licence fee to be paid on each case of liquor was fixed, so was the quota of liquor. “In these times, when nine lakh migrants, a major chunk of customers who consume PML, are leaving the state, our sales won’t be the same. We can’t pay heavy licence fee for a fixed quota when the sales will drop sharply. The quota should be on the basis of actual sale,” he said. Sharma said that while Haryana had allowed some relaxations to the contractors, Punjab too should follow the suit. It is learnt that the Excise and Taxation Department is proposing some relaxations in the payment of licence fee. The matter will be taken up in a meeting of the Cabinet on Thursday.Oppose home delivery of boozeThe contractors have objected to the government’s decision to start home delivery of liquor, saying that this would promote illicit liquor trade. They say each year the contractors suffer losses because of smuggling of cheaper liquor from Haryana and Chandigarh into the state. They fear that the system of home delivery could be run solely through smuggled liquor, hitting their business badly.
06-05-2020||
||3 Moga men pedal 1,500 km from MP to reach home||Moga, May 5  Though they did not know much about the plains of the Malwa region in Madhya Pradesh and deserts of Rajasthan, 50-year-old Jaspal Singh, 32-year-old Angrej Singh and 20-year-old Beant Singh, battled all odds on their 1,500-km-long journey on bicycles from Hoshangabad in Madhya Pradesh to reach their native village Rattian in Moga district last week. On reaching the village, they did not go to their homes. Instead, they preferred to go to the Community Health Centre (CHC) at nearby Daroli Bhai village and asked the health authorities to quarantine them as per the health advisory issued by the Union Government.  Working as operators on a combine harvesting machine, they went to Hoshangabad in the first week of March to harvest wheat but got stuck in the lockdown as public transport was snapped by the government. After sitting idle for a few days, they decided to come back. They bought second-hand cycles and started their journey on April 18. “Though we did not have a map, we remembered the names of some major cities and towns while travelling on the combine harvester from previous train journeys and pedaled all the way through jungles, deserts and rough terrains,” Jaspal Singh said.  “We heard the rumours that the lockdown will be imposed for three months. It was almost like a battle of survival for us. After remaining idle for a week, we decided to go back home on bicycles,” Angrej Singh said.  They were stopped at the Rajasthan border by the police and asked to go back, but local villagers offered them food and stay. The locals told them about a pathway through the jungles. The next morning they started their journey through the forests and entered Rajasthan passing through rough terrains and deserts.  They had sugar, tea and some utensils with them, but depended mostly on locals and roadside dhabas to get food items and milk at exorbitant rates. They had earned Rs 25,000 each from the wheat harvesting work, but spent almost 12,000 each on their journey back home.  On May 1, they reached the Haryana-Punjab border at Shambu where police officials offered them ambulance, but they preferred to go on cycles. On May 3, they reached Moga district. They were welcomed by family members and villagers on the outskirts of Rattian village. After putting a halt of about an hour, they straightaway went to the CHC at Daroli Bhai village and asked the authorities to quarantine them.
06-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Told to distribute ration sans orders: Teachers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 5At a time when the Punjab Government has been asking all senior officers to maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19, senior district authorities of the Education Department are allegedly pressurising teachers of government primary schools to distribute ration and make new admissions, without issuing any written orders.Since teachers do not have written orders, they allege the police could register FIRs against them if they were found outside during the curfew. “There are 661 government primary schools in the district. Our senior officers have been pressurising us repeatedly to visit various houses for new admissions and to distribute ration. But since they know it is a violation of curfew, they are not giving us any written orders,” said Jotinder Singh, Sangrur adviser of the Elementary Teachers’ Union.District president of the Government Teachers’ Union, Harjeet Singh Galwati, also alleged it was illegal to ask teachers go outside.District Education Officer (Elementary) Prabhsimran Kaur denied having issued any such directions. “We have not issued any verbal orders for the distribution of ration or for new admissions. Teachers should stay indoors during curfew,” she said.Balvir Chand Longowal, district president of the Democratic Teachers’ Front of Sangrur, asked if seniors had not issued any verbal orders, on whose directions was ration being distributed?Under the Mid-Day Meal Scheme, the authorities are distributing rice and wheat to all students of Classes 1 to 5. At many places, teachers faced problems after parents refused to take ration as they feared the distribution of ration could also spread the virus. “Some days back, when teachers were distributing ration in a school, some cops came and started inquiring. We had to apologise, otherwise they would have registered a case against us,” a teacher said, requesting anonymity.
06-05-2020||
||Fuel prices up by Rs 2 per litre||Chandigarh, May 5  The government on Tuesday increased VAT on diesel and petrol by about Rs 2 per litre. The hike will be effective from midnight.  Punjab has followed Delhi, which increased diesel price by Rs 7.15 per litre and petrol by Rs 1.67 a few days ago. Haryana too has increased petrol by Re 1 and diesel by Rs 1.10 per litre. The Punjab Government on Tuesday notified an amendment to Schedule E appended to the Punjab Value Added Tax Act, 2005, increasing the rate of tax from 11.8 per cent to 15.15 per cent.
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||HC to hear up to 100 cases through videoconferencing||Nearly 50 days after the Punjab and Haryana High Court went into restricted functioning mode, it will for the first time that the court will be hearing about a 100 petitions on Thursday. The High Court was daily hearing on an average about 10 cases through videoconferencing, compelling the litigants and the lawyers to express concerns on the slower performance of the justice delivery mechanism.  The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, too, stepped in and asked the High Court to reconsider its decision to keep open the courts only for virtual hearing.  Available information suggests while opening the gates of the High Court and the subordinate courts is not possible in view of the predictable footfall and the hazards of mass gathering, the virtual hearing system is gradually inching towards improvement. “Once the gates are thrown open, it will be impossible to keep the people away. The courts may not permit all to enter its buildings, but that will not deter the people from reaching the court complexes. In any case, a case file passes through nearly two dozen hands before it is placed before the Bench, increasing the risk of infection in the process. Under the circumstances, virtual hearing is the only way out,” says a High Court official. — TNS
06-05-2020||---||Majithia files plaint against Cong leaders||Chandigarh, May 5Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia today filed a complaint demanding registration of a case against former Madhya Pradesh CM Digvijay Singh and state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for “hurting the sentiments” of the Sikh community.The SAD leader, who filed the complaint at Sector 3 police station here, demanded action against both Congress leaders under IPC Sections 295-A, 298, 153-A and 153-B for promoting enmity on religious lines, besides maligning Sikhs and Muslims.He alleged that while Digvijay had issued a divisive tweet, Sidhu had claimed that all the good work done by the state to contain Covid-19 had been undone by Nanded returnees.Minister hits backRural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa accused the SAD leaders of playing “dirty politics” in the name of pilgrims. The minister said not even a single Akali leader had gone to meet the returnees anywhere in the state to encourage them.Bajwa said the SAD was making baseless statements. He said even as the state government was fighting a war against the pandemic, the Badal family had not even contributed a single rupee.
06-05-2020||Karam Prakash||Don’t malign us: Nanded pilgrims||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 5The vilification of Hazur Sahib returnees, who have tested positive for Covid-19, say it has been disheartening to see people blaming them for the sharp spike in cases in Punjab.‘it’s disheartening’At Nanded, all prilgrims remained on the gurdwara premises. I don’t know from where we contracted the virus. It is disheartening to see people blaming us for the spike, especially in these testing times. — 22-year-old patient in PatialaUnder treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital here, they say they didn’t let the virus spread further but still they were being blamed.Everyone was stuck at the gurdwara in Nanded after the lockdown was announced, the pilgrims say. After spending two months inside the gurdwara, they came directly to Punjab. So, they are unaware of the source of the infection.A few tests were conducted there, but they are not sure whether or not the tests were for Covid-19.A 22-year-old patient from Samana says, “No pilgrim showed negligence during screening and testing, here. At Nanded, we remained on the gurdwara premises. I don’t know from where we contracted the virus. It is disheartening to see people blame us for the spike, especially in these testing times.”An elderly woman, who is also under treatment, says that instead of playing the blame-game, people ought to stand united in the unprecedented times.“In difficult times, people should support one another. A majority of the pilgrims are old who needed help and the government did come to their rescue. I don’t know from where I got infected, but I won’t blame anyone for this,” she adds.One of the bus drivers, who brought the pilgrims back, said he did not regret getting infected while bringing back the pilgrims. “I consider myself lucky to serve the pilgrims. It is wrong to vilify the pilgrims. In 14 days, every Nanded returnee will be healthy and return home.”
06-05-2020||---||2 Mukatsar ASIs infected as Punjab count touches 1,451||Chandigarh, May 5With 219 fresh cases, including two deaths today, the state count has reached 1451. The toll due to the virus has reached 25.As per the media bulletin, Gurdaspur topped the chart with 48 cases today followed by Tarn Taran with 47 cases, Fazilka 34, Faridkot 27, Sangrur 22, Muktsar 15, Ludhiana 14, Jalandhar 6, Kapurthala 5 and one case from Patiala.Panic gripped border area residents as 34 pilgrims who had returned from Nanded last week tested Covid positive in Fazilka. After an increase of 34 cases in a day, the tally of infected pilgrims has gone up to 38 in the district leaving residents in fear. Significantly, 81 pilgrims had returned from Nanded, of which the report of 77 pilgrims had been received and 38 had tested positive.Faridkot has reported 26 new cases, which is the highest single-day rise for the district. Of the total 130 pilgrims who returned from Nanded, 37 tested positive and reports of 22 are awaited. Among the 26 new positive cases on Tuesday, four are agricultural labourers who returned from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, where they had gone in March to harvest mustard. This takes the total number of cases in Faridkot district to 44. Apart from that, 22 more tested positive in Sangrur, taking the total number of positive cases to 84, of which three have recovered.In Muktsar, two Assistant Sub-Inspectors (ASIs) posted at the Malout (City) police station, tested positive today. The entire staff of the police station was quarantined in the evening. Besides, a policeman of the 13th Battalion of the Punjab Armed Police (PAP), who was doing duty at a ‘naka’ at Killianwali on the Punjab-Haryana border, has also been tested positive. Now, Muktsar district’s total active positive count has reached 64.Besides, a Ropar city resident posted as a Punjab Roadways driver who went to bring pilgrims from Nanded, was found suffering from Covid-19 in Amritsar. Another driver from the district posted at Nawanshahar was also tested positive after returning from Nanded two days ago.As per the Health Department, so far, samples of 30,199 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 23,352 samples were found negative and reports of 5,396 were still awaited.
06-05-2020||
||No Covid duty for cops with health issues||Chandigarh, May 5 The police on Tuesday barred all personnel with medical issues as well as women cops having children under five from frontline duty in a bid to protect them from undue exposure to contracting Covid-19. The move has been approved by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who has asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure all protective and welfare measures were taken to protect frontline warriors. At present, there are over 48,000 police personnel engaged in curfew enforcement and relief measures across the state. A tele-counselling facility was launched on April 20 to help cops and their families to cope with psychological aspects of the frontline duties. Concerns were raised over those having health issues and women having small children. The DGP said in response to these concerns, it was decided not to deploy such persons on the frontline duty.
06-05-2020||---||Coronavirus patient flees||
06-05-2020||
||Will bear cost of testing kits: Punjab Govt||Chandigarh, May 5 The state government has decided to come to the rescue of the Central testing facilities which are unable to enhance their capacities due to non-availability of kits from the ICMR. The CM has directed such centres to purchase kits from the open market, for which the state will bear the expenses. The state is testing 2,800 persons a day, up from 1,500 per day last week. To deal with the pressure, the state government has also decided to rope in universities and state-run labs, with the CM sanctioning Rs12 crore for equipment and operational expense for six institutions — Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab, Jalandhar; GADVASU, Ludhiana; Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; Punjabi University, Patiala; Punjab Biotech Incubator, Mohali; and Punjab Forensic Lab, Mohali. Quarantine in hotels for NRIs The government is planning to offer paid quarantine facilities in hotels for NRIs returning to the state in the coming days. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh asked the deputy commissioners to identify private hotels that could be offered to NRIs on payment. He also directed the DCs to prepare an inventory of functional/non-functional private hospitals. He said the state was prepared to handle a large influx of NRIs from other nations and stranded people from across the country and issued a series of directives to check the spread of Covid-19, including directives to the Health Department to ensure mandatory screening of all such returnees.
06-05-2020||
||In Batala police custody, gangster tests positive||Batala/patiala, May 5 Gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria today tested positive for Covid-19, following which several senior and junior police officers, who were in contact with him have come under the scanner. Batala SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman confirmed the development. The gangster was to Batala on April 30 on a production warrant from the Patiala Central Jail in a case related to the murder of SAD sarpanch Dalbir Singh Dhilwan in November. His test was conducted on May 2 and his report was made public today. “Bhagwanpuria is lodged in the Civil Lines police station and will be shifted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital soon,” the SSP said. Subsequently, senior officers went into a huddle and decided to screen one SP, three DSP-rank officers and nearly 40 constables, who were said to be in contact with the gangster. “They will be home quarantined and tested. If any one of them tests positive, he will be shifted to the isolation ward,” said an officer. Meanwhile in Patiala, a team led by district epidemiologist Dr Sumeet visited the Central jail on Tuesday and tried to trace Bhagwanpuria’s contacts. The team is said to have zeroed in on 12 persons, including inmates and jail officials. The jail authorities said the gangster was lodged in a separate cell after a mobile phone was seized from him on April 21.
06-05-2020||Patiala||Combine operators not isolated||After keeping villages sealed for a month and a half in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, sarpanches are finding it hard to regulate the movement of combine operators, who have returned to Patiala from other districts of Punjab and other states.Worried, they have written to the district administration for help, demanding testing and mandatory quarantine of the combine operators.The administration has come in for criticism for only checking the temperature of returnees and then sending them home.Sukhewal village sarpanch Chanpreet Kaur said, “Combine operators are roaming freely. Panchayat members tried to convince them to follow the safety guidelines, but they did not listen to us.”Gurditpura village sarpanch Paramjit Singh said, “The district health authorities lack the infrastructure to quarantine a large number of people.”Block Development and Panchayat Officer Surinder Singh Dhillon said he received a complaint from Swarajpur village. “Officials visited the village and resolved the matter. All those returning from other districts and states are being tested and quarantined,” he added. — TNS
06-05-2020||Fazilka||Locusts spotted in Fazilka, farmers worried||Once again swarms of locust have started troubling Fazilka famers, with reports of small cotton plants in border villages of Roop Nagar and Bareka being attacked by the pest doing the rounds.  Reportedly, cotton sown in about 20 acres was destroyed today.  After devouring the cotton crop, the swarms have settled on tall trees near the international border. Dharmvir Bhobia, sarpanch, Roopnagar village, said he had sown cotton in 8 acres about 20 to 25 days ago, but the crop was eaten by the locust which had come from Pakistan. In Bareka village, the standing small cotton plants in 12 acres were also ruined. The crop was sown about one month ago, said farmer Arvind Kumar. The farmers have demanded compensation.  Zila Parishad member Sidharth Rinwa said the farmers had demanded requisite insecticides to kill the pest at the time of attack, but their crops couldn’t be saved as their demand was not met with. Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Manjit Singh said it was a low-density attack by immature pink locust adults on small cotton plants in the village. No major damage had been reported. The Central government team had been visiting the villages to review the situation. The CAO said as per the directions of the department, the pesticide couldn’t be directly provided to the farmers, however in case of an attack, pesticides were provided to them immediately. — OC
06-05-2020||Our Correspondent
||Couple killed in road mishap||Abohar, May 5 A couple, who was riding on their bike, was killed and their three-year-old son was hurt after a truck driver reportedly lost control over his vehicle, which then fell on a bike near Bazidpur Bhoma village here today. Pawan Kumar (26), along with his wife Suman Rani (24) and son Sahil (3), was returning from Bhakhranwali in Sangria to their native village. Sudesh Kumar, a relative of the couple who was following the bike, rushed the child to a hospital.  A case has been registered against the truck driver and both vehicles have been impounded.
06-05-2020||Muktsar||Locusts threat in Muktsar too||The fear of locusts still looms large over the region, as in the past few days, fields in the neighbouring Fazilka district have reported reemergence of the insect, triggering fear among farmers who are busy sowing cotton.The Agriculture Department officials were claiming that everything was under control, but the situation might turn worse, the farmers claimed.“We have neutralised locusts in Roopnagar and Bareka villages of Fazilka district by spraying insecticides. Besides, our officials are on alert. But nothing can be predicted about the invasion of locusts. These are coming via Pakistan. Earlier also, about three to four months ago, the insect had come from Pakistan. Now, it is to be seen where the insects have laid their eggs,” said Sutantar Kumar Airi, Director, Agriculture.Airi said, “To prevent any attack of locusts, we have got the budget of Rs1 crore sanctioned from the state government. The Central government too will definitely do something in this regard.”Early this year, the insect had affected lakhs of acres of land in Rajasthan.Some farmers appealed to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take congisance of the issue and devise some strategy to deal with it at a time when the country was already facing Covid-19 crisis. Farmers’ concern is grave because a swarm of one km (about 40 million locusts) can eat food equivalent to the amount that 30,000 to 35,000 people can eat in a day. — TNS
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt offers subsidy for farm equipment||To encourage mechanised transplantation or direct sowing of paddy and cultivation of maize, the state government has decided to provide subsidy up to 50 per cent on machinery used for this purpose, which will benefit the state in saving groundwater and help the farmers in tackling the problem of labour scarcity amid Covid-19 restrictions. Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture, said 50 per cent subsidy would be provided to women or those belonging to the SC category and 40 per cent to other farmers.  He said farmers had been asked to submit their applications to avail the benefit till May 10. He said the machinery on which subsidy would be given included direct seeding of rice machines with or without spray attachment, paddy nursery sowing machines, transplanting machines and equipment used for maize sowing, threshing and drying. The farmers could get information at 1800-180-1551 of kisan call centre. — TNS
06-05-2020||---||Another FIR against singer Sidhu Moosewala, five policemen||Patiala, May 5The police today named two national-level shooters in the FIR registered against Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala on Monday. The accused have been identified as Karam Singh Lehal, a skeet shooter, and Jang Sher Virk, a junior trap shooter. Jang Sher is the son of suspended DSP Daljit Virk.In a related incident, the district police today suspended Inspector Gurpreet Bhinder posted as SHO, Julka police station, for allegedly providing a gunman to DSP Virk. Notice by the SSP states that why three months’ salary should not be charged from the SHO.The action came two days after Moosewala was booked by the Barnala police in a case against him and five police personnel. A video showing the singer shooting at a firing range had gone viral on social media.A preliminary inquiry established that the DSP had facilitated the shooting at Badbar village at a time when the entire state was under curfew.Confirming that the SHO had illegally provided a gunman, head constable Gagandeep Singh, to the DSP, Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu, said, “Anyone providing gunmen without authorisation will face the music.”
06-05-2020||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh wants the Centre to stop breathing down the necks of Chief Ministers and let the state governments do their job because they know what’s best for their states. While pointing out that the Centre has not helped the states to even pay the rail fare for the migrant labourers and that he had to somehow raise Rs 35 crore during this moment of crisis||‘Centre should let the CMs do what they know best’: Capt Amarinder Singh||How will 9-10 lakh migrant labourers leaving Punjab affect the restarting of the state’s economy?We had estimated that there were roughly 13 lakh migrant labourers. Let them go home and we are arranging for them to go home. I had told the Punjab industry that this was going to happen. I told them to take care of their workers and many did so. The feeling of uncertainty that has set in probably made some of them go home.Getting nothing from Centre to fight covidWe are losing a lot of money. Last month we expected Rs3,300 cr from our resources but got only Rs400 cr. I think Mr Modi should have said, ‘CMs, you handle your states and tell me what I can do for you.’ We are not getting anything from Centre, not even to fight Covid-19Most of them have not been paid their 40 days’ wages. Do you think they will return?Small units are shut. Someone with four or five workers is not going to pay his workers. Larger industries did take care of their workers. I can mention Trident and the Oswals; their workers are all paid.Sonia Gandhi has offered to pay the rail fare for migrant labourers all across the country. Has Punjab thought about using its own buses to send them home?We are employing trains. The first train left on Tuesday morning for Jharkhand. We are paying for all the 9 lakh who want to go. They worked for Punjab for many years. This is the least we can do. When they do not have money to feed themselves, how can we ask them to buy their tickets? I think Mrs Gandhi was right in this and we have sanctioned Rs 35 crore for all their trains and tickets.The Centre and states had over a month to plan the migrants’ safe return, yet it seems there is no protocol in place across the country.You are very right. Like, for instance, people have been calling from Nanded (Maharashtra) saying that they were stuck. We did our best with our own resources. We sent buses. This train should have started earlier. When we can bring people from all over the world by air, I don’t see any reason why you cannot send them from Punjab to Bihar or Jharkhand or UP. We could have sent them earlier.Over 29,000 people died in Italy, but Milan’s railway stations were opened on Monday for commuters. Do you think our lockdown has been long and painful?No, not at all. We needed to try and beat the Covid transmission. And I think we succeeded, Kerala was the first and we were the second to implement the lockdown. We brought in the curfew on the second day because some people were not taking it seriously.I thought people would be fed up. It has been more than 40 days and we have given them some relief. But on social media, a lot of people are saying that you should not have lifted the lockdown. They are all worried about their families. They are following rules. About 11,000 people were challaned for violating curfew restrictions. Those are the youngsters who are fed up and wanted to jump out of the window.I have requests from 9,800 people from other states who want to come back. I have a list of people from 88 countries. I think the Centre is flying these people in. They are our people. Even if they come after tests, we will do the tests here and we will make sure they stay in quarantine whether they are positive or not.The concern for the industry is that even if one person tests positive, the entire establishment has to be closed down. Even the employer has to face penal action.No, that is not correct. Somehow or the other this rumour spread. Then we got a clarification from the Centre. It has come and is being sent to all DCs. For instance, if I am sitting in my home and I get some workmen over and if a workman gets Covid, how am I at fault? This is ridiculous. The Centre has clarified that a wrong message had gone out. And I have informed the industry.It is all very well to have a map and put red pins and orange pins and green pins and say everything is fine but this is not the way it works. People who are heading the governments in the states, Mr Khattar in Haryana or Mr Thakur in Himachal Pradesh, they know better about what is happening in their states. I know what is happening in Punjab. But I am being told what to do. In Patiala, my district, they put a red pin and said it is all contaminated. Now Patiala and Rajpura have got Covid, but Nabha doesn’t, Samana doesn’t, Shutrana doesn’t. One is 14 km, another 24 km and third is 30 km away, why are they putting them all in the red category? Because they don’t know, because some joint secretary is sitting there and putting entire Patiala in the red zone. Leave it to us to decide how it should be done.Maharashtra is freezing all developmental expenditure and hiring for a year. How is Punjab going to tackle the loss of revenue?We are losing a lot of money. As of last month, we expected Rs3,300 crore from our own resources but got only Rs400 crore. There is no GST, no money coming in from Centre, nothing from our own resources because our industry is not working. We are losing Rs30 crore a day on revenue from electricity because we are not consuming it. We are not getting anything from the Centre, not even to fight this menace.Farmers are complaining they are not getting paid for their produce.We just crossed 100 lakh tonnes on Tuesday and we have paid Rs10,415 crore. We pay every 48 hours, which is our promise and we are maintaining that. There is no shortage of money for procurement.
06-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||With 1,188 migrants, special train leaves Punjab for Jharkhand||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 5The first “Shramik Special” train, carrying 1,188 migrant workers stranded in Punjab, left for Daltonganj (Jharkhand) today.The train, carrying migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar, chugged off at 1.15 pm and was expected to reach its destination at 10 am tomorrow.Vikas Kumar (18), who arrived here in January, said, “I came here to earn money so that I could support my family back home in Palamu district of Jharkhand. However, Covid outbreak rendered me jobless. I could manage regular meals only for the first week of lockdown and had to rely on ‘langar’ thereafter.”Deenanath (40) said he ran out of groceries and money almost immediately after the lockdown. “I am a daily-wage earner. The meagre savings that I had could sustain my family for only about 10 days,” he said.“I was staying in a rented accommodation near Focal Point along with my wife and three children. The landlord kept asking for the rent. I somehow managed to pay him Rs 600, but thereafter no money was left with us to make both ends meet. There were days when we had to sleep on empty stomach. My wife and children are happy that back home they won’t face any shortage of food. I plan to undertake farming there,” he said.Many other migrants, including women and children, were aboard the Shramik Special train. They had started coming to the railway station since 8 am. Only those who had completed their online registration and gone through Covid testing were allowed to board the train.ADC Jasbir Singh said roadways buses were roped in to bring migrants to the railway station observing all necessary precautions. The migrants were not charged . The administration paid Rs 7,01,200 to the railways before the journey, he said.SOPs in place for those entering the state
