06-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 14 more deaths, 647 new cases in Punjab||Fourteen more deaths due to coronavirus were reported in Punjab, taking the death toll to 4,295 in the state, according to a medical bulletin issued on Friday.The surfacing of 647 new cases took the infection tally to 1,36,481 in the state, it said.Three deaths have taken place in Pathankot, two each in Hoshiarpur and Faridkot, one each in Jalandhar Kapurthala, Mansa, Muktsar and Tarn Taran, as per the bulletin.There are 4,882 active COVID-19 cases in the state.--- PTI
06-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||NRI killed over land dispute in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 6Rajwinder Kaur, an NRI, was killed when Gurjinder Singh Bahia allegedly opened fire at Surinderpal Singh and his family members at Bhagta Bhaika here on Friday.The incident followed an alleged land dispute between Gurjinder, who works as Superintendent Engineer in the Irrigation Department at Ferozepur, and Surinderpal Singh.While Surinderpal’s adopted daughter Rajwinder was killed in the incident three other members of the family, including Surinderpal, sustained injuries.Rajwinder had returned from Canada last week.The injured have been admitted to a private hospital while Rajwinder’s body has been sent to civil hospital for postmortem.After getting the information about the incident, a police team from Dyalpura reached the spot and based on the statement of injured, registered a case against Gurjinder Singh, a resident Ganpati Enclave here.Accused Gurjinder Singh, however, has not been arrested so far as he also sustained injures in the incident and was undergoing treatment.    “The initial probe suggests the reason behind the murder is encroachment of land,” said Amanpal Singh Virk, SHO, Dyalpura police station.Surinderpal Singh alias Kukku in his complaint to the police said that Gurjinder Singh Bahia was the son of his mother’s sister, said police.  Surinderpal Singh further said their maternal family lived in Thathai Bhaika village in Moga district.As Surinderpal’s mother did not have any brother, the 60 acre land belonging to his maternal family was divided into three parts, the police added.Surinderpal said he was the only son of his parents and therefore got 30 acre of the land, while Gurjinder and his brother got 15 acres each, which irked him.   Surinderpal also said that the accused had called him and they had a heated argument over phone.I disconnected the phone and later, when he (Gurjinder) called again I did not answer. Irked, Gurjinder reached my house and started fighting with me and when relatives tried to pacify him, he opened fire at them, Surinderpal said in his complaint.Rajwinder Kaur was killed on the spot, while Surinderpal along with Rupinder Singh and Darshan Singh were injured in the incident, said police.
06-11-2020||New Delhi||Railways says awaits track clearance in Punjab||The Railways on Friday said it awaits agitators to clear tracks to resume operations in Punjab. Senior officials of the Railways and Punjab Government have discussed the matter since morning in an attempt to resolve it.So far 22 spots are such where agitators remain on the tracks or within the circulating area of the railway stations, said Railway Board Chairman and CEO VK Yadav at a virtual press conference.There have been widespread protests in Punjab and Haryana against the farm-related Bills cleared by Parliament in September.We have started maintenance of tracks and now await a security clearance from the state government, Yadav said, adding, “We can operate all goods and passenger trains but await the blockage to end.”Trains cannot run selectively, the Railways was looking to resume freight and passenger operations, said Yadav.Sources said the indications are that the state government was keen on allowing freight trains. The Railways wants to resume all operations that would include trains meant to pick up food grains.The Director General Railway Protection Force (RPF) Arun Kumar said tracks are still blocked at other places and agitators are in circulating area and can come on the tracks anytime. He said he was in touch with the DGP of Punjab.Yadav said tracks have to be inspected and the Railways had an overbooking in passenger trains.
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Train services in Punjab unlikely to resume even as farmers agree to lift dharnas from railway tracks||Train services to Punjab are unlikely to resume anytime soon, with the Centre digging its heels on resuming train services only if passenger trains are also allowed safe passage through Punjab, along with the goods services trains.The farmer unions, however, have only agreed to let the goods trains pass through, as the dharnas on tracks—two by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) were lifted and one by Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee was shifted from the main railway tracks to Jandiala.Till the afternoon, as the state government representatives clinched the deal with the two above mentioned organisations, it was believed that the dharna would be lifted soon, leading to the resumption of goods train services to the state.This would have ensured that power production in the two private thermal plants at Rajpura and Banawali in Mansa, would also start.However, as negotiations between the Chairman Railway Board and Chief Secretary Punjab continued, the former made it clear that it would only be possible to resume services if all categories of trains were allowed to move.A meeting was also held between DGP Law and Order, Ishwar Singh and senior officers of Railway Police from Ambala and Ferozepur divisions today, where the latter reiterated that it was only after the access for passage of passenger trains was assured by the state government, the train services would be resumed.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan told The Tribune that the state government was in touch with the Chairman Railway Board and they were trying to find an early resolution.It was after three-day long negotiations with the two unions that the state government today managed to convince the unions to lift the rail blockades.Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), told The Tribune that they had lifted their dharnas from the railway tracks linking the main railway lines to the private thermal plants at Rajpura and Banawali (Mansa) at 4 pm today. “The farmers will, however, not stop their agitation... but simply shift it from the tracks to the sides of the railway lines,” he said.The two power plants have not been supplying power to the state for the past 20 days. A Venu Prasad, Managing Director, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, said the two power plants had not been able to generate power and the issue of giving them fixed charges for this period is being examined, according to the terms of their agreement.The suspension of railway services has caused massive losses, with manufactured industrial goods stuck in the state and industry unable to get the raw material from outside.Farming operations, too, have been hit as the urea and DAP required for the next wheat sowing season has not been transported to the state.Even the food grain stocks in the state, procured for FCI have not been transported out, leaving little space for the new paddy to be stored.The protests, as part of the Rail Roko agitation started by farmers, have been going on for 37 days now. The farmers are protesting against the three farm laws enacted by the BJP led NDA government at the Centre in September.Railways says awaits track clearance in PunjabThe Railways on Friday said it awaits agitators to clear tracks to resume operations in Punjab. Senior officials of the Railways and Punjab Government have discussed the matter since morning in an attempt to resolve it.So far 22 spots are such where agitators remain on the tracks or within the circulating area of the railway stations, said Railway Board Chairman and CEO VK Yadav at a virtual press conference.There have been widespread protests in Punjab and Haryana against the farm-related Bills cleared by Parliament in September. We have started maintenance of tracks and now await a security clearance from the state government, Yadav said, adding, “We can operate all goods and passenger trains but await the blockage to end.”Trains cannot run selectively, the Railways was looking to resume freight and passenger operations, said Yadav.Sources said the indications are that the state government was keen on allowing freight trains. The Railways wants to resume all operations that would include trains meant to pick up food grains.The Director General Railway Protection Force (RPF) Arun Kumar said tracks are still blocked at other places and agitators are in circulating area and can come on the tracks anytime. He said he was in touch with the DGP of Punjab.Yadav said tracks have to be inspected and the Railways had an overbooking in passenger trains.
06-11-2020||New Delhi||CIC allows Centre to withhold list of documents, precious material seized during Operation Bluestar||The Central Information Commission (CIC) has allowed the Centre to withhold a list of documents and precious material seized by a central agency during the 1984 operation at the Golden Temple in Punjab in which 576 persons, including Army personnel, were killed.An RTI applicant, Gurvinder Singh Chadha, had demanded from the Union Home Ministry list of all the material seized during the operation and its present status as well as all records related to the operation and list of all the persons who died during the operation conducted by the Army to flush out militants holed up inside the Golden Temple in Amritsar.Without giving the list and the specific details of the seized material, the ministry had said in its RTI response to Chadha that "about 4000 documents/books/files and gold /gold ornaments, silver/silver ornaments, precious stones currency, coins etc. were recovered by a central agency during the Operation Bluestar. The articles and documents were handed over either to SGPC or to the Government of Punjab”."As per records available with this office, 493 terrorists/civilians and 83 Army officials were killed in Golden Temple area in June,1984," the home ministry further said.Dissatisfied with the denial of specific information about the seized material, Chadha filed the first appeal within the ministry before a senior official who upheld the denial of information invoking Section 8 1(a) of the RTI Act.The Section allows the government to withhold information, disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relation with a foreign State or lead to incitement of an offence.During the second appeal before the Central Information Commission, the highest adjudication body in RTI matters, Chadha stated that a satisfactory response was not yet provided on points related to records of Operation Bluestar and a list of material seized during it.The ministry said a point wise response was provided to Chadha but the details sought pertained to confidential information, the disclosure of which could prejudicially affect the safety and security of the country.Agreeing with the home ministry's view, Information Commissioner Y K Sinha held Chadha has sought "vague, ambiguous and generic information" which cannot be disclosed in terms of the provisions of the RTI Act, 2005. "Hence, no further intervention of the Commission is warranted in the matter," Sinha said.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has been demanding the return of the artefacts, allegedly taken away by the Army during Operation Bluestar in 1984.Last year in June, SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh had said the holy scriptures, artefacts and historical books, which were part of the Sikh Reference Library, were taken away by the Army during the operation.When asked that a section of media had reported that the Centre had returned the artefacts to the SGPC, Singh had claimed that only a few copies of historical books were returned.He had said still a large quantity of material and handwritten copies of the Guru Granth Sahib were with the Centre. PTI
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court upholds appointment of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta||Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday upheld the appointment of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta.The court allowed an appeal by the state of Punjab against CAT orders.On January 17, the CAT had set aside the appointment of Gupta as the state police chief that had come as a big blow to the Congress-led Punjab government.A two-member bench of CAT chairman L Narsimha Reddy and M Jamshed had pronounced the order on an appeal by senior IPS officers Mohammad Mustafa and Siddhharth Chattopadhyaya, who had challenged Gupta''s appointment on the grounds that they were "ignored" despite being senior to Gupta.The police officers also opposed the contention of the empanelment committee, which had sent a report to the UPSC, saying the officers lacked experience in core policing areas.While Mustafa is a 1985-batch officer, Chattopadhyaya is a 1986-batch officer. Gupta is a 1987-batch officer.Gupta was appointed the DGP in 2019. He superseded five senior officers, including Mustafa and Chattopadhyaya.In his previous stint, Gupta was posted as the director-general of police, (intelligence) Punjab. —with PTI
06-11-2020||Patiala||Punjab number 1 in providing study material during lockdown: Survey||Punjab has secured the top position across India in providing online learning material to students of government schools in rural areas during the Covid lockdown. According to a survey, the state Education Department had successfully provided study material to around 87.1 per cent children of government schools when schools were shut for six months.As per the Annual Survey of Education Report (ASER)-2020 (Rural), Punjab is followed by Himachal Pradesh wherein 85.4 per students of government schools got the study material. The survey explored the provision of and access to remote education mechanisms and material in rural parts of the country.WhatsApp had been, by far, the most popular mode of sending learning material to the students, revealed the survey.The survey also highlighted that there were two major reasons behind many students not receiving the study material: Lack of smartphones and teachers not doing as much as they should have. However, the survey highlighted that 83.3 per cent of children enrolled in government schools had access to smartphones.Education Department officials said they had immediately prepared online content for students after the lockdown. Besides, the department also telecast e-content on DD Punjabi and Sawayam Prabha Channel.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “It is an outcome of the efforts of our teachers who went the extra mile to impart education during the lockdown. The outcome of the survey is a testimony to our ongoing efforts to improve the quality of education in government schools.”
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM's son Raninder does not appear before ED in FEMA violation case||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's son Raninder Singh will not appear before the Enforcement Directorate at its office in Jalandhar on Friday and has sought an adjournment in the alleged Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violation case.These were the second summons issued to him in the last two weeks.His lawyer and Congress Spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said: "My client is suffering from high fever, cold and cough. He has given a sample for RT-PCR Covid Test, the report of which is awaited."Shergill said a team of doctors, led by Medical Officer (Office of Civil Surgeon), Mohali has advised him a 14-day quarantine. Keeping in view the safety of everyone, my client has sought adjournment on health grounds.The ED summons pertained to a case registered by the agency under the Foreign Exchange Management Act with regard to alleged possession of undisclosed assets abroad.Raninder Singh was questioned by the ED in the case in 2016 and was asked to explain the alleged movement of funds to Switzerland and creation of a trust and a few subsidiaries in the British Virgin Islands.The alleged instances of possession of properties abroad was first investigated by the Income Tax Department.Raninder Singh had earlier denied any wrongdoing.Recently, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Harish Rawat had questioned the timing of summons to the Punjab chief minister's son by the ED.Rawat, who is also Congress in-charge of Punjab affairs, had asserted that the ED summons cannot suppress the voice of Amarinder Singh."ED's summons cannot suppress the voice of Amarinder Singh. Captain Amarinder Singh is the voice of Punjab and farmers of the country. Just look at the timing of ED's summons. If you raise your voice, then ED, Income Tax, CBI will be after you. Is this not a message?" Rawat had tweeted recently.—with PTI
06-11-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Now, another turf war with Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5After the Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal issue, Punjab and Haryana are again on a collision course, with the Haryana Assembly on Thursday vowing to claim its territory, comprising 20 rooms, “illegally occupied” by its neighbouring state in the Punjab and Haryana Vidhan Sabha Complex.The stage for the fresh confrontation between the two neighbouring states was set following unanimous passage of an official resolution, which called for handing over of the “illegally occupied” portion by Punjab to Haryana.Moving the resolution, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar regretted that even 54 years after division of the Vidhan Sabha Complex between two states on October 17, 1966, Haryana was yet to get its rightful share of 20 rooms still “unauthorisedly occupied” by Punjab. “We will leave no stone unturned to get back our due share in the Vidhan Sabha Complex,” he said.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta urged the Punjab Speaker to accede to the demand of handing over 20 rooms as these were needed for use by its employees and political parties.It was highlighted that of the total area of 66,430 square feet of the Secretariat, Punjab was allotted 30,890 square feet while Haryana was allocated 24,630 square feet. An area of 10,910 square feet was earmarked for the Punjab Vidhan Parishad under the provisions of the Punjab Organisation Act, 1966.
06-11-2020||---||High court permits Punjab, Chandigarh, Centre as parties||Chandigarh, November 5A day after a notice was issued on a petition for quashing an order directing the Duty Officers/Duty Magistrates and the police to stop farmers coming into Karnal district from Uttar Pradesh with their agricultural produce, the Punjab and Haryana High Court allowed the filing of petition with Chandigarh and Punjab as party.Justice Rajbir Sehrawat asserted since the question involved in the case was not restricted to the State of Haryana, the counsel for the petitioner was seeking time to amend the petition to implead the Union of India and Chandigarh, along with the State of Punjab, as parties to the petition. Fixing the case for November 12, Justice Sehrawat added: “In the meantime, the counsel for the petitioner may file his amended petition.”
06-11-2020||Mansa||PO, film producer held, arms seized||The police have arrested Amneet Sher Singh alias Kaku, “Nikka Zaildar” fame Punjabi film producer, and Harpreet Singh, a proclaimed offender, in the Jagdish Bhola drug case. An Audi car, firearms and fake doucuments were seized from them. — TNS
06-11-2020||New Delhi||Bishop Franco’s review plea junked||
06-11-2020||---||Chakka jam brings life to halt in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5The ‘chakka jam’ organised by farm unions was a success with hundreds of farmers blocking all national and state highways, besides other important link roads in the state.Highways blocked, commuters sufferThe farm unions were responding to a call for a nationwide bandh given by the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Committee, wherein over 300 farm unions across the country are learnt to have responded by blocking roads for five hours today. The farmers are protesting against the three laws enacted by the BJP-led government, and are demanding that these be revoked as the laws “favour corporates”.Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of BKU (Dakaunda), said, “We are now going to prepare for our rally in Delhi on November 26-27. Most clearances for the rally have already been obtained.”Farmers blocked roads at various points in Bathinda and Mansa districts as part of the nationwide protest against the three farm laws. The farmers had called for a blockade to national and state highways in the state.Residents put up a poster in Behniwal village in Mansa district boycotting the entry of politicians. Tension erupted during a protest at Kanhaiya Chowk on the Bathinda-Amritsar national highway as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers headed by district president Navdeep Singh Jeeda reached there to participate in the protest. A heated spat took place between farmers and AAP leaders as the former accused the AAP workers of staging a parallel protest. However, AAP leaders denied doing any such thing.A massive protest was witnessed on the railway track leading to Talwandi Sabo Thermal Plant at Baniwala in Mansa district. The protest was headed by senior vice-president of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Jhanda Singh Jethuke.Talking to The Tribune, Jethuke said, “All parties are playing politics on the issue. Why can’t these parties stage a protest in Delhi? Today, we put up road blockades at 35 places, including Sangrur, Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Patiala and Ludhiana.”In Patiala, a huge gathering of farmers was witnessed at the thermal power plant in Rajpura while protests were also held at over 12 places, including Shutrana, Passiana, Samana, Kalyan village and Baran villages. The protest also received support from students, teachers of universities and others.Women and children also participated in huge numbers in the nationwide protest.Sucha Singh of BKU (Dakaunda) said, “The protest received good response from everyone. All unions of Haryana and Punjab will hold a meeting and decide the next step in this regard on November 14.”In Ferozepur, farmers blocked the National Highway-54 near Bangali Bridge and the Ferozepur-Fazilka GT Road near Guddardandi village in Guruharsahai subdivision.In Muktsar, a large number of farmers gathered at Lambi village, Bathinda Chowk in Malout town, Bharu Chowk in Gidderbaha, Markfed factory in Gidderbaha and near a private petrol station on the Malout-Bathinda highway in Gidderbaha and protested against the farm laws. Similar protests were seen in other districts as well.
06-11-2020||---||After govt’s assurance, Railways may resume services today||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi/Chandigarh, Nov 5The Railways today said it had got an assurance from the Punjab Government that the blockade of rail tracks by agitators in the state would removed by Friday morning.Once done, trains services would resume, the Railways said, adding it was fully prepared for it.Addressing a virtual press conference late in the evening, Railway Board Chairman and CEO VK Yadav said, “We have got an assurance from the Punjab Chief Secretary that the rail blockade will be removed by Friday morning. Indian Railways is fully ready to start passenger and goods trains.”Earlier, Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal promised a BJP delegation from Punjab that the Centre was ready to resume railway services in the state if Chief Minister Amarinder Singh could assure that no damage to railway property and staff would be done by the protesting farmers. The delegation of 22 members included national BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh and state president of party unit Ashwani Sharma.
06-11-2020||---||Launch campaign for MSP on all crops, Kejriwal tells Punjab unit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5Senior leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab unit today met the party’s national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal at his office and discussed in detail the contentious Central farm laws and their implications in the long run.Arvind Kejriwal, AAP National ConvenerSupport FarmersIt is immaterial as to who pays the MSP. What farmers need is a legal guarantee of purchase of their produce at the MSP fixed by the Centre..The meeting was attended by Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and others.As per information, Kejriwal asked the entire Punjab leadership of the party to stand behind the farmers and ensure justice for them.Kejriwal said what the farmers of Punjab at this point in time needed was a legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) on all crops. He said, “It is immaterial who pays the MSP on their crops. What they need is a legal guarantee of purchase of their produce at MSP fixed by the Centre.” Kejriwal said if the Modi government dragged its feet on guaranteeing the MSP, the Capt Amarinder Singh government should enact a law to bring the MSP regime under the legal ambit.Kejriwal asked the AAP leadership of Punjab to launch a massive campaign across the state, stressing the need for legal guarantee of MSP to farmers, saying the party would go to any extent to fight for their rights.
06-11-2020||Aditi Tandon &||4 Congress MPs walk out of meet with Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal||Rajmeet SinghTribune News ServiceNew Delhi/Chandigarh, Nov 5Four Congress MPs from Punjab today walked out of a meeting with Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal after heated discussions over the genesis of the ongoing farmers’ agitation which has led to disruption of rail traffic in Punjab.Bajwa, dullo hold separate meetingFactionalism and lack of coordination in the Punjab Congress surfaced on Thursday when Rajya Sabha MPs of the party — Partap Singh Bajwa and SS Dullo — separately met Piyush Goyal on the same issueAmritsar MP Gurjit Aujla and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu were the first to walk out of the meeting after the minister said the Punjab Government had prodded the protesters and provoked them into persisting with the agitation. MPs Mohammad Sadique and Santokh Choudhary followed Aujla and Bittu and left the meeting with Goyal.Speaking to The Tribune, Aujla said, “What the minister said was not acceptable to us. We went to him seeking redress of an urgent issue impacting Punjab but he accused the state government of backing the agitation. The farmers are holding spontaneous protests because they feel their livelihoods are being threatened. What does the Punjab Government have to do with this?” Aujla told The Tribune today, adding that Congress MPs from Punjab objected to the minister’s “intimidating and threatening tone” on the issue and four of them walked out.Aujla said the rest were about to leave but eventually stayed. “We told the minister that the Punjab Government was doing all it could within the remits of peace to end the farmers’ agitation and could not possibly beat up or book them. That would further precipitate the crisis. We told the Railway Minister that his threatening tone and punitive actions were not helping,” Aujla said.MP Manish Tewari, however, said no walkout as such had been staged. Candid discussion took place between the Railway Minister and MPs, he said.
06-11-2020||---||Sunil Jakhar: MLAs to hold relay dharna post Diwali||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5Sunil Jakhar, president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), today announced that the state Congress would start a series of protests after Diwali at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi against the “anti-farmer” laws passed by the Union Government.Jakhar said, “The primary aim of the protest is to give a wake-up call to the Centre, which is hell bent upon breaking the backbone of the agrarian economy of the state by ruining the farmers through these laws.”He said the “arrogance being shown by the Union Government” was a threat to the federal structure of the country as the “Centre was neither paying heed to issues flagged by the state government nor it was ready to understand the anger” among the masses.According to Jakhar, the farm laws would ruin the economy of the state with castigating effects on crop growers. “Punjab is an agrarian economy. Ruining farmers will affect the entire state,” he said, adding that under the series of protests, the party MLAs would sit on a dharna turnwise at Jantar Mantar every day.
06-11-2020||---||Goods stuck, importers face heavy losses||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, November 5The ‘rail roko’ agitation of farmers has not only caused acute shortage of raw material for the iron and steel industry, but has also caused heavy losses to the government as well as importers.Industry under tremendous pressureThe industry is already under tremendous pressure due to the pandemic and now, the ongoing protest by farmers has brought almost everything to a standstill. Ishu Bansal, president, north india importers’ associationThousands of containers carrying imported scrap have been in transit since September from a sea port to Ludhiana but nobody knows where the trains carrying these containers are stationed and when will they reach the Ludhiana Container Freight Station. The shortage has also caused a setback to the domestic industry, particularly in Mandi Gobindgarh, which is Asia’s largest steel town. “The trade and industry in Punjab is already under tremendous pressure due to the Covid-19 pandemic and now, the ongoing protest by farmers has brought almost everything to a standstill,”said Ishu Bansal, president of the North India Importers’ Association.He said the protesting farmers were not allowing movement of goods, which was causing delay in shipments and timely deliveries of consignments to their overseas clients. This may result in cancellation of import orders and would also affect their future prospects. He said approximately 4,000 export containers were stuck at various points across Punjab.He said due to the ongoing situation, traders had requested the Railways to return their containers from the trains so that the same could be sent via roads, but no one had heeded their request.
06-11-2020||Parvesh Sharma||21 patwaris, 16 panchayat secys held captive in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 5At least 21 patwaris and 16 panchayat secretaries along with a naib tehsildar and block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) were illegally confined at Bahadurpur village here today.Row over farm firesWe released all officials in the evening after the SDM promised us that there will be no FIR against any farmer for stubble burning. - Bhupinder Longowal, Kirti Kisan UnionSurprisingly, such a high number of officials reached in a village to get released two of their colleagues, but without any propersecurity arrangement.Sources said when patwari Rakesh Kumar and a secretary went to a field to check stubble burning, farmers gheraoed them. Later, they gheraoed more officials when they went to get their colleagues released. The incident has badly affected the functioning of the rural development and revenue departments in the Sangrur block.“We have held patwaris, panchayat secretaries and a BDPO captive as they have been harassing farmers. When the government is unwilling to help us in managing stubble without burning it, officials should not compel and harass us,” said Jasdeep Singh, district president of the Kirti Kisan Union.Patwaris and secretaries were forced to sit among farmers, who raised slogans against the Punjab Government. Despite repeated requests, the farmers did not release them while the number of protesting farmers increased in the evening.“At least 21 patwaris of the Sangrur tehsil reached here to get released patwari Rakesh Kumar. We later called naib tehsildar KK Mittal but the farmers did not allow us to leave the fields and misbehaved with us,” said Didar Singh, Sangrur district president of the Patwari Union.Sangrur BDPO Lenin Garg said he, along with 16 panchayat secretaries, were in illegal confinement and trying to convince farmers.“We have nothing personal against any farmer. Farmers should understand the importance of environment and shun stubble burning,” Garg said.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said, “The senior officials should not have gone to Bahadurpur together as it created a problem for us. Farmers should understand that officials are only working on the directions ofthe Supreme Court to prevent stubble burning.”The officials were finally released late evening. “We have released all officials after the Sangrur SDM promised us that there will be no FIR against any farmer for stubble burning,” said Bhupinder Longowal, state convener of the youth wing of the Kirti Kisan Union.
06-11-2020||---||After weeks of decline, spike in cases, deaths in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5After continuous decline in number of Covid cases and deaths for almost two weeks, the state is witnessing a spike in cases as well as deaths. On Thursday, the state reported 541 cases and 22 deaths in the last 24 hours. Till last week, the number of cases had come down to 300 and deaths to a single digit.IAS officer tests positive541 cases, 22 deaths in 24 hoursAs per the media bulletin released on Thursday, with fresh cases the total number of cases has reached 1,35,834 and number of deaths reached 4,281.In district-wise breakup of cases, Jalandhar topped the chart with 73 cases, followed by Ludhiana (69), SAS Nagar (65), Bathinda (44) and Patiala (39).The number of active cases also witnessed an increase and has reached 4,621. Similarly, the number of critical cases has also increased as at present 125 patients are on oxygen support and 12 are critical and on ventilator support. As far as deaths are concerned, the state reported 22 deaths in the last 24 hours. In district-wise breakup, SAS Nagar topped the chart with six deaths, followed by Faridkot and Jalandhar (four each), Ludhiana (two) and Ropar, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Amritsar (one each).
06-11-2020||---||Varsities, colleges to reopen from Nov 16||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5The Punjab Government has decided to reopen universities and colleges in areas outside containment zones from November 16.An official spokesperson said classes for final year students of universities and colleges under the medical education and research department would commence from November 9.He said all these institutions should strictly observe the standard operating procedures to be framed by their respective administrative departments in consultation with the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, and the ministry concerned of the Central Government.Earlier, the Punjab Government had given permission to open higher education institutions for research scholars (PhD) and postgraduate students in science and technology streams requiring laboratories/experimental works in areas outside containment zones after October 15.
06-11-2020||---||Covid test must for medical students before joining college||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, November 5All medical, dental, ayurveda and nursing college students will have to undergo Covid-19 test as the educational institutions are set to reopen from November 16.In a letter to principals, Director, Medical Education Department, issued guidelines for the reopening of these institutions.Before getting entry into hostels and institutes, over 13,000 students will have to get tested. “Covid test is a must to prevent further infection,” wrote the Director.The department has asked the institutes to ensure that every student is provided with single accommodation. All members in the hostel kitchen should also be tested for Covid-19.There should be proper distancing in the kitchen and students be allowed to take food to their rooms. No outsider will be allowed in the hostel or kitchen.In classrooms too, social distancing is a must. Wearing masks is compulsory for the students and practical classes will be held in small groups.The students have to submit their Covid-19 test report to the hostel warden on arrival and will sign an undertaking before occupying the hostel room. As per this undertaking, the students have to report to the hostel authorities on getting any Covid-19-related symptoms.During their stay on the campus, if a student contracts the infection, the college authorities and administration will not be held responsible. The students will not use four-wheelers in the college or hostel campus and pillion riding won’t be allowed either. They can’t get food from outside.
06-11-2020||---||IIT-Ropar  to continue online classes||Tribune News ServiceRopar, November 5The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, has decided to continue online classes during the new semester to be started from November 18. The new semester, however, will be divided into a trimester.IIT-Ropar director Sarit K Das said extensive plans had been made to impart online education to new B.Tech students. “This is a special semester divided into a trimester as the Covid-19 situation has made teaching different where departments, academic section, role of faculty adviser and IT section come into the picture,” he said.As per the senate guidelines for semester 2020-21, all undergraduate and postgraduate students will be attending classes from home.Dr Das said the registration of new B.Tech students would start from November 11 while the induction programme for UG students and department orientation for them would be from November 12 to November 17. The first trimester will end on January 29. Similarly, the second trimesters will begin on January 30 and third on April 3.
06-11-2020||---||Pak flayed over transfer of Kartarpur shrine management||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 5At a time when the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) was all set to celebrate the first anniversary of the inauguration of the historic Gurdwara Kartarpur corridor on November 9, the Pakistan government’s move to snub its Sikh body in managing the control of the Shrine has not gone down well with the Indian Sikh gurdwara bodies.However, PSGPC president Satwant Singh observed this development as “nothing new”, but an administrative set up which was being “projected wrongly”.An official Pakistan government notification issued on November 3 speaks about forming a project management unit (PMU), Kartarpur Corridor, run under Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB). Ironically, the additional secretary (shrines) ETPB Mohammad Tariq Khan headed eight member PMU has no Sikh on its panel.Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur is probably the first Sikh shrine for which the PMU was constituted.Talking to The Tribune, Satwant Singh said, “The ETPB manages technical and security aspects of religious properties and all Sikh and Hindu shrines in Pakistan. The PSGPC is liable to maintain the rituals and Sikh ‘rehat maryada’ of gurdwaras and organise religious occasions.
06-11-2020||---||PO, film producer held; arms, fake papers seized||Tribune News ServiceMansa, November 5The police have arrested Harpreet Singh, a proclaimed offender (PO), and Amneet Sher Singh, alias Kaku, “Nikka Zaildar” fame Punjabi film producer, in the Jagdish Bhola drug racket. An Audi car, firearms and fake doucuments were seized from them.Harpreet was arrested by the Fatehgarh Sahib police that busted the drug racket in 2013. He was booked under various Sections of the IPC and the NDPS Act along with Bhola and others. He was granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in March 2013, which he jumped and has been absconding ever since. Later, he was declared a PO by the court.The police have seized a fake passport and Aadhaar card from the accused and sources in the police claimed that it seemed Harpreet was planning to run away from the country. After initial interrogation, the police have been sent to Delhi as it is learnt that these fake documents were prepared there.SSP Surinder Lamba said, “The police have seized weapons, fake documents and the car of the accused.”The SSP said, “It appears that the accused had international smuggling links. They were produced before a court and police remand has been sought. Now further investigation will take place and the police are hopeful that new facts regarding the recoveries and their supply chain will come to the fore.”A case under various Sections of the IPC and Arms Act has been registered against both accused at the Mansa City-2 police station.With the arrest of Punjabi movie producer with a drug smuggler, the angle of funding in Punjabi film industry by drug smugglers has also started, which needs a thorough probe.
06-11-2020||---||Save footage of clash outside SGPC office, cops told||Amritsar, November 5A local court has directed the Kotwali police station to save the CCTV footage of the clash that took place between members of the SGPC and the Satkar Committee outside the SGPC office. It has asked the SHO to appear before the court, along with a report, on November 12.The court issued the order on the complaint of Balbir Singh of Baba Bakala and president of the Satkar Committee.As many as 30 persons were injured following an altercation outside Teja Singh Samundri Hall, where Sikh organisations were holding an agitation over missing “saroops” on October 24. The next day, the police booked around 60 Sikh activists in two separate FIRs on the complaint of the SGPC authorities. A day later, a cross-FIR was registered against SGPC employees for illegal detention and injuring Sikh activists. In his complaint, Balbir Singh alleged that the SGPC task force kept the Sikh activists in an illegal detention, where they were assaulted for hours.Later, a false FIR was registered against them. He said there were CCTV cameras at the SGPC office, adjoining roads and outside shops, but the police did not bother to scan the footage.
06-11-2020||---||Spurious liquor recovered, 1 held||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, November 5Acting on a tip-off, an excise team along with the police today nabbed a person from Pahra village and seized spurious liquor from his possession. The accused has been booked under the Punjab Excise Act.May be locally madeThere are chances that the liquor has been manufactured in some distillery running in or around Gurdaspur. We are looking into that aspect too. - Rajinder Singh Sohal, SSPThe liquor with brand name ‘Punjab Choice’ is manufactured by a Goa-based distillery and is meant for sale in Uttaranchal. This is what the labels printed on all 47 bottles confiscated by the excise team claim. The flashy labels were later found to be fictitious.The entire lot could have gone off as some expensive IMFL whisky, but for the fact that neither did the bottles carry the mandatory holograms nor was the degree mentioned.SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said had the liquor hit the streets of Gurdaspur, it would have spelt disaster.For the last several weeks, the cops were trying to nab Kulwinder Singh, alias Kinda, on suspicion of manufacturing and bottling spurious liquor.He was nabbed from his hideout at Pahra village today and the liquor was seized.“The liquor was neither manufactured in Goa nor was it meant to be sold in Uttaranchal. All this was done to impress prospective customers,” said Sajjan Singh Dhandal, a wine contractor of the area.“People arrested under the Excise Act are back in business soon after they are booked. Two of the prime accused in the Majha tragedy — Darshana Faujan and Triveni Chauhan — were nabbed on many occasions and every time they would be back,” said a police officer.The SSP said there were chances that the liquor was manufactured in some distillery running in or around Gurdaspur. “We are looking into that aspect too,” he added.He said based on Kinda’s questioning, more arrests would be made. “He is not alone in this business which may turn out to be bigger than what it appears to be now,” he added.
06-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Enforce PCPNDT Act strictly, says HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for strict implementation of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act “to save the society from the ill effects and consequences of declining gender ratio”. The call came in an alleged case of forcible abortion and would-be mother’s death soon after.Needs deeper probeIf the allegations are found to be true, the woman of the future is deprived of the lease of life to enable her to see the daylight. The matter needs deeper probe.  HCThe matter was placed before Justice Avneesh Jhingan’s Bench after the victim’s husband and sister-in-law moved the HC seeking the quashing of FIR registered on July 23 at Khilchian police station in Amritsar for “causing death of unborn child by act amounting to culpable homicide” and other offences under Sections 313, 314 and 316 of the IPC. The quashing was sought on the basis of a compromise with the complainant.Justice Jhingan said the allegations in the case were of female foeticide menace prevailing in society since long. The Act was enacted to curb pre-diagnostic sex determination. But it was well-known fact that the practice of aborting the foetus after determination of its sex was still continuing.The offences allegedly committed in the present case were not merely in “personam” or “against a person.” but affecting society. “If the allegations were found to be true, the woman of future was deprived the lease of life to enable her to see the daylight. The matter needs deeper probe. It may be a case not only of the IPC but also where the provisions of other Act may be involved,” Justice Jhingan asserted.Taking note of the state counsel’s submission that information was sent to the Amritsar Civil Surgeon on July 22 regarding the case, Justice Jhingan said the matter had not been proceeded with. Considering the serious nature of the complaint, the adoption of appropriate steps by the authorities concerned was expected. It was expected that they would put efforts to ensure strict implementation of the provisions of the PCPNDT Act.Considering the gravity of offences and nature of allegations of aborting female child and consequential loss to life of the expecting mother, Justice Jhingan said it did not call for interference under Section 482 of CrPC for quashing the FIR.
06-11-2020||---||Depot holder booked on molestation charge||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, November 5The police have booked a depot holder for allegedly molesting an SC woman at Ghagge village, 35 km from here. The accused, Jaswant Singh, also threatened the victim and villagers, the police said.In her complaint, the victim said she had gone to the depot to purchase wheat. The depot holder was distributing slips among beneficiaries and when her turn came, he molested her and tore her clothes. He also used filthy language against the woman.When the villagers tried to stop him, he trained a gun at them. ASI Avtar Singh said a case under Sections 354 (molestation), 323, 506, IPC, and 25, 27, 54, 59 Arms Act had been registered against the accused, who is at large.
06-11-2020||Amritsar||SGPC general house on Nov 27||The SGPC has scheduled its general house meeting for November 27 at Teja Singh Samundari Hall. This meeting holds significance as the annual election for president, other officer-bearers and executive members will be decided with majority consensus. The tenure of the existing body headed by Gobind Singh Longowal is going to expire in November.This decision, among others, was taken during the executive body meeting held on Thursday. During the meeting, it has been decided to set up a high-level review committee to probe the 328 missing ‘saroops’.The outrage over the issue is not dying down. Longowal said that a legal notice has also been served on auditing firm SS Kohli & Co. — TNS
06-11-2020||New Delhi||Reverse decision on Kartarpur Sahib: MEA||India has condemned the move by Pakistan to transfer the management of Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara to the Evacuee Trust Property Board, a non-Sikh body.The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC), a body run by the minority Sikh community, had been in control of the shrine so far. The Indian Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) today asked Pakistan “to reverse its arbitrary decision depriving the Sikh minority community of its right to manage affairs of Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara”.Pak rejects objectionRejecting the Indian objection, the Pakistan Foreign Office said the gurdwara remained under the control of PSGPC, which was responsible for carrying out rituals as per the Sikh “rehat maryada”. It said the Project Management Unit under the Evacuee Trust Property Board had been created only to facilitate the PSGPC in this regard.“This unilateral decision by Pakistan is highly condemnable and runs against the spirit of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor as also religious sentiments of the Sikh community at large,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa led a delegation to meet joint secretary of the Pakistan Desk this afternoon. — TNS
06-11-2020||Ambika Sharma||Rail traffic disruption in Punjab hits Baddi’s ICD business hard||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 5Nearly 50 per cent business of the Baddi-based inland container depot (ICD), which transships industrial goods to dry ports in Punjab, has been hit with the disruption of rail traffic in Punjab. The problem has been compounded with the delayed availability to containers with the waiting time being two to four weeks.On an average, five to 10 containers were transshipped per day earlier to Punjab from where they were transported further to various ports in Mumbai and Gujarat by the railways.“Disruption in rail traffic coupled with shortage of containers due to reduced import has drastically hit the business at the ICD, Baddi. Nearly 50 per cent business has been hit due to Covid and though we are offering alternative transportation through the roads it was a costlier proposition,” informed Anuj Kumar, in-charge, ICD, Baddi.Curbs on imports, especially from China, have led to a fewer containers being available in the market. Since the trade thrives on a balance of export and import, the reduced import has led to fewer containers coming back at the ports. This has further reduced their availability in the industrial clusters like Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh which houses 89 per cent of the state’s industry.“The micro, small and medium sector enterprises (MSME) are the worst affected due to the unavailability of adequate containers. The freight has gone up by 3 to 5 times in the last few months. As against Rs 1,000 shelled out earlier for a container I have to incur as much as 5,000 now and my business is no longer viable. The industry is in panic as in view of the festival season,” says Sandeep Verma, who has been exporting engineering tools since the last 35 years from Baddi.The disruption in rail traffic has aggravated their woes as even if a container is available after weeks, lack of rail transportation has led to piling of goods containers at dry ports like Ludhiana.Dinesh Dua, chairman of the Board of Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India, Chairman Entrepreneurship & Startups CII North India and CEO at Nectar Lifesciences, said, “About 50,000 unclaimed containers are piled up at various ports owing to which there is a shortage in the industry. The issue was taken up with the union government. The authorities concerned will soon conduct an auction and make them available to the industry. The problem is likely to be sorted out within a week’s time”.He added that the rail traffic disruption was unfortunate in Punjab as it was further affecting transshipment of goods.SL Singla, Adviser, Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association, said he has bought his own containers owing to the shortage and the increasing freight charged by the traders owing to the gap in demand and supply.
06-11-2020||Mohali||Commuters stranded for hours as farmers protest||Various factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) today blocked roads, causing inconvenience to commuters, who were held up in traffic jams for hours at various places in the district.Though farmers’ unions had announced a four-hour blockade of the national highway from noon to 4 pm in advance, many people moved out of their houses, causing traffic jams. However, the police managed to divert the traffic at several places.Massive jams, no untoward incidentDue to the farmers’ protest, massive traffic jams were witnessed in Kharar and Zirakpur, where long queues of vehicles were seen for nearly four hours. However, no untoward incident was reported and the protest passed off peacefully.The protest was held in response to a nationwide call by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) against the farm Bills passed by Union Government. The farmers held a chakka jam and blocked major roads and highways at five places in Mohali district.Massive traffic jams were witnessed in Kharar and Zirakpur, where long queues of vehicles were seen for nearly four hours. However, no untoward incident was reported and the protest passed off peacefully.Farmers’ unions, led by Davinder Singh Dehkalan, district president, BKU (Lakhowal), Ravinder Singh Dehkalan, district president, BKU (Sidhupur), Azaib Singh Ghaduan, vice-president, Gian Singh Dhadak, general secretary, Balbir Singh Musafir, president, Mohali Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, and Kuldeep Singh, president, Mohali CITU, blocked the road in Kharar for an hour before dispersing.The protesting farmers also burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, showing their opposition towards the three farm Bills passed by the Centre. Naib Tehsildar Puneet Bansal, DSP Manjeet Singh and DSP Rupinderjit Kaur, along with a police party, managed to persuade the protesters to lift the blockade. The police diverted the traffic from Kurali towards Mullanpur so that commuters could reach Chandigarh and Mohali without facing much inconvenience.Traffic jams were witnessed on the Banur-Kharar and Kharar-Landran highways and also on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway near Lalru. The police had diverted the traffic coming from the Ambala side on the Jharmari-Naraingarh road, while the traffic coming from the Chandigarh side was diverted on the Lalru- Handesra road to avoid any inconvenience to the commuters.The protesters blocked highways at Lalru, Zirakpur, Banur, Amb Sahib Gurdwara, Kharar bus stand and the Landran road at the Badala T-point in Kharar.The kisan union, led by Manpreet Singh Amlala, vice-president, The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), and Karam Singh Baroli, along with 125 to 150 supporters, blocked the Ambala-Chandigarh highway at Lalru.Protests were also held at the Singhpura crossing in Zirakpur, near the toll plaza in Banur and the Airport road at Amb Sahib Gurdwara in Sohana, Mohali.
