07-06-2020||---||30 hospitalised after chlorine gas leaks from water works in Mohali||Mohali, June 7Nearly 30 persons were hospitalised due to chlorine gas leak at a water works at Balongi in Mohali late Sunday night.The affected have been admitted to Civil Hospital, Phase VI, in Mohali.Panic gripped the area after residents living around the water works complained of heavy breathing and breathlessness after the gas leak.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said those admitted to the hospital are women and children. He said 25 persons came to the hospital and around 10 have been discharged, but all the patients are stable and hopefully they will be discharged in next couple of hours.According to sources, two fire brigade employees, who reached the spot, were also rushed to the hospital. Later, the fire department officials dug the ground and buried the cylinder. The gas was leaking till the filing of this report.One of the patients told a doctor on duty that she was working in her home when she felt irritation in eyes. A moment later, she felt dizzy and started vomiting.
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus situation under control but can’t allow violation of safety protocols: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday said though the coronavirus situation was under control in the state, people can’t be allowed to violate safety protocols. Responding to questions during the latest Facebook live edition of #AskCaptain, he made an impassioned appeal to people to strictly adhere to the safety measures to save themselves, their families and the state. The CM said the COVID situation in Punjab had so far been manageable due to a strict lockdown imposed in the state, according to a government release.                       However, he said it had become essential now to ease some of the restrictions, but that did not mean that people could be allowed to violate the safety protocols. He termed as unfortunate the large number of violations being reported, forcing police to take strict action.Singh said on Friday alone, 4,600 challans were issued for the failure to wear masks in public. He said 160 challans were issued for spitting and around two dozen for not adhering to social distancing norms.Such irresponsible behaviour could not be permitted as it could push Punjab on the same path as many other states in India, he warned, pointing out that with 2.5 per cent of the country’s population, the state was currently contributing a mere 0.5 per cent of the coronavirus cases.On the state’s roadmap to handle the pandemic, the CM said Punjab’s situation has been under control so far but the state government was not taking any chances.In the first stage, 4,248 beds in government hospitals were set aside, he said, adding that another 2,014 now being available while private hospitals have allocated 950 beds for virus patients.Of the 554 ventilators available, only one was in use till Saturday, said the CM, adding that in addition to the equipment already handed over to hospitals and other frontline workers, the Health Department has a stock of 4,88,000 N95 masks, 64 lakh triple-layer masks, 2,28,000 PPE kits and 2,223 oxygen cylinders.Responding to a complaint that private hospitals were charging exorbitantly for admitting COVID patients, the CM said he will ask the medical department to check it.He, however, urged people to go to government hospitals equipped with the best-in-class facilities and staff.To a question regarding problems faced by farmers in the sowing of paddy due to a shortage of workers, the CM said less than five lakh of the total 13 lakh migrant labourers have left the state.With over eight lakh migrant workers still here, along with the state’s own local labour, there is no problem in the fields or in the industrial units, he said.Singh also assured that sugarcane arrears of cooperative sugar mills were being expeditiously cleared by the state government.Singh assured that his government will try to provide more relief to power consumers next year as the current situation had constrained the power utility, which despite the cash crunch had announced domestic power tariff cuts for the poor and small consumers. PTI
07-06-2020||Mohali||COVID-19: Three more test positive in Mohali; total cases rise to 131||With the surfacing of three more cases of coronavirus, total cases in the district have spiked to 131 with 20 active cases now. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the patients who have been tested positive include a 32-year-old resident of Dhakoli in Zirakpur who had gone to Amritsar with his friends and returned on June 1.He said the patient works as a photographer.He said the two other patients include the 57-year-old wife and the 30-year-old son of a resident of Rishi Apartments in Sector 70, who tested positive on June 5.Dr Manjit Singh said they have traced 13 contacts of the Sector 70 resident who tested positive and have taken their samples.He said that they would get their reports within next two days and added that more contacts are being searched for.He further said all the patients have been shifted to Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.All the persons admitted are responding well to the treatment and are stable, he added.
07-06-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh ATS arrests arms supplier to Khalistani militants||The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad on Sunday arrested an alleged arms supplier to Khalistani militants, a senior officer said. Additional Director General of the ATS, Dhruva Kant Thakur, said: "The UP ATS has arrested Javed, an arms supplier to Khalistani terrorists, from Hapur. Javed is a resident of the Kithore area of Meerut. His interrogation is on and the Punjab Police has been informed about the arrest."        Thakur said Javed has also supplied illegal arms to criminals in Amritsar.He was arrested following an input from the state special cell, Amritsar, the ADG said.ATS officials said a number of pro-Khalistan militants have been caught in western Uttar Pradesh and the Punjab Police was searching Javed for quite some time.In May, in a joint operation by the Uttar Pradesh ATS and the Special Operation Group of the Punjab Police, Tirath Singh, a suspected terrorist owing allegiance to the Khalistan movement was arrested from Thapar Nagar in Meerut.He was handed over to the Punjab Police after interrogation. PTI
07-06-2020||Chandigarh/Ludhiana/Patiala||Punjab reports 94 new coronavirus cases; 10th death in Ludhiana||Punjab reported 94 new coronavirus cases, taking the state’s COVID-19 infection tally to 2,608.Ludhiana and Patiala also reported COVID-19 deaths, although only the former has so far been recorded in Sunday’s death toll for the state.Amritsar and Jalandhar reported a spike in coronavirus cases, together accounting for 61 per cent on Sunday’s infections. Amritsar reported 35 new cases and Jalandhar, 23.Ludhiana (10), Patiala (7), Sangrur (5), Gurdaspur (3), Faridkot (3), Pathankot (2), Fatehgarh Sahib (1), Hoshiarpur (1),  Fazilka (1), SAS Nagar (1), and Barnala (1) made up the rest of Punjab’s COVID-19 count on Sunday, the state’s COVID bulletin showed.Nineteen of Amritsar’s 35 new cases were contacts of already diagnosed cases, 10 were categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness), and six were self-reported cases.Fifteen of Jalandhar’s 23 cases were contacts of already diagnosed cases. The bulletin classified the rest as new cases.Of Ludhiana’s 10, four were auxiliary nurse   two were classified as ILI, and one was a contact of an already diagnosed case.Fourteen of Sunday’s new cases had a record of recent travel.Of Patiala’s seven cases, one person had recently returned from abroad and six others had a recently interstate travel history.Sangrur’s five cases included four people who came back from other states.Fazilka’s lone case had recently come back from Gurugram. Fatehgarh Sahib’s case had recently returned from Delhi and Hoshairpur’s patient had recently returned from abroad.Two of Faridkot’s three cases were contacts of already diagnosed cases, as were the cases from Gurdaspur, Barnala and SAS Nagar.  Besides, 14 other people tested positive, but these have not been counted in the state tally.A 65-year-old woman died in Ludhiana’s Christian Medical College and Hospital on Sunday, a day after she tested positive for COVID-19.The woman had been admitted to the hospital on June 4 with complaints of fever and breathlessness. Her creatinine levels were high at around 9.4 and she was intubated after her health declined.This is Ludhiana’s tenth death from COVID-19.Patiala also reported a death, although this has yet to be added to the official state count. A 46-year-old man from Nabha died at Government Rajindra Hospital on Sunday afternoon from coronavirus. His test results came back positive after his death, officials said.  An employee of Hindustan Unilever Limited, he was admitted to the hospital on Saturday.The death, when added to the state tally, would be Patiala’s third from coronavirus.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (469), Jalandhar (293), Ludhiana (242), Tarn Taran (159), Gurdaspur (151), Hoshiarpur (135), Patiala (133), SAS Nagar (126), SBS Nagar (106), Sangrur (109), Pathankot (88), Ropar (71), Muktsar (70), Faridkot (70), Fatehgarh Sahib (70), Moga (66), Bathinda (55), Fazilka (47), Ferozepur (46),  Kapurthala (40), Mansa (34), and Barnala (26).    The state's death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (10), Amritsar (8), Jalandhar (8), Hoshiarpur (5), Pathankot (4), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Patiala (2), Tarn Taran (1), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).Amritsar and Jalandhar together account for 29 per cent of the state's coronavirus infections.Punjab now has 451 active cases---almost twice the number at the end of May. Eight people are on oxygen support, and three are critical and are on ventitalor support, the COVID bulletin showed.
07-06-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur SSP to supervise investigations of both FIRs registered against Sidhu Moosewala||Senior police authorities have shifted the supervision of Barnala case registered against Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh, popularly known as Sidhu Moosewala, under Sangrur SSP.Moosewala has been on the run in two FIRs registered at Barnala and Sangrur under the Arms Act.Earlier both SSPs were supervising the investigations, but IG passed the order to shift supervision to Sangrur last evening.“We have received a letter from Patiala IG wherein he has directed me to supervise the investigations of Barnala case also. Mainly I would try to accelerate the investigations for the arrest of Moosewala as he has been facing non-bailable offense,” SSP Sangrur Dr Sandeep Garg told The Tribune.SPs of Punjab Bureau of Investigation Sangrur and Barnala are conducting investigations of both cases. Earlier both SPs were reporting to their SSPs, but now both SPs will report the developments of investigations to Sangrur SSP.As per details of the cases, on May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar of Barnala district, went viral on the social media, the Dhanauala police, on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, had registered a case under Sections 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and five policemen.This included Assistant Sub inspector (ASI) Balkar Singh, Head Constables Gagandeep Singh and Gurjinder Singh, Constables Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and three others, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal and Jang Sher Singh.But within 24 hours, another FIR was also registered against all under the same sections at Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5 after another video showing Moosewala firing from his private pistol at Laddai Kothi of Sangrur shooting range surfaced.On May 17, police had added Sections 25 and 30 of the Arms Act 1959 to both FIRs registered against Moosewala and others.In Dhuri Sadar police station FIR of Sangrur district, eight accused have got interim bail from Sangrur court on May 30 and only singer Sidhu Moosewala has been on the run.On June 2, the Barnala court had dismissed the applications for anticipatory bail of six accused. But as per websites of both district courts, Moosewala has not applied for anticipatory bail in both FIRs.“I have received information that Barnala case supervision has also been shifted under Sangrur SSP,” said Rupinder Kumar Bhardwaj, SP, PBI Barnala.But despite claims of police to conduct raids to arrest Moosewala, he was let off by Nabha police after issuing him a challan for having tinted glasses on his two vehicles on June 6.
07-06-2020||Amritsar||Review guidelines regarding langar, SGPC chief urges Punjab govt||SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal on Sunday urged the Punjab government to review its guidelines regarding langar, terming the practice an ‘inseparable' part of the Sikh religion.Allowing the opening of religion places from Monday during the current phase of the coronavirus lockdown, the state government on Saturday had prohibited the offering of 'prasad', food or langar (community kitchen).“Langar is an inseparable tradition of the Sikh religion and the government should review its decision,” said Longowal.He said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) was preparing food for devotees by following all norms of the Health Department.Giving 'prasad' to devotees is also an old tradition of the Sikh religion and the government should review its guidelines regarding this while keeping in mind the sentiments of the Sikh community, said Longowal.He, however, said as the Golden Temple is reopening for devotees on Monday, all coronavirus-related guidelines will be followed. Longowal said the thermal screening of devotees visiting the Golden Temple will be a must.“Various health teams have been deployed at the entrances to the Golden Temple where devotees will undergo thermal screening,” said the SGPC president, adding that wearing masks will be a must.Social distancing norms will be followed strictly inside the premises, he said.Devotees will be sent inside the sanctum sanctorum one by one, Longowal said, stressing that people were keen on visiting the shrine to offer prayers.The Punjab government on Saturday had issued guidelines for the opening of shopping malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship.According to the guidelines, the management of religious places shall make adequate arrangements to ensure hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing of masks.Places of worship or religious places will remain open between 5 am and 8 pm, as per the guidelines.The maximum number of persons at the time of worship shall not exceed 20 with social distancing in place. PTI
07-06-2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports 10th COVID-19 death||A 65-year-old woman died in Ludhiana’s Christian Medical College and Hospital on Sunday, a day after she tested positive for COVID-19.The woman had been admitted to the hospital on June 4 with complaints of fever and breathlessness. Her creatinine levels were high at around 9.4 and she was intubated after her health declined.This is Ludhiana’s tenth death from COVID-19.Punjab’s COVID bulletin put Ludhiana’s coronavirus tally at 293 on Sunday.
07-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Police challan doctor for not wearing mask in car; Patiala Civil Surgeon says unnecessary||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 7A lady doctor was issued a challan for not wearing a mask while driving a car, apparently when she was on her way for Covid-19 duty. Dr Harjot Kaur, who is posted at the Primary Health Center (PCH) at Sauja in Bhadson block, was challaned on Friday by SHO of Kotwali Nabha, the health department said.Soon after the incident came to light, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra wrote a letter to the Patiala SSP in this regard. Malhotra wrote that the challan was “unnecessary”.Malhotra claimed that the health department had been receiving reports that common people were being issued challans for not wearing masks inside the car, which was against the guidelines issued by the Punjab Government.In the letter, the Civil Surgeon wrote, “As per the Epidemic Disease Act, people will be challaned for not wearing mask in public places only, and not of the people sitting in their car.”Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said that the mask was compulsory only in public places, as per the state government guidelines, and not in the car.As per a notification issued by the Director of Health Services, those who don't wear a mask in public places will be imposed with a penalty of Rs 500.Notably, the district police had issued 2,723 challans for not wearing proper masks until Thursday.SHO Kotwali Nabha Sarabjeet Singh Cheema, who issued the challan to the doctor, said, “There is no instruction from the government not to challan anyone for not wearing a mask inside the car. So what if she is a doctor. Rules are the same for everyone.”Narrating the incident, Cheema said that the doctor was stopped by a constable. He added that the doctor did not behave properly and asked the constable to call the SHO. “I went to her and issued a challan. Even the illiterate are wearing face masks inside the car so why was the doctor not wearing it?” Cheema said.
07-06-2020||---||Purpose of life is to be happy, says Pooja Bedi||Amritsar, June 6“Though we are going through challenging times, we can make it empowering for us by adopting a positive mindset. You can start with simple things such as adding some activity in your daily routine that interests you or by doing meditation,” said actor-turned life coach Pooja Bedi during a webinar conducted by FICCI FLO on Saturday.Quoting Dalai Lama, she said: “The purpose of our lives is to be happy.” The webinar was first of a series of interactive sessions called Happy Souls to be held by Meeta Mehra, chairperson, FLO, Amritsar.Bedi talked about the power of mind and positive affirmations and how one can become the best version of oneself by conditioning their minds. She also took questions from the members. Pooja, who has been working as life coach and motivational speaker for the past few years, said it was not difficult to understand the mind-body connect though not many paid attention to it.Meeta Mehra said the session was fun and filled with laughter, bonhomie and candid confessions. “We look forward to present other parts of the series soon,” she said.
07-06-2020||Sarika Sharma||Bengali singer Sharmistha Chatterjee's affair with Sufi and Punjabi poetry||Singer Sharmistha Chatterjee still remembers the day she fell in love with Punjabi poetry... “I heard Salamat Ali Khan saheb’s rendition of “Saanwal Mor Muharaan” on YouTube and realised I had never heard anything like that before. That style of singing and Khan saheb’s skill and roohdaari blew me away.” Research followed, and the singer from Bengal found herself exploring Punjab and its musical traditions.“I figured that his style of singing belonged to Shyam Chaurasi gharana centred in a village that goes by the same name in Hoshiarpur district. The artistes had moved to Pakistan after Partition, but were still shining through their art, making their place of origin proud all this while,” she says.That style of classical gayaki is something that Sharmistha was not trained in but found herself immediately drawn into. “Later, I discovered Salamat Ali Khan saheb singing kaafis of Ghulam Fareed in that same gayaki. This, musically, was a huge inspiration and drew me to learn and sing Punjabi Sufi kalaams,” she says.Sharmistha says her first brush with Punjabi music was, like most Indians, through Bollywood and she gives it all the credit for popularising it well. However, to actually discover its beauty and hidden gems, she got out of her comfort zone, travelled to Lahore to join a Sufi Punjabi rock band, Mekaal Hasan, as its lead vocalist and discovered and understood the kalaams written by Sufi saints. “I was the first Indian wiman to front a Pakistani rock band. As a woman and as an Indian I feel very proud of the fact that I could represent myself on a global platform through this band,” says Sharmistha.Over the last few years, she has sung poetry of Guru Nanak, Baba Bulle Shah, Shah Hussain, Ghulam Fareed and Amrita Pritam. “I was introduced to Baba Bulle Shah and Shah Hussain’s kalaams when I started singing for Mekaal Hasan. The kalaams were initially chosen by the band. I sang Amrita Pritam’s Waris Shah, which is again the band’s composition. Thereafter, I delved deep into Sufi and Punjabi poetry. I also sang Baba Nanak’s baani as part of a project initiated by Madan Gopal Singh of Chaar Yaar fame.” Madan Gopal, in fact, helped her with Punjabi diction and pronunciation when she took it upon herself to render Gurbani. Also, band member Mohd Ehsan Papu has been a constant support.Sharmistha’s journey with the band has been a great learning curve and an equally great experience. Papu and Mekaal Hasan came to Mumbai and recorded eight songs with her for their third album, Andolan. A Bulle Shah kalaam, “Ghunghat”, from the album became the top song of Pakistan in 2014. A year later, she was invited to Coke Studio Pakistan where she sang two songs, “Sayon” and “Kinaray”. “I was the first Indian to sing for Coke Studio Pakistan. That is also a huge achievement for me. The same year we toured North America extensively and performed as an Indo-Pak band forgetting, borders, boundaries and only connecting through music, spreading the love that music has in it,” she says.Sharmistha says she has garnered immense love in all these years. “My fans send me recordings of Reshma and other Punjabi music they want to hear in my voice. I feel extreme gratitude to have gotten so much love from Punjabi audience, inspite of being a Bengali. Somewhere, I think, there is a connection, and the love motivates me to delve even deeper. I have only started off and there is much more to discover, much more to learn and much more to sing,” she says.
07-06-2020||   ||Punjab, Punjabi, Punjabis||Bollywood just cannot get enough of the vibrant north Indian state, its language, culture and people     Anna M.M. Vetticad     Producer Rhea Kapoor’s voice bubbles up with mirth as she lists the influences behind her penchant for scripts with Punjabi leads: exposure to her strict, disciplined Sindhi mother’s “insanely warm, insanely emotional” Punjabi friends, Renu Aunty and Pammi Aunty; and her Punjabi father, Bollywood actor Anil Kapoor’s relatives. Punjabis “are a dildaar people,” she says. “They’ll spread themselves more than they have, they like to eat well, drink well, live life to the fullest each day. Their life is basically a roadmap for escapism and that’s the kind of film I make — films you can escape into, that are larger than life.”  Rhea has so far produced Aisha (2010), Khoobsurat (2014) and Veere di Wedding (2018). Like these three films, her next too is heroine-centric and “rooted in Punjabi culture”. She adds, laughing: “I’m diversifying a little. The film after that is set in UP.” Rhea’s works are out-and-out entertainers defying the convention of Hindi films on women being grim and/or weepy, but in one respect they exemplify Bollywood’s oldest surviving trend: the prevalence of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabis — Punjabi characters, Punjabi actors, the state as a setting for stories, its language and music — in Hindi cinema.  The seeds of this trend were planted nearly a century back, possibly at that moment in 1928 when Prithviraj Kapoor entered Mumbai, where the Hindi film industry a.k.a. Bollywood is based. As recorded in journalist Madhu Jain’s book, The Kapoors, the strapping youngster born in Lyallpur district (now Faisalabad in Pakistan’s Punjab province) came to the city to become an actor, and was an extra for some days in a silent film before the heroine spotted him and had him cast as her next film’s hero.  Prithviraj’s glorious career laid the foundation for a film clan that has dominated Hindi cinema till the present day. His son Shashi made his acting debut as an adult in 1961 with Dharmputra, directed by Yash Chopra and produced by Yash’s elder brother B.R. Chopra — the Chopra parivaar remains a major Punjabi force in Bollywood till date. Thirty-four years after Dharmputra, Yash’s producer-director son Aditya Chopra brought the mustard fields of Punjab to a whole new generation of Hindi film-goers in his 1995 blockbuster Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge. Today’s leading flag-bearer of Punjabi-ness in Hindi cinema is Yash’s nephew, producer-director Karan Johar.     Universal appeal  These influential families may have triggered the omnipresence of Punjab/i/s in Hindi cinema by making and starring in films about the community they know best, but the positivity in the Punjabi psyche that Rhea described, coupled with the culture’s lively aspects — bhangra, giddha, vibrant costumes, up-tempo music — have also charmed viewers, which is why they sell. These factors have been complemented by Hindi and Punjabi’s proximity to each other, as trade analyst Komal Nahta says. Unlike Marathi, the language of Maharashtra where the industry is based, Nahta points out that the most basic words of everyday use in Punjabi sound similar to Hindi, “and Punjabis have an animated style of speaking, so their actions help non-Punjabis understand the language”. It helps too that Punjabis themselves form a significant overseas market for Bollywood.  The success of Hindi films featuring Punjab/i/s resulting from these factors has led to more such films, which has meant further public familiarity with the culture, prompting producers to back more scripts revolving around it, and so the self-perpetuating cycle continues. This is like global familiarity with English due to Britain’s colonial history being a reason why audiences worldwide, including non-English speakers, voraciously consume Hollywood films about white Americans because — here comes the cycle — Hollywood has familiarised the world with white American culture.        The other side of the story {(This one can be a box, with Vicky Donor pic )}  The upside of the Bollywood trend is goodwill for Punjabis among viewers, even outside the Hindi belt. The downside includes stereotyping of Punjabis in films and formulaic usage. For one, since the Punjabi pop wave of the 1990s, even quality filmmakers bowing to commercial demands have been slipping Punjabi songs into scripts about non-Punjabis in the guise of a nightclub visit, a concert and so on, but unimaginative directors often ram Punjabi numbers into films without bothering with narrative smoothness.  The most unfortunate fallout of the Punjab/i/s phenomenon though is the marginalisation of the community’s tragedies and uncomfortable socio-political realities in Hindi films. Partition, the Khalistan movement, Operation Blue Star, the 1984 riots, post-Taliban refugees from Afghanistan, patriarchy, casteism and the state’s drug menace have been largely ignored. Gulzar’s Maachis (1996), Abhishek Chaubey’s Udta Punjab (2016) and Nandita Das’ Manto (2018) are among exceptions. The norm is to emphasise celebratory aspects of Punjabi culture, too often through the sort of rumbustiousness that pervaded 2019’s Good Newzz, in which a loud Punjabi couple (Diljit Dosanjh and Kiara Advani) clashed with another Punjabi couple (Kareena Kapoor Khan and Akshay Kumar).   When Lucknow-born writer Juhi Chaturvedi set her first Hindi feature, Vicky Donor (2014), in a Punjabi-dominated locality in Delhi, she wanted to rise above traditional superficiality. Chaturvedi had spent several years as an ad professional in Delhi where she lived surrounded by Punjabis in Lajpat Nagar. Apart from dipping into those memories for Vicky Donor, she researched the origins of the people there, which led her to the lingering after-effects of the Partition on Delhi’s colonies of refugees.  “We say Punjabis are flashy and show offy, but it comes from a deep-rooted sadness,” she says. “When you lose everything but the clothes you’re wearing and start all over again, then when you start doing well you say, “Look, we’re fine, let’s sing a song, let’s tell everyone we have enough now.’ It may have started as a statement about their well-being.” Chaturvedi’s empathy accounts for Vicky Donor’s delightfully atypical treatment of Bollywood’s Punjabi stereotypes.     ‘It just feels right’  Writer-director Shakun Batra has for some years been reflecting on why he has written mostly Punjabi characters so far. As a Punjabi himself, his most obvious explanation is: “When creating a character, my first go-to person is me and the environment I grew up in.” What he says next — “I end up keeping it as Kapoors or whatever because it’s more generic” — explains why many non-Punjabis too gravitate towards writing Punjabis even in scripts where there are no overt nods to the characters’ ethnic background. “If you’ve grown up watching movies with Punjabi characters, it becomes one of those clichés nobody breaks, it just feels right,” he adds, which explains why this specific culture might seem “generic” to Hindi film writers.  Batra has been introspecting since he was asked why Kapoor & Sons (2016) had no south Indian characters although it was set in Coonoor. “It’s like for the longest time Hollywood had white actors, till they consciously decided to diversify,” he says. “It happens with awareness.” For the record, both Batra’s films are lovely and did not stereotype Punjabis as Bollywood usually does. In fact, the hero of 2012’s Ek Main Aur Ekk Tu, Rahul Kapoor (Imran Khan), was the anti-thesis of the clichéd screen Punjabi: not boisterous, doing bhangra and yelling “balle balle” at the drop of a hat, but a sedate foil to his feisty Goan heroine, Riana Braganza (Kareena). However, Batra’s questions to himself do point towards Bollywood’s general insularity.   Beloved though this industry is, the truth is that for its filmmakers, the generic person, the ‘normal’ person is a Hindu, upper-caste, north Indian, mostly Hindi/Punjabi-speaking heterosexual male. Even portrayals of Sikhs, who form nearly 58 per cent of Punjab’s population, are largely confined to two categories: comical or patriotic — a regular Sikh character who is not amusing or not uprooting handpumps to fend off the Pakistan Army is hard to come by. Whether stereotyping is positive or negative, it is still a form of othering that should give us pause. And of course, Hindi filmmakers have avoided the large populations of non-Punjabi, non-north-Indian migrants to the Hindi belt and Maharashtra (where the industry is headquartered).      The hit formula  If Punjab/i/s continue to get space in Hindi cinema, it is because the state, the people, the language and culture are viewed as saleable formulae in this play-it-safe, formulaic industry. Though this phenomenon has given decades of joy to Hindi film viewers, it is incumbent on Bollywood audiences and analysts to compel the industry to expand its worldview, not just to give us an accurate picture of Indian multiculturalism but to also more comprehensively convey the heterogeneity of the Punjabi community.  As a new generation of directors and writers re-examine conventions, perhaps all this and more will happen. Chaturvedi for her part is returning to her roots. Her new film, Gulabo Sitabo, is set in her hometown Lucknow. It stars Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana, is directed by her long-time collaborator Shoojit Sircar, and is releasing on Amazon Prime Video on June 12. While she dreams of making films about different peoples, fans of Bollywood’s fascination for Punjab/i/s need not worry — this long-running trend is not going away anytime soon. After all, as Chaturvedi explains, “Somewhere the core philosophy of Punjabis, the tendency to work hard, do well, make merry, has found a good match with Hindi films.”
07-06-2020||Abohar||Cops hold cycle rally||Youth held with heroinMuktsar: A youth belonging to a politically active family of Chak Mahabadhar (Jheendwala) village here was held with one-gram heroin and 39 sedative pills at a naka at Sraianaga village on the Muktsar-Kotkapura highway on Thursday. Bariwala police have registered a case against Lokkinder Singh in this regard under the NDPS Act. TNSMigrant found deadMuktsar: A 50-year-old migrant labourer was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his residence near Danewala chowk in Malout town on Saturday. Sources said Sham Lal’s body had some injury marks. The police have started investigations. TNSWon’t rejoin SAD: BrahmpuraChandigarh:The SAD (Taksali) on Saturday said like-minded leaders, who left the SAD over their differences with the Badals, were still firm on issues over which they left the Akali Dal. Former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura said desecration of holy books, firing incidents in Bargari and Behbal Kalan, pardon to the Sirsa dera chief, and deviation of the party from its Panthic principles under the leadership of the Badals forced them to part ways. He ruled out the possibility of rejoining the SAD. TNSFinish projects by June 30: CMChandigarh: Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday directed the ACS, Local Government, to accelerate the pace of ongoing projects under Phase I of the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP), and set a deadline of June 30 for their completion. While reviewing the progress of the UEIP, Capt Amarinder also asked the ACS to submit the remaining proposals under Phase-I to the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board by June 15. TNSRs 29-cr facelift for Anandpur SahibAnandpur Sahib: Speaker Rana KP Singh and Tourism Minister Charanjit Singh Channi laid the foundation for a number of beautification projects near Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib here recently. The cost of construction of the projects is estimated to be worth Rs29 crore. Rana said the projects would be accomplished by the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board. The projects include beautification of roads connecting Gurdwara Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, Bhora Sahib and Fatehgarh Sahib. TNS
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Token for Punjab malls, no dining at eateries, 20-visitor cap in shrines||The Punjab Government has allowed the opening of malls from June 8, subject to the visitors having COVA app on their cellphones.The entry to the malls will be on the basis of tokens so as to regulate the number of visitors. It will also be ensured that the number of visitors in any shop does not exceed 50 per cent of the maximum permissible gathering. The maximum capacity for each shop in a mall will be fixed on the basis of maintenance of six-foot distance (i.e. around 100 square feet area for every person entering the shop).Mall operators will also have to ensure adequate visiting time for every individual or group of visitors.As regards restaurants, only the takeaway and home delivery options will be allowed till 8pm. There will be no dine-in facility till further orders. The restaurants in hotels will remain closed and the guests will be served food in their rooms only.The government will review the situation on June 15. Night curfew will be strictly enforced and the movement of individuals allowed only between 5 am and 9 pm. Air/train tickets will serve as curfew passes for one-time movement of these guests to and from the hotel during curfew hours.The maximum number of persons present inside any place of worship should not exceed 20 and the devotees will have to observe physical distancing norms. — TNS
07-06-2020||Aman Sood||Facing 2 FIRs, Moosewala let off with challan||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 6Amid claims by the Punjab Police of carrying out raids to nab Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu Moosewala, facing two FIRs over illegal use of firearms, the Nabha police today let him off after challaning his vehicles for a minor offence.The two vehicles of the singer were stopped and challaned for having tinted glasses. The police initially took him to the DSP office, but let him off following “orders from the top”, said a cop.On May 5, the Dhuri police in Sangrur had booked the singer and five cops under Section 188 of the IPC and Disaster Management Act after a video surfaced showing him shooting from service weapons at a Barnala firing range. Stringent sections of the Arms Act were later added to the FIR. A day earlier, Moosewala and others were booked under Section 188 of the IPC and Disaster Management Act for flashing weapons at Dhanaula, Barnala. The Barnala police sent him a notice to join investigation on June 12.Nabha DSP Rajesh Chhibber said: “SHO Sarabjit Cheema stopped the vehicles. The singer claimed he had procured bail in the cases and the SHO let him off.” Police in Sangrur and Barnala, however, said the singer had neither applied for anticipatory bail nor joined investigation.On why he wasn’t arrested, IG (Patiala Zone) Jatinder Singh Aulakh said the Sangrur police had issued him a notice for joining probe.
07-06-2020||---||MSP system will stay, says Union Minister||Chandigarh, June 6Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Saturday that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) will stay and local markets governed by the state would also function as usual.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called the ordinances anti-farmers and violative of the federal framework. While asserting that the new provisions will benefit farmers, the SAD said they would be willing to make any sacrifice for protecting the interests of the farming community.Addressing a tele-media conference, Tomar said SAD had supported the new provisions as they were pro-farmer. “The ordinances will empower farmer to sell their crops wherever they want. However, local markets run under the Agriculture Market Committees Act would continue to function as earlier,” he said.AAP: Modi govt betrayed farmersAAP state president Bhagwant Mann alleged that the Modi government was hell bent on ruining farmers of Punjab and Haryana by bringing in anti-farmers ordinances. He alleged that both Badals and Capt Amarinder Singh were responsible for the disastrous decisions to demolish the world's best marketing model in both states and abolishing MSP for wheat and paddy crops. TNS
07-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Now, farmers visiting UP, Bihar to bring labourers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 6Facing labour shortage in the wake of Covid, state farmers have started going to Bihar and UP in buses to bring labourers for paddy transplantation. Around 60 labourers reached Barnala on Friday.Ninety more farmers have obtained permission and arranged four more buses to bring labourers in the next two or three days. The trend is picking up in other districts too. “We had sent two buses to Pilibhit in UP and Dhaka Mathari in Bihar. In total, we have spent Rs 1.8 lakh. Both farmers and labourers will share the cost. In two buses, 60 labourers reached Kaire and Channwal villages of district,” said Jagseer Singh Chhiniwal, Barnala district president of BKU Lakhowal.Sources said in Barnala, 90 farmers had taken permission from the DC to bring labourers from other states. These labourers will be quarantined on arrival and Health Department officers will conduct their tests.“We have been giving permission with the condition that farmers will first get the tests of labourers done before sending them to their field,” said TPS Phoolka, Barnala DC. “Not all farmers can do this, the Punjab Government should take this responsibility instead,” said Jagjeet Singh Dallewala, president of BKU Sidhupur from Dallewala village in Faridkot.Farmers said last year, local labourers were charging Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per acre for paddy transplantation, but this year they were demanding Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,500. Many farmers have even hired rickshaw pullers to work as field labourers.
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Agri reforms anti-farmer, says Bajwa||Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Saturday said the recent amendments to the Agricultural Produce Markets Act were “anti-farmer” and instead served the interests of the corporates.  “The Centre is leaving farmers at the mercy of corporate houses. Punjab implemented agricultural reforms in the 1960s. Today, it contributes nearly one-third of wheat to the national pool,” he said. The Congress leader further said the successful wheat procurement during the Covid pandemic was an example of the successful implementation of the APMC (Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee) model keeping the focus on the welfare of farmers and not corporations’. — TNS
07-06-2020||---||CM sets up excise reforms group on illicit liquor trade||Chandigarh, June 6A day after he announced an SIT to probe the illicit liquor trade, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday constituted an excise reforms group to break the nexus among manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers.The five-member group has been asked to submit its recommendations on destroying the nexus within 60 days, paving the way for eliminating illicit liquor trade and maximising state’s excise revenue, a government spokesperson said.The group comprises Housing and Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla, retired IAS officer DS Kalha, Adviser (Financial Resources) VK Garg and Secretary (School Education) Krishan Kumar.It will work in coordination with the SIT, which has been tasked with investigating into all aspects of the illicit liquor trade, including complicity of Excise Department officials. The group will identify the gaps leading to revenue losses.The Chief Minister has mandated the group to come out with its suggestions on long-term legal and administrative reforms and consulting the matter with the stakeholders.In this process, the group may consider the suggestions or reports received from Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on his visit to West Bengal and the previous Local Government Minister.The spokesperson further said the Department of Excise and Taxation would provide information and other help to the group to facilitate its functioning.AAP: SIT on liquor mafia eyewashThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday said the three-member SIT, led by minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, was formed to divert people's attention from the illicit liquor trade. Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema dismissed it as a "Sarkaria clean chit" commission. "The SIT is a design to cover the government-sponsored liquor mafia. How can a minister be impartial in investigating the liquor mafia and large-scale peddling, allegedly being run by the Chief Minister, who holds the Excise Department?" he added. TNS
07-06-2020||---||With 2 more deaths, toll rises to 50 in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 6With two more deaths on Saturday, one each in Amritsar and Pathankot, the total number of casualties in the state has reached 50.The first victim, Rakesh Kumar, a 60-year old resident of Katra Sher Singh in Amritsar, was admitted to a private hospital. The health authorities said Kumar was shifted to Government Medical College on June 4 in a critical condition. He suffered cardiac arrest and could not be revived despite best efforts, said Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore. His son too has tested positive and is admitted to GMC.Story HighlightsThe second victim was identified as Ashwani Kumar, a 48-year-old, resident of Chak Madho Singh village, 7 km from Pathankot. “He reported at the local civil hospital on June 4 following a respiratory disorder. We referred him to Government Medical College, Amritsar, where he died late last evening. Before coming to the civil hospital, he got treatment for a private hospital,” said a health official.Besides, 54 fresh cases were reported today, taking the state’s count of positive patients to 2,515.As per the media bulletin, Amritsar district reported the maximum 26 cases, followed by Ludhiana (10), Pathankot (5), Fatehgarh Sahib (4), Faridkot and Mansa (2 each), and Bathinda, Moga, Fazilka, Barnala and SAS Nagar (1 each).Of the 26 new cases in Amritsar, 10 have influenza-like illness, who either reported at flu corner or were identified by health teams during its door-to-door survey in affected areas. Among the new cases included 13 contacts of positive cases and three persons who had tested positive at private labs.In Ludhiana district, the new patients include a 26-year-old pregnant woman from Kuldeep Nagar, Rahon Road, and a 12-year-old brother and 26-year-old mother of a patient from Ludhiana, who is undergoing treatment at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala.In addition to this, a 40-year-old woman of Prem Nagar, who had travelled to Rajasthan, has also tested positive.One 60-year-old cancer patient, who belongs to Amritsar, also found Covid positive.
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Centre releases Rs 2,866 cr GST compensation||Hit hard by the economic cost of a long Covid-induced lockdown, Punjab got some relief with the Union Government releasing Rs 2,866 crore to the state as GST compensation. The compensation has been given for the months of December 2019 and January and February this year, as compensation for the revenue losses incurred by the state because of the GST rollout. The Centre released the GST dues worth Rs 36,400 crore to the states and UTs on Thursday night, of which Punjab got Rs 2,866 crore. With the GST compensation being released and the state earning another Rs 750 crore as its rural development fund and market fee on the sale of wheat, the financial situation is much better this month. — TNS
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, vehicles can ply from 5 am to 9 pm||The state government has allowed all private (non-transport) and public service vehicles to operate from 5 am to 9 pm, except in containment zones declared by the competent authority subject to strict riders.  This was stated by Transport Minister Razia Sultana in a press communiqué today. She said vide notification issued earlier by the state government on May 31, all public service vehicles, including e-rickshaws, auto-rickshaws, maxi cab/ motor cab and private vehicles (non-transport), were prohibited from plying between 9 pm and 5 am up to June 30. She said now the government had decided to provide some relief to citizens so that they could commute and do their daily chores. She said the permission to ply public service vehicles had been granted with the condition that not more than 50 per cent of the seating capacity of the bus should be filled at any time during the journey in order to ensure adequate social distancing. — TNS
07-06-2020||Minna Zutshi||At home in Ludhiana, won’t go back, say migrants||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 6“Kaam band hai, badi mushkil se roti milti hai. Gaon mein bhi kuch nahi hai. Wahan jaa kar bhi kya karungi (There is no work, it is very difficult to arrange food. There is nothing in my village too. What will I do even if I return?” questions 60-year-old Savitri Devi.She and her husband left Bahraich district in Uttar Pradesh around 30 years ago and since then, Ludhiana is her home. She narrates her life story with little emotion — from her husband’s passing away to her young son-in-law’s accidental death. Now, the pandemic and lockdown has taken away her factory job, she says. She does feel hit by financial hardships. Yet, she is not bitter. Living with her young widowed daughter and grandchildren, Savitri manages to find her moments of joy even in tough times. Her face lits up when her 13-year-old granddaughter, Shivani, a class VII student, says she aspires to be a teacher. Savitri’s resilience promises to see her through these tough times and she reiterates, “Ludhiana hi rahenge hum toh (We will stay in Ludhiana only).”Another migrant Ram Avtar, hailing from Agra in Uttar Pradesh, too, is full of gratitude for Ludhiana, the place that transformed his life. “Seven years ago, I had nothing to eat. Now, I’m doing fine,” he says. Ram Avatar is a vegetable vendor and even during the lockdown, his sales have not dipped. He has been delivering vegetables to his customers at their doorstep.However, the lockdown did have an impact when his son, an autorickshaw driver, was left without work. But, his son then joined him in selling vegetables. “We earn between Rs 500 and Rs 700 daily,” says Ram Avatar. He has purchased a plot in Ludhiana and will build a house once his finances allow. His children have refused to relocate to UP.For the six-member migrant family of Parmila Devi, things looked bleak when her husband lost his job as a hosiery unit worker. Their four sons were at home as the schools were closed. No money was coming in and life seemed to have come to a standstill. But the family decided to stay put. As lockdown restrictions started easing, one of the sons, Sandeep, a class VIII student, worked on his idea selling snacks. With hosiery unit reopening, Parmila’s husband is now back at work. And the family is not at all regretting the decision to stay back in Ludhiana.
07-06-2020||GS Paul||Will accept Khalistan if govt offers: Takht||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 6Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh today raked up the issue of a separate Sikh state and justified pro-Khalistan slogans raised after the culmination of the Operation Bluestar anniversary event at the Golden Temple complex today.Amid tight security, the occasion was observed in a peaceful manner barring mild skirmishes between separatist Sikh groups and police personnel. After the programme, pro-Khalistan slogans were raised and saffron colour Khalistani flags waved outside the shrine.As per the precedence, Giani Harpreet Singh read out his customary public address from the podium of Akal Takht. In his speech, he emphasised that the Sikh community should unite by the stand taken by those who laid down their lives for the sake of Takht’s sanctity.After the programme, Giani Harpreet Singh reacted liberally when asked about the pro-Khalistan sloganeering. “There was no disruption during the programme. But after the event was over, if Sikh youths expressed their religious sentiments and raised such slogans, there was nothing wrong in that,” he said.When asked about his views on the demand for Khalistan, he said, “If the government offers us Khalistan, what else do we need? We will accept it.”SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, who was present on the occasion, found himself in an embarrassing situation when asked if the SGPC would put up the demand before the Union government. “If offered (Khalistan), we will accept it. Not a single Sikh could refuse this offer,” he said.Giani Harpreet Singh alleged that even after 36 years of Operation Bluestar, the Indian government had an “anti-Sikh approach”. He recommended that the Army action be scripted and compiled. He asked Longowal to constitute a panel of intellectuals and put on record the statements and interviews of those who bore the brunt of this attack. “This document should be published in many languages and widely distributed,” he said.Earlier, Akal Takht, the SGPC and the Damdami Taksal honoured the kin of those who were killed during the Army operation.Meanwhile, tight security arrangements were in place in the city in view of the Operation Bluestar anniversary. Even the media was not allowed entry inside the Golden Temple complex. For the first time, metal detectors were placed at the entrance to the shrine.Social distancing norm was, however, violated during the occasion. SAD (A) activists and the controversial 2015 Sarbat Khalsa-appointed “parallel” Jathedar Dhian Singh Mand and his supporters entered the complex after a minor scuffle and heated arguments. Mand read out his “public address” in the varandah of the Akal Takht secretariat.
07-06-2020||---||No prasad in shrines, SGPC takes exception||Amritsar, June 6The SGPC is unhappy with one of the new guidelines putting a ban on the distribution of prasad, food and langar in gurdwaras.With the state government allowing the reopening of religious places on June 8, it has issued some guidelines for shrine managements. Directions have also been issued on the maximum number of persons allowed inside shrines. The number should not exceed 20.Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC president, said: “We welcome the government’s move to reopen the shrines, but serving langar and prasad is part of the Sikh rehat maryada. Hence, the practice must continue. The government should review guideline as it will hurt the sentiments of Sikhs who prepare and serve food.”He further said utmost care and hygiene were being maintained in the kitchens of all gurdwaras, as per guidelines of the health authorities.About the restriction on the number of devotees in the sanctum sanctorum, he said elaborate arrangements were in place to follow social distancing norms.
07-06-2020||---||In major reshuffle, 9 IAS officers shifted||Chandigarh, June 6A major administrative reshuffle has been affected in Punjab today, with Vishwajit Khanna becoming the new Financial Commissioner, Revenue, relieving the state’s senior most IAS Officer KBS Sidhu.Khanna was the Financial Commissioner, Development, and has been hailed for the smooth procurement of wheat amid the Covid curfew. The charge of Financial Commissioner, Development, has been given to Anirudh Tewari, who was in charge of the Finance Department, and has just been promoted to the rank of Additional Chief Secretary.The administrative reshuffle set the rumour mills working overtime in corridors of power as it comes at the time when the new Chief Secretary is to be decided well before August. This week incumbent Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh has reportedly also applied for the post of Chairperson of the Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority.Sources in the government say that the reshuffle was on the cards for quite some time, but was held back after the pandemic broke out. It was earlier speculated that Tewari would be posted as the Financial Commissioner, Taxation, but following the controversy surrounding the excise policy because of the lockdown, an old hand in the Excise Department, A Venu Prasad was brought in at the last minute. Prasad also gets the charge of CMD, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, but his charge of Mines and Geology Department has been given to Sarvjit Singh.Among other officers transferred are KAP Sinha, who has been relieved from the charge of Principal Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies, and is now in charge of Finance Department. K Siva Prasad replaces him in the Food and Civil Supplies Department and Alok Shekhar gets Sinha’s additional charge of Parliamentary Affairs Department.
07-06-2020||
||SAD: Congress must introspect||Chandigarh June 6 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the traumatic events of 1984 symbolised “the anti-Sikh policies and decisions of the successive Congress regimes at the Centre and in Punjab”. In a statement here, the SAD president asked Sikh Congress leaders “to do some soul-searching and reflect on the sin of siding with a party, which was involved in the killings of innocent Sikhs”.
07-06-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Cops demand CBI record in 1991 abduction case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6The Punjab Police today filed an application in the Special CBI Court of Chandigarh, seeking documents of the preliminary inquiry conducted by the CBIin a nearly 29-year-old case of kidnapping of a former IAS officer’s son.In the application, the Punjab Police stated that the report of the preliminary inquiry conducted by the CBI in the case should be handed over to them as they had restarted investigation in the case.In reply, counsels for the CBI stated that the agency had registered the FIR in the case in 2008 on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and conducted a preliminary inquiry. However, the FIR was quashed by the Supreme Court on technical grounds in 2011.The counsels submitted that the agency keeps record of old cases for five years and destroys the same thereafter. The CBI had conducted preliminary probe into the case 12 years ago and collected information from various departments and as the FIR was quashed in 2011, the documents were returned to the departments concerned, submitted the CBI counsels. They also contended that the agency, at present, was not in possession of any record pertaining to the case.Now, the case will come up for hearing on Monday.The Mohali police had recently booked former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and seven other police personnel in the kidnapping case that took place in 1991.The case was registered on the complaint of Palwinder Singh Multani, son of late IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani, in Mohali. The complainant stated that his brother Balwant Singh Multani was unlawfully abducted, tortured and killed in the custody by Saini and the police personnel under his command in 1991.The case has been registered against former DGP Saini, DSP Baldev Singh, Sub-Inspectors Satbir Singh, Harsahai, Jagir Singh, Anoop Singh and Kuldeep Singh on charges of kidnapping or abduction in order to murder, causing disappearance of evidence, wrongful confinement, voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession and criminal conspiracy at the Mautaur police station in Mohali. While Baldev Singh retired as SP from Chandigarh Police, Satbir Singh who retired as DSP had passed away.Hearing tomorrow
07-06-2020||Saurabh Malik
||‘Convict not hardcore if acquitted in most cases’||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 6 The High Court has made it clear that a convict could not be considered a hardcore criminal once acquitted or given a clean chit in a substantial number of cases out of the total initially registered against him.  The assertion is significant as the state, more often than not, uses the “hardcore criminal” tag to oppose parole pleas after citing the total number of FIRs registered against a convict regardless of the cases he had been acquitted in. The benefit of parole cannot be, otherwise, granted to hardcore criminals in accordance with the settled provisions of law.  “This court is not inclined to regard the petitioner as a hardcore criminal, who ought to be denied the benefit of parole on the assertion that there is likelihood of his indulgence in more criminal activities, if so released, or absconding from the arms of law,” Justice Sudip Ahluwalia of the HC asserted in one such matter. The developments took place on a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by Kamaldip Singh through counsel Charanpal Singh Bagri. The Bench during the course of hearing was told about eight other FIR cases in which the petitioner was alleged to be involved. After hearing the arguments and going through the documents, Justice Ahluwalia asserted it transpired during the course of hearing that the petitioner had been acquitted in three of the cases, while one of the FIRs was cancelled. Another FIR was quashed by the HC. Apart from this, the petitioner was now facing trial in three other cases. Justice Ahluwalia added the petitioner had admittedly undergone imprisonment in excess of three years. Consequently, the impugned order rejecting the petitioner’s application for parole on the aforesaid grounds was untenable and was thereby set aside. Justice Ahluwalia granted the petitioner the liberty to apply afresh for his release on parole. The Bench added an appropriate order would then be passed by the competent authority within three weeks from the date the application was submitted.
07-06-2020||Moga||Betting racket busted, 1 held||The police on Saturday busted a gang involved in betting through pigeon racing at Bhagike village in Nihalsinghwala subdivision. The police have registered a criminal case under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty Animals Act, 1960, and arrested the kingpin, Gurpreet Singh of Bhagike. The police claimed that there were at least 67 participants involved in the illegal sport. Investigations revealed that the individuals participated in the event by paying Rs1,000 each.  When the cops raided the venue, most participants fled the spot, but the kingpin was arrested. — TNS
07-06-2020||Ludhiana||Man kills son, burns body||A man from Jagirpur killed his son Sudhir (22) after the latter refused to clean utensils. Later, he gathered some junk material, put his son’s body on it and set it afire. It was only when neighbours noticed smoke, they raised the alarm and called the police.  On reaching the spot, the police doused the flames and recovered Sudhir’s body, which was 60 per cent burnt. The accused had fled by then.  He has been identified as Rameshwar.  SHO, Tibba, Sukhdev Raj said the accused had lost his job due to the lockdown. His wife had gone to her parents’ house.  On Friday, Sudhir hit his father with a griddle after he refused to do the dishes. The father hit back. Rebuked, Sudhir went to his room. But Rameshwar followed him and hit him with a log of wood on his head; he died on the spot. — TNS
07-06-2020||---||Ex-minister slams Jathedar's remark||Jalandhar, june 6Reacting to Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh’s justification over the demand for Khalistan, former state BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia on Saturday said, “It does not behove of any person holding a responsible post to say something that can disturb the communal harmony of the state.”In a statement, he said, “The Jathedar has hurt the feelings of Punjabis. Sri Harmandir Sahib is a religious place which belongs to all. Both Sikhs and Hindus bow their heads with reverence. The state was able to defeat terrorism because of communal harmony.”
