07-08-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM suspends two cops for assaulting Sikh man||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan suspended an assistant sub-inspector and a head constable for assaulting Sikh who ran a small shop near a police post at Rajapur in Barwani district.The state government woke up to the incident after the Union Minister for Food Processing and Industries Harsimrat Kaur tweeted the video of the incident.A viral video of the incident shows Prem Singh being dragged by policemen in full public view and a cop pulling him by his hair. It also shows another policeman pushing a turbaned man, who comes to save Singh.State Congress chief Kamal Nath also tweeted on the matter, "In MP's Barwani, police beat up a Sikh man, Prem Singh Granthi, who runs a small shop close to police chowki and also removed his turban. Police also beat him up mercilessly pulling him by hair." Chouhan said in a tweet that assistant sub-inspector Sitaram Yadav and head constable Mohan Jamre have been suspended with immediate effect.Chouhan said, "Such barbarism and erratic behaviour won't be tolerated at any cost. The guilty will be punished for the misdeeds." Chouhan has also ordered a probe into the matter.The incident threatened to turn into an inter-state dispute with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal taking to Twitter to condemn the incident."Too shocking for words! The barbaric and humiliating attack on Giani Prem Singh Granthi & other Sikhs in Madhya Pradesh is utterly inhuman and unacceptable. I urge CM@ChouhanShivraj to set an example of punitive action against those who treat the sword of the nation with such contempt," Badal tweeted.Barwani district Superintendent of Police Nimish Agrawal said a probe by a sub-divisional police officer has been ordered into the incident, which took place on Thursday.Prem Singh said he runs a small shop close to the police 'chowki' and deals in old locks and keys. But Agrawal claimed Prem Singh was inebriated and created ruckus when he was asked to show his driving licence during a checking drive. — IANS
07-08-2020||---||Punjab Police arrest two key absconders in hooch tragedy; father-son duo identify 13 more suspects||Chandigarh, August 7Punjab Police on Friday arrested two of the key absconders in the hooch tragedy while adding murder charges to the FIRs against all kingpins in the case.“On the directives of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Section 302 of the IPC has been added to the FIRs against the kingpins, who are directly responsible for the death of 113 persons across three districts,” DGP Dinkar Gupta said.With the arrest of the father-son duo, Harjit Singh and Shamsher Singh, the total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 54 —37 in Tarn Taran, nine in Amritsar (Rural) and eight in Batala.Also read: Punjab hooch tragedy: Amarinder promises strict action, raises compensation to Rs 5 lakhHarjit Singh and Shamsher had also been booked on murder charges, apart from Kashmir Singh and Satnam Singh, said the DGP.In addition, two FIRs have been registered under section 216 of the IPC for harbouring the criminals involved in the case. Another 21 persons have been arrested in this connection.More than 887 raids have been conducted since July 31, when the first deaths in the case were reported, in the three affected districts (303 in Tarn Taran, 330 in Amritsar (Rural) and 254 in Batala).While Harjit was nabbed by Amritsar (Rural) police, which have registered one FIR, his son was apprehended by Tarn Taran police, which have booked three FIRs with a maximum of 84 deaths.Two FIRs have been registered in Batala, with 14 deaths. The coordinated raids that led to the arrest of the duo took place this morning.“The two accused have confirmed disclosure of Satnam (also the son of Harjit) that they had bought three drums of spurious liquor from Avtar Singh on July 27 at Pandori Gola “Harjit Singh paid Rs 15,000 to Avtar Singh around 15 days before the delivery when the deal was settled while another Rs 15,000 was paid to him on the day of the delivery. The duo has identified 13 more persons allegedly involved in the case and raids were being conducted to nab them,” the DGP said.
07-08-2020||---||Night curfew in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala from Saturday to check Covid-19 spread||Chandigarh, August 7Concerned over the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in the worst-affected cities of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala from Saturday while directing all big cities and towns to prepare an integrated management plan for treatment of the disease at both government and private facilities, a press release by the state government read.As cases in the state went up to 20,891, with 1,050 instances reported in one day on Thursday, the Chief Minister also announced a week-long trial of the enforcement of the mandatory mask-wearing rule by making offenders stand at the spot for an hour with a mask on.He was of the view that making the offenders sweat it out might help check the violations on this count, which had crossed 3.82 lakhs.Answering questions in his weekly #AskCaptain Live session on Facebook, which was advanced by a day to apprise the people about his visit today to the hooch tragedy affected Tarn Taran district, Captain Amarinder also appealed to the people to get themselves tested early and start treatment in a proper hospital, urging them not to rush to private tertiary care facility directly since good treatment was available in government hospitals.There were adequate testing facilities available in the state, he said, adding that four new testing labs would become operational on Monday.Delay in going for testing and treatment was the main cause for the increasing number of COVID deaths, he said while pointing out that with 26 persons succumbing to the virus on Thursday, the death toll in the state had gone up to 517.Expressing concern over the steady increase in COVID-19 infections and positivity in the state, which reported 8.50 per cent cases in the samples tested in the past one week, the Chief Minister said: “With the peak projected to come in Punjab by end of August or early September, one cannot be certain how high the peak of daily cases may go. Given the recent increase in cases in districts like Bathinda, Barnala, Ferozepur, we cannot afford to be complacent, he said, urging people to hold their nerve in these tough circumstances and fight the disease with strength and determination.”In response to a question, the Chief Minister directed an inquiry by the Vice Chancellor into the case of death of a non-COVID patient, Dr Parvinder, at GGS Medical College, Faridkot, as doctors refused to treat him till the file work was completed and the COVID test report came, even though he was suffering from low oxygen levels.Expressing his deepest sympathies with the deceased’s wife, Dr Neeta Pandhu from Abohar, he said this was not acceptable and the patient had to be attended first at all costs. Strict action will be taken against those found responsible, he added.In response to a question from a Tarn Taran resident regarding what the hooch tragedy affected families had told him during their meeting, the Chief Minister said they wanted strong action and punishment for the culprits. Though they did not demand it, he had announced financial help and had directed the DC to ensure that they got what they needed, in terms of even jobs and improving their houses, he added.“We will go beyond financial compensation for the families of the victims,” Captain Amarinder said. He reiterated his commitment to wiping out hooch problem from the state and said he had directed the DGP to crack down on the hooch smugglers.On long queues for payment of electricity bills, with no social distancing, the Chief Minister said he would issue instructions to the chairman of the electricity board to rectify the situation.On delay in issuance of heavy vehicle driving licence issuance/renewal in some districts, he said the delay was due to social-distancing norms but he would ask the department to find ways of expediting the process without compromising on the COVID-19 protocols.
07-08-2020||---||18 Punjab Police officials transferred||Chandigarh, August 7Punjab Police on Friday transferred 18 officers, mostly of the rank of Superintendent of Police, to various posts left vacant due to the last week’s reshuffle of 33 officers.Prominent among those reshuffled on Friday is former SSP, Bathinda, Nanak Singh. He has been posted as AIG-Intelligence, Punjab, against a vacant post.Also read: Punjab Govt orders police transfers, including 12 SSPsInterestingly, no officer of this rank from the hooch tragedy districts of Amritsar, Taran Taran and Pathankot has been posted out.The opposition parties have criticised police and excise officials for ignoring the illicit liquor trade till the hooch deaths took place.
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||In highest spike yet, Punjab reports 1,063 new cases in one day||Punjab saw 1,063 coronavirus positive cases and 23 deaths in the last 24 hours – the highest spike yet in the state’s COVID-19 cases – read the state’s health bulletin on Friday.The developments take the state’s COVID-19 tally to 21,930 with 539 deaths. This is Punjab’s second consecutive reporting of over 1,000 cases.Ludhiana reported nine of 23 coronavirus deaths and 296 new cases – the highest by any district both in terms of deaths and infections.Mohali reported the second highest number of infections in the state at 122. Mohali (SAS Nagar) and Jalandhar both reported over 70 cases each.  Besides Ludhiana, Amritsar (3), Fatehgarh Sahib (2), Jalandhar (3), Fazilka (1), Kapurthala (1), SBS Nagar (2), Patiala (1), Sangrur (1), and Fatehgarh Sahib (2) also reported COVID deaths on Friday.All 22 districts of Punjab reported new coronavirus cases, and, with the exception of Ferozepur, all reported infections in double digits.Amritsar (67), Sangrur (32), Hoshiarpur (11), Gurdaspur (53), Ferozepur (7), Pathankot (41), Tarn Tarann (29), Bathinda (49), Fatehgarh Sahib (26), Moga (14), SBS Nagar (11), Faridkot (19), Fazilka (16), Kapurthala (26), Ropar (32), Muktsar (13), Barnala (37) and Mansa (15) all reported new cases.   Eleven policemen, three troopers of the Border Security Force, six healthcare workers, seven jail inmates, and five frontline workers were among those who tested positive for coronavirus on Friday.District-wise break-up of Punjab’s cases thus stands as: Ludhiana (4,720), Jalandhar (2,907), Amritsar (2,185), Patiala (2,380), Sangrur (1,227), SAS Nagar (1,157), Hoshiarpur (607), Gurdaspur (794), Ferozepur (624), Pathankot (522), Tarn Taran (443), Bathinda (737), Fatehgarh Sahib (451), Moga (529), SBS Nagar (335), Faridkot (373), Fazilka (359), Kapurthala (382), Ropar (318), Muktsar (279), Barnala (421) and Mansa (180).Punjab has been reporting an alarming rise in coronavirus cases since the beginning of July, but this rise has been the sharpest yet this month. The state has reported 5,811 cases in the first week of August alone, as compared to 1,181 cases reported in the first week of July.Ludhiana in particular has been witnessing a significant rise in cases – the district has been reporting infections in triple digits since July 25 and its figures have swelled to twice of what it was a couple of weeks ago.More than a quarter of Punjab’s total COVID-19 cases are still active.
07-08-2020||Vibha Sharma||War over GI tag for MP Basmati: Shivraj Singh Chouhan complains to Sonia about Punjab CM||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 7Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, complaining about Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s attempts to “stall” GI tag for Madhya Pradesh Basmati. “It is with immense sadness that I wish to inform you that Chief Minister of Congress-ruled state, Punjab, Captain Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to ensure that the Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh is not given a GI tag in the interest of Punjab and other states,” Chouhan said in his letter to Gandhi.In the two-page letter Chouhan also accused the previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government in Madhya Pradesh of "playing with the sentiments of farmers in the state and not fulfilling the Assembly elections promise of loan waiver made by senior party leader Rahul Gandhi".“Why is your party so hostile towards Madhya Pradesh farmers,” Chouhan questioned a day after he “condemned” Amarinder Singh for writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding Madhya Pradesh's efforts to get the Geographical Indication tag for its Basmati rice. “I condemn the letter written to the Prime Minister by the Congress government of Punjab in the matter of GI tagging of Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh and consider it politically inspired,” Chouhan said on Thursday.Also read: Basmati GI tag war: MP CM ‘condemns’ Amarinder’s letter to PM Modi“I wish to question the Chief Minister of Punjab, Captain Amarinder Singh, as to what hostility he has with the farmers of Madhya Pradesh. It is not a matter of Madhya Pradesh or Punjab, it is a matter of farmers of the entire country and their livelihood,” he said.Referring to the historical connection of Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh, he had recently urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to grant a GI status to the state’s Basmati rice “to encourage farmers and Basmati rice based industries”.In his letter to the PM, Amarinder Singh said this would affect the interests of Punjab and other states whose Basmati rice already has a GI tag.However, according to Chouhan, “Basmati is being produced in 13 districts of Madhya Pradesh since the year 1908. It has been registered in history. Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh is considered very tasty and is famous both in the country and abroad for its flavours and fragrance.”“The IIRR, Hyderabad, and other specialist institutions have confirmed reports in connection with the traditional cultivation of Basmati in Madhya Pradesh,” Chouhan mentioned.A GI tag is an indication used on products that have a specific geographical origin and possess qualities or a reputation that are due to the origin.The tag conveys an assurance of quality and distinctiveness and plays a major role in trade, improving its prospects. Geographical indications are typically used for agricultural products, foodstuffs, wine and spirit drinks, handicrafts and industrial products.
07-08-2020||Kottayam (Kerala)||Nun rape case: Bishop Franco Mulakkal granted bail by trial court||A trial court here on Friday granted bail to Bishop Franco Mulakkal, accused of raping a nun in Kerala, with stringent conditions and directed him to be present on the dates of hearing of the case.The Additional Sessions Court had cancelled the bail granted to the Bishop on July 13 for failing to appear for the trial and issued a non-bailable warrant against him.Mulakkal was present in the court on Friday when it considered the matter.Granting bail, the court directed him not to leave the state till the charge-sheet is read out to him on August 13 and to be present court on the dates of hearing of the case.The court also directed him to offer fresh sureties and bail bonds.On July 13, Mulakkal’s counsel had informed the court that his client could not appear as he had been in self-quarantine due to his primary contact with a COVID-19 infected person.The next day, the former Jalandhar Bishop had tested positive for coronavirus.The prosecution informed the court that Mulakkal had not produced the COVID negative certificate, to which the court observed that the state Health Department can take necessary action on this issue.The Supreme Court on Wednesday had directed Mulakkal to face trial as it dismissed his plea seeking discharge in the rape case lodged against him by the nun belonging to a congregation under Jalandhar diocese, saying there was no merit in his petition.A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde, AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, had told the counsel for Bishop that the court was not saying anything on merit but was dismissing the plea on the issue of discharge from the case.Mulakkal, in his plea, had challenged the July 7 Kerala High Court order, dismissing his discharge plea in the rape case filed by the nun.The High Court had asked the deposed Bishop of Jalandhar diocese to stand for trial in the rape case, which was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the nun.The senior priest of the Roman Catholic Church had filed the revision petition following the dismissal of his discharge plea by a trial court in March this year.The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district.In her complaint to the police in June 2018, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by the bishop during the period between 2014 and 2016.The bishop, who was arrested by the Special Investigation Team, which probed the case, charged him with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation. PTI
07-08-2020||Vijay Mohan||Water in key dams lower than normal, monsoon too slips into negative||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7While the level of water in key dams in north India has remained below normal through the summer, the monsoon in the region has also slipped below the long-period average.The storage level in reservoirs in Himachal Pradesh is 13 per cent below the 10-year average while in Punjab, it is 24 per cent below the average, data released by the Central Water Commission (CWC) on August 6 reveals.Rains in the first week of August have been seriously deficient in all three states.The water level recorded at Bhakra Dam, that lies on the Sutlej in Himachal, was 495.32 meters against the full reservoir level of 512.06 meters. This translates to the current storage being 52 per cent of its total capacity. This figure was 75 per cent for this time last year and 61 per cent for the past 10-year average.At Pong Dam, that lies on the Beas in Himachal, the water level was 408.93 meters against the maximum of 423.67 meters. The current storage in the reservoir is 44 per cent against last year’s 49 per cent and the past 10-year average of 51 per cent.The CWC data shows that the water level at Thein Dam on the Ravi in Punjab was 508.99 meters against the top level of 527.91 meters, implying that the current water availability is 45 per cent of its total capacity. Availability was 64 per cent at this time last year while average availability for the past 10 years was 60 per cent.As far as monsoon this year is concerned, rains in Punjab and Haryana remained above the long-period average through June and July before slipping below par in August. In Himachal, monsoon remained deficient all through.According to the data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the period August 1 to August 7, rains were deficient by 73 per cent in Haryana and by 70 per cent and 62 per cent in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, respectively.Some areas in these states received varying amounts of rain, with Mewat in Haryana being the only district in these states to receive surplus rain.During the first week of August, Haryana received 11.2 mm rain against the normal of 42.1 mm while Punjab received 14.4 mm against the normal of 47.5 mm. Himachal received 25.5 mm rain against the normal of 67.5 mm.For the cumulative rainfall received during the entire season from June 1 till date, Himachal has shown a deficiency of 33 per cent. In Punjab and Haryana, rains have been below the long-period average by nine per cent and eight per cent, respectively, for the season.
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia detained by Chandigarh Police for protesting against Punjab govt||Senior Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia, along with SAD workers, were detained on Friday by Chandigarh police after they staged a protest near Punjab Raj Bhawan, demanding the dismissal of Punjab government over Hooch tragedy.The protestors were rounded up at Chandigarh's Sector 3, police station."A list of the protestors will be made, and further action will be taken," said a police official. Also read: Punjab Hooch tragedy: Amarinder ensures strict action, raises compensation to Rs 5 lakhMajithia's Facebook post claimed that "the Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh met the Hooch tragedy victims' families for 10 minutes, which showed that Captain's government is not bothered about them"."The Congress may back down from its responsibility towards the people, but the SAD will keep fighting to the last to get justice for these victims", read Majithia's post.Sharing a live post on Facebook, Majitia wrote in Punjabi: "ਮੁੱਖ ਮੰਤਰੀ ਵੱਲੋਂ ਨਕਲੀ ਸ਼ਰਾਬ ਦੁਖਾਂਤ ਦੇ ਪੀੜਤਾਂ ਨਾਲ 10 ਮਿੰਟ ਦੀ ਮਿਲਣੀ, ਇਹ ਸਪੱਸ਼ਟ ਕਰਦੀ ਹੈ ਕਿ ਕੈਪਟਨ ਸਰਕਾਰ ਨੂੰ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਦੇ ਲੋਕਾਂ ਪ੍ਰਤੀ ਕੋਈ ਹਮਦਰਦੀ ਨਹੀਂ ਹੈ। ਕਾਂਗਰਸ ਚਾਹੇ ਲੋਕਾਂ ਪ੍ਰਤੀ ਬਣਦੀ ਜ਼ਿੰਮੇਵਾਰੀ ਤੋੰ ਪਿੱਛੇ ਹੱਟਦੀ ਰਹੇ, ਪਰ ਸ਼੍ਰੋਮਣੀ ਅਕਾਲੀ ਦਲ 'ਜਾਅਲੀ ਸ਼ਰਾਬ ਘਟਨਾਕ੍ਰਮ' ਦੇ ਪੀੜਤਾਂ ਨੂੰ ਨਿਆਂ ਦਿਵਾਉਣ ਲਈ ਅਖ਼ੀਰ ਤੱਕ ਲੜਦਾ ਰਹੇਗਾ। #HoochTragedy #Protest Shiromani Akali Dal."
07-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Punjab hooch tragedy: Amarinder promises strict action, raises compensation to Rs 5 lakh||Terming Punjab’s hooch tragedy as nothing short of ‘katal’ (mass murder), Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday has assured the victims' families, that a case would be registered against those who "knowingly took so many lives for making a quick buck."During his meet with the victims' families at Taran Taran, the Chief Minister increased the compensation from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh each.He added that those who survived after consuming the poisonous alcohol but lost their eye-sight would also be given the equal ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh.Keeping the social distancing factor in consideration, the victim's families were made to sit a distance.The Chief Minister was accompanied by Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar and Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, besides MP Khadoor Sahib JS Dimpa and MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki.However, several family members later resented, that they could share their point of view before the Chief Minister due to the restriction of getting a close interaction.Some of them were included to appraise the Chief Minister directly, about how this well-oiled cheap liquor trade prospered in connivance with the police and administrative machinery.The Chief Minister, during a brief halt near the media gallery, was questioned about the name of a Congress MLA’s PA surfaced in the tragedy, but he whiled it away by saying, "how can one conclude on something before the investigation. We will depute special prosecutors on job to ensure a time-bound fast-track of this tragedy and exemplary punishment to the accused, who so ever they maybe".Also read: SAD leader Bikramjit Singh Majithia leading protest march over Hooch tragedy detained near Punjab Raj BhawanBesides the two special investigation teams, the magisterial probe is with Jalandhar division Commissioner, Raj Kamal Choudhry, meeting with concerned officials.He had also observed that such a "sorrow upheaval" was unheard of in Punjab, which had happened due to "incompetency and lapses" in monitoring by the police and excise departments—who were directly associated with the subject.The death toll stood at 121 in Majha region while 92 reported from Taran Taran, followed by 41 in Amritsar and 15 in Batala.Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee Chief Sunil Jakhar also stressed that those who were nabbed were just 'bichhu' (scorpions) whereas the 'magarmuchh' (crocodiles) were still enjoying immunity."Those who shelter them must be taken to task and those who were negligent in performing their duties must also be liable to face stern action because it was not 'normal' negligence but 'criminal' negligence", he said.Nonetheless, doling out incentives for the victims’ families, CM has assured jobs for next of kin according to the age and qualification, houses for those living in kutcha houses, besides putting all of them under government’s regular health and pension schemes. He added that the case would at least be registered under section 302.Met families of victims of spurious liquor tragedy in Tarn Taran. Have assured that no guilty person will be spared & that we will appoint Spl Public Prosecutors for swift prosecution. Have also announced increase of financial assistance to the families from Rs. 2 lakh to 5 lakh. pic.twitter.com/pjgmvxg3UU  SAD workers prevented to meet Punjab Chief Minister:While Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh was scheduled to meet the family members of Hooch tragedy victims at Guru Arjan Dev Stadium, the SAD workers led by SAD’s senior leaders, Virsa Singh Valtoha and Harminder Singh Sandhu, faced police's wrath as they tried to approach the venue.They were held up half a km away from the venue.Virsa Singh Valtoha claimed that they wanted to meet the CM, demanding to take action against a Congress MLA and his PA whose names were allegedly being pinpointed by the victims’ families, repeatedly, for prospering spurious liquor trade in Pandori Gola area, falling under his constituency."We were cane charged by the police, four of our workers injured”, said Valtoha.
07-08-2020||MOST colleges and educational institutions in the city have begun online admissions for the 2020-2021 academic session and the most challenging task before them is to put in place infrastructure to ensure smooth transition of classroom teaching to digital mode. Colleges are banking on the UGC guidelines to ease syllabus burden on students and streamline digital teaching mode. The historic Khalsa College||‘Switch to digital teaching is not easy, but inevitable now’||What are the challenges that the institution has been facing after reopening?Like many other institutions, the biggest challenge we have been facing is switching over to digital mode of teaching. With 18 educational institutions running under the aegis of the Khalsa College Governing Council, it isn’t an easy task to streamline digital and web-based mode of teaching during the lockdown. The change was equally difficult for our students, especially those who hail from Jammu and Kashmir. Initially, we faced roadblocks such as poor net connectivity and lack of skilled faculty to make use of digital teaching tools.How has the response to online admission process been?The student intake has been fairly well, better than what we had initially expected. On an average, we have got 1,100 new students. We have also given leverage to students seeking entry to test-based courses by offering admissions on the basis of Class X and Class XII marks. We plan to start the new session from August 17 but initially, there would be limited classes. We want at least 30 per cent student occupancy before commencing the new session.How have you prepared to shift to digital classrooms for the new session until colleges reopen?We have signed a lifetime accreditation with Google G Suite, which is the best web-based application being used by universities and colleges across the world. We have also conducted a special training workshop for our faculty by international experts. The college has laid lease lines across the campus connecting our 23 departments with Wi-Fi and the Internet. We will set up an independent IT cell for smooth conduct of digital classes.What is your opinion on the shift to digital education amid complications and apprehensions about e-learning?Digital teaching was already in place at various prominent universities overseas and our students who pursued higher education at foreign universities found it tough to adapt to the system. The Covid-19 pandemic has given us an opportunity to bridge the gap between our students and pupils of developed countries. Change is never easy, but inevitable. Digital teaching is going to become an important part of the education sector in future. For students, it’s a life saver as you get access to education while sitting at home and saving a lot of expenses. For teachers, it increases accountability and efficiency.What will be the implications of the shift to digital teaching on recruitment of teachers?The shift towards technology-driven teaching would definitely have an impact on recruitment of ad-hoc staff as colleges would have to reduce the staff strength.Apart from academics, cultural activities and sports activities of the college form an important part of the education system. How does the college plan to conduct extra-curricular activities?Our cultural societies will continue functioning as before and most of our youth festivals and events are conducted after November. We have a sports ground spread over 20 acres and training and coaching of our sports students will continue in according with the social distancing norms and other safety protocols. We were the first college to instal sanitisation tunnel at our campus.Have you given any special concessions in fee to needy students in the wake of Covid-induced economic crisis?We offer 63 stipends to over 500 students. We have tied up with the US-based Khalsa Global Reach Foundation, a group that comprises some of alumni among its members and supports the education of needy girls. The foundation has donated five lakh for the purpose. We also allow students to submit fee instalments without any extra charge. Our volunteer donations support students from economically-weaker sections in academics as well as extra-curricular activities.
07-08-2020||Neha Saini||Hope the only word for IELTS, immigration biz||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, August 6The impact of the global pandemic on immigration and overseas education sector has been devastating. With several dreams of studying abroad either shattered or delayed because of suspension or hold-up in visa processing and grants by countries, the immigration service providers and students are thrown in a conundrum and without any clarity.With the waiting period for reopening of IELTS coaching centres and immigration service providers extending on, the situation is turning grimmer, feel industry insiders. “60% of immigration industry in the state has been pushed towards the brink of shutting down due to the Covid-induced lockdown. The related industry including the IELTS coaching centres are bearing the maximum brunt. Though, several countries have started visa processing with conditions, the current situation makes it tough to survive,” says Amit Sharma, a recognised immigration consultant from city.It’s a well-known fact that Punjab is a market with a high number of local immigration service providers. With the average intake of students migrating to countries like Canada, US, UK, Australia and New Zealand nosediving due to pandemic, the sector seems cornered.“Except for Australia and UK, no other country popular for immigration in Punjab, is granting visa. The visa processing for students who had already applied or were studying in the particular country, are being offered with conditions. So, it is going to be a challenge to survive,” tells Amit.Vinod Sharma, director, Kiwi Studies and an immigration consultant, shares that the surplus capital and reserves are only a temporary solution. “New Zealand recently announced that they will be suspending visa services for three months.Other countries too do not present a very hopeful picture. In such a case, the immigration providers are surviving through surplus capital and no scope of revenue generation at least for few more months.” He says that almost 25,000 research and PhD scholars are waiting for their visa.Change in trend beckoningDespite the challenges, Amit feels that the situation will improve soon. Though, the number of students applying for foreign universities is on the way down, the ones already in process are being provided support from the country-specific immigration bodies. “Most foreign universities are sending offer letters, urging students to attend the initial semesters online, without affecting the student’s studying rights in that country,” he says. This is a big respite to students who will be saving big on cost of living expenditures they were bearing. Also, it will prepare them easily for the transition to online education popularly followed in foreign universities.He is greatly optimistic of industry’s chances of gathering steam once the visa processing reopens. “Students are eager to migrate. Countries that get maximum applications from students from Punjab are already offering alternatives,” he shares. Australia is another country eager to process visa for students. “With no Chinese students coming in due to Covid-19, the biggest market for them is India. So, it will be a good time to apply for visas once the process starts and it will be easy to get approval,” he adds.Vinod’s thoughts on the topic are also alike. “The universities in New Zealand alone lost $400 billion of revenues due to lack of foreign students during the first quarter. With such high stakes, foreign universities will be eager to offer relaxations and support to students once the process begins again,” he says.No word on coaching centresThe government has announced the reopening of gyms and shopping malls, but the IELTS coaching centres are lying shut as the immigration industry awaits the call. “Since March, we are closed down and no assurance has been given to us about reopening. The government has announced the reopening of gyms and shopping malls, but there has been no word on opening of the centres. Immigration industry is one of the major sectors in Punjab,” bemoans Rajan Sikri, who runs Manitoba IELTS coaching and training institute here. She adds: “If this continues, many coaching centres might have to shut shop.”
07-08-2020||The city has a number of historic buildings related to the Guru period (1469-1708)||Rich legacy of Amritsar going down in ruins...lack of vision to blame?||Chitra CinemaChitra Cinema is one of the oldest cinema halls in the state. The cinema was constructed by Mahna Singh Nagi (Ramgaria) in 1909. Mahna Singh was a native of Lullan village, near Jandiala Guru. Its construction was completed in 1915. Initially, the name of the cinema was Crown Cinema Sardar Mahna Singh Theatrical Hall. Residents used to call it Mahna Singh Da Mandua. Mandua is a Punjabi name for theatre. This over-a-century-old building, lying abandoned, attracts heritage lovers from all over. People want that it should be preserved.Town Hall buildingThe British-era building, which was the Amritsar municipality office for years, is being converted into a food street now. A portion of the late 19th-century building was given to the Partition Museum in 2015. The structure is being changed for the food street now. Victoria Jubilee HospitalThe Punjab Government restored and revamped the abandoned 127-year-old colonial building of Victoria Jubilee Hospital, now Urban Hatt, in consultation with the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, to attract tourists to taste Amritsar’s cuisine in 2016. But it was non-operational since restoration. Now, the building is being converted into a hotel by a private firm. Ram Bagh DeorhiThe MC had renovated the 200-year-old Ram Bagh Deorhi of Maharaja Ranjit Singh under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) scheme in 2019. It was adjoining the Ram Bagh Gate, which was demolished during the British rule in 1860. As per the oral history, Maharaja Ranjit Singh used to sit here to hear grievances of people. The government converted it into a folk museum and exhibited local trade, cultural and folk instruments and goods, but the MC failed to make it functional. Despite being renovated, the building has started deteriorating again. Summer Palace Deorhi at Company GardenThe around 200-year-old building of Maharaja Ranjit Singh-era, known as the entrance (deorhi), is situated on the backside of the Summer Palace in Rambagh. A portion of the building collapsed in March this year. The historic deorhi is in a deplorable condition since long and crying for attention. Earlier, the deorhi was under possession of Service Club, but they handed it over to the MC a few years ago. Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit SinghThe Summer Palace of legendary Sikh King Maharaja Ranjit Singh was built in 1819. It is under renovation for the past 13 years, but is still incomplete. The Maharaja used to stay here during his visit to the Golden Temple. It has been out of bounds for tourists for years owing to its prolonged conservation work. Started in 2007, the conservation work is still not over.
07-08-2020||---||17 positive women give birth at Amritsar's GMC||Amritsar, August 6Sharing good news amid the pandemic, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal on Thursday said 17 pregnant Covid-19 women had given birth to healthy babies at Guru Nanak Dev Medical College and Hospital.Aggarwal visited the hospital on Thursday to take stock of security and safety arrangements and chaired a meeting of officials of the Department of Medical Education and Research. He said the newborns were kept under intense observation of the staff to ensure that they do not contract the infection.“To ensure the safety of pregnant women, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has also imparted special training to gynaecologists to conduct telemedicine counselling of pregnant women. Besides, separate labor rooms have been set up at all district hospitals for Covid- 19 positive pregnant women,” he said.The Covid guidelines have made Covid-19 testing mandatory during the third trimester of pregnancy. Under this, 12,479 pregnant women were tested for Covid-19 in the state from April to June, of whom 118 tested positive. ADC Aggarwal said the administration was working to provide best health facilities to pregnant women. “Maternal and child health care services at the hospital were running smoothly and our health staff are providing best birth and ante-natal facilities to the pregnant women,” he said.
07-08-2020||Amritsar||Punjab liquor death probe begins, report in 3 weeks||A day after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh ordered the formation of two special investigation teams to probe the Majha spurious liquor tragedy that claimed over 100 lives, Divisional Commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhry today commenced a parallel magisterial probe into the case.At a meeting with senior administrative, police and excise officials of Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala districts, Chaudhry sought details on modes used to ferry industrial spirit from distilleries and to which all places it was supplied.He observed that police and excise officials failed to perform their duty satisfactorily. The Health Department officials were also called for the meeting to ascertain the reasons for the delay in preparation of viscera reports.The police officials were told to furnish a detailed report on the investigations, recoveries, arrest of bootleggers, FIRs lodged and the statements of victims and witnesses. He also demanded a list of the excise officials deputed in these areas over the past two years and the production and ownership minutes of the distilleries.The Divisional Commissioner sought information on what steps the three police districts had taken after the government launched a crackdown on illicit liquor trade in May.
07-08-2020||---||Expel MPs Partap Bajwa, Shamsher Dullo, demand Punjab Cabinet ministers||Chandigarh, August 6Two days after PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar sought strict action against party MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, the entire state cabinet on Thursday demanded the duo’s immediate expulsion for “anti-party” activities.Jakhar today met CM Capt Amarinder Singh to discuss the matter. The actions of the two Rajya Sabha MPs call for immediate and strict action against them by the party high command, said the ministers, seeking their dismissal for attacking their own government in the state over the spurious liquor tragedy.The ministers, in a joint statement, called for the whip to be immediately cracked on the two MPs without any laxity or delay. Indiscipline could not be tolerated at any time, least of all when the state Assembly elections were less than two years way, they said, pointing to the MPs’ repeated attacks on the state government, including the CM.The ministers said the two MPs had never bothered to raise any issue in the Rajya Sabha that concerned the interests of the state.The ministers said by bypassing all party and government forums to protest against the government handling of the liquor tragedy and to approach the Governor for CBI and ED inquiries, the two MPs had not only attacked the very basis of democratic governance but had also sought to undermine the Punjab Police, which were effectively cracking down on the liquor mafia.Meanwhile, Punjab affairs incharge and AICC general secretary Asha Kumari today met the CM and the PPCC chief. She has been tasked by the party high command to inquire into the matter, it is learnt.She said she was waiting for a report from the PPCC president. “Since the MPs come under the purview of the AICC, I can only submit my report to the party high command,” she said.Reacting to the ministers’ demand, Bajwa and Dullo said if the performance of the party could not be criticised even if the government was working against the interest of the public, then it was against the principles of democracy.
07-08-2020||
||SAD-BJP leaders meet Governor, demand probe by CBI, ED||Chandigarh, August 6 A SAD-BJP delegation today urged Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore to dismiss the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government and recommend an inquiry by a sitting judge of the High Court or the CBI into the spurious liquor tragedy, besides an Enforcement Directorate probe to recover the “ill-gotten wealth acquired by Congress leaders from illicit liquor trade”. The delegation, which was led by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and BJP state president Ashwani Sharma, also urged the Governor to order the confiscation of properties of all those involved in the smuggling of denatured spirit and extra neutral alcohol (ENA) from distilleries. It demanded that murder cases be registered against all those named by the victim families. It also urged that all 118 victim families as well as those who were severely affected be rehabilitated. The leaders were accompanied by a victim family. They handed over a memorandum to the Governor and alleged that the liquor tragedy was the direct result of state patronage and this was why people across three districts of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur were affected by the same lot of contaminated liquor.
07-08-2020||---||Spurious liquor: Ambala transporter who ‘supplied’ raw material held||Amritsar, August 6The Tarn Taran police have nabbed a transporter, Anil Kumar, from Ambala for allegedly supplying extra neutral alcohol (ENA) to Sukhwinder Singh alias Shinder of Toor village, who further supplied it to different parts of Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala.Though Sukhwinder was still at large, his driver Sukhdayal Singh was nabbed and led the police to Anil.“Anil was an associate of Partap Singh Virk, who was held in May with 50,000 litres of ENA, also known as spirit, from Zirakpur. Anil, a driver earlier, now owns around five trucks. He allegedly used to pilfer spirit from tankers ferrying ENA to distilleries and supply it to Sukhwinder,” said Dhruman Nimblay, SSP, Tarn Taran.His interrogation was on and more names were likely to crop up, the SSP stated.While the Amritsar (rural) police have tracked the source of methyl alcohol that led to the high number of deaths in the three districts, the Tarn Taran police have been probing three channels through which the ENA was smuggled into the border districts.One channel was through Ludhiana-based paint store proprietor Rajeev Joshi, who had sold three drums of methyal alcohol to Ravinder Singh of Moga, who further sold it to Avtar Singh, also of Moga. He then supplied the same to Satnam Singh of Pandori Golan and his brother Shamsher Singh alias Shera. Shera is still absconding. Satnam Singh, who was arrested by the Amritsar (rural) police along with Rajeev, Ravinder and Avtar, had sold methyl alcohol to Gobinder and Mithu.Investigating the tragedy that claimed over 110 lives in three districts, the police are also exploring another network, allegedly run by Rashpal Singh and his brother Gurpal Singh of Dhotian village. While Gurpal was nabbed by the Phillaur police last month, Rashpal, who also runs a dera in Tarn Taran, was still absconding. He had also procured ENA from Partap Singh Virk and further sold it to Satnam’s uncle Kashmir Singh.CM to visit Tarn Taran todayChandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh along with PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, Chief Principal Secretary Suresh Kumar and DGP Dinkar Gupta would be visiting Tarn Taran to meet the families of victims on Friday. Sources said he was likely to announce enhanced compensation for the affected families. Jakhar urged the Chief Minister to ensure exemplary action against the conspirators, financiers, patrons and officers involved in spurious liquor tragedy. TNS
07-08-2020||---||Crackdown continues, 1,489 FIRs, 1,034 arrests in a week||Chandigarh, August 6With 197 new cases and 135 more arrests in the past 24 hours, the police have busted several modules as part of the statewide crackdown on liquor mafia, while further tightening the noose around suspects in the spurious liquor tragedy case.A total of 284 drums of methanol were seized from the Millar Ganj (Ludhiana) shop/godown of the key accused, Rajiv Joshi, who had sold the three drums that had triggered the chain of deaths in three districts.DGP Dinkar Gupta said while investigations into the tragedy were continuing, the police continued with coordinated raids across districts on the orders of the Chief Minister. The last 24 hours saw the recovery of 1,528 litres of illicit liquor, 7,450 kg of lahan and 962 litres of smuggled liquor in raids at various locations, he said, adding that 11 working stills were also recovered in 197 cases registered since yesterday.Since the raids started in the wake of the tragedy, a total of 1,489 FIRs had been registered and 1,034 persons had been arrested, said Gupta.A total of 29,422 litres of illicit liquor, 5,82,406 kg of lahan, along with 20,960 litres of alcohol/spirits, had been seized and 73 working stills recovered in the statewide raids.
07-08-2020||Moga||Five summoned by Moga court in alcohol smuggling scam||The Moga police had tried to protect the five main accused in the infamous multi-million scam of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) smuggling, unearthed in the district in 2017.However, while exercising its powers under Section 190 of the CrPC and rejecting the police investigation report, a judicial court in Moga has summoned the accused, the hearing of which has been fixed for August 21. The accused are Baljinder Kashyap, a resident of Mohali; Sunil Nagpal a resident of Ambala; and Rakesh Kumar, Sandeep Kumar and Narinder Kumar, all residents of Dharamkot, Moga. During the course of investigations, the investigating officer of the case ‘discharged’ the accused from the allegations and accordingly no chargesheet was filed against them. — TNS
07-08-2020||Manpreet Badal||‘Empower states to revive economy’||Over the years, the Reserve Bank of India has treated a 4 per cent inflation rate as something of a holy grail. Anything above that, and the central bank becomes uncomfortable and responds with a rate hike. Therefore, the decision, as articulated by RBI Governor Shakti Kanta Das, that the Monetary Policy Committee has decided to leave both the repo as well as the reverse repo rates unchanged, does come across as a surprise.But scratch the surface, and one will realise RBI’s decision is more based on optimism and less on economic rationale. An inflation rate of almost 6.10 per cent should have necessitated some interest rate adjustment, but the RBI has dismissed this inflation as supply chain glitches.Even if one assumes that the situation will improve with the opening of the economy, one can’t foresee the inflation rate coming down below 5.5 per cent for rest of this calendar year. This inflation rate actually is a pointer to an inconvenient truth that the Centre has been trying to ignore for a long time i.e. India is headed towards a stagflation period, of such seriousness that we haven’t witnessed in several decades. With an inflation rate in excess of 6 per cent, a GDP which is contracting by a minimum 8 per cent (some credible estimates put it even higher) and a dearth of demand, the economy has all the signs of stagnation plus inflation. Even the venerable RBI Governor admitted to a contraction in the economy, but was reticent about rate of decline.To bring about a meaningful turnaround in economy, Modi government will have to trust states and be large-hearted in empowering them to take their decisions. A lockdown that was introduced without any discussion with states has crippled states’ taxation revenues and the centre’s recent notice that GST reimbursement may not be what was promised, further imperils states’ prospects.One hopes that the Centre understands this and comes out with a savior plan based on cash transfers to citizens and economic packages for states.(The writer is the Finance Minister of Punjab)
07-08-2020||---||Expedite disposal of acid attack case: High Court to trial court||Chandigarh, August 6Victim went for his duesJustice Anil Kshetarpal’s request to the trial court came while turning down the bail application of the accused, who had allegedly poured acid on his employee when he went to him for his dues.This was second petition for bail pending trial in an FIR dated January 25, 2019, registered for voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means under Section 326 of the IPCMore than a year after an accused in an acid attack case was directed to be taken into custody, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the trial court to make a sincere endeavour for expeditious disposal of the case.Justice Anil Kshetarpal’s request to the trial court came while turning down the bail application of the accused, who had allegedly poured acid on his employee when he went to him for his dues. The victim had lost both his eyes in the alleged attack.“As per the case of the prosecution, when the injured went to the petitioner to demand his dues, he poured acid resulting in severe burn injuries. The petitioner is an influential person and the police did not even register an FIR, although he is alleged to have committed a serious crime,” Justice Kshetarpal added.This was second petition for the bail pending trial in an FIR dated January 25, 2019, registered for voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means under Section 326 of the IPC at Sadar Dhuri police station in Sangrur district.The prosecution’s case was the injured was working as a conductor-cum-driver of a truck owned by the petitioner. He went to the petitioner’s house on July 22, 2011, at around 8:30 pm to settle his accounts and receive salary.When he knocked at the door of the petitioner’s house, he did not open the door immediately and asked the complainant to wait outside for two minutes. The petitioner, thereafter, went to the roof of his house and poured acid on the first informant.
07-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Despite order, no wheat stocked at Sangrur site||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 6A judicial officer has been running from pillar to post for the restart of a plinth to store wheat at his ancestral land despite allotment of 10,832 MT wheat from Pungrain.Despite an order by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the administration is not helping him as residents of surrounding areas are opposing wheat storage at the plinth, saying it would create problems for them. “We will not allow a plinth here as it will create serious problems for us. We have met all senior officials and informed them that the plinth should not be allowed to function here,” said Vicky, a resident of Ubhawal Road near the railway crossing.But the officer alleged that various government purchase agencies like the FCI and Markfed had been using his land as the plinth to store foodgrain since 1982. He also alleged that the plinth was closed in 2009 after area residents started releasing sewage in his land.“In Sangrur, purchase agencies are short of space to store wheat. Now, senior officials are not helping me despite orders by a local court and the HC,” the officer alleged, while showing his papers. The deadline to complete the storage of wheat at the plinth is August 13.“On July 31, the HC had directed all senior officials of Sangrur to complete the storage of wheat till August 13. But till date, not a single bag has been moved to the plinth from godowns,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said the duty magistrate, who was posted to ensure the storage of wheat on Ubhawal Road, was in an isolation ward after he tested Covid-positive. “We are trying to make alternative arrangements” he said.
07-08-2020||
||War of words between Punjab Youth Congress chief, CM’s OSD||Chandigarh, August 6 A high drama was witnessed at the Sector-2 residence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, when the president of the Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) Barinder Dhillon staged a dharna late on Wednesday evening. Dhillon is reported to have a heated argument with Secretary-cum-OSD to the Chief Minister MP Singh over certain issues. Sources said the PYC chief wanted to meet the OSD regarding certain official matters pertaining to his Ropar constituency, but the latter was not meeting him due to Covid-19 restrictions after 15 paramilitary personnel deployed at the CM’s residence had tested positive.  After the issue reached the office of the Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, Secretary (political) Sandeep Sandhu and Faridkot MLA Kikki Dhillon were sent to the CM residence to calm down the PYC chief. While the Secretary-cum-OSD did not respond to call, the Dhillon said the matter had been sorted out and was being blown out of proportion by certain persons.
07-08-2020||---||Punjab sees over 1K cases in highest one-day spike||Chandigarh, August 6DSP +ve, Muktsar DC quarantinedMuktsar: After Deputy Superintendent of Police (Headquarters) Hemant Kumar tested Covid-positive on Wednesday, a number of his contacts, including Deputy Commissioner MK Aravind Kumar, Chief Medical Officer Dr HN Singh, SP (H) Gurmel Singh and DSP HS Cheema, have been quarantined. TNSIn the highest-ever single-day spike, the state reported 1,049 Covid cases and 26 deaths. With the fresh cases, the state count has crossed the 20,000 mark.Once again, Ludhiana witnessed the highest number of casualties as 13 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. Seven deaths were reported from Jalandhar, one each from Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Patiala, Sangrur and Tarn Taran. Apart from that, 150 patients are on oxygen support and 26 are critical and on ventilator support.A spike in cases has also been witnessed in Ropar where 31 persons tested positive today. With this, the total number of active cases in the district has touched 82 while 239 patients have already recovered. Ropar Civil Surgeon HN Sharma said the cases were reported from different parts of the district, like rural and urban areas of Ropar, Nangal, Anandpur Sahib, Chamkaur Sahib and Morinda. Dr Sharma said samples of over 300 people were being collected daily to contain the virus spread by isolating the infected. While 338 samples were collected today in the district, a total of 23,255 people have been tested, he said. The district has reported five deaths so far.In terms of cases, Ludhiana continues to be the worst-affected district as it reported 190 cases, followed by Bathinda (150), Patiala (136), Jalandhar (114), SAS Nagar (101), Amritsar (60), Moga (46) and Barnala (33).
07-08-2020||---||4 court staffers contract virus in Pathankot||Chandigarh, August 6Amid increasing cases of Covid-19 in Punjab, Pathankot is taking precautions to keep its judges, advocates, litigants and undertrials safe. In a two-day Covid-detection camp organised at the District Courts Complex, 180 samples were collected. After the reports came, four court officials tested positive while all judicial officers were reported to be negative.The Punjab and Haryana High Court and the district judiciary went into the restricted-functioning mode in March following the Covid outbreak. Pathankot District and Sessions Judge Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa said 70 of the 180 samples collected during the camp had been analysed so far.The four employees who tested positive had been shifted by the Health Department to Chintpurni Medical College and Hospital at Pathankot.Justice Bajwa said the need for holding the camp was felt in view of the spread of the virus among police personnel and other government officials, who were at times in touch with employees of the court and members of the Bar association.
07-08-2020||Our Correspondent
||3 sand-laden trucks seized in Fazilka, three booked||Fazilka, August 6 The police confiscated three sand-laden trucks near Sanjeev Cinema Chowk here today. Acting on a tip-off, the police personnel intercepted three trucks, which were ferrying sand to Rajasthan.  The sand was allegedly excavated from a riverbed near Fazilka district. The drivers of the trucks managed to escape from the spot. The accused have been identified as Sham Lal, a resident of SBS Nagar, and Santokh Singh and Moti Ram, both residents of Sriganganagar district in Rajasthan. The accused have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21 of the Mining Act.
07-08-2020||Our Correspondent||SAD ex-MLA Justice Nirmal Singh joins Dhindsa||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 6Former SAD MLA Justice Nirmal Singh (retd), along with hundreds of his supporters, today joined the Dhindsa group at an event at Bassi Pathana.Rebel SAD leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, accompanied by Bir Devinder Singh, Sewa Singh Sekhwan, Ranjit Singh Talwandi, Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, Paramjit Kaur Gulshan and others, attended the function and inducted them into the party. Fifty supporters of Bir Devinder Singh also joined the group. Notably, social distancing and other health protocols were violated.Addressing the gathering, Dhindsa urged traditional Panthic families to join the movement to “liberate” the SGPC and SAD from the clutches of the Badal family. He declared that he would not contest any election. He took the oath that he would not make a deal of any kind either with the SAD or the Congress.Justice Nirmal Singh said he had quit the SAD as his religious sentiments were hurt due to the sacrilege incidents. Meanwhile, SAD district leaders held a press conference and accused Dhindsa of backstabbing the party after holding prominent positions for several years.
07-08-2020||Faridkot||Medical council eases norms on selection of external examiners||The board of governors in supersession of the Medical Council of India (MCI) today issued modified guidelines regarding the conduct of practical examinations in clinical subjects for superspecialty courses.The MCI advisory reads that if two external examiners are not available due to Covid restrictions, the examiners be selected from different universities in the state. Both of them will have to be physically present at the venue of the examination. In the absence of physical presence of the external examiners, they need to participate through video-conferencing. — TNS
07-08-2020||---||Powercom team held captive in Bathinda||GONIANA (Bathinda), AUGUST 6A team of the enforcement wing of the Powercom, which is tasked with checking theft of electricity, was held captive by residents of Goniana Kalan and members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Sidhupur, in Bathinda, today.‘Told to delete video’We were forced by residents to delete the video recording of the incident and cancel the case. We had to come back without taking any action in the matter. BR Singla, XENNotably, after getting a tip-off regarding power thefts, a team of the department, led by XEN BR Singla, went to the village to conduct raids. After the residents came to know of the raid, they gathered at the spot along with BKU members, gheraoed the officials of the team and raised slogans against the Powercom. After being informed about the incident, a team from the Nehianawala police station reached the spot. The enforcement wing team checked power connections at the local gurdwara and another residence and also videographed the checking process. XEN Singla said: “We had come here to conduct checks on the basis of information received from our sources. We found that a power meter at one house was supplying electricity to another house. When we asked them to pay the bill, they refused. Even the gurdwara is getting electricity supply from the power transformer illegally. We have intimated higher officials about the gherao of the raiding team.”
07-08-2020||New Delhi||Capt playing politics on GI tag for basmati: MP CM||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan today criticised Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, accusing him of trying to stall Madhya Pradesh’s efforts to get a geographical indication (GI) tag for its “famous” basmati rice. He said the move was “inspired by politics”.Chouhan said Madhya Pradesh had a recorded history of basmati production in 13 districts since 1908. “I condemn the letter written to the Prime Minister by the Congress government of Punjab in the matter of GI tagging of basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh and consider it politically inspired. I want to ask Capt Amarinder Singh what hostility he has with farmers of my state? It is not a matter of Madhya Pradesh or Punjab, it is a matter of farmers of the country and their livelihood,” Chouhan said. — TNS
07-08-2020||Dasuya (Hoshiarpur)||400  litres of lahan, five boats seized||90K litres of illicit liquor destroyed in AboharAbohar: The police have destroyed 90,000 litres of illicit liquor, which they found stored along the Gang (Bikaner) canal. The Deputy Commissioner, Excise, Jaskaran Singh Brar, said they had taken the help of cops from Khuyiansarwer police station and the Rajasthan Police. Assistant Commissioner, Excise, RS Romana said they were keeping a tab on illicit liquor trade in the area. OCBJP activists stage protest in SangrurSangrur: Demanding strict action against those involved in the spurious liquor tragedy and resignation of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, local BJP leaders held a protest in front of the residence of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Thursday. "The Congress government has failed on all fronts and the CM should resign on moral grounds," said Sarjiwan Jindal, state executive committee member of the BJP. TNSMansa villagers allege harassment by copsBathinda: Residents of Khiala Kalan village in Mansa have alleged harassment by liquor contractors and the police. Villagers accused cops of resorting to high-handedness in the garb of confiscating illicit liquor. As a result, villagers and the Punjab Kisan Union protested in front of the Excise Department's office on Thursday. TNSBJP Mahila Morcha observes ‘Black Day’Abohar: The BJP Mahila Morcha on Thursday observed a "Black Day" to express solidarity with kin of 116 people who lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor in Batala, Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur. Mona Jaiswal, chief, BJP Mahila Morcha, said illicit liquor trade was mushrooming in the state due to to the alleged nexus of politicians from the ruling party and high-ranking police officials. TNS
07-08-2020||---||Now, building plan approvals go online in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 6To bring more transparency and save time, Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra has issued instructions to all commissioners and regional directors of the Municipal Corporations to approve building plans only through the online portal from today.The instructions are to be implemented with immediate effect. The initiative, apart from putting an end to people running from pillar to post to get approvals, will also remove intermediaries from the system.In a press statement, Brahm Mahindra said the Punjab Government was committed to provide e-facilities to the public. Earlier, there were some technical issues in the portal, which had been resolved now. Residents can get online building plan approval, online layout approval, online change of land use approval, online approval of telecommunication towers and online NOC approval of plots through the portal.
