07-04-2020||Patiala||Only six districts in Punjab have ventilators for COVID-19||A 40-year-old COVID-19 patient from Barnala was referred to Patiala’s government Rajindra Hospital, on Monday, after her health had deteriorated.The reason being that Barnala district didn’t have an operational ventilator-support-system dedicated to COVID-19 patients.In the majority of districts—worryingly—the situation is the same.Of 22 districts in the state, only six have the facility of a ventilator-support system for the COVID-19 patients. Notably, the state is said to have got only 137 ventilators, which have been earmarked for the COVID-19 patients.In an earlier incident, a Ludhiana-based COVID-19 positive woman, who later died, was also referred to Patiala for the same reason.Experts say, this life saving medical equipment—ventilator—helps patients a great deal and can be the difference between life and death, especially, for those facing dire respiratory effects of the COVID-19.Significantly, out of the nine health centres in six districts — where ventilators are available for COVID-19 patients — seven happened to be medical colleges. Health experts opined that the government should, immediately, designate one private hospital in every district, wherein, there was no ventilator in the government health facility.Due to the unavailability of a ventilator in every district, patients have to waste their time in travelling long distances before they reach the destined place, say the experts.Dr Pyare Lal Garg, an activist in the field of health services and former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, said the government had enough ventilators but they should work on how they could provide the facility in each district.“Though the government has already identified centres to provide this facility, however, the government should put the effort in covering each district,” he added.In a recent order by Secretary, Health Family and Welfare, all the civil surgeons and deputy commissioners had been told to refer COVID-19 patients to the nine health institutions only — as per the protocol.   Meanwhile, the state health department said they had dedicated functional 137 ventilators for the COVID-19 patients in the first stage. However, the department claimed to have designated a total of 440 ventilators, including already fuctional130, in the state which would be used only if the workload had increased.Dr Gb Singh, Barnala Civil Surgeon, said, “As a precautionary measure, we referred the patient to Patiala. The two ventilators were not operational. However, it will be ready for use by tomorrow.”
07-04-2020||Pathankot||Husband of woman who died of coronavirus tests positive in Pathankot||Pathankot district administration went on an overdrive to check the spread of COVID-19 after the 78-year-old husband of a woman who had died 48 hours ago due to coronavirus also tested positive for the disease.A senior officer said that it could be an instance of ‘community spread’.A doctor maintained that there were some hotspots in the country which were witnessing localised community spread.However, he said that if this is stopped at the initial stage, there was nothing to worry about.“In stage one there are cases of people who have travelled to foreign countries, places that have confirmed cases of the virus and have come back to India. Stage two comprises of local transmission wherein people have caught the virus after coming in touch with those who have a travel history. Stage three, like the case we are handling, is one in which the virus has its geneses locally. The husband-wife duo did come in contact with a Canadian citizen but that was about two months ago. Hence we cannot link it with that man. In any case, we are still investigating,” the doctor said.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said that he had put the entire district machinery, particularly the health department, on alert.“We are taking all necessary precautions to check the spread of the virus. I request people not to panic,” said the DC. The man, who runs a confectionery shop in Sujanpur, has been admitted to the Mata Chintpurni Medical college, a provisional coronavirus isolated hospital set up by District administration.KBS Sidhu, Special Chief Secretary, Punjab, confirmed the development on Twitter.Pathankot civil hospital Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Dr Bhupinder Singh, said that eleven of the deceased’s family members had tested negative while blood samples of five had been re-collected and their reports were still awaited.A team of three senior officials, led by Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Abhijeet Kaplish, which was tracing the contact details of the infected, said it could be a case of community spread.“At this stage, I can neither confirm nor deny it. Investigations are still on,” said the ADC.“Two medical officers (MO) are among nine medical staff who checked the deceased woman and have been quarantined. The blood samples of the MOs have also been sent for testing as they had treated the deceased when she was admitted to the Civil Hospital on April 1 before being referred to Amritsar,” said Dr Bhupinder Singh.Khaira said that the condition of the man was stable. Ten members of his family members had been quarantined.
07-04-2020||---||Coronavirus: Punjab orders reduction in electricity charges, uninterrupted supply to health care institutions||Chandigarh, April 7To further mitigate the hardships faced by the people amid the COVID-19 crisis and clampdown, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced a reduction in the fixed charges for electricity consumers, along with deferment of the deadline for payment of bills, while instructing the power department to provide  uninterrupted 24×7 supply to all Health Care Institutions.The PSPCL will have to bear the additional burden of Rs.350 crore due to the various reliefs announced for the consumers, an official spokesperson said, adding that the Chief Minister also lauded the employees of PSPCL and PSTCL for their untiring efforts in maintaining a continuous supply of power in this time of crisis. No new disconnection shall be carried out against non-payment till restrictions are withdrawn by the authority, the Chief Minister has further ordered.The reliefs have been announced in view of the unprecedented situation in which consumers are unable to pay their dues to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), according to the spokesperson.As per the Chief Minister’s directives, the due date of electricity bills of all the domestic & commercial consumers, having current monthly/bi-monthly bills up to Rs. 10,000/- payable on or after 20th March, has been extended up to 20th April, without levy of late payment surcharge.Further, a one percent rebate will be given to the consumers (exclusive of any previous arrears), who will pay electricity bills online through digital modes by the original due date. The same applies to all electricity bills payable on or after 20th March of all the Industrial consumers – Medium Supply (MS) and Large Supply (LS) Industrial Consumers.The fixed charges of the industrial consumers will also be exempted for the next two months, w.e.f 23.3.2020, and Energy Charges may be fixed commensurate with the reduction in Fixed Charges (single rate), the Chief Minister has instructed. Since, the Revised Energy Charges will be paid by consumers and will not be considered for the subsidy, the MS and LS Industrial Consumers, whose units remained closed during this period will not be required to pay any electricity dues.Captain Amarinder has further directed A Venu Prasad, Principal Secretary to Government of Punjab, Department of Power, to provide uninterrupted 24×7 supply to all Health Care Institutions such as Medical Colleges, Hospitals, Dispensaries, and other Medical Establishments and Quarantine Centres across the States for their smooth functioning. He has also directed that PSPCL shall ensure continuity of supply, and complaints related to safety and restoration of supply shall continue to be attended. However, other non-essential services that require visiting consumer premises for meter reading, billing, the release of new connections, etc. may be discontinued during the lockdown period.
07-04-2020||Peshawar||Coronavirus: Pakistan Sikh community shuts down Gurdwaras in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa||Pakistan's minority Sikh community has shut down Gurdwaras in Swat district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) province after the provincial government banned gathering of more than five people for worship in religious places to stop the spread of the coronavirus which has infected nearly 4,000 people and killed 55 in the country.The Sikh community leaders in the province, where around 500 people have been tested positive, have asked worshippers to pray inside their homes.The step has been taken to prevent spread of the pandemic as some cases of the COVID-19 has been reported in Swat district, a community leader said.The Swat district administration has also ordered to shut Mosques for congregation of prayers and only five people can offer prayer at a time in the Mosque.Meanwhile, the evacuee property trust board and Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandak Committee conducted disinfection spray in Bhai Biba Singh Gurdwara in Peshawar.The total number of coronavirus cases in Pakistan has sharply increased to 3918 while the death toll reached 55, officials said.The federal government has extended the partial lockdown until April 14 and asked people to stay at homes and follow social distancing. PTI
07-04-2020||Moga||Coronavirus: Mumbai man tests positive in Moga village||A 22-year-old man from Andheri (West) in Mumbai, who was staying at a mosque in Moga district, tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.He was staying at Cheeda village in Baghapurana sub-division of Moga along with 12 other people.This is the first case of COVID-19 in the Moga district so far.The district administration has sealed the entire village and asked all residents to remain indoors. The nearby Sukhanand village has also been sealed as a preventive measure.All men have been brought to the district hospital in Moga and kept in the isolation ward.While 8 men have tested negative for COVID-19, the reports of 4 others are awaited by the local health authorities.Chief Medical officer of Moga, Dr Andesh Kang, told the media persons that adequate preventive measures were being taken by the district administration at Cheeda and its adjoining villages to prevent the spread of the contagion.Twelve men are from Maharashtra, while one is a local resident of Cheeda village—a preacher at the mosque.The men had reached Moga on March 22 and first stayed at Sukhanand village before shifting to the mosque in Cheeda village on March 25.The group had reached Delhi on March 13 from Bandra in Mumbai and stayed at Kali Masjid in New Delhi for one week. Then, they came to Bathinda and visited a local mosque at Kotkapura in Faridkot district before coming to Moga district.
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||When families in Punjab refused to light pyres of their Covid-19 deceased||In Punjab as family members have been staying away from performing the last rites of suspected or confirmed coronavirus cases, it is government functionaries who have been coming forth and doing rituals religiously.Out of 79 patients, in seven coronavirus deaths, there were three such instances.In the latest instance on April 5, the last rites of a woman were performed by officials in Ludhiana city as the family refused to cremate the body fearing transmission of virus.In another case, the cremation was performed by the revenue staff as the entire family was in quarantine.In the third incident in Amritsar district last week, people did not allow a place in their village for cremating Nirmal Singh Khalsa, former Hazoori Raagi of the Golden Temple.“The (last rites) document may be comprehensive but the real trouble lies when nobody, including the sons and daughters as well as staff at the cremation ground, are willing to touch the body," Special Chief Secretary KBS Sidhu, who is in-charge to monitor state-wide coronavirus cases, informed in a tweet."It is here that field revenue agency, with tehsildars and naib tehsildars at the forefront, does the job.”Stressing the need to recognise and encourage the officers and officials who went above and beyond the call of duty, Sidhu quoted the case of Harbhajan Singh, who died of Covid-19 on March 29 at Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur district."His entire family was in isolation ward as they had tested positive. Nobody from the village came forward to assist in performing the last rites," he said.Patwari Jagir Singh of Moranwali was assigned the task of arranging the cremation. He performed his duty without any hesitation."Jagir Singh, along with many others from his fraternity, is quietly doing their duty in these exceedingly difficult times. They deserve our applause and appreciation," said Sidhu.He applauded Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait for honouring Jagir Singh for his noble gesture.In the latest case, officials of local administration performed the last rites of Ludhiana resident Surinder Kaur, 69, on April 5 as her family refused to own her body and asked the administration that it was their duty to perform her cremation.Additional Deputy Commissioner Iqbal Singh Sandhu through a video said the family reached the cremation ground but preferred to remain seated in the car that was parked 100 m away from where the body was consigned to the flames.He said the entire ritual was performed by Duty Magistrate Jasbir Singh.Now the district administration would hold her bhog in a local gurdwara on April 11 by pooling money.Regarding the cremation of former Hazoori Raagi of the Golden Temple, Nirmal Singh Khalsa, paranoid locals of Verka village located on the periphery of Amritsar city protested for hours and even locked the cremation ground gate to prevent the local administration from the cremation, fearing it would spread the coronavirus and endanger lives.After hours of persuasion, the locals agreed and offered a secluded common land for his last rites that was held late in the evening amid the presence of government functionaries and the son of the deceased.Condemning the incident, Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal said the state government should have taken steps to ensure the mortal remains of the great 'ragi' were not disrespected.Khalsa's aunt, son, grandson, his associate and associate's wife have tested positive for coronavirus after his death.Terming as unfortunate the delay in Khalsa's cremation on April 2 due to "unfounded fears", Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said this was because of misinformation and issued directives that no such incident takes place in future.He said he had asked the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police to ensure proper compliance of the government instructions by all health and other officials at the district level."Every deceased person deserv es proper cremation and there is a laid down health protocol on handling the body of a deceased COVID patient. This must be duly followed," an official statement quoting the Chief Minister said. IANS
07-04-2020||---||No time for all-party meet, govt already working on issues raised, Capt to Sukhbir||Chandigarh, April 7While thanking the Akali chief for giving suggestions to combat the current crisis, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said there is neither any time nor necessity to hold an all-party meeting as demanded by Sukhbir Badal.The Chief Minister said the state government was already taking all possible steps effectively on the issues raised by Sukhbir in his letter of April 5.Responding to the demand raised by the SAD president for convening an all-party meet, the Chief Minister said the state was passing through a difficult phase as the coronavirus pandemic had shattered the entire public life. The battle against COVID-19, which had posed a colossal challenge for all, was at its peak, he pointed out.The entire state administration, NGOs, social and religious organisations, as well as all political parties and citizens of the state were enormously contributing towards the state government’s endeavour to keep the spread of the coronavirus under check, Amarinder said.Besides, the state government is already making necessary arrangements on a war footing to ensure seamless harvesting of wheat crop and its procurement, which is also a big challenge, said the Chief Minister.Further, adequate arrangements for the sowing of paddy would also have to be put in place well before the onset of the kharif season, as the state’s economy solely depends on the smooth and hassle-free lifting and procurement of crops, he pointed out.However, Amarinder said he would always welcome any suggestion to overcome the prevailing crisis and challenges ahead, and assured Sukhbir that he would give due consideration to all such suggestions with sincerity.
07-04-2020||---||With seven new cases, Mohali has highest coronavirus positive cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 7Seven more people tested positive for coronavirus in Mohali district on Tuesday, officials said. The total number of positive cases in the district now stands at 26.The cases have surfaced in Jawaharpur village of the Dera Bassi block. Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, said that a total of 7 people from the two families—including the present panch, who was tested positive, and the present sarpanch of Jawaharpur village—have tested positive.All the people are between 12 and 50 years of age, he added.Deputy Commissioner, along with the civil surgeon, has rushed to the village. The authorities are likely to put the village under a state of emergency.The affected members of the families were involved in distributing community food to the poor, needy and the labourers.Mohali saw four new coronavirus cases in one day.  Meanwhile, two days after 42-year-old panch of Jawaharpur village was tested positive for COVID-19, his 67-year-old father, his 38-year-old brother, and his 43-year-old wife also tested positive. All of them have been admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.According to sources, the present panch of the village came in contact with a Muslim foreman, who had travelled from Delhi to meet him on March 31.  He said that he had attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation. The foreman stayed in the village for a couple of days, before heading back to Delhi. The panch owns a tent-house where five to six Muslim labourers work.Presently, Mohali has the highest COVID-19 positive cases in Punjab.Earlier, it was Nawanshahar with 19 cases. Till now, Mohali has reported one death and four have been cured.
07-04-2020||---||Three labourers die while cleaning tank||Moga, April 6Three labourers lost their lives while they were cleaning a tank in an animal feed factory at Moga’s Kot-ise-Khan town on Monday.The deceased have been identified as Surjit Singh, a resident of Nasirpur Jania village, and Jaspreet Singha and his brother Satnam Singh, residents of Khosa Kotla village.The tank was made in a 10-feet-deep pit which was used to prepare a mixture of various animal feed materials. In the preparation of the mixture, a ‘poisonous’ gas was produced.The labourers were asked to clean the tank, however, the gas wasn’t released from the tank, which led to their death.Preliminary investigations revealed that the incident took place in Ekam Feed factory, owned by Sanjeev Kumar Garg, a local businessman.It has come to light that Surjit Singh first went inside the tank and did not come back. Subsequently, Jaspreet went inside the tank to look for him, but never returned. Later, his brother Satnam Singh went inside to pull them out of the tank, but he also slipped into it.With the help of locals and other workers of the factory, the police pulled out the bodies from the tank and sent them to the district hospital for postmortem.POISONOUS GAS TO BLAME
07-04-2020||Amritsar||SGPC gets ration at PDS rates, thanks Prime Minister||The SGPC has shown gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for allowing the supply of wheat and rice for langar at public distribution system (PDS) rates.Amid coronavirus threat and lockdown, the Union Government has allowed the supply of rice at Rs 3 per kg and wheat at Rs 2 per kg to the SGPC and the DSGMC, as both these Sikh organisations have been providing free food to the needy.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said following an appeal by Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the PM agreed to provide food material at subsidised rates.“Despite lockdown, the SGPC will continue to provide food to the needy. We are thankful to the PM for the gesture,” he said. — TNS
07-04-2020||---||‘Safety station’ in Sangrur district||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 6The district administration has set up a Covid ‘safety station’ at an administrative complex here to control the spread of the deadly virus.It sanitises each person visiting the administrative complex in four steps. First, an infrared thermal scanner will record the temperature at the entrance. Second, if the person’s body temperature is more than the normal, he will be sent to a flu centre established in the civil hospital here. If not, the person will be asked to wash his hands and feet from the wash basin installed therein.Third, concentrated sodium hypochlorite solution will be sprayed on the body. And fourth, the person will proceed to a booth where he can dry his hands and feet with the help of newly installed dryers.“It’s the first-of-its-kind project in the state. In the coming days, the administration will instal Covid Safety Stations in all grain markets of the district to prevent the spread of the virus during the forthcoming wheat season,” said DC Ghanshyam Thori.“At present, there are three models of the service station, which cost us Rs1 lakh to Rs2 lakh. We are trying to arrange more funds for the project. The safety station can easily sanitise four to five persons within a minute,” the DC said, adding District Revenue Officer (DRO) Gagandeep Singh had been appointed the in-charge of the project.
07-04-2020||---||IIT Ropar to help set up mass isolation centres||Ropar, April 6The faculty and students of IIT-Ropar in association with their counterparts from IIT-Delhi and some professionals from manufacturing companies have proposed to develop cost-effective isolation rooms for Covid-19 patients.Dr Dhiraj K Mahajan, an associate professor at IIT-Ropar, said it could be done by partitioning already existing wards into negative pressure rooms (NPR), and making mass isolation centres for quarantining suspects or infected persons.Dr Mahajan said NPRs were specially designed isolation rooms in hospitals and medical centres to prevent the transmission of viruses through air.He said during a brainstorming session, requirement for isolation rooms was discussed and the subsequent day, two students each from IIT-Ropar and IIT-Delhi came up with a draft report.
07-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Leading from front, polio-hit Jalandhar nurse says duty first||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 6“Shuru ch tan thora dar lagga si. Par asi himmat nahi harde,” (In the beginning I was terrified, but I never lose hope) says 42-year-old Parmila Devi who has been traversing homes in Pathlawa village even before Baldev Singh tested positive.For the past over a month, come hail or sunshine, Devi has been campaigning against Covid-19 in the village, which is the first Covid-19 hotspot in Jalandhar.Mother of two, polio in one leg, the auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) knows hundreds of homes in Pathalwa. Putting her own life on the line, she has been reaching out to locals and carrying out a campaign against Covid-19 much before sanitisers or masks were distributed among grass-root level health workers.Among the first to reach out to Baldev Singh’s family, way before he tested positive, Devi, who has been working with the Health Department for the past 12 years, says this has been one of the most challenging assignments she has been tasked with.Deputed at Pathlawa centre, she has been juggling with a family of four with long duty hours and also maintaining social distance with her own family members. However, all this while she has been cooking for her family to provide them with nutritious and healthy food.Ask her what has been the trickiest part of her job and pat comes the reply, “To ensure that my sons remain unaffected.”To ensure her two sons, aged 8 and 15, are not infected, she has been practicing social distancing at home too. “I don’t hold them in my embrace, nor do I meet them. I keep away as a precautionary measure. Of course, I cook meals for my family, but barring that my engagement with my family is minimal. Also, I’m clear that I will continue to practice social distancing as long as my campaign demands it,” she said.On being asked if she ever felt scared, she says, “It was tricky at first. In the beginning, the locals demanded a lot of convincing because they were ill-informed. However, slowly things began to fall in place and locals started understanding. Since normalcy is slowly returning at Pathlawa, I have now been deputed at Paddi Matwali village.”
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 20 coronavirus cases in one day, highest single-day rise||Punjab reported 20 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday---the largest single day rise since the first case was reported in the state on March 8.The new cases took the infection tally in the state to 99, with eight deaths.Of the 20, seven came from SAS Nagar, also called Mohali---the district that has so far reported the highest number of cases. Six of the 20 came from Pathankot, four from Moga, two from Mansa and one from Amritsar.All seven of Mohali’s cases were from Jawaharpur village and were contacts of a person who is currently undergoing treatment for the contagion in Chandigarh’s Government Medical College-32.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in a tweet the authorities were treating the village as a coronavirus cluster. He said authorities had surveyed 522 houses and took samples from 118 people.“7 more positive cases in village Jawaharpur, Derabassi - total of 11, making it a COVID cluster. Containment exercise done as per protocol - 3 villages sealed, 522 houses surveyed, 118 samples taken today. Total Positive - 26 Samples Taken - 607 Reports Awaited – 192,” he said in a tweet.He said the village had been sealed off as a precaution.In Pathankot, six more people tested positive, prompting authorities to tighten restrictions. Among those who tested positive was the 78-year-old husband of a woman who died of complications from the contagion at Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.Local authorities said those who tested positive on Monday had neither travelled anywhere recently nor had relatives visit them from abroad.In Mansa, two more people tested positive for the virus. The two had been staying had attended last month’s Talblighi Jamaat’s congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz and had been at the same mosque in Budhladha subdivision where three other people tested positive recently.Four people staying at a mosque at Cheeda village in Moga’s Baghapurana sub-division also tested positive. The four includes a 22-year-old man from Mumbai’s Andheri (West). All four had been staying at the mosque with nine other people for the past several days, authorities said. 8 recover in NawanshahrEight people in Nawanshahr recovered from coronavirus on Tuesday.Two people, who completed their isolation period in the district on Tuesday, have tested negative for the disease.109 contacts of those who attended Tablighi meet quarantined in Fatehgarh SahibOne hundred and nine people in Fatehgarh Sahib district were quarantined on Tuesday after they came in contact with people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi last month, including two women who have tested positive for coronavirus.Forty-five people have been quarantined in Maneli village and 64 in Sanghol. They were identified as contacts of 11 jamaat followers. Samples of 17 people have been sent for examination.Results of 3 awaited in MuktsarIn Muktsar, 26 people have been tested for coronavirus so far. Twenty-three people have tested negative, while the results of 3 others, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation are awaited.Amritsar family refuses to cremate body of COVID-positive man The administration cremated the body of a 65-year-old, who died of coronavirus on Monday, with religious rites, after his family refused to accept the body. The patient was a Retired Additional Commissioner (Technical) of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation and was a resident of Chaatiwind area in Amritsar.
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ensure OPDs are open, DCs told in Punjab||Taking cognisance of reports that hospitals had shut OPDs, the Punjab Government on Monday made it clear that all health establishments, government and private, had been exempted from curfew restrictions. In a communication, Additional Chief Secretary Home said chemists, doctors, hospitals, including OPDs, drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centres, nursing homes, AYUSH practitioners and diagnostic labs must be opened.“The OPDs are essential not only for patients suffering from various ailments but these will also help tackle suspected cases of coronavirus. Accordingly, deputy commissioners are requested to hold meetings with civil surgeons, the IMA and others and ensure that OPDs in all hospitals in both cities and rural areas, including AYUSH hospitals and dispensaries, are functional,” he said. — TNS
07-04-2020||Jalandhar||Insurance cover for PUNSUP staff||Nod to movement of bee-keepersChandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered all DC to allow the movement of bee-keepers travelling from one district to the other or one state to the other amid curfew. This is in line with an advisory issued to the state on March 28 by the National Bee Board. Punjab contributes more than 50 per cent of honey export from the country. Capt Amarinder has ordered immediate steps for their protection. TNS‘Guard of honour’ for medicosChandigarh: Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Monday reached out to medical and paramedical professionals, police personnel and cleanliness workers in Bathinda and accorded them a guard of honour. “This is perhaps the first-ever guard of honour meant exclusively for the medical and paramedical professionals,” Manpreet said while addressing them in Bathinda. TNSCops in trouble over addict’s videoMuktsar: In a video, an alleged drug addict, introducing himself as a truck driver, said policemen deployed at Danewala Chowk in Malout duty took away 250 gm poppy husk from him. Manmohan Singh, DSP, said: “If the allegation is found true, we will take strict action.” TNS
07-04-2020||---||Moga panchayats seal 100 villages||Moga, April 6Acting tough against the violators of curfew orders issued in wake of the Covid pandemic, the district administration has converted an indoor stadium into a temporary jail.A senior official said the local sub-jail was already overcrowded and therefore, the stadium was being used to detain the violators.SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said 52 cases of violations of curfew had been registered in the district so far. More than 160 persons had been arrested, while 11 vehicles had been impounded.He said the rural people were coming forward to help the administration in making the lockdown a success. More than 100 villages in the district had been sealed by local panchayats and youth organisations and nobody was being allowed to go out of the villages. Also no outsider was being allowed to enter, except for the government officials on emergency duty.Amarjit Singh, sarpanch of Patto Hira Singh village, said they had sealed all main roads leading to their village. “We are not allowing any outsider to enter our village. The police are cooperating with us,” he said.Curfew violationsAs many as 52 cases of violations of curfew have been registered in the district so far. More than 160 persons have been arrested, while 11 vehicles have been impounded
07-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Teams formed to feed strays||Abohar, April 6With the temperature shooting to 34 degrees Celsius in the past 48 hours, and roads and streets wearing a deserted look, local activists have formed teams to feed milk and ‘chapatis’ to stray dogs seen roaming around the streets for want of food.Harpreet Singh Bhatia, who heads volunteers’ teams from Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh, said people were being fed since March 22 after hundreds of people lost their jobs in the wake of Covid-19. Besides this, masks were being served by volunteers to inmates of dwellings, rickshaw-pullers, daily wage earners, and rag pickers; their accommodations were also sanitised.“Today, we decided to feed stray dogs, as nobody was coming out of their houses to feed dogs, which have started to look upset due to a rise in temperature. Even, people have stopped pouring water in pots outside their houses or near the terminals in business area. We can’t let stray dogs die of hunger,” another activist said.
07-04-2020||---||SMS automated: Private schools||Sangrur, April 6Countering the claim of the Education Department that it had sent letters to the private schools across Punjab, directing them not to charge any fee during lockdown, several school managements said they had not received any such order.“We never received any letter issued by the department on March 23. Besides, the SMSes for reminding the parents of deadline to deposit fee were pre-scheduled and sent by the online payment gateway of the respective banks. We have now given instructions to stop the messages,” said Yogesh Garg, director, La Foundation School, Sangrur.The Education Department had yesterday initiated action against private schools for demanding fee from parents despite the Covid crisis. Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said the department had issued an order on March 23, directing all schools to reschedule their admissions for 2020-21. The schools were asked to provide a window of at least 30 days for submission of fees after the situation gets normalised.
07-04-2020||
||Politicians come to rescue of needy||Gurdaspur, April 6 Joining the crusade against Covid, Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has donated Rs 5,000 each to 180 villages in his Assembly seat — Fatehgarh Churian — from his own pocket.  Sources, however, say the minister is eyeing the neighbouring seat of Batala, where he, in his capacity as a Cabinet minister, has already splurged government funds running into crores of rupees in the last three years.  Even as his critics were expecting him to give the largesse to Batala to strengthen his hold, he has clearly indicated by showering his benevolence on Fatehgarh Churian that he is eyeing both constituencies, one for himself and the other for his son, Ravi Nandan Bajwa. “Bajwa has confused his opponents both within and outside his party. He is not only keeping his cards close to his chest, but right now he is also holding all the aces,” said a ruling party MLA. The minister has also donated Rs 1 lakh to the Fatehgarh Churian Municipal Committee. His appeal to his constituents to contribute liberally has found favour with village panchayats of Khokhar, Rupowali and Bholeke, which have contributed Rs 75,000, Rs 35,000 and Rs 22,000, respectively.  In Gurdaspur, sitting Congress legislator Barindermeet Singh Pahra is spending anything between Rs 2 and Rs 3 lakh on supplying ration to villagers every day, a development which has taken his opponents by surprise.  “So much so, he is purchasing disinfectants and is getting it sprayed at various places in the city. We salute him,” said an Akali worker.
07-04-2020||---||Bring private hospitals on board: SAD||Chandigarh, April 6The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to ensure the availability of PPE kits in all government hospitals and take the help of private hospitals and their staff to combat the spread of Covid-19 and deal strictly with those indulging in black marketing of medical supplies.In a statement here, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said there were widespread complaints of nurses and doctors not being provided PPE kits in government hospitals that even led to two nurses contracting the infection. He said doctors attending to Covid patients had to be put in quarantine that further affected the health services. He said it was essential to ensure health workers had access to protective equipment.He said, the government should provide an insurance cover of Rs 1 crore to both private and government health workers. Majithia said the government should take private hospitals as well as their staff and diagnostic centers on board to treat patients.
07-04-2020||---||6 Ludhiana units to supply PPE kits||Chandigarh, April 6Six industrial units from Ludhiana on Monday got approval for supplying the much-needed personal protection equipment (PPEs) for health workers engaged in fighting Covid. The equipment will be ready for supply this week.Of the six units, four — Evershine, Shivatex, Swamitex and Shingora — will be providing the complete PPE suits. The other two — Navyug Laminates and GuruKripa Tex Fab — will be providing the fabric needed to make the masks.All six units got the approval from the South India Textile Research Association (SITRA). JCT Mills in Phagwara is also ready to supply the suits to the state. It has assured the state of supplying 10,000 PPE suits every day starting on April 20.So far, a majority of health workers, including doctors and paramedics who are treating patients and collecting their samples, have been working without the PPE suits. Also, there is a shortage of masks. All over the country, there are a handful of units that have received approval to supply PPE suits and masks. As per the protocol, the PPE suit has to be discarded after use.Hindustan Latex Limited (HLL) will procure the PPE suits from the units and supply them to other states.Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries, said two units – Surgeine in Hoshiarpur and Oxiclear Private Limited in Zirakpur — have received approval from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for supplying N-95 and N-99 masks to the state government. The combined per day production capacity of the two units is 5,000.“The government hopes to receive the much-needed supplies for the frontline warriors this week. We will also start getting imported protective gear that HLL has procured on behalf of the Centre,” Mahajan said. At present, Punjab has placed an order for two lakh PPE suits. The order will be scaled up in case of any eventuality.
07-04-2020||Phagwara||Assault on cops  in Phagwara||Two policemen, who were patrolling during curfew hours, were reportedly attacked and sustained burn injuries after the accused emptied a bottle of petrol near Pandori Jagir village near Nurmahal on Monday afternoon. SSP (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal, along with ASP Nakodar Vatsala Gupta, rushed to the spot. The SSP said the Nurmahal police on Monday arrested the accused on the charge of attacking two cops with an intention to kill them. The accused had been identified as Des Raj, a resident of Pandori Jagir village. ASP Nakodar Vatsala Gupta told this correspondent here on Monday evening that Assistant Sub Inspector Sarup Singh and home guard Rachhpal Singh were patrolling in Pandori Jagir village when the incident took place.  The SSP said a casehad been registered. — OC
07-04-2020||Vishav Bharti||Private health system ‘pulls back’ as virus spreads its tentacles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6Though over 70 per cent population in Punjab depends on the private healthcare system, in these times when Covid-19 outbreak is posing a big threat, private practitioners seem to be dragging their feet.As per reports from the ground, most private hospitals, including some reputed ones, have refused to admit infected patients. By and large, it is only government doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and a few big hospitals that are standing firm in these trying times.The situation is such that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had to intervene, saying that “deserters” won’t be spared. The CM along with Council of Ministers suggested that the Health Department should cancel the licences of hospitals refusing to treat Covid-19 patients. Terming it a cowardly act, the CM said they could not go into hiding at such a critical time.Following the CM’s tough talk, many big hospitals and nursing homes claimed through advertisements that they were offering tele-consultation (on phone). The Indian Medical Association, a body which fights for the interests of private doctors, also claimed that they are not running away, but offering emergency as well as regular services on the phone.Instead of opposing the government’s stand directly, private doctors, through dummy organisations, have started quoting a “national advisory”. They claim that the state government’s order of opening of OPDs is in violation of the said “advisory”.“How can the government shut its OPDs? Have all other diseases stopped killing people? Most private doctors have failed to stand up to the challenge. It is only government doctors who are putting up a brave front,” said Anurag Aggarwal, Principal Secretary, Health.Public health activists see nothing new in the trend. Dr Payare Lal Garg, former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, and a public health activist, says a similar phenomenon was witnessed during the plague breakout in Surat. “It is just history repeating itself in Punjab. But these doctors must remember that it is not only against the medical profession’s ethics, but also against morals of our business.”He said, “Most of the doctors who have shut shophave done their postgraduate with full pay (under in-service quota), while they were in government service. So the government should act tough on them and recover this fee. It should also take over the private institutions that have failed to rise to the occasion.”Dummy organisations come into play
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||34 booked for fake news||In a crackdown on those spreading fake news on social media about coronavirus, the state police have booked 34 people, arresting four of them.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the police had registered 34 cases so far, of which 27 were lodged between March 21 and April 6.He said the cases lodged in the past a couple of weeks related to the spread of fake information through WhatsApp.“The police are also taking stern action against attempts to use social media to spread communal strife,” he said, adding that a sedition case was registered on Friday against a Ludhiana resident.He had allegedly misled people about the availability of critical medical equipment besides “spreading hatred” against the state government, he said. — PTI
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||New advisory for travellers||As per the government’s new plan, there will be a controlled entry of persons into the state and a protocol will have to be followed for the screening of travellers.Also, directions have been issued for the movement of migrants.It has been decided that all in-bound travellers, including residents of Punjab, coming back to the state will be screened and home-quarantined after undergoing tests in government hospitals.People can now enter the state from pre-selected entry points, which the police and PWD will discuss before it is notified. — TNS
07-04-2020||---||Opposition cries foul over leaders’ pictures on relief material||Amritsar, April 6The pictures of MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu and other prominent Congress leaders were found printed on bags containing relief material. The move has drawn the ire of Opposition leaders.The packets containing ration, distributed among the needy recently, had stickers of Sidhu’s recently launched YouTube channel “Jittega Punjab”. At the bottom, were the pictures of former minister and his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu with the logo of the channel, inspired by Punjab’s state bird Northern Goshawk.Pictures of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Maharaja Ranjit Singh, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and Capt Amarinder Singh were also printed there.A few days ago, amid curfew restrictions, Sidhu with his entourage had gone to his constituency and distributed relief material through area councillors. Though no labelling was spotted then, today one of Sidhu’s office staffer Girish Sharma and his wife Monica Sharma, a councillor of ward number 27, distributed the packets to promote Sidhu and his channel.Girish said that to date, 500 packets provided by Sidhu had been distributed among the needy.“No one raised any objection. He gave us the relief material and we have been distributing it among the poor,” he said.A special programme was held to provide ration and other essentials such as masks, gloves and langar to sanitation workers.Meanwhile, leaders of the Opposition parties have termed the move a self-promotion tactic in the times of crisis. BJP MP Shwait Malik said: “Relief material should not be used for promotional purpose.”
07-04-2020||---||Punjab facing fiscal constraints, clear GST dues: Capt to Modi||Chandigarh, April 6Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention for immediate release of the state’s GST arrears and resolution of other pending issues to combat Covid-19 crisis.Rs 6,752 cr pendingThe release of GST arrears is of paramount importance as we are facing financial constraints. The Covid crisis presents a challenge of great magnitude.—Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterA similar letter was sent to Union Home Minister Amit Shah. “The release of our GST arrears is of paramount importance as we are facing serious financial constraints,” he wrote in the letter, drawing the Centre’s urgent attention to the pending issues and seeking necessary follow-up action from the Prime Minister Modi and the Home Minister.“The Covid crisis presents a challenge of great magnitude, which has ramifications across all strata of people and all sectors of the economy. The poor will be the worst affected,” he said.He pointed out that the challenges were more operational in the states that needed to contain and prevent the spread of the disease at one level and to work to mitigate the economic hardship and suffering caused by the outbreak of the disease on the other.In a detailed list of issues pending with the Centre sent along with the letter, Capt Amarinder said the state government’s GST arrears amounted to Rs6,752.83 crore.
07-04-2020||---||Kapurthala, Fatehgarh Sahib report cases, now 14 districts hit||Chandigarh, April 6With 11 new cases, the total number of Covid patients has reached 79 in the state. Kapurthala and Fatehgarh Sahib districts have reported first cases. With this, a total of 14 districts in the state are now affected with the coronavirus.A 65-year-old man, who had tested positive at a private hospital in Amritsar yesterday, died early this morning. The deceased, Jaswinder Singh of Chatiwind area, was a former superintending engineer of Amritsar Municipal Corporation.The health officials stated that the samples of the deceased were collected again after his death and confirmatory report was awaited. Earlier, the patient was admitted to the general ward at Government Medical College on March 28 and he was diagnosed with pneumonia.Of the 11 new cases, four have been reported from SAS Nagar, two each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Ropar, one each from Ludhiana, Amritsar and Kapurthala.In Ropar, two days after a resident of Chatamali village was found suffering from Covid-19, his 54-year-old wife and 16-year-old son were also tested positive late last evening. The total number of coronavirus patients in the district has now reached three. The 55-year-old man was tested positive on Friday after he was admitted to Government Multispecialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, Chandigarh, on March 31 following complaints related to diabetes and hypertension.The district authorities have alarmed a private hospital and a community health centre at Kurali and civil hospital at Phase VI in Mohali as the patient had visited there before getting admitted to GMSH, Chandigarh.Besides, a 17-year-old member of Tablighi Jamaat tested positive for Covid in Kapurthala today. This is the first Covid case in the district. Of the 33 Tablighi Jamaat members traced in Kapurthala, 32 have tested negative.As per the department, samples of 2,384 suspected cases have been sent for testing so far. Of them, 1,994 samples were found negative and the reports of 311 were awaited.
07-04-2020||
||Concern over random chemical use||Chandigarh, April 6 Amid concerns over the use of sodium hypochlorite — a salt of hypochlorous acid — to sanitise and fumigate open areas and roads to contain the spread of Covid, the Departments of Local Government, and Rural Development and Panchayats have sprayed it indiscriminately. As per the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines on disinfecting public places, the chemical is to be sprayed inside hospitals, public institutions, hostels and homes of people found infected with the virus. But the two departments have sprayed more than 6 lakh litres of the disinfectant in open areas.  Public health experts say the chemical is harmful for humans. They say solution is toxic and corrosive. It can damage eyes and respiratory tract, including lungs. Besides, it does not serve the purpose of containing the spread of the virus.  Dr Rajesh Kumar, a former head of the PGI’s Community Medicine and School of Public Health, warns that human contact with the chemical should be avoided. “There is no harm in using sodium hypocholorite in diluted form.” Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said people came out of their houses during the sanitisation drive, thus coming in contact with the chemical.
07-04-2020||
||‘Self-testing’ kit on Covid developed||Chandigarh, April 6 The Institution for Disasters, Emergency and Accidents (IDEA) has launched a self-assessment kit on Covid and uploaded it on psdm.gov.in.  Those with any doubts or queries can use the kit without getting tested for the virus. A spokesperson for the IDEA today said the kit had been designed on the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Indian Council for Medical Research and World Health Organisation.  “It clears various doubts and also tells a person if he or she should undergo tests or take precautions, thus unburdening the healthcare system. The kit gives information on what actions need to be taken in a given situation,” the spokesperson said. It focuses on what should be done during self-isolation and also dos and don’ts.   The link for self-assessment toolkit on Covid is https://innovoidea.in/covidselftest/india/. The spokesperson appealed to the people to use this tool and circulate it.  Giving details about the institution, he said the IDEA created awareness, trained National Disaster Response Force cadres in various cities, who in turn imparted training to the Central Industrial Security Forces at various international airports.
