08-01-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 15 deaths, 301 new virus cases in Punjab||Fifteen more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Friday as 301 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection tally to 1,68,486, according to a bulletin.So far, the disease has claimed 5,437 lives in the state. On Friday, Mohali reported the maximum 62 cases, followed by Ludhiana and Jalandhar (41 each); and Rupnagar (25). Currently, the state has 3,007 active cases, the bulletin said.A total of 252 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 1,60,042, it added.Ten critical patients are on ventilator while 102 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 40,58,814 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. —PTI
08-01-2021||---||Punjab bans import of poultry as neighbours grapple with bird flu||Tribune News Service Patiala, January 8Punjab banned import of poultry from other states on Friday, and declared the state "controlled area" under the Animal Act 2009---a step that comes as neighbours Haryana and Himachal Pradesh both reported rising cases of the avian influenza. "The government of Punjab imposes complete ban on import of live birds, including poultry and unprocessed poultry meat, for any purpose into the state of Punjab," the order issued by the state Animal Husbandry Department stated. The ban will take immediate effect and will remain in force until January 15.The decision would be reviewed based on the evolving situation, the order said.Punjab's Additional Chief Secrtary VK Janjua described the step as precautionary.“Due to scare of bird flu, chances of dumping of the poultry products and meat from neighbouring states are very much there. Therefore we don’t want to take any risk," he said.Janjua urged people to cook their poultry products and meat throughly to avoid flu risk.
08-01-2021||New Delhi||Ascertaining Canadian Conservative Ramandeep Brar's presence at farmers' sit-in: MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Friday said it had noted reports about the presence of Indo-Canadian politician Ramandeep Brar at farmers’ protests at Kundli Border on January 2.MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the Government was ascertaining the fact after several journalists asked if Brar had not violated the conditions of the OCI card by going to a political protest.Brar was backed by Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandhak Committee President Manjinder Singh Sirsa who said he belongs to a farmer family and "joined us all at Kundli Border to meet farmers’’ as he was in the country. "Calling him an outsider is again the media's ploy to twist the story,’’ he added.Brar had handily lost the South Brampton riding in the 2019 elections to Sonia Sidhu of Trudeau's Labour Party who got nearly half the polled votesIronically, Brar is not aligned with Canadian PM Justin Trudeau and his Punjab-origin party colleagues who have spoken against the tear-gassing of the farmers’ march to Delhi and,  as a result, were told off by the MEA. Sources said Brar is understood to be close to former PM Stephen Harper, Conservative leader Andrew Scheer and Alberta premier Jason Kenney, all of whom New Delhi had tried to cultivate.
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Baseless and malicious, says Capt Amarinder on allegations of deputing police officers to negotiate with farmers||Rejecting as completely baseless and malicious all allegations and reports to the contrary, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said there was no question of deputing police officers to negotiate with farmers protesting at the Delhi border.Pointing out that he had made it categorically clear that the ball was in the Centre’s court, with the Punjab government having no role to play in the negotiations with farmers, the chief minister ridiculed the charges being flaunted by Akali and AAP leaders on the basis of unfounded reports in a small section of the media.With farmers protests going on in his state since long before the agitation started at the Delhi border, he had naturally asked police officers to give him regular intelligence reports and updates on the situation not just from the national capital but also across Punjab, Captain Amarinder pointed out, trashing the twisted and senseless interpretation being given to the presence of a few Punjab Police personnel at the farmers’ protest site.It was the job of the state police to keep tabs on the evolving situation, and it was his job, as both chief minister and home minister, to remain updated about all developments, he added.“Anyone who believes that a couple of police officers can negotiate with the farmers or persuade the Kisan leaders to accept the Centre’s suggestions on amendments to the farm laws is really naive,” the chief minister remarked. And where is the question of him (Captain Amarinder) coming into a negotiation process in which the top central government leadership is currently engaged, he asked.Capt Amarinder said both Sukhbir Singh Badal and Arvind Kejriwal, as well as their party colleagues, were resorting to lies and deceit in their desperation to cover up their own failures in the entire crisis triggered by the farm laws.Pointing to Sukhbir’s ridiculous claim that the resolutions passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha against the three farm Bills had not been sent to the Governor, he quipped that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president had clearly lost it.“Or perhaps he is suffering from serious amnesia since his party colleagues, including his own brother-in-law Bikram Majithia, had accompanied me to the Governor’s House for submitting the resolution and the three State Amendment Bills,” remarked the chief minister, advising Sukhbir to seek medical help for his problem.Taking a dig at the contradictory remarks of Sukhbir and his wife, former Union Minister Harsimrat Badal, on the Governor assent issue, Capt Amarinder termed it a classic case of Charles Darwin’s missing link, which the Akalis seem to be suffering from.Unlike the Akalis and AAP, which had made drastic U-turns, the Punjab Congress and his government had a very clear and consistent stand on the central farm laws, said the chief minister, adding that his government had supported the farmers’ stance on the issue from the outset and continued to do so.“The farmers and the people of Punjab are not going to be taken in by your fabrications and drama,” he said, warning Sukhbir and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal to stop indulging in false propaganda to push their political agenda.
08-01-2021||Bathinda||Sale of poultry products dips amid bird flu scare in Bathinda||Amid bird flu scare, both sales and prices of poultry products, including eggs and chicken, have come down sharply.After the bird flu outbreak has been reported in different states in the country, now people are scared to eat chicken products as sale of poultry wholesalers as well as retailers have registered a steep decline up to 40 per cent.The poultry wholesalers rued that even as prices have come down, retailers curtailed their orders significantly as customers are apprehensive about eating chicken and eggs now.Talking to The Tribune, Balwinder Singh, a poultry product wholesaler operating in Bathinda for past over three decades said, “Our daily sales of poultry products for chicken and eggs have declined up to 40 percent for past four days. While wholesale prices of chicken have decreased from Rs 190 to Rs 158 per kg basis and retail prices have come down from Rs 200 to Rs 160 now. Similarly, prices of eggs have come down from Rs 666 to Rs 580 per 100 eggs.”“The prices and sales often come down during bird flu but following that when demand picks up again amid affected supply chain, prices again shoot up,” added Singh.Another wholesaler in Mansa district said, “Early last year it was coronavirus that had kept buyers away from poultry products and now that the industry was picking-up, bird flu has come. Sales have declined sizeably and since it is just the initial phase of the flu, it is expected to decline further in the coming days.”While customers are not buying meat, orders for chicken meat in restaurants, hotels and dhabas have also been hit.Owner of Lucky Chicken Corner Bathinda-Goniana road, a food outlet that sells cooked poultry products, said, “People are really scared to eat chicken and there is approximately 60 per cent decline in our daily sales. Since, there is sharp decline in orders, our raw stock for previous days is piling-up and we fear if not cooked it would rot.”Harmeet Singh, a city resident said, “During winter chicken meat sells like hotcakes but now they are scared. I am myself fond of chicken meat but due to bird flu scare, I avoid having it these days. Amid guidelines of WHO that if cooked well in the right temperature (kills the virus), there is no risk of catching the flu but who wants to take risk with their health or even life?”
08-01-2021||Bathinda||73-year-old Mohinder Kaur files complaint against Kangana Ranaut in Bathinda court||Mohinder Kaur has filed a case against Kangana Ranaut in a district court in Bathinda.This comes after the 73-year-old woman made headlines when Kangana shared a picture of her, claiming that she was the same 'dadi' who was a part of the Shaheen Bagh protest.The case has been filed in the court of duty magistrate, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Bathinda. The hearing is fixed for January 11, 2021.In the complaint filed by advocate Raghubir Singh, Mohinder Kaur stated, that because of the misleading post on the microblogging website, by the accused Kangana, she is suffering from grave mental tension, agony, harassment, humiliation, loss of reputation and defamation in the eyes of her family members, relatives, co-villagers, and public by-large.She, further, claimed that due to "scandalous" allegation, she has fallen in the eyes of the other farmers—who are sitting in the agitation—as they have started to inquire about the matter.It also stated that Kangana has not issued an apology on social media to her, and the other farmers. Kangana shared the "false tweet", without any reasonable or probable cause. This was only to please the political higher-ups of the ruling BJP party.She claimed, that she and her entire family are farmers. They are dependent on agriculture for their livelihood. This is why they are supporting the farmers from day one against the farm laws.She had gone to Delhi to support farmers.In conversation with The Tribune, Mohinder Kaur's husband, Labh Singh said: "We have filed a complaint against Kangana Ranaut in court in Bathinda, and the hearing is fixed on January 11”.Earlier, a Chandigarh-based advocate, Hakam Singh, had sent a legal notice to the actor for mistaking an elderly woman participating in the rally to be the one famous for Shaheen Bagh protests, and claiming she was 'available for Rs 100' to protest.Sharing a photo of the woman in the farmer's protest, Kangana had tweeted: "Ha Ha she is the same Dadi who had featured in Time Magazine for being the most powerful woman. And she is available for 100 rupees."
08-01-2021||New Delhi||Mika Singh launches water brand, sends water ration to protestors, says 'farmers have put up a brave face'||Singer Mika Singh has unveiled his water brand, and has sent thousands of water bottles to farmers who are currently protesting against the Centre's new farm laws. He has urged his fans to help the farmers, too."The farmers are not just protesting for their rights. It's for the country. If the farmers are not looked after, the whole food chain gets disturbed. The farmers, especially the ones from Punjab, have really put up a brave face," said Mika."We are doing whatever little we can in our own ways. I am with the farmers and I hope things get resolved soon, and we come to a conclusion. The sight of farmers dying and being out there in the cold, is unbearable. I request everyone to come and support," he added.Earlier, popular Punjabi singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh and Bollywood actress Swara Bhaskar had extended support to the farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other states.The farmers protesting on the Delhi borders since November 26 are demanding the repeal of three new central farm laws. — IANS
08-01-2021||New Delhi||Will not withdraw from fight against farm laws, Priyanka tells Punjab Congress MPs||Congress MPs from Punjab, who have been protesting at Jantar Mantar for over a month seeking repeal of farm laws, met AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday.The MPs, including Ravneet Bittu, Gurjit Singh Aujla, Jasbir Singh Gill and MLAs Kulbir Singh Zira and Raminder Singh Awla, were part of the meeting and discussed the party’s political strategy on the issue.Also read: Ahead of talks, govt says hopeful of resolving farmers' issuesA section of Congress MPs and lawmakers from Punjab have been sitting at dharna at Jantar Mantar seeking repeal of farm laws.Congress President Sonia Gandhi had sought the repeal of laws in her message on Thursday, ahead of Centre-farmer talks today.Also read: Eighth round of talks today; govt may leave it to states to implement new lawsPriyanka Vadra told the MPs that there is no other way out of the resolution of the matter except the repeal of farm laws.“We will continue to stand by the farmers and sit in dharna in protest till the farmers’ demands are met,” Bittu said.Priyanka also said the party would stand with the farmers till the very end.“We have always stood by the farmers and will continue to do so,” she said to MPs and MLAs from Punjab.
08-01-2021||Satya Prakash||SC asks Centre to decide by January 26 Rajoana's mercy plea||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 8The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to decide by January 26 Balwant S Rajoana’s plea for commutating the death penalty awarded to him in former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh’s assassination case.Convicted of assassinating Beant Singh in 1995, Rajoana has been in jail for 25 years awaiting his execution.The former Punjab chief minister and 16 others were killed in an explosion outside the Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh in 1995.Rajaona was sentenced to death in 2007 by a special court. His mercy petition under Article 72 of the Constitution is hanging fire for eight years.A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said the decision had to be taken before the Republic Day, which is a “good date”.“We will give two to three weeks. You should complete the process before January 26. January 26 is a good day.  It will be appropriate if you take a decision before that,” the CJI said.Maintaining that pendency of appeals by co-accused has no bearing on Presidential pardon granted to a death-row convict, the Supreme Court had on December 4 questioned the Centre over the delay in sending a proposal to the President for commuting Rajoana’s death penalty.Once the Centre had decided to recommend Presidential pardon for a death row convict, the pendency of appeals of his co-accused could not be a reason to delay the clemency proceedings, it had said.“Appeal of other co-accused has no relevance to the decision to commute the death sentence of some convicts taken to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev,” it had noted.The court’s comments had come after the Centre contended that the proposal to commute death sentence was not sent to the President as the appeal of other co-accused was pending and the convict himself hadn’t filed an appeal.Citing Devender Pal Singh Bhullar’s case, the petitioner has claimed that the “delay caused by circumstances beyond the prisoners’ control mandates commutation of the death sentence”.The inordinate delay caused agony and adversely affected his physical and mental health, Rajaona contended.
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions continued to sweep Punjab and Haryana with Hisar turning out to be the coldest place on Friday.Hisar in Haryana recorded its low at 4.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its low at 12.6 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.In Haryana, Ambala and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 10.5 and 8 degrees Celsius, up to four degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures at Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 9.5, 9.4, 7.2 and 7.1 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above normal.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 10, 9.4 and 8.6 degrees Celsius, up to seven degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 12.6, 11.1, 11.8, 8, 11 and 9.2 degrees Celsius respectively.Dense fog was also witnessed at many places including Hisar, Karnal, Bhiwani, Ludhiana, Patiala and Gurdaspur, causing inconvenience to commuters. PTI
08-01-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur SP (Jail), DSP, warden booked for corruption||Sangrur police on Friday registered a case against SP (Jail), a DSP and a warden for alleged corruption.All are facing allegations of providing mobiles inside the jail and sending an inmate to a hospital outside the jail after taking money. They are also facing allegations of sending an incorrect report to their senior officers.Police have registered the FIR under sections of prevention of corruption Act 1988, 52 A prisons Act and of Disaster Management Act 2005.“We have registered the FIR against SP Balwinder Singh, DSP Amar Singh and warden Gurpartap Singh. Further investigations are on," said Pritpal Singh SHO Sangrur city-1.Earlier, in 2019, the jail department had suspended five senior officers of Sangrur jail after inmates had made allegations that officers were demanding bribe for not implicating them in false cases.
08-01-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Makeshift lavatories on Tikri Border to end sanitation woes||Mandi Ahmedgarh, January 7To provide better civic amenities to protesting farmers, some farmers of Brahampur village in Ludhiana district have started erecting lavatories at various places on Tikri Border.While volunteers, led by Bhartia Kissan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) office-bearers Balwinder Singh Billu and Mistry Avtar Singh, have been camping on Tikri Border to undertake fabrication of first lot of ten lavatories, NRIs Anand Pal Singh Lail and Harbans Singh have come forward to give fiscal support to the initiative.Gurjit Singh Victor, coordinator of the event, said the decision to erect lavatories on Tikri Border was taken after women protesters experienced problems during their stay there. “Having received inputs about problems being faced by protestors in general and womenin particular, we decided to erect ten combo setsof lavatories each consisting a toilet and a washroom,” said Victor, maintaining that raw material and equipment required for the purpose wastaken to the spot from the local area.Victor said work on erection of more lavatories would be continued for which an amount of Rs 5 lakh had been earmarked.Organisers have also deployed volunteers who would keep the lavatories clean and fresh besides ensuring availability of water, soap and other materials required for hygienic maintenance of the paraphernalia.
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of talks with farmers, BJP leaders meet Amit Shah||Ahead of the talks between the farmers and the Centre’s representatives on Friday, two Punjab BJP leaders today met Union Home Minister Amit Shah.As hundreds of farmers continued with their protest, the Supreme Court on Thursday expressed concern over the possible spread of Covid-19 and asked the Centre if they were taking precautionary measures against the pandemic.Surjit Kumar Jyani and Harjeet Grewal discussed with Shah the ongoing situation arising out of the agitation.Grewal said they apprised Shah about the “deteriorating” law and order situation in Punjab. He alleged state-sponsored violence was being unleashed on BJP workers. Jyani said: “The houses of BJP leaders have been gheraoed for several weeks. We won’t tolerate ‘goonda’ elements,” he said.Sources say since civic body elections have been announced in Punjab, the BJP leaders are wary of the repercussions of the protest on party’s poll prospects. The duo earlier met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar. Meanwhile, the leaders today launched a fresh attack on union representatives. Jyani alleged many farmer leaders had political aspirations and wanted to contest elections after returning to Punjab.“There are practical problems in dealing with 32 leaders. Nobody is ready to listen. We are aware they represent 32 unions, but they should choose their leader,” he said.Grewal questioned the credentials of the farm leaders. “Joginder Singh Ugrahan belongs to a Naxalite faction called Nagi Reddy Group in Punjab,” he alleged. He also questioned the presence of Yogendra Yadav and CPM leader Hannan Mollah at the protest site. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, BKU (Dakaunda), said: “They earlier called us Khalistanis. Now they see a political motive. It is part of our union’s constitution that leaders can’t contest elections.” — TNS
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers hold tractor march, call it ‘trailer’||A day ahead of the eighth round of talks with the Centre, thousands of protesting farmers today took out a tractor march on the expressways on the periphery of the Capital to exhibit their strength. The farmers have been agitating against the farm laws at various borders of the Capital for over 40 days.The tractor march started from four points — Singhu to Tikri border; Tikri to Kundli in Sonepat; Ghazipur in UP to Palwal; and Rewasan in Mewat district to Palwal in Haryana. The farm unions called it a “rehearsal” for their proposed January 26 tractor parade.BKU leader Harinder Singh Lakhowal said today’s rally was to “show the government our numbers”. “We want to warn that our protests will intensify if our demands are not met” warned Lakhowal.With speakers playing Punjabi music, the farmers drove out in the morning to the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal and Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal Expressways. Initially, they kept one of the lanes free, but soon there was chaos, disrupting traffic. Some tractors carried the Tricolour and some flags of the BKU.The eighth round of talks between the protesting unions and the Centre is to be held tomorrow. — TNS
08-01-2021||Aditi Tandon||Impasse causes Rs 4,500-cr losses to Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 7The non-resolution of the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi is costing Punjab heavily with cross-sector losses estimated at over Rs 4,500 crore.Railways loses Rs 2,400 croreThe Railways incurred Rs2,400 crore loss due to the recent disruption of trains through Punjab and Haryana. Sources said Rs60 crore loss was due to the disrupted passenger traffic and the remaining due to the stalled freight traffic.Centre pursuing vendettaPunjab has been left out of the $7 billion project in which UAE entities have pledged to set up three food parks in India. Punjab has lost out even though the UAE evinced interest to set up a park in the state. - Manpreet Singh Badal, Punjab Finance ministerPunjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said today the state was being collectively punished for the protest. “The Centre has adopted a vindictive attitude towards Punjab. We, as a state, are being collectively punished for the agitation by farmers. I am deeply worried about the sagging morale of our people,” Manpreet told The Tribune in an exclusive conversation ahead of the eighth round of talks between the Centre and farm unions on Friday to resolve the deadlock. The 43-day-long protests have caused widespread disruptions across Punjab’s transport sector with goods and passenger trains earlier stalled for days as farmers sat on tracks, demanding the repeal of farm laws.State government sources said the losses due to interruption in the movement of goods in and out of Punjab stood at over Rs 4,500 crore as of today and the burden continued to rise.“Punjab has been left out of the $7 billion projects in which UAE entities have pledged to set up three food parks in India. The projects have gone to Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Punjab has lost out even though the UAE evinced interest to set up a park in the state, as it is the closest to them. The Dubai-Amritsar flight is all of one hour,” Manpreet said, accusing the Centre of vindictiveness.Demanding that farm laws be held in abeyance for six months and fresh consultations initiated with farmers, Manpreet said the Centre was putting up a “spectacle of small-heartedness” with its obstinate attitude.“You need a large heart to govern. But the Government of India is not even paying Punjab Rs 1,200 crore rural development fee levied on the purchase of paddy. This is a statutory tax it has withheld,” the Punjab FM said, adding that he was not surprised about the lack of trust reposed by the farmers in the Centre. “Who will believe a government that can go back on the constitutional guarantee of paying GST compensation to states and withhold a statutory tax? I am not surprised the farmers are distrustful of the Centre,” Manpreet said, adding that the state was under financial strain also due to food stocks lying in the open as the evacuation remained stalled due to the unresolved issue.
08-01-2021||Fazilka||14-year-old raped in Fazilka, three booked||
08-01-2021||Sangrur||Jobless teachers burn copies of degrees||
08-01-2021||---||Smart metering project unveiled||Chandigarh, January 7Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today launched a slew of welfare projects, including distribution of free sanitary pads for high school and college girl students in the state.Even as he kick-started the process of the realisation of the dream of owning a home for thousands of slum dwellers, the Chief Minister further powered the state’s digital leap with the rollout of Rs 75.64 crore smart metering project and ‘e-Daakhil’ portal for e-filing of consumer complaints. Youth and girls have been earmarked as beneficiaries of the two other schemes launched virtually by the Chief Minister, dedicating the month of January to the girl child as ‘Dheeyan Di Lohri’ and also paved the way for distribution of 2,500 sports kits to promote health awareness and sports culture among youngsters.With the launch of the Basera programme, 2,816 slum dwellers in 10 slums of Patiala, Bathinda, Fazilka and Moga districts will get proprietary rights in the first phase. Those living in three slums of Moga will be granted their rights by shifting them to a separate land under the Moga Municipal Corporation. Further, launching the Rs 75.64 crore three-phased smart metering project, the Chief Minister said the consumer-friendly scheme would help reduce human error in manual reading through automatic uploading of data. From January to December, a total of 96,000 meters would be installed across the state by the PSPCL under the project, which would also help curb the malpractice of reading concealment/theft of electricity and improve the reading/billing efficiency and quality, he said. PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said, “The consumers will have the option to change a meter to prepaid or postpaid. Rebate in tariff is admissible to the consumer under prepaid option and the same meter can be used as a bidirectional meter for solar net metering.”Regarding e-Daakhil portal, the Chief Minister said it would help consumers safeguard their rights. It would provide them with an effective mechanism to protect them from exploitation at the hands of traders. Launching the scheme for distribution of 2,500 sports kits through community participation, the Chief Minister said it would help promote health awareness and sports culture.
08-01-2021||Abohar||2,000 Abohar residents covered under ‘Basera’||Colonies of as many as 1,500 residents of Indira Nagari and 500 of Sant Nagar have been covered under the first phase of the ‘Basera’ programme. In the first phase, 2,816 families across the state have been benefitted, 2,000 of which belong to Abohar. Many persons were present during the meeting held at the Municipal Town Hall here, but the link could not be established with the Chief Minister’s programme due to a last-minute technical glitch. While launching the scheme in Chandigarh, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today handed over ‘sanads’, thereby conferring proprietary rights to six beneficiaries, including Rekha Rani and Paprinder Kumar from Abohar. — OC
08-01-2021||---||Final round of counselling at Baba Farid University on Jan 13||Faridkot, January 7After three rounds of online counselling during the last month for admission to 1,375 MBBS seats in nine medical colleges in the state on the basis of NEET-2020 score, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) today announced to fill the remaining 20 vacant MBBS seats through walk-in counselling (physical counselling) under the stray vacancy round on January 13.There are four rounds of NEET counselling — round 1, round 2, mop up round and stray vacancy round. Out of the four rounds, three rounds were conducted online by the BFUHS.The final stray vacancy round will start on January 13 at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College here and the students have to join as per the allotted seats in the respective colleges by January 15 evening, the last date for admission to medical and dental colleges.On December 29, the BFUHS had announced to extend the last date for admission to MBBS course (for the current academic session) from December 31 to January 15. This extension in the admission date was made as per the directions of the National Medical Commission (NMC).Though the last date of admission to MBBS and superspecialty medical courses for the academic session 2020-21 was August 31, 2020, the entrance exams for these courses were conducted in October, 2020 and the counselling was extended till January 15, 2021, due to the Covid pandemic.
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to state in triple talaq case||In perhaps the first case here after the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, criminalising triple talaq, came into force, a Muslim woman has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging non-registration of an FIR against her husband for the offence.Taking up the petition through videoconferencing, the High Court today put the state of Punjab and other respondents on notice after taking note of the allegations that the husband gave ‘triple talaq’ on WhatsApp, which was illegal and an offence under the Act. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi fixed the case for further hearing on March 5. Her counsel Ferry Sofat submitted the husband on June 20 last year sent three messages of “talaq, talaq, talaq” to the petitioner and forwarded photographs with his new wife, along with the marriage certificate.Subsequently, the petitioner’s father forwarded a complaint regarding the offence under the Act to the Sangrur Senior Superintendent of Police. A representation was also filed before the Director General of Police, but action was not taken. Sofat said the husband was “very influential” and was well-connected with police authorities, anti-social elements and politicians. — TNS
08-01-2021||---||Kapurthala jail warden held for smuggling SIM cards||Kapurthala, January 7The district police have busted a gang of six men, including jail warden, allegedly involved in illegal supply of mobile SIM cards and phones to convicts lodged in the Kapurthala jail.On the directions of SSP Kanwardeep Kaur, a special team was constituted under SP(D) Sarabjit Singh Bahia along with Kotwali SHO Harinder Singh and district technical cell team to curb illegal smuggling of SIM cards and mobiles into the jail. The team nabbed Jail Warden Lovepreet Singh, a resident of Harchowal in Gurdaspur district, Vijay, a resident of Jalandhar, and Shivam, a resident of Kapurthala.Hidden in shoesSIM cards were being smuggled by hiding these in shoes or secret pockets in clothing (pants and shirts). Each was sold for Rs3,000 to Rs4,000 to inmatesAs many as 18 SIM cards and a mobile battery, to be delivered to three persons lodged in the jail, were recovered. The three convicts are Vikas Jolly, a resident of Amritsar; Sanjiv Kumar of Jandiala Guru and Punjab Singh, a resident of Batala village, Beas. The items were to be sold to other inmates for carrying out illegal activities.An FIR had been registered under Sections 420, 468, 471, 511 and 120B of the IPC and 42 Prison Act, at the Kotwali police station against the accused. The police have also recovered a car (PB 02 U 5994) owned by Lovepreet, purportedly used for smuggling items inside the jail.The Kapurthala jail is a high-priority facility housing dreaded criminals, including Maqsudan blast accused, smugglers and gangsters. The police said SIM cards could have been used for anti-social activities.Bahia said: “Through technical and human resource inputs, we learnt that the jail warden among others was involved in supply of SIM cards illegally inside the jail. The possibility of presence of more such cards can’t be ruled out.” The jail warden was recruited in 2018 and had been posted in the jail since 2020. He previously worked in Gurdaspur. A detailed investigation is being carried out to ascertain the possible role of other individuals in the racket. Security has been ramped up in the jail.
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||SAD plans regional parties’ conference in  national  capital||Following its efforts to set up a national front of regional parties, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will hold a conference in Delhi after January 15 whose main focus will be on the erosion of federalism and its impact on farmers as well as financial wellbeing of states.   Senior SAD leader Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra said a three-member party committee had been formed by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to reach out to like-minded parties.  “We have reached out to the Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, INLD, DMK and the Samajwadi Party. We are also trying to get in touch with Bihar CM Nitish Kumar,” he said.  Party patriarch Parkash Singh Badal will address the meeting. — TNS
08-01-2021||---||Schools reopen to thin attendance||Jalandhar/Amritsar, Jan 7Corridors rang out with the chatter of students meeting up with their friends and teachers after 10 anxious months on Thursday, as schools in the state reopened with strict Covid regulations.Though many students attended school with letters of consent from their parents, some chose to continue education online with their guardians anxious about the Covid situation and the emergence of a new strain of Covid.Jalandhar and Patiala government schools reported a mixed response with around 50 per cent of students joining classes physically, while Amritsar reported a low turnout with the overall student strength in most of the government schools remaining below 2 per cent. However, private schools in both the districts struggled to bring students back.At Government Middle School, Ravidas Nagar, Jalandhar, in-charge Jasveer Kaur said: “Of the 117 students in Classes 6-8, as many as 60 came to attend classes today. Majority of the parents are reluctant to send their wards to school. As it was a Parents-Teacher Meet today, we assured them that all safety guidelines are being followed. Later, they also signed the consent forms.”The head teacher of Government Primary School in Anand Nagar, Jalandhar, said: “Only 13 of the 29 students came to the school today. We had informed the parents about the reopening of schools over phone after the Education Minister’s announcement.”Suresh Kumar, principal, Government Elementary School, Amritsar, said: “We are calling PTMs to inform parents about the safety measures being taken. Classes were held till 2 pm and 10-12 students were seated in each classroom to ensure social distancing.”While students of Class 9 onwards had been attending classes since October 15, private schools were seen waiting for parental consent before calling in students.Dr Anita Bhalla, secretary of Sahodaya Schools, Amritsar, said: “Thorough planning will be done. We will consult everyone to make time table, sitting plans in classrooms with social distance and a meeting in this regard was held today. Students will be called only after taking parental consent.”Excited at rejoining the school, Tamanna, a Class-8 student, said: “It feels like almost a year since we met our teachers and classmates. Owing to unavailability of unlimited Internet and a smartphone, I had to skip many of my virtual classes. Most of the chapters also remained unclear. However, now I’m expecting to cover the syllabus in the presence of my teachers.”Ishu, another student, said: “Online classes can’t replace the experience of offline classes. The longer screen time strained my eyes. Poor Internet connection remained a major constraint.” Jalandhar District Education Officer Harinder Pal Singh said there was a turnout of nearly 60 per cent students in the government schools today.
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Step up sampling to check bird flu: CS||Even as no case of avian influenza has been reported in the state so far, the government has sounded an alert and pulled out all stops to keep the state safe from the possible effect of outbreak in its neighbouring states. Confirming that no bird death was reported in any part of the state to date, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan has ordered stepping up of sampling, testing and surveillance of the suspected bird flu cases. She said all requisite logistics and funds were available to fight the situation. Mahajan was today reviewing the situation and preparedness of the state to prevent the spread in the wake of the outbreak in other states. Chairing a meeting of the heads of 10 departments involved in the prevention and cure of such cases, the Chief Secretary asked the officers to remain on high alert and maintain a close vigil to detect any unusual bird death in the state. Mahajan directed the Animal Husbandry Department to withdraw the Covid testing from NRDDL in Jalandhar and fully utilise the facilities to test bird samples. — TNS
08-01-2021||Bathinda||Trader killed, two booked||A trader in his mid-forties was allegedly done to death by two unidentified assailants near the railway station here today. Another man accompanying the victim suffered injuries in the attack. The victim Suresh Sahani was a native of Bihar. The Station House Officer of the Government Railway Police (GRP) said the two assailants apparently used an iron rod to attack the victims and had been booked under relevant sections of the IPC. A manhunt had been launched to nab the accused. As per the GRP, they received information about two persons having suffered injuries near the railway station. Later, members of a city-based NGO reached the spot and rushed the victims to the emergency ward of a government hospital. The police said one of the injured persons died during treatment, while the other, identified as Ajay Yadav, sustained grievous wounds. Yadav said they supplied kinnow from Punjab to West Bengal. “While waiting for a train, we came outside the railway station briefly when two unidentified persons attacked us and fled with Rs 20,000 in cash, mobile phone and a bag with clothes.” — TNS
08-01-2021||---||Akalis release list for 15 Ropar wards||Ropar, January 7The SAD today announced candidates for 15 wards in the town. There are 21 wards in the Ropar municipal council. SAD spokesman and former Cabinet minister Daljit Singh Cheema said the names of remaining six candidates would be announced shortly.In the last elections, SAD’s Paramjit Singh Makkar was elected MC president after the party contested 13 seats and registered victory in nine. Its then ally BJP, which contested remaining eight seats, had won three wards.This time, the party has fielded several of its former councillors or their relatives. Manjinder Singh Dhanoa and Kulwant Singh, ex-councillors from ward number 6 and 16, respectively, have been fielded again from their wards, while ex-president Paramjit Singh Makkar’s wife has been fielded from ward number 5. Similarly, spouses or relatives of former councillors have been given the ticket from ward numbers 3, 15, 17 and 19.Cheema said the SAD would repeat its victory in the elections as no development works could be started after the Congress government took over in 2017. He said the state government was bent upon selling land of the Ropar Thermal Plant and had asked residents of the power colony to shift.Congress trying to rig polls: AAP
08-01-2021||---||Civic body elections in third week of Feb||Chandigarh, January 7The Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government has decided to hold elections to the 118 civic bodies in the state in the third week of February.After the nod by the CM today to complete the election process by February 20, a communication in this regard was sent to the State Election Commission for a formal notification of the schedule.It will be for the first time in the electoral history of the urban local bodies in the state that women candidates will be in the fray in nearly 50 per cent of seats of nine municipal corporations, besides 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats.Brahm Mohindra, Local Government Minister, said: “After approval from the Chief Minister to hold the polls by February 20, a communication is being sent to the State Election Commission for a formal notification of dates. We are ready for polls.”“Earlier, the government had communicated to the EC to complete the process by February 13. But the government decided to complete the election process by February 20 after the local government sought a few more days following a request by DCs for more time for conduct of elections,” said a senior government functionary. Initially, the government had decided to hold the election in October 2019, but it had to be delayed due the pandemic.
08-01-2021||Vishav Bharti||Covid pushes TB patients to brink||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7The Covid outbreak seems to have left tuberculosis patients in the lurch as more than 45,000 persons suffering from the disease have failed to get nutritional support from the government.Under the “Nikshay Poshan Yojana” (national nutritional support scheme), each notified TB patient gets a nutritional support of Rs 500 per month. The assistance is given till the patient is on anti-TB treatment. The scheme is registered under the Direct Benefit Transfer.In Punjab, there are 45,000 patients enrolled under the Tuberculosis Control Programme. However, none of them has received nutritional support for the past four months. Dr Jastej Singh, in-charge, state TB Control Programme, accepted that the beneficiaries had not been extended the financial assistance for the past few months due to some issues related to the budget. “We have taken up the issue with the authorities concerned. The financial assistance will be transferred soon,” he said.Three years ago, the Centre had in the National Strategic Plan for Tuberculosis recorded that the nutritional aspect was the key to eliminate TB. When most of the states were providing nutrition in the form of this additional food basket, Punjab was hailed as the only state that linked nutrition support with the Public Distribution System.Not just the nutritional support, the entire Tuberculosis Control Programme in the state seems to have gone for a toss amid the pandemic as the number of newly diagnosed patients seeking treatment in hospitals has come down to just 70 per cent against the target.
08-01-2021||Our Correspondent
||Workers’ unions, NGOs burn effigy of Centre||Abohar, January 7 Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Mulazim Sangharsh Samiti, PWD Field and Workshop Workers’ Union and the PSPCL Technical Services Union on Thursday organised a march to express solidarity with the farmers protesting against the contentious agriculture laws enacted by the BJP-led central government. The protesters shouted slogans against the government and burnt its effigy after passing through the main roads. They said policies of the government had been ‘anti-employees’ for long, and now the top brass was adamant at destroying the agriculture sector.
08-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma
||For them, Delhi protest akin to freedom struggle||Tribune News Service Sangrur, January 7 For many, the indefinite agitation of farmers at New Delhi borders has come as the first incidence to experience the “true Punjabi spirit”, but for freedom fighters and their kin, it’s no less than a second battle for freedom. Many have high hopes of victory, while some are apprehensive about the protest falling prey to political manoeuvres. “My father Bhagwan Singh Longowalia was very close to the founder of Praja Mandal (self-rule movement in princely states), martyr Sewa Singh Thikriwala. The spirit to fight against repression and injustice is in my blood. As I have experienced the freedom struggle and also aware of the Praja Mandal movement, I can surely say that the present struggle of farmers is gaining strength in the same way,” said 87-year-old Shaminder Kaur. She, along with the families of other freedom fighters, went to the Tikri border and stayed there for three days, but had to come back due to her old age. “Though physically I am here, my soul is still in Tikri. I will visit the New Delhi border again soon,” she said. Harinder Khalsa, son of another freedom fighter Rajjit Singh who was a member of the Indian National Army of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, said majority of the relatives of freedom fighters were living in penury as neither the Centre nor the state government had extended them required help despite tall claims. “But now, the families of freedom fighters are not leaving any stone unturned. Many have been staying at various borders of New Delhi, while others are trying to send essential commodities as per their financial capacity. There are many others who are also taking care of the families of farmers in Punjab,” said Khalsa, who is also the president of Freedom Fighters’ Successors Organisation Punjab. Advocate Dasvir Singh Dalee, grandson of another freedom fighter and INA member Bahadur Singh, alleged that the “wrong” policies of various governments were pushing the country to the edge. “Farmers are fighting for their rights and we are extending all possible help as the present struggle has been reminding us of the freedom struggle. But we are also apprehensive as politicians might cause rift among farmers,” Dalee added.
08-01-2021||Moga||No shortage of urea in Punjab, says Agri Dept||There is no shortage of urea in Punjab as 85 per cent of the fertiliser required during the current rabi season has already been made available to farmers. Dr Baldev Singh, Joint Director of the Agriculture Department, said 11.74 lakh MT of urea had reached Punjab to date, of which 9.85 lakh MT had been delivered/sold to farmers through cooperative societies and registered dealers at subsidised rates.  He was in Moga for a surprise check of urea dealers and to visit wheat fields in nearby villages. He asked the dealers to sell urea through POS (point of sale) machines for rationale distribution among the farmers. “Another 30,000 MT of urea will arrive in the state in the next four days,” he said.   Meanwhile, the department issued an advisory to farmers not to use urea in excess on wheat crop. — TNS
08-01-2021||Sameer Singh||Octogenarian Mohinder Kaur, whom Kangana Ranaut targeted, lifts spirits at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 7Octogenarian Mohinder Kaur from Sangat village in Bathinda, whom actress Kangana Ranaut had termed as Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh, visited the Tikri border recently and addressed a massive gathering of protesters.Don’t belittle us, says protester whom actor Kangana mockedShe extended New Year greetings to the protesting farmers and lauded them for showing resilience in the face of adversity, exhorted them to have patience and continue their agitation courageously and stay put at the protest venue until their demands were met by the government.Also read: Diljit Dosanjh offers Kangana Ranaut his PR job; says 'don’t think Punjabis will forget what you’ve done’Kaur was given a rousing welcome by the farm union members at the protest venue and honoured her for her active participation in the agitation. She had gone to Tikri on Tuesday and came back on Thursday late evening.Kaur said: “I am pained to see farmers protesting in adverse weather conditions, but it gives me joy to see that they continue to forge ahead undeterred with the conviction of winning. I extended New Year greetings to them and encouraged them to stay united and keep their struggle alive until government takes back the farm laws.”Asked about Kangna’s earlier tweets, the octogenarian said: “I don’t know her but I know farmers and their problems. She made unsavoury remarks against me but people supported me, including singer Diljit Dosanjh.” Age is just a number for octogenarian Kaur who is not only participating in the farmers’ protest back in the state, but also actively working in the fields.
08-01-2021||Bathinda||Farm labourers leave for Tikri||Scores of farm labourers under the banner of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union left from south Malwa districts to take part in the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws at the Tikri border on Thursday.  Farm labourers from Bathinda, Muktsar, Faridkot and Mansa among other districts left for the Tikri border. From Bathinda district alone, six buses and one truck left for the protest venue.  Union president Jora Singh Nasrali said: “Not just farmers but farm labourers would also be directly affected by the new laws. Farm labourers fear these laws would give control of the agriculture sector to corporate houses. We will be further subjected to undue harassment and unemployment.” Meanwhile, a large gathering of members of the Malwa bus operators’ union, technical services union, shopkeepers’ union, beopar mandal and cloth market association, and medical practitioners gathered in Bathinda city to see them off. Resham Singh, a leader of Samrathan Committee along with other members of different unions contributed Rs 1 lakh for the farmers’ protest. — TNS
08-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers hit road on tractors against laws||Fatehgarh Sahib, January 7To express solidarity with the protesters at Delhi borders, farmers belonging to various unions carried out a massive tractor march in the district. A large number of farmers riding hundreds of tractors passed through various villages and reached Fatehgarh Sahib.Surinder Singh Lohari, general secretary, BKU (Sidhupur), said the tractor march had been carried out to create awareness among the farming community as well as the people against the farm laws and to urge them to participate in the ‘Tiranga March’ in Delhi on Republic Day. He said they were getting a good response from every section of society and thousands of tractors would reach Delhi on Republic Day. He said the farmers would not return till the farm laws were repealed.
08-01-2021||Amritsar||Resolve farmers’ issues quickly, Manjit Singh GK urges Centre||At a time when the elections to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) were approaching, its former president Manjit Singh GK believed that its results would set the tone for the SGPC and Punjab Assembly elections as well.GK, who was here to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, performed ardas for the success of farmers’ struggle in the New Year. He advocated the farmers’ move of not sharing their stage with any political party while contesting the farm laws.“Otherwise, political parties who had lost their grounds would have utilised the farmers’ platform for their political gains, overshadowing the farmers’ cause,” he said.“I appeal to the Centre to resolve the issue shortly, especially when the farmers, along with their elders, children and ladies, were holding the protest in adverse weather conditions,” he said.Launching a scathing attack on the SAD (Badal), JAGO (Jag Aasra Guru Ott) party president said Badals’ downfall had started in 2014 when Arun Jaitley could not win the Lok Sabha elections from Amritsar. — TNS
08-01-2021||---||79 days on, 3 state farm Bills await Punjab Governor’s consent||Moga, January 7Seventy-nine days after the Punjab Vidhan Sabha unanimously passed three Bills to counter the Centre’s farm laws, Governor VP Singh Badnore is yet to forward them to the President for assent, thus creating confusion among the farming community and the traders on the status of the inter-state trade and the sale/purchase of the foodgrains.Denying that the Punjab Government had implemented the Centre’s farm laws in the state, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said: “The three state Bills are pending with the Governor … the Punjab Government will never abide by the central farm laws.”Proposed lawsChief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had already said the Punjab Government would explore legal options if the Governor does not grant his consent to the Bills.On October 20, last year, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha unanimously passed three Bills — The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment Bill, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020. These Bills were sent to the Governor for his consent, which hasn’t been given yet.Stressing Punjab was the first state in the country to pass a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha against the central farm laws, Ashu said the state government would not allow the farmers and traders of other states to sell foodgrains in state.Further, he assured that wheat and paddy would be purchased at MSP either by the government agencies or the private traders. The traditional practice of purchase of foodgrains through the commission agents would continue in the coming wheat procurement season, he said.
08-01-2021||New Delhi||NIA raids 6 locations in Jammu, Punjab||The anti-terror probe agency NIA today said it has conducted searches at six different locations in Jammu and Punjab in connection with the seizure of about 61 kg of heroin worth more than Rs 50 crores along with arms and ammunition on September 20 last year at the International Border (IB) in the Arnia area of Jammu by the Border Security Force (BSF).Officials in the NIA said the agency carried out searches at five locations in Jammu and one in Punjab. The searches were conducted at the residences of accused persons namely Jasraj Singh, Sham Lal, Bishan Dass, Ajeet Kumar, Gurbaksh Singh and Gurpartap Singh, they addd.“These accused persons were arrested for hatching a criminal conspiracy for carrying out anti-national and unlawful activities, and to help the terrorist organisations by collecting funds and channelising the proceeds of drugs for furthering the activities of such terrorist organisations like the Babbar Khalsa International (BKI),” a senior NIA official said, adding that Gurpratap Singh, a resident of Tarn-Taran district in Punjab, is the kingpin of this module. “Gurpratap Singh had received 10 kg of heroin from Pakistan- based handlers through his associates and the consignment in the instant case was also intended to be received by Gurpratap Singh to fund the activities of the BKI in Punjab,” the official said. The NIA sleuths seized digital devices and other incriminating documents, the official said. — TNS
08-01-2021||---||Will step up agitation, warn farmers||Jhajjar, January 7“It is just a trailer and the picture will be shown on January 26 if the Centre does not repeal the farm laws. Delhi will see a tractor parade this Republic Day.” This was stated by Harmanpreet Singh, a protester from Punjab, who was enthused by the presence of a large number of farmers in the tractor march today.Sitting beside him on the tractor, Panthjeet Singh quipped, “Like the armed forces, we are taking out the flag march as a rehearsal of the proposed Delhi march on January 26 to make the Centre realise what farmers can do to ensure that their demands met.” Jaspal Singh of Fazilka said the march had infused a new zeal among the protesters, which would work towards making the proposed Delhi march on January 26 a success.These reactions summed up the mood of protesting farmers during the tractor march taken out from Tikri to Singhu on the call of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha.There was great enthusiasm among the protesters, with many participating bare-chested to protest against the farm laws. “I am participating bare-chested to make the Prime Minister realise that neither the severe cold nor rain can stop us. We have taken the pledge of not going back alive if the farm laws are not repealed,” said Simranjeet Singh, another farmer.A considerable number of farmers from Jhajjar, Rohtak, Jind, Bhiwani, Hisar and Fatehabad took part in the march to express solidarity with Punjab farmers. “It is a do-or-die battle and we are prepared to make any sacrifice to force the Centre to accept our demands. If the stir fails, no individual or group will dare to fight against governments in future, but we will not let it happen,” said Manjit, a young protester from Jind.
08-01-2021||Sonepat||Farmers' show of unity on KMP expressway||Thousands of farmers from Haryana and Punjab atop tractors reached the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway on Thursday during a march to protest against the three farm laws.“It is a trailer of the tractor parade to be held on January 26,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of the BKU (Lakhowal).Farmers carrying flags of various groups along with the national flag boarded thousands of tractors. They started the rally from the Singhu border and returned after meeting protesters from the Tikri border. The farmers were enthusiatic despite the cold wave. They played Punjabi and Haryanavi songs on patriotism and farmers’ unity. The farmers raised slogans against the Union Government.Though many farmer leaders walked on the road for several kilometres, there was no sign of tiredness on their faces. A farmer leader said they had decided of lead the tractors to ensure a peaceful march.“It was not a political show of strength. The sea of tractors proved the unity of farmers against the adamant attitude of the Centre,” said Jagtaar Singh of Muktsar.Jagmeet Singh of Moga said it was a matter of survival for farmers and they were fully prepared to face any situation, but would not step back till the government repealed the farm laws. — TNS
08-01-2021||---||Punjab CM bowing to pressure from Centre: Oppn||Chandigarh/Fazilka, January 7Reacting to media reports that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had assigned two IPS officers from Punjab at the Singhu border to engage with the farmer leaders to persuade them to accept the Centre’s offer, state AAP chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann said it was clear that in a bid to save his son from ED cases, the CM was bargaining the interests of farmers.Mann alleged Captain Amarinder had taken various steps to put an end to the farmers’ agitation with the intention of following the orders of Union Home Minister Amit Shah after their meeting. He said with an intention of ‘torpedoing’ the farmers’ movement, the Congress MPs had earlier staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar and MP Ravneet Bittu was engaging in low-level politics. They were trying to intimidate the farmers, he added.“On the day of Shah’s meeting with farmers, Ruldu Singh, a farmer leader, was troubled by the administration. He had said two Punjab Police officers were also present, which has now been proved,” said Mann. He further said the CM was betraying the people of Punjab. “He first agreed to farm laws in the high-power committee, then by implementing ‘black’ laws in Punjab, procured paddy crop; and now through his officials, he is playing tricks to exert pressure on the farmers,” he said.Mann expressed astonishment that like SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal, Captain Amarinder was engrossed in his son’s fascination and not even listening to the Congress central leaders. He alleged the CM was forcing the farmers to bow before the Modi government through his officials.Mann said after the exposure of attempts to crush the farmers’ movement, Captain Amarinder had no right to sit in the Chief Minister’s chair, given to him by the people of Punjab. He said that Captain Amarinder , who had failed on all fronts, should immediately resign from the post.Meanwhile, in Fazilka, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, too, accused the Chief Minister of working in collusion with BJP-led Union Government to demolish the ‘kisan andolan’. The SAD leader today canvassed in Abohar and Balluana Assembly segments of Fazilka district and visited 17 wards of Jalalabad town to mobilise cadre in view of the upcoming municipal council elections.Targeting the Chief Minister, the SAD chief said: “This is the reason why an attempt-to-murder charge was registered against a few persons who had called for a social boycott of BJP leader Harjit Grewal. Also, a case under the same charge was registered against protesters who dumped cow dung in front of BJP leader Tikshan Sud’s residence in Hoshiarpur,” he said.The government was acting against artistes who were supporting the farmers’ agitation. Recently, a case was registered against song writer Shree Brar who had written the anthem of the farmer agitation, said Sukhbir.He took on the CM for ‘betraying’ the farmers by implementing the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020. He said the Act allowed outsiders to sell produce in Punjab. He said it was a fact that the Congress government had amended the APMC Act in 2017 that contained all provisions of the three farm laws.
