09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ready with pleas to challenge farm laws, waiting for right time: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said his government has finalised petitions to challenge the Centre’s farm laws and will do so at an opportune time on the advice of legal experts.He was reacting to accusations of AAP MP Bhagwant Mann, who alleged collusion between the CM and the governor over sending the agriculture Bills passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to negate the farm laws to the president.The Punjab CM slammed Mann, accusing him of speaking “blatant lies” and said, “It is unfortunate that people like him, who had no knowledge about the Constitution and legislative procedures, were in politics and making illogical statements with the sole motive of misleading people.”The CM said contrary to Mann’s claims, state Advocate General Atul Nanda had already prepared and finalised requisite petitions for challenging the central Acts. “Since these Acts impact the lives and futures of our farmers, all decisions will be taken carefully and judiciously at an opportune time,” said Amarinder Singh in a statement here.“Just like his bosses, Mann too has mastered the art of lying and deception but while doing so he has exposed his incompetence as a parliamentarian by making frivolous statements on matters pertaining to the Constitution and legislative procedures,” alleged the CM.“If you think that you can mislead people of Punjab by your lies, you are utterly mistaken, as every Punjabi has seen through your webs of deceit and your betrayal of the farmers’ cause,” the CM said.Amarinder Singh said while his government’s stand on the Centre’s “black” farm laws had been consistent from day one, both AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal had been doing “flip flops” over it.“One day you unanimously support our bills and your party leaders, including Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, accompany me to the governor and the very next day you do a somersault and start opposing them,” said the chief minister attacking AAP. He  said AAP’s “double face” and its collusion with the BJP to “weaken” the farmers’ agitation has been further “exposed” with Arvind Kejriwal notifying one of the farm laws in Delhi rather than following Punjab’s example of bringing in legislations in the assembly to negate the impact of the black farm laws. PTI
09-01-2021||Vishav Bharti||Farmers reclaiming the lost republic: P Sainath||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9Hailing the farmers’ call for holding Republic Day parade in Delhi on January 26, eminent journalist P Sainath said farmers of the country are reclaiming the republic.He is in Chandigarh to deliver a lecture on farmers uprising on Sunday; it is being organised by Citizens for Farmers.    Sainath said “the way this government destroyed institute-after-institute, the idea of our republic was under threat”. “Now, the way farmers have risen against this, it has emerged as a hope to save the republic,” he said.He termed the farmers’ call for tractor parade on Republic Day a historic event and said it is people’s parade and every citizen should support the call.Sainath said the way farmers uprising has countered every strategy of the government, whether it was corporate owned media or paid troll army, it is simply remarkable.  He said the government’s every plan has failed to sabotage this movement. “The Prime Minister is on an aggressive offensive, holding activity-after-activity, then asking a section of cabinet to play ‘good cop’; divide the leaders on regional, religion or caste lines, they have unleashed their troll armies, which includes some sold out intellectuals too. After all these remain ineffective, now they are dilly-dallying with so that the farmers’ movement wears out and die,” Sainath said.    “But I must tell you. The government is on the wrong path. I have been a student of history. So I can tell you that this movement has many parallels to the movements started against the colonial rule. Even then the laws had to be repealed. I am hopeful this time the same happens,” he said.He said in the last three years the middle classes of the country have shown sympathy towards farmers, which was not the case earlier.  Sainath also questioned the role of corporate-owned media during the entire agitation. He said the biggest media owners of this country are the biggest beneficiaries of these laws. “So a large section of media can’t take a line which goes against the interest of their owners,” he said.
09-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers' protest: Man poisons himself at Singhu border||A young farmer from Punjab's Fatehgarh Saheb Amrinder Singh died by suicide at Singhu Border along Delhi this evening taking the total number of farmers deaths during the ongoing protests over farm laws beyond 70.Paramjeet Singh of Samyukta Kisan Morcha confirmed the death to The Tribune and said the deceased was depressed since last night after the eighth round of talks with the Centre failed to yield conclusive results.Amrinder Singh is a resident of Machrain Kalan in Punjab's Fatehgarh Saheb district.Samyukta Morcha leaders said he consumed poison.Amrinder Singh died during emergency treatment at Frank Institute of Medical Sciences, Bahalgarh, on the Sonepat Road.His body has been sent back home with the farm leaders arranging the transport back home to Fatehgarh Saheb.
09-01-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||SAD releases first list of 28 candidates for Mohali MC elections||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 9The Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday released the first list of 28 candidates for the Mohali MC elections.Preetinderjit Kaur will be the party’s candidate from ward No. 1, Harmanpreet Singh Prince from ward No. 2, Satnam Kaur Sohan from ward No. 3, Kuldeep Kaur Kang from ward No. 5, Inderpreet Kaur Prince from ward No. 6, Arjan Singh Shergill from ward No. 8, Parmjit Singh Kahlon from ward No. 10, Suresh Kumari from ward No. 13, Manjit Singh Lubana from ward No. 16, Harwinder Kaur from ward No. 17 and Dr Tanmeet Kaur Sahiwal from ward No. 18, the party stated.Birdevinder Singh has been nominated for ward No. 20, while Amar Kaur Tasimbli will contest from ward No. 25.Ravinder Singh Bindra will be the party’s candidate from ward No. 26, Ramandeep Kaur from ward No. 28, Kuldeep Kaur Dhanoa from ward No. 29, Jasvir Kaur Atli from ward No. 30, Sarbjit Kaur Sidhu from ward No. 31, Surinder Singh Road from ward No. 32, Harjinder Kaur Sohana from ward No. 33, Sukhdev Singh Patwari from ward No. 34, Rajinder Kaur Kumbhra from ward No. 35, Ramesh Prakash Kamboj from ward No. 36, Kamaljit Kaur from ward No. 40, Rajinder Kaur from ward No. 43,Taranjot Singh Pahwa from ward No. 44, Manjit Kaur from ward No. 45 and Iqbalpreet Singh Prince will be party candidate from ward No. 48 of Mohali.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had constituted a committee for Mohali MC elections with Prof. Prem Singh Chandumajra as its chairman and NK Sharma, Charanjit Singh Brar and Kamaljit Singh Ruby among its members.
09-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Three generations served in Armed forces, but family faces ‘discrimination’ from Panchayat Department||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, January 9The family of  late Air Vice Marshal Gurdial Singh Punia AVSM (retd)  has alleged discrimination by the Rural Development and Panchayat Department.The family claimed that the department had laid paver blocks on half of the road leading to their house in Gurdaspura village last year while the remaining portion had been left unattended causing great difficulty to the residents of the area.The family alleged that despite repeated requests nothing had been done so far.“My father Gurdial Singh Punia retired as Air Vice Marshal while my grandfather Subdedar Dhanna Singh served the Army.“Our three generations have served the nation for almost a century, but still we are facing discrimination from the Panchayat Department,” said Col Inderpal Singh Punia (retd).The officials concerned have been saying that they will construct the remaining portion of the road once they get the funds, but no one knows when they will get it, said Colonel Punia.  “Punjab Government has been making tall claims about Sangrur getting a huge amount of money for developmental works, but where are these grants going?” he asked.    “I had also filed an RTI application last year, but have not got any response from the department. I request Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who is also an ex-serviceman, to look into the matter,” said Colonel Punia.Some other ex-servicemen and residents of the area also  aired their anger against the “apathetic attitude” of the authorities concerned.“When they are not listening to a retired Colonel, then one can only imagine how they would be dealing with a common man,” said Jaspal Singh Sekhon, a resident of area.“It’s been more than a year now but there is no satisfactory reply from the officials,” he said.When contacted, Gurdaspura village panchayat secretary Nirbhai Singh said that matter was in his knowledge.“Under the MNREGA norms, we cannot construct a road wider than 10 feet. We are trying to get more funds to complete the pending work. We have sought more developmental grant for Gurdaspura village,” said Nirbhai Singh.However, sources in the department said had the officials wished they could have got the grant sanctioned for the remaining works under some other developmental scheme.“I can comment only after visiting the site,” said Lenin Garg, Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Sangrur, when asked about the under-constructed road.“I will visit the area and we will provide the grant for the road from some other developmental scheme,” said Garg.
09-01-2021||---||Punjab police bust MP-based gang of illegal weapons smugglers||Amritsar, January 9Punjab police on Saturday busted an inter-state gang of weapon suppliers and confiscated a dozen .32-bore countrymade pistols and 15 magazines.The Amritsar rural police nabbed two Madhya Pradesh based illegal weapon suppliers in this connection.The gang apparently also has links with certain Punjab-based terrorists and is suspected of having supplied over two dozen .32 bore pistols to gangsters and criminals in the state during the last 3 months alone.According to Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, the intelligence led operation was carried out under the supervision of Dhruv Dahiya, SSP, Amritsar (Rural), and the suspects, Mahesh Selotia and Jaggu were nabbed from their native villages in Khargone, MP, by a team led by DSP, Gurinder Nagra.Gupta said the raids in Khargone were conducted after investigations into the recent seizure of four illegal .32 bore country made pistols by Amritsar Rural police revealed the involvement of the MP-based gang led by one Rahul.The DGP said investigations conducted so far have revealed that this gang has been involved in smuggling several major weapons consignments for Punjab-based gangsters.He said this very gang was also the source of a weapons consignment of six .32 bore pistols that were intercepted and seized by the Patiala Police in September 2020. Besides, the involvement of this gang had also figured in a case of seizure of illegal weapons at PS Chattiwind, Amritsar (Rural).Gupta said possibilities of this gang having links with Punjab terrorists cannot be ruled out as investigations indicate that the kingpin, Rahul, was in contact with several gangsters and hardliners lodged in Punjab’s jails and had been actively supplying them illegal weapons.Significantly, he was also in close contact with Akashdeep Singh -- the prime accused in the drone module busted by the Punjab Police in 2019 -- who is presently in Amritsar Jail.Gupta added that questioning of the arrested accused is still underway to unravel their complete network of contacts and their links smugglers, gangsters and terrorists in Punjab as well as in other states.The DGP said besides Rahul, the name of another associate of his, Gopal Singh Sikligar of Satipura, Khargone, had been revealed during interrogation by the arrested suspects, Mahesh and Jaggu. He said names of both Rahul and Gopal had been included in case FIR and efforts were on to nab them.
09-01-2021||New Delhi||Rabbi Shergill, Swara Bhasker, Noor Chahal show solidarity at farmers' protest||Bollywood actress Swara Bhasker and singers Rabbi Shergill and Noor Chahal turned out at Tikri Border on Saturday, to show solidarity at the ongoing farmers' protest.They were among the artistes who participated in a concert held at the Sanyukt Kisaan Morcha main stage, organised by the Artists For Farmers group."I went to show support to those who provide us with the food we eat. They have been putting forth their demands in a peaceful way and I think the government should understand why they are so strongwilled about this protest. I went there and could sense the determination in the air," Swara told IANS. — IANS
09-01-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Farm agitation: Railways cancels, short-terminates trains, routes diverted||Tribune News ServiceMoga, January 9Keeping in view of the ongoing agitation of the farmers, the Northern Railways have cancelled, short-terminated and diverted many trains.As per the Railways authorities, 05531 Saharsa-Amritsar express – special train journey commencing on January 10 has been cancelled. Consequently, the 05532 Amritsar-Saharsa special train will also remain cancelled on January 11.The 02715 Nanded-Amritsar express train will be short terminated at New Delhi on January 10 and subsequently 02716 Amritsar-Nanded express will short originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi on January 12, informed the authorities.The 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar express special train will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar on January 9, they said. Subsequently, the 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central express special train will also be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas on January 10.The 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar express special train will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar on January 10. Subsequently, the 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus express special train will also be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas on January 10, they said.The Railways authorities further said that 04649 Jaynagar-Amritsar express special JCO would be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar on January10. And 04652 Amritsar-Jaynagar express special train will be diverted to run via Amritsar-Taran Taran-Beas.The 04651 Jaynagar-Amritsar express special train will be diverted to run via Beas-Taran Taran-Amritsar on January 10, the Railways officials added.
09-01-2021||New Delhi||Wheelchair-bound Punjab farmer defies odds, joins protest at Singhu border||Sitting on a wheelchair, 44-year-old Harvinder Singh from Punjab's Jalandhar interacts with fellow farmers camping at Delhi's Singhu border to protest against the Centre's new agri laws.His physical limitations due to polio have rendered him on a wheelchair for decades but that has not deterred him from joining the over a month-long agitation, leaving behind his ailing mother at his native village.I may have lost all hopes of recovery from polio, but I have not lost hope for a positive outcome from this agitation, he says.Singh, who has been camping at the border for a month now, said he has been battling polio since childhood and has lost all hopes of recovery, but this agitation is a ray of hope for him.When asked what prompted him to join the protest despite his condition, Singh said "I am a farmer and so it was my responsibility to be here." After joining the agitation, he has been to his hometown only twice -- once to attend to his ailing mother and second to bring some essentials items for his stay at the Singhu border.Recalling the journey from his native village in Jalandhar to the border, Singh said he started for Delhi with a group of ten people on November 25 in two cars. Along with him, he carried his wheelchair and other essentials.Back home, he was the one who look after his mother. But now she is being looked after by his neighbours and relatives.Just 15 days after he reached Singhu, his 85-year-old ailing mother, Amar Kaur, sustained a severe nose injury but despite that she told his son to stay back at Singhu and asked him to fight his battle."Later, I went to my village to check on my mother. She is 85 but despite getting injured, she told me to not return and fight my battle," said Singh, who engages in wheat and rice farming at his hometown.His nephew, Sukjinder, who accompanied Singh, said his uncle's mother has been a great source of support to them."When she got injured, she did call to inform us and said she will be fine and that we need not rush back home immediately. She stressed that just like how it was the doctor's duty to treat her, it was their duty to fight for their rights," he added.However, braving the severe cold and heavy downpour, nothing stopped Singh from returning home.Now he is firm on staying at the border till the government accepts their demands and takes back the three new agri laws."I may face difficulties but with everyone's cooperation, we are surviving all challenges and will continue to protest until our demands our met," he added. — PTI
09-01-2021||Sameer Singh||Pvt players buy cotton above MSP in Punjab, trigger CCI’s ‘ouster’ from market||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 9Cotton farmers in the state are quite upbeat as private players have started making purchase of cotton way above than the Minimum Support Price (MSP) fixed by the government for cotton procurement this season.While Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) -- the government authorised agency for cotton procurement -- made purchase of large quantity of cotton on MSP of Rs 5,665 (for premium quality of cotton MSP is Rs 5,725), private players have started making purchase of cotton for even Rs 5,900 per quintal.The private players, including cotton traders and cotton factories from different parts of the state, can be seen entering into rivalry, placing bids and quoting prices higher than the other to purchase cotton on higher than minimum support price in different mandis in Malwa districts these days. As a result, farmers from different villages have started bringing cotton in bulk to the mandis for procurement these days.While CCI had started procurement early this season and made record purchase in the initial few months, it’s the private players who have started calling the shots at mandis across the state by making maximum purchase of cotton now, thereby triggering CCI’s ouster from the market for now.Industry experts have attributed the purchase of cotton above the MSP to the increased demand for cotton in the market as traders are further fetching good prices from cotton spinning mills that are placing bulk orders. The experts have also cited a record purchase (approximately 80 per cent) of the total arrival of cotton by the government procurement agency as the reason for increase in MSP as private players feared for shortage of cotton in the coming months.  Talking to The Tribune, Neeraj Kumar, General Manager, CCI Punjab, said, “The private players are buying cotton above than MSP as there is increase both in demand and price of cotton in the international market. Moreover, cotton traders sometimes store raw stocks and wait for the prices to soar further so that they can get heavy margin for selling it at the right time.”As per records of CCI, the government procurement agency has made a purchase of 27.50 lakh quintal of cotton, while private players have purchased approximately 5.5 lakh quintal of cotton this season in Punjab so far.Modan Singh, owner of Chahal Spintex Ltd from Kot Shamir, Bathinda, who bought cotton for Rs 5,880 per quintal basis said, “Unlike last season, CCI has purchased a large chunk of the total arrival of cotton this season and there is shortage of cotton with factories. We want meet the increased demand of cotton and anticipating for an uncertain market ahead, we decided to make purchase way above than the MSP.”Jaswinder Kumar, Shri Ganpati Cotton Mills, Bhucho Mandi, Bathinda, said, “We want to meet the increased demand for cotton in the market so decided to buy cotton on higher rates. We were also waiting for the prices to come down to make purchase.”While farmers selling cotton above the MSP are quite upbeat, there is a section of farmers who are holding on to their crop in the hope that prices of cotton might increase in the coming weeks and selling their produce then would fetch them even higher rates.Resham Singh and a group of farmers from Shergarh village in Bathinda said they are quite happy that their produce has fetched them a rate above than the MSP, but government must increase the MSP rates as input cost for the crop has increased manifold now.Sarup Singh, general secretary of BKU Lakhowal, said, “If private players have started buying cotton above the MSP rates, CCI must compete with it and make purchase on higher rates and government should also increase the MSP on cotton.”
09-01-2021||Amritsar||BSF hands over 6 Pakistani nationals within 24 hours after they 'illegally' crossed over||Within 24 hours of their arrest, the Border Security Force (BSF) handed over six Pakistani nationals to the Pakistan Rangers on Saturday evening.They had inadvertently crossed over to India from the International Border (IB) near Moran village on Friday evening.For the first time in years, that so many Pakistani nationals strayed into Indian territory from this part of the IB.A BSF spokesperson—who holds DIG rank—stated that all six youngsters, who hail from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan, were immediately challenged by vigilant border guards after they crossed over to India.They were held from the area between the IB and the barbed wire fencing, which is located 150 yards inside the IB.He added, that it also showed the humanitarian face of the professional frontier force as crossing over the barbed fence would have authorized the BSF Jawans to shoot at the intruders.Upon investigation, they were found innocent civilians between the age group of 14 to 25 years—who out of curiosity to see the border, and unfamiliar with the geographical topography of the area—crossed over to India.He added, that nothing incriminating was found from their possession except few Pakistani currency notes.They were identified as Raza Awan, 19, Shaukat, 18, Mohammad Arif, 22, Mohammad Asif, 25, Mohammad Asral, 14, Umar Farooq, 21.During interrogation, they told, that they were labourers by profession and were working at a primary school in Warra Mangli village, three km from the IB.They had come to see the border when they had inadvertently crossed over it.Last year, the BSF had returned six Pakistani nationals to their native country after finding them innocent after they had inadvertently crossed over to India.
09-01-2021||Bathinda||100 UK MPs write to PM Johnson over farmers' protest in India||More than 100 UK MPs, from across the political spectrum, have signed a letter which was written by the Punjabi MP in the UK, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, to the UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to give a serious thought regarding the peaceful farmers' protest in India.Dhesi has urged the UK Prime Minister to raise it with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi when they next liaise. This is to express hope of a speedy resolution to the current deadlock.In the letter, Dhesi had stated that many constituents, especially those emanating from Punjab, and other parts of India, were horrified to see footage of the water cannon, tear gas and brute force used against hundreds of thousands of peacefully protesting farmers.The issue has galvanized the Indian diaspora community, especially those of Punjabi or Sikh background, and others who have land or links to farming in India. Tens of thousands are engaged in global protests, including in cities and towns across the UK.Further, he stated, that a cross-party letter was sent to Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab to raise this matter with his Indian counterpart, and he had assured, that this would be raised with the Indian Foreign Minister, but he did not do so with the India Prime Minister during his meeting in Delhi in December.It reads: "You were asked about this issue during the Prime Minister’s questions on December 9, 2020, It seems you misunderstood the question, since you were made to refer Pakistan and the need of two governments to settle these matters. The issue of course has nothing to do with Pakistan, but is regarding farmers from across the India protesting and expressing their concern of major corporate houses moving into the sector, as a result of new agriculture laws.Could you please respond to clarify your understanding of this important issue? Do you indeed agree everyone has a fundamental right to engage in a peaceful protest?”Further, he has claimed, that we believe your January India visit has now been cancelled, but you intend to meet your Indian counterpart soon. Given the urgency of this matter, could you please confirm that you will convey to Indian Prime Minister the heartfelt anxieties of our constituents, our hope for a speedy resolution to the current deadlock and also for the democratic human rights of citizens to peacefully protest.Other Indian UK MPs, Seema Malhotra and Virender Sharma, have also signed this letter.
09-01-2021||Raj SadoshAbohar||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’s Abohar visit delayed by a day, Rs 202 crore projects to be finalised||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s visit to Abohar has been deferred by a day. He will lay foundations of 12 development projects on Tuesday.Punjab Pradesh Congress president, Sunil Jakhar, said, that the total cost of these projects will be Rs 202.64 crore, and the same would change the face of Abohar constituency.Sharing the details of the projects, Jakhar said, that Rs 19.67 crore and Rs 6.72 crore would be spent on upgrading the roads from Malout Chowk to Hanumangarh Bypass Chowk and Seetogunno Chowk respectively.The upgrading will enhance the image of the city as both are the major roads.The CM would also lay the foundation of Government College building which would cost Rs. 14.74 crores. The foundation of Veterinary Hospital and Research Center to be set up at village Sappanwali would also be laid, its construction will cost Rs 62 crore.The Captain would launch the project of constructing a sports stadium, mini secretariat and commercial complex and park on the site of old waterworks that is spread over 22 acres area.The project will cost Rs 40 crore. All state government offices will be later shifted to the mini secretariat. New waterworks have already been developed near the state highway.The PPCC chief said that a fish poon farm will be set up at village Killianwali, 8 km from Abohar to promote fish farming in the area. It will cost Rs 12.65 crore.Its work has already begun.The CM would dedicate the Rs 22.56 crore grain market renovation project.Abohar civic body was last year given the status of a corporation and now projects are being started for multifaceted development. The CM would inaugurate Rs 10 crore street-paving projects in various wards; lay the foundation of the Rs 5 crore corridor on the Circular Road.The foundation of a project costing Rs 5 crore would be laid in Indira Nagari under which a playground, park and library would be constructed.An Urban Primary Health Center at Indira Nagari, a slum area, will be constructed for Rs 80 lakhs.“Punjab government is giving full priority to the development of Abohar constituency and the projects being launched on January 12 would realize the aspirations of the people", he added.
09-01-2021||---||Debt-ridden farmer dies by suicide in Moga village||Moga, January 9A 41-year-old debt-ridden farmer has allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison at Bhinder Kalan village in Dharamkot sub-division of the Moga district, the police officials confirmed on Saturday.The farmer has been identified as Darshan Singh. He allegedly consumed poison yesterday.The farmer is survived by his wife and five daughters.Investigating officer ASI Malkit Singh said the body was handed over to the family members after the post-mortem examination.Darshan Singh’s wife said her husband had taken a loan worth lakhs of rupees from various sources, owing to which he was under depression for the past couple of months.
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday even though the minimum temperatures in the region hovered above normal levels.Common capital Chandigarh recorded a low of 10.8 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded their respective minimums at 9.4 degrees Celsius, 10.7 degrees Celsius and 10.3 degrees Celsius, up to six notches above normal for this part of the year, the weather office said.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 11.6 degrees Celsius, 8.7 degrees Celsius, 6.3 degrees Celsius, 7.5 degrees Celsius and 8.8 degrees Celsius respectively, it added.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 9.6 degrees Celsius, 7.2 degrees Celsius and 9.6 degrees Celsius, up to three degrees above normal, the Met said.The minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 10.5 degrees Celsius, 10.8 degrees Celsius, 8.8 degrees Celsius and 7.2 degrees Celsius respectively, up to six degrees above normal, it added.There was fog in Ambala, Patiala, Pathankot, Bathinda, Ludhiana and Sirsa. PTI
09-01-2021||Amritsar||Farm laws: Telco launches drive against ‘misinfo’||A leading private telecom operator, which has been targeted in various parts of the state for the past few days as a protest against farm laws, has now initiated an on-ground campaign to clarify its stance to the farmers and consumers. The perception that the group will be one of the beneficiaries of the new farm laws has led to vandalism of its mobile towers, DG (digital generating) units and stealing of batteries.No plans to enter contract farmingfarming’ in the past and has no plans to enter the businessBacking farmers, the group has endorsed that suppliers should strictly abide by the MSP mechanism while purchasing foodgrainsThe group has moved Punjab and Haryana High Court and the hearing of its petition against vandalism has been scheduled for February 8.In the meantime, the group has initiated a campaign across the state in the form of pamphlets and posters pasted through its 30,000 wide retail chain sensitising the farmers and its telecom clients that they were being ‘misinformed’. Many such posters, under heading ‘Tathya’ (reality), could be seen pasted on walls, doors and counters of it franchise outlets.To widen the message’s reach, sarpanches of Majha, Doaba and Malwa villages in Punjab were approached to convey that the firm has never done any ‘corporate or contract farming’ in the past and has no plans to enter this business. In the posters and pamphlets, which are in English, Hindi and Punjabi, the group claims that it has not purchased any agricultural land, directly or indirectly in Punjab, Haryana or anywhere else in the country for the purpose of corporate or contract farming.Besides, the group endorsed that suppliers should strictly abide by the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism when it comes to purchase of foodgrains. A group official said some rival cellular operators were taking undue advantage by encouraging the consumers to port their SIM cards to their network in many parts of Punjab.“Though after the intervention of the state government, the group has managed to restore the mobile phone towers by up to 90 per cent, we have discovered handwritten posters in the market by rival operators saying ‘apne desh ko bachao… aur number port karao….’ and giving recharge worth Rs 500 absolutely free. Our fight is against these unethical practices of trading too. This is happening across the state and Haryana too,” he said.
09-01-2021||Muktsar||Photos with farm leaders trending on social media||Farmers squatting on the Delhi borders are being referred to as “heroes” by youngsters. Joining the protest against the three farm laws, many are clicking photos with them and uploading on the social media platforms.Speaking over the phone, Deepinder Singh Sandhu, a farmer from Saiyanwala village in Ferozepur, said: “My friends and I have come to support the ongoing agitation. Farmers here are idol of countless teenagers like us. Without such noble souls, this massive protest was impossible. We have even clicked some pictures with these heroes to preserve this memory.”Gursagar Singh Nakai, a farmer from Rampura Phul in Bathinda, said: “I am a farmer first and then an advocate. It is our duty to do our best for the ongoing protest. I am here for the past two days and serving the elderly. The way the farmer leaders are taking ahead the protest in such an organised way is appreciable. They have emerged as the tall leaders of the state. To keep their spirits up, it is the duty of every single farmer not just to live up to their expectations, but also to thank them. Our group met some farm leaders at the Singhu border and clicked some pictures with them, which we have shared on the social media platforms.”Ajaypal Singh Sidhu, a farmer from Sriganganagar, said: “I recently took a delegation from Sriganganagar to Singhu border to support the protest. Everyone in the group took selfies with leaders like Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Dr Darshan Pal, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Harmeet Singh Kadian. They not only spared their precious time for us, but also taught us how to fight for the rights in a peaceful way. These brave men have scripted history.”
09-01-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Anganwari workers protest farm laws, to join Delhi stir||Majithia meets deceased farmer’s family in AmritsarAmritsar: Former minister and SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Friday commiserated with the kin of Mangal Singh who lost life during the ongoing farmers’ agitation, at Roopawali Khurd village in Majithia constituency. SGPC general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka, who was also present on the occasion, gave a financial aid of Rs1 lakh to the affected family. Urging the central government to leave aside ego and concede to farmers’ demands, Majithia said about 60 lives had been lost in the protest. TNSFarm labourers at Singhu border to back protesterschandigarh: Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union (PKMU), a large contingent of agricultural labourers have reached the Delhi border in a cavalcade of about 50 buses, trucks and other vehicles. Lachhman Singh, general secretary, PKMU, said the agricultural laws passed by the Centre would not only destroy the peasantry, but also prove detrimental to the agricultural labourers. He said these laws, when implemented, would prove to be a death knell for the PDS, as the government would eventually withdraw the procurement process. TNS
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Oppn’s charge baseless, malicious: CM Punjab||Rejecting as baseless and malicious all allegations of the Opposition, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said there was no question of deputing police officers to negotiate with farmers protesting at the Delhi border.Pointing out that he had made it categorically clear that the ball was in the Centre’s court, with the Punjab Government having no role to play in the negotiations with farmers, the Chief Minister ridiculed the charges made by Akalis and AAP leaders on the basis of unfounded reports in a small section of the media.With farmer protests going on in the state long before the agitation started at the Delhi border, he said he had asked police officers to give him regular intelligence reports and updates on the situation not just from the national capital but also across Punjab. Trashing the twisted interpretation to the presence of a few Punjab Police personnel at the farmers’ protest site, he said it was the job of the state police to keep tabs on the evolving situation, and it was his job, as both Chief Minister and Home Minister, to remain updated about all developments.Captain Amarinder said both SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal, as well as their party colleagues, were resorting to lies and deceit in their desperation to cover up their own failures in the entire crisis triggered by the farm laws.On Sukhbir’s claim that the resolutions passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha against the three farm Bills had not been sent to the Governor, he said the SAD president had clearly lost it. “Or perhaps he is suffering from serious amnesia since his party colleagues, including his own brother-in-law Bikram Majithia, had accompanied me to the Governor’s House for submitting the resolution and the three State Amendment Bills,” said the CM.Unlike the Akalis and AAP, which had made drastic U-turns, the Punjab Congress and his government had a very clear and consistent stand on the central farm laws, said the Chief Minister, adding that his government had supported the farmers’ stance on the issue from the outset and continued to do so.“The farmers and the people of Punjab are not going to be taken in by your fabrications and drama,” he said, warning Sukhbir and Kejriwal to stop indulging in false propaganda to push their political agenda.
09-01-2021||Jalandhar||Capt Amarinder is Centre’s puppet: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had become a puppet of the BJP-led central government and was suppressing the voices which were speaking out against the three farm laws.When will bills be sent to prez: harsimratFormer Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to tell Punjabis how long he would wait before exercising legal options to ensure the three farm Bills, passed unanimously in the Vidhan Sabha 80 days ago to counter the central laws, were forwarded by the Governor to the President of India for assent.“It is clear that the Union Home Ministry knows about the weaknesses of the CM and that is why he is taking orders directly from the ministry and registering attempt to murder cases against Punjabis protesting against BJP leaders. Similarly, song writers and singers who have sung songs in praise of the farmers’ agitation are being hauled up,” he said.Sukhbir said, “The CM should have been at the forefront of the fight to secure the rights of the farmers. He should have been ready to sacrifice all for it. Instead, he is relaxing in his farmhouse and doing lip service.”He also took on the CM for failing to take back the APMC Act, which was amended by him in 2017 and contained all provisions of the three farm laws. He said presently the situation was such that even if the Centre repealed the three laws they would still be applicable in Punjab as the Congress government had refused to take back the changes made in its APMC Act.Speaking about the problems of farmers of the Doaba region, he said sugarcane growers were suffering because of Rs 284 crore dues had not been paid to them. He said the Congress government had also not increased the sugarcane state assured price (SAP) for the last three years due to which farmers in the state were getting a price of Rs 310 per quintal only against Rs 350 per quintal being received by farmers of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.
09-01-2021||New Delhi||Roll back new farm laws, says Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said there was no way out of the current deadlock with the farmers except repeal of the three agricultural laws. She said nothing less than a rollback of laws was acceptable to the party.Priyanka said this while meeting Congress leaders from Punjab who have been protesting at Jantar Mantar for over a month.During the meeting, Lok Sabha MPs Ravneet Bittu, Gurjit Singh Aujla, Jasbir Singh Gill and MLA Kulbir Singh Zira discussed the ongoing agitation of the farmers and the party’s strategy on the issue.All Congress leaders, whose sit-in at Jantar Mantar entered the 33rd day today, told Priyanka that their protest would go on till the time the laws were taken back.“Of course, we should stand by the farmers till the very end. Nothing less than scrapping of the farm laws is acceptable to us. If the Centre does not decide soon, the Congress will announce its own campaign in favour of the farmers,” she told the leaders whom she met at her brother Rahul Gandhi’s residence. Rahul is abroad on a personal visit.Gill said Priyanka also paid homage to the farmers who had lost their lives during the agitation.
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||AAP: Guv-CM collusion on Bills evident||The inability of the Punjab Government to send unanimously passed agriculture laws in Vidhan Sabha to the President of India was a result of collusion between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Governor VP Singh Badnore, who were acting at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, said AAP state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann today.He said it had exposed CM’s conspiracy to mislead people of the state on these laws on the directions of PM Modi. Mann said the Captain-led state government had pretended to make a law by convening a special session of Vidhan Sabha. The CM was lying and had done this to mislead people. Had there been a sincere concern for farmers, Capt Amarinder would have followed it up.“Capt Amarinder had in the Assembly said legal action would be taken against the ‘black laws’ of the Centre. Surprisingly, the Advocate General did nothing,” said Mann. Badnore was refusing to give justice to farmers on Shah’s order, he said. — TNS
09-01-2021||Bathinda||Mohinder Kaur files plaint against Kangana Ranaut||Mohinder Kaur of Bahadurgarh Jandian village here, who hit the headlines after Kangana Ranaut tweeted her picture claiming that she was the same “Dadi” who was part of the Shaheen Bagh protest, has filed a complaint against the actress.The complaint has been filed in a court here and a hearing has been fixed for January 11. In the complaint, filed though advocate Raghubir Singh Behniwal, Mohinder Kaur claimed that due to Kangana’s false tweet, she suffered grave mental tension, agony, botheration, harassment, humiliation, loss of reputation, defamation in eyes of her family members, relatives, co-villagers and public in large.Further, she also claimed that due to the allegation, she had fallen in her own estimation and also in the eyes of protesting farmers. The complaint also said Kangana had not apologised to her or farmers.Kangana had made the false tweet, without any reasonable and probable cause, she alleged. She also claimed that as she belonged to a farming family, she was supporting the farmers from day one against the new agricultural laws. She had gone to take part in the protest in Delhi to support peasants.Sharing a photo of the woman in the farmers’ protest, Kangana had tweeted: “Ha, ha, she is the same Dadi who had featured in Time Magazine for being the most powerful woman. And she is available for Rs 100.” — TNS
09-01-2021||Our CorrespondentAbohar||Farmers disrupt BJP’s MC poll meeting||Even though the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) had long ended its sit-in outside Abohar BJP MLA Arun Narang’s residence at the Gaushala Road here, the first general meeting organised by the BJP to discuss Municipal Corporation poll campaign Thursday night was disrupted by farmers.The immediate provocation was said to be the statements given by former minister Surjit Jyani of Fazilka and kisan wing leader Harjit Singh Grewal who Thursday targeted senior BKU leaders for continuing the stir. Both the leaders gave a call to farmer leaders to give up “stubborn” attitude. Grewal was quoted as saying in an interview that some leaders had ambition to contest the next Vidhan Sabha elections and were not ready to end the Delhi stir.Feeling hurt, farmers last night surrounded the BJP’s meeting venue and said protests would be held at party’s all venues during its election campaign.Cops had a tough time in preventing a clash between BJP workers and farmers at Arorvansh Dharamshala where the saffron party had organised the first major meeting to mobilise workers for the MC elections.The situation became tense as farmers gathered around the building and raised “Modi Murdabad” slogans to which BJP workers responded by shouting “Modi Zindabad”.MLA Arun Narang and District BJP president Rakesh Dhuria were present at the meeting. They were discussing about the candidates to be fielded, besides preparations for meetings to mobilise support. Narang tried to convince the protesters that the Centre was engaged in talks with the farmers to resolve their issues and Punjab leaders too met the PM.Cops led by City-1 police station in charge Tejinderpal Singh reached the venue and rescued MLA and others.
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||AAP: Power consumers being cheated||The Aam Aadmi Party has accused CM Capt Amarinder Singh of cheating consumers by imposing penalty on the pretext of installing smart electricity meters.Sunam MLA Aman Arora said the CM was robbing consumers of Rs 7,000 each by labelling them as “electricity thieves” to meet his poll expenses. He said in the name of curbing power theft, the government and power department were working together to collect money from public under a planned strategy, while the Akali government and then SAD and Congress leaders owed lakhs of rupees to the discom.“When meters are already installed, what is the need to put an additional burden of Rs 7,000 on the public during pandemic? Due to anti-people policies, Punjab has the most expensive power,” he added. — TNS
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||To check mafia, tracking system on all buses soon||Transport Minister Razia Sultana today said the government needs time to check the alleged transport mafia in the state. At a press meet, she said, “Everyone knows who is behind the transport mafia. It cannot be corrected overnight. We need time to put things on right track.”Transport minister Slams Delhi GovtThe Transport Minister blamed the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government in Delhi for not permitting Punjab Roadways buses up to Delhi International Airport. She said despite several letters to the Delhi Government, no action had been taken.On being asked about the action taken so far to control the transport mafia in four-year tenure of the government, the minister said the department had introduced a vehicle tracking system for the Punjab Roadways. It is also being introduced for private bus operators to check illegal operations.”On ministry’s agenda... To detect the movement of the buses and check ticket theft, she said it was also proposed to install vehicle tracking system in all buses.The PUNBUS fleet has already been equipped with the system and it would be installed in PRTC buses in the next six months.Clarifying that the new time table for operations of government and private buses had been held up due to court cases, the minister said, “We are ready with the new time table. We will implement it once the cases are over. Litigation is holding up implementation of provisions of the transport policy and the office of the Advocate General is pursuing the matter.” She said against 12,000 applications, 5,000 new minibus permits were issued by March this year.
09-01-2021||---||Import of poultry banned in Punjab||Chandigarh, January 8The government has declared the entire state a “controlled area” in view of the outbreak of avian influenza affecting birds, including poultry in the neighbouring states.In another major decision, the government imposed a complete ban on the import of live birds, including poultry, and unprocessed poultry meat for any purpose into the state with immediate effect till January15. The decision will be reviewed on the basis of the situation.In a press communiqué here today, VK Janjua, additional chief secretary, Animal Husbandry Department, said both the decisions were taken in consultation with Animal Husbandry Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to prevent and control the spread of avian influenza, a scheduled disease in the state. He said the decisions had been taken to control scheduled diseases under the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009.
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Bird flu: In Ludhiana, 13 rapid response teams formed||Though no case of bird flu has been reported in the state yet, experts have cautioned poultry farmers, asking them to adopt all necessary precautions.In Ludhiana, 13 rapid response teams have been formed for 13 blocks and samples have also been collected. Farmers have been advised to pay attention to the immunity of birds and give them nutrient-rich diet. Adding immunity boosters such as turmeric, ginger and garlic to their diet can help birds fight any infection, they have been told.Dr Paramdeep Singh, Assistant Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, said: “We have formed 13 rapid response teams for 13 blocks. Nearly 500 samples have been collected and all have tested negative.”He said surveillance was being carried out at domestic poultry market and farmers had been told to inform the department if they found anything unusual.Dr Parminder Singh, Associate Director, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Mohali, said no case had been reported in the state so far but those in the poultry business needed to be careful.Dr Rajnish Sharma, Assistant Professor at the School of Public Health and Zoonosis, said: “There is no harm in consuming chicken and eggs after cooking them properly. But poultry farmers need to be careful and adopt bio-security system.”
09-01-2021||Amritsar/Bathinda/Sangrur/Jalandhar||Covid vaccine dry run held across Punjab||The Health Department today conducted the dry run for the Covid vaccine across various districts in the state.In Amritsar, the dry run was carried out at three locations —District Hospital, Health Centre at Verka area and Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital at Vallah area. A group of 17 persons, all drawn from the Health Department, were administered the vaccine. Though the state health department had forwarded a list of 25 officials, many of them had already been transferred.Before being administered the vaccine, their identity proofs were recorded and general health check-up was done.Civil Surgeon Dr RS Sethi said: “People receive a text message for vaccination. After reaching the hospital, the staff verifies the message and records their identity proof. After confirming good health, they are administered the vaccine and put under observation for 30 minutes.”He said vaccines could arrive any time, so they had made arrangements at 27 centres, which would be headed by a Senior Medical Officer. “Each centre will have two teams comprising five medical officials. Vaccination will be prioritised. Healthcare professionals, both government and private, will be the first to be vaccinated, then defence personnel, then people stricken with diseases, 50 years and above,” he added.In Bathinda, ADC Rajdeep Brar oversaw the developments before the vaccine rollout. “The dry run is aimed at preparing ourselves in advance for any possible hurdles during the actual drive,” he said.Bathinda Civil Surgeon Dr Tejpal Singh Dhillon said: “The dry run was successfully conducted at the district hospital, Delhi heart, superspeciality hospital and CHC Goniana.”Sangrur Civil Surgeon Dr Anjana Gupta said: “We have made all required arrangements. Residents should also help us as the drive needs everyone’s support.” Barnala Civil Surgeon Dr Harinderjit Singh said: “We carried out the drive at the Civil Hospital, Barnala, Tapa and at Mehal Kalan.”In Jalandhar, 97 volunteers participated in the dry run, which was held in four hospitals — SGL Charitable Hospital, Civil Hospital, Primary Health Centre, Jamsher, and Urban Health Centre, Basti Gujan. While 12,420 health workers have been registered for the first phase of the Covid vaccination programme, 47 teams have been formed (23 for urban areas) to administer the vaccine at 47 centres in the district. Cold chain points have been set up to store over 12 lakh vaccines.
09-01-2021||Bathinda||Sale dips amid bird flu scare||With the bird flu outbreak being reported in different states in the country, the sale and prices of poultry products have come down by around 40 per cent in the state.Wholesalers of poultry products said even as prices had come down, retailers had reduced the orders significantly as customers were apprehensive about eating chicken and eggs now in the view of bird flu scare.Balwinder Singh, a poultry product wholesaler operating in Bathinda for the past more than three decades, said, “Our daily sales of chicken and eggs have declined by up to 40 per cent in the past four days. While the wholesale rates of chicken have decreased from Rs 190 to Rs 158 per kg, the retail prices have come down from Rs 200 to Rs 160 now. Similarly, prices of eggs have also come down from Rs 666 to Rs 580 per 100 eggs. We are suffering losses.”Another wholesaler in Mansa district said, “Last year, it was Covid-19 that kept buyers away from poultry products, and now it is the bird flu. The sales have declined considerably. Since it is just the initial phase of the flu, it is possible that the sales will decline further in the coming days.”The sale of chicken in restaurants, hotels and dhabas has also been hit. The owner of a food outlet that sells cooked poultry products said, “People are scared of eating chicken and there is approximately 60 per cent fall in our daily sales now.”Harmeet Singh, a city resident, said, “I am avoiding eating chicken meat and eggs now due to the bird flu scare. Though the guidelines say that if cooked properly at the right temperature,there is no risk of catching the flu, nobody wants to take the risk. We can have eggs and chicken after the situation improves.”
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||3 IPS officers transferred||The Punjab Government today transferred three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers in the state. As per the orders, Phillaur ASP Suhail Qasim Mir has been posted as Phillaur SP, while Mehal Kalan (Barnala) ASP Dr Pragya Jain has been posted as ADCP, Special Branch and Community Affairs, Ludhiana. Sunam ASP Dr Mehtab Singh has been given the charge of SP Investigation, Tarn Taran. — TNS
09-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Delhi cops refuse custody of two in Balwinder case||The team of the district police that had gone to Delhi to bring two prime suspects — Gurjit Singh, alias Bhaa, and Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bura — on production warrants in the murder case of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh have returned empty handed.Balwinder was shot on October 16 on his residence-cum-school premises at Bhikhiwind by two assailants. The team led by DSP (Investigation) Kawaljit Singh had gone to Delhi to bring them on production warrants.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale today said the Tihar Jail Superintendent with the orders of the judicial court concerned refused custody of the two on production warrants keeping in view the law and order situation due to the farmer agitation. — OC
09-01-2021||Praful Chander NagpalFazilka||Ex-cricketer slips into drug trade, ends up behind bars||A former national under-19 fast bowler who failed to clear the fitness test two decades ago has ended up in jail over alleged involvement in drug trade.Fazilka CIA staff arrested Tarsem Singh, alias Sema, a resident of Gattianwalai Bodla village in Fazilka district, with 1,500 intoxicating tablets a few days ago.Harbhajan connectTarsem was arrested like any other drug peddler but during investigation, a different story came to the fore reflecting how a promising cricketer who failed to play despite being selected in the under-19 national team in 1999 slipped into the drug trade.CIA staff in-charge Navdeep Bhatti said during investigation, Tarsem said he was selected for the under-19 cricket team by Chandigarh’s legendary coach DP Azad.The pacer, in a video statement, claimed he used to clock 161 kmph on the pitch, faster than Pakistan’s Shoaib Akhtar, who bowled at the maximum speed of 158 kmph.Tarsem claimed he had shared the dressing room with Yuvraj Singh and Harbhajan Singh, who was junior to him. According to Tarsem, he sustained a back injury during a practice session and could not clear the fitness test in 1999. As a result, Harbhajan Singh, a spinner, was given the opportunity to play in his place.Bhatti said around 15 years ago, Tarsem went into depression and allegedly started using drugs. Subsequently, he began peddling drugs. Tarsem has been remanded in judicial custody and is lodged in the Muktsar sub-jail.
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||‘Spies' planned to form gangster-radical nexus||In the Halwara Air Force Station case, in which three persons were arrested for leaking classified information to ISI agents in Pakistan, the questioning of the three accused has revealed that they were creating a gangster-radical nexus to disturb peace in Punjab.Halwara arrestsFunding from Pak?On December 29, the police had arrested three persons — Ramdas Singh, a contractual employee from Toosa village of Ludhiana; Sukhkiran Singh Sukha, also from Toosa village; and Shabir Ali, hailing from Sirmaur in Himachal Pradesh.After taking pictures of the Air Force station, in connivance with his two accomplices, Ramdas shared these with ISI agents in Pakistan and other countries.Police sources said on the directions of an ISI agent and some Khalistani militants, the three were luring youth on Facebook for pursuing anti-national agenda in Punjab. “When the police checked Facebook and other social media accounts of the accused, many youth were found in touch with them. They discussed Khalistani activities in Punjab. Youth were even being assured that weapons would be supplied to them,” said a police source.Ludhiana (Rural) SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal confirmed that Sukha and others had radicalised some youth in Punjab. “We traced several such youth across Punjab who were being radicalised by the accused. Now, wee are deradicalising such youngsters by counselling them and involving their parents,” he said.The police officer said there was a possibility that the accused, especially Sukha, got funding from Pakistan and other countries through hawala channels. The bank accounts of the accused have been frozen. The NIA and military intelligence are also conducting separate probes in the case. All three accused were sent in judicial custody on Thursday.The SSP said the accused not only radicalised youth, but they also created a gangster-radical nexus to give wings to their anti-national agenda. The police listed several such gangsters who are either in jail or at large. Soon, the police will bring jailed gangsters on production warrant for questioning.
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||High Court okays physical hearing in all cases||Nearly 10 months after the courts went into restrictive function mode following apprehensions of Covid-19 outbreak, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has written to all District and Sessions Judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to permit physical hearing in all categories of cases. All Benches in the High Court will also start functioning virtually from Monday.Directions issuedThe communication from High Court Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry made it clear Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha had ordered that all District and Sessions Judges would permit physical hearing “subject to their own assessment of prevailing local conditions, including the intensity of spread of Covid-19 pandemic”. The communication added the guidelines and health advisories issued by the Government of India and the state governments from time to time would be strictly followed. The judges were also asked to send weekly report regarding duration/time of sitting of each presiding officer in the court, the number of cases listed before each court, the gist of work done and the daily disposal.The judges were asked amicably sort out problems related to physical hearing of the cases while adhering to earlier instructions by the High Court and other mandatory guidelines relating to the pandemic. The court had in earlier instructions, among other things, made it clear physical hearing would also be subject to consent by counsel appearing for all parties to the litigation. — TNS
09-01-2021||---||GMADA orders owners to demolish illegal complex||In fresh trouble for the owners of an upcoming shopping complex at Patti village on the Anandpur Sahib-Nangal NH 503 (extension), the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has issued a notice asking them to demolish illegal construction within 30 days.A team of GMADA officials today visited the site and pasted the notice issued by the Additional Chief Administrator on walls of the complex.GMADA Sub Divisional Officer (Regulatory) Harpreet Singh said those intending to carry out construction activity beyond the ‘lal dora’ of villages were required to obtain permission from his office.By taking up construction activity without permission, the land owners had violated the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act, 1995.He said the offenders had been given a chance to demolish the construction, failing which GMADA would take appropriate action against them.The authorities might demolish the structure and lodge a criminal case against the offenders, he added.The action comes after The Tribune in these columns highlighted the illegality on January 4. Some property dealers had purchased the land from owners and started construction of nearly 40 shops and two restaurants on the edge of the highway.The Punjab Urban Development Authority rules prohibit any permanent construction within 100 feet from such roads.
09-01-2021||Amritsar||Submit passport by Jan 20 to visit Pakistan, says SGPC||The SGPC has extended the date for submission of passports for the pilgrims aspiring to visit Pakistan on ‘Khalsa Sajna Diwas’ (Baisakhi).Pilgrims will now be able to submit their passports by January 20. Earlier, the deadline was December 31, 2020. Every year in April, a jatha (batch) of devotees is sent by the SGPC to celebrate Khalsa Sajna Diwas at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Pakistan.SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh said, “The pilgrims can get their passports certified by their area member and submit it at the headquarters of the SGPC at Amritsar. Along with the passport, pilgrims should send photocopies of Adhaar card, voter identity card or ration card and three recent passport-size photographs, as proof of their identity.”He appealed to the ‘sangat’ to send copies of their passports and the required documents within the stipulated time, so that the visas could be obtained.
09-01-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda farmers oppose land acquisition for project||Residents of six villages are up in arms against land acquisition for the six-lane Ajmer Green Field expressway passing through Jeeda and other villages in the district.This project of the union government has triggered unrest among villagers after the survey was conducted by the NHAI.Punjab farmers have started opposing the land acquisition for the expressway from Amritsar to Jamnagar. The farmers from villages in Bathinda district, where the land is to be acquired, gathered and staged a protest today outside the DC office.They alleged that they did not need the road, and could not give their land. They claimed that the highway would be taken out from the middle of the fields, due to which, their business would be affected, as they depended primarily on farming for their livelihood.They alleged that their fields would be divided into two parts and they would not be able to use the road.Jagjit Singh, head, Zameen Bachao Sangrash Committee, said, “If the government tries to take the land forcibly, we will intensify the struggle.”This highway is expected to cost Rs 30,000 crore. As much as 75 per cent of the highway would be in Rajasthan, farmers said. — TNS
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||High Court upholds Addl Sessions Judge’s order on Maheshinder Singh Grewal||Putting an end to a 22-year-old controversy over the summoning of former minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal and others as accused in a complaint alleging cheating and other offences, Justice Sanjay Kumar of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that it did not satisfy the requirements of law. The Bench also upheld the orders of an Additional Sessions Judge, who had set aside the summoning orders.The matter has its genesis in a complaint filed by Gurbir Singh in May 1998 alleging commission of offences in relation to funds and property of Guru Nanak Education Trust and educational institutions run by it, including Guru Nanak Girls College, Ludhiana.A magistrate in Ludhiana called upon the police to investigate and submit a report, following which the SHO of Civil Lines police station submitted a report adverse to the complainant. As a result, the magistrate dismissed the complaint vide an order on January 16, 1999. But the HC found favour with the complainant’s contention in his plea before it that the magistrate had taken account of only the police investigation and not the preliminary evidence led by him. Setting aside the order, the HC directed the magistrate to decide the matter afresh.In an order issued on March 2, 2010, the magistrate held sufficient grounds were made out to proceed against all accused for offences punishable under Sections 420, 465, 468, 471 and 120-B, IPC. They were accordingly summoned to face a trial. The summoning order was, however, set aside by an Additional Sessions Judge after remitting the matter for reconsideration.Taking up a criminal revision, Justice Kumar asserted initially the magistrate’s order was attacked on the ground that only police investigation was taken into consideration. The magistrate committed the same error in the second round but in converse by taking into consideration only the preliminary evidence and ignoring the police investigation.Justice Kumar asserted: “Though the magistrate did not have to record a detailed reasoned order on the merits of the matter, he necessarily had to express an opinion as to why he disagreed with the findings in the police report to the effect that the complaint deserved to be dismissed. Without indicating such an opinion, the magistrate could not have issued the summoning order straight away.” Justice Kumar concluded the Additional Sessions Judge, Ludhiana, was well justified in setting aside the summoning order and remitting the matter to the magistrate.
09-01-2021||Sangrur||SP, DSP, warden booked for graft||The local police have registered a case against the SP (Jail), DSP and warden of the District Jail here for alleged corruption and violation of jail norms.The FIR has been registered under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, Prisons Act and Disaster Management Act.Allowed mobilesin Sangrur prison“We have booked SP Balwinder Singh, DSP Amar Singh and Warden Gurpartap Singh. As per an inquiry by the DIG (Jails), the suspects allowed use of mobile phones on the jail premises and overstay of two inmates,” said DSP R Satpal Sharma.As per the FIR, two inmates, including Kamal Kumar and Arun Kumar, were allegedly allowed to stay in the special jail for four months, while under the norms, both must have been shifted out after 21 days of their Covid-19 test.In his report, DIG (Jails) Surinder Singh Saini stated the three officials misused their official position and violated norms by allegedly allowing use of mobile phones inside the jail, besides extending illegal medical facility to ineligible inmates by accepting gratification.They were also facing allegations of violating the Jail Department norms by staying in touch with family members of inmates and sending incorrect information to the department headquarters. The DIG has recommended further investigations with technical expertise of the police department to ascertain whether the officers received money through online modes as well. “Our further investigations are on and we are conducting raids to arrest the suspects,” said Pritpal Singh, SHO. — TNS
09-01-2021||Our CorrespondentAbohar||CM to lay stones for projects in Abohar||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh plans to visit Abohar on January 11. The visit has special significance as the state government had upgraded the local civic body to a corporation last year and elections for the same are expected next month. The BJP-SAD alliance had a majority in the outgoing council for about nine years.On his first visit as the Chief Minister during the current tenure, he will lay the foundation stones of projects, including Government College, which PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar had promised in his last Vidhan Sabha election campaign in 2017, to benefit the families, unable to meet expenses for higher education of their wards in private institutions. Jakhar today reached Abohar to review the arrangements. He visited the site of Government College, besides the old water works that had to be abandoned for other development works.Deputy Commissioner Arvindpal Singh Sandhu, SSP Harjit Singh, Municipal Corporation Commissioner Abhijit Kaplish and SDM Jaspal Singh Brar briefed Jakhar about the arrangements being made for the programmes to be held on the arrival of the Chief Minister.
09-01-2021||Bathinda||Illegal bridges erected over water channel in Bathinda||Illegal temporary bridges are coming up over a water channel in Rampura Phul and the Irrigation Department has not taken any action in this regard.As per the Irrigation Department records, there are five bridges on this 2 km stretch from the Kutia bridge to Irrigation Department rest house, but more than 12 bridges have been installed here.Instead of taking any concrete action, the Irrigation Department officials are claiming to have action by simply issuing notices.Moreover, these illegal makeshift passages are causing accidents. Two of these temporary bridges are close to the office of the SDO, Rampura Irrigation Department .An RTI activist, Rajinderpal Sharma, on December 31, 2019, had sought information about the number of bridges built by the Irrigation Department on the water channel at Rampura Phul.In a reply to his RTI on November 17, 2020, the department issued him a letter, in which it claimed that there were five approved bridges, while other nine bridges, which were built more than 20 years ago, had no records. It is also stated that was illegal to install a bridge without approval.Rajinderpal Sharma alleged that land mafia was quite active in the area and it had purchased a land near the water channel at a low price and later installed an illegal temporary bridge on the water channel. Afterwards, it had sold the land at a high price. He said he had filed a complaint in this matter to the DGP, Punjab, and the Vigilance Bureau. — TNS
09-01-2021||Nitish Sharma||24x7 langar of ‘kheer’,  biscuits, tea en route to Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 8As farmers continue to traverse the National Highway-44 on their way to the Singhu border, several volunteers and farmers have come forward to ensure that no commuter cross the district without food and water. They have set up langar en route the Singhu border.One such langar is being run by volunteers of the Virsa Sambhal Sewa Society near Shahabad. It’s been 10 days that they are serving langar, day and night.Nishan Singh, a volunteer, said: “Langar is for anyone, be it farmers or commuters. We serve them ‘kadi chawal’, tea, biscuits, ‘bread pakoras’ and water. The ‘sewa’ was started after collecting donation from four villages. Now, people from all sections of society are coming forward to help us in our endevour.”He further said, “The daily expense on the langar is around Rs 35,000 to Rs 40,000. Besides local support, we have received support from friends living in Canada, the US and Europe.” The sewa begins at 7 am and continue till late in the night.Another volunteer Hardeep Singh said, “It gets very cold at night, but three cooks and as many volunteers stay here all the time. In case someone is not in a position to travel further and wants take rest for the night, there is arrangement for at least four persons.”Gurbaksh Singh, a young farmer who stopped here on his way to the Singhu border, said it was good to see people serving langar en route and keep farmers energised.A few meters ahead, another group of volunteers servers sugarcane juice and “kheer”.Jitender Singh, a farmer from Machhroli village, said: “Several farmers from my village have been contributing to the ‘sewa’. We serve sugarcane juice, ‘kheer’, tea and ‘bread pakoras’. We will continue serving langar until the demands are met.”
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||1.6L birds to be culled in Panchkula||Haryana’s Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Minister JP Dalal has said over 1.66 lakh birds of five poultry farms in Panchkula district will be culled after poultry samples from two farms tested positive for avian flu.Dalal said the culling operations had started following the Centre’s guidelines stipulating that poultry in farms located within 1 km of any infected farm would have to be culled. “The employees of these farms would be examined by the Health Department and administered anti-viral drugs,” the Animal Husbandry Minister asserted.Meanwhile, avian influenza on Friday spread to six states, including Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat, with the Centre asking the authorities to mount surveillance operations and begin culling infected birds or poultry. — TNS
09-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||To defuse crisis, Centre plans to turn to Akal Takht Jathedar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 8With talks deadlocked, the Centre has started roping in heads of religious sects in Punjab to break the impasse on the farm laws.While Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met Baba Lakha Singh of Nanaksar Gurdwara yesterday, the BJP is now contemplating involving Giani Harpreet Singh, Akal Takht Jathedar, for mediation between the Centre and protesting farmers.Also readKamaljit Soi, BJP National SpokespersonWill bridge trust gapAs negotiations aren’t moving beyond ‘yes’ and ‘no’, we need a third party whom both sides can look up to. There is trust deficit and spiritual leaders can help bridge the gap.“As negotiations aren’t moving beyond ‘yes’ and ‘no’, we need a third party whom both sides look up to. There has been trust deficit and spiritual leaders can help bridge the gap. We will approach Giani Harpreet Singh — head of the highest temporal seat of Sikhs,” said BJP national spokesperson Kamaljit Soi.Soi claimed it was tough to come to conclusion on any point with around 40 union leaders, attending talks from the farmers’ side. “It’s terribly cold and even Baba Lakha Singh was of the view that all farmers, particularly women and children, should return home,” he added.About the proposed mediation, SGPC chief Jagir Kaur said, “Though the ongoing crisis is no way related to religion, it’s up to Giani Harpreet Singh to decide. Moreover, the Centre has a battery of intellectuals who can play mediator.”BKU (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said by roping in dera heads and priests, the Centre was “trying to play a religious card”. “If we don’t agree to what the Jathedar tells us, they might say we are not even following the Akal Takht diktat. It’s purely a legal matter and we won’t succumb to such tactics,” he said.Baba Ram Singh, who recently died at the protest site, too was from the Nanaksar sect. Baba Lakha Singh has been running a 24-hour ‘langar’ at Singhu since the protests began on November 25.“A farmer himself, Baba ji owns plantations and is also an environmentalist. Our minister told him the government’s point of view and he assured us he will talk to the farmers today, which he has done. We are hopeful his message to the farmers will help defuse the situation,” said Soi.The Nanaksar sect has its headquarters at Kaleran village in Jagraon (Ludhiana), but has centres across Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and even Canada. It was founded by Baba Nand Singh in the 1920s. The sect believes in vegetarianism and the followers wear white turbans. Giani Harpreet Singh could not be contacted.
