09-06-2020||Chandigarh||56 more test coronavirus positive, Punjab's tally crosses 2,700||Fifty-six more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Punjab, pushing the virus count to 2,719 in the state, officials said on Tuesday.Among fresh cases, 20 were reported in Amritsar, which is leading the coronavirus tally in the state.Fifteen new cases reported in Ludhiana; five each in Mohali, Sangrur and Jalandhar; three in Pathankot; and one each in Patiala, Tarn Taran and Rupnagar, according to a state government's medical bulletin.Four among the fresh cases are foreign returnees and two interstate travellers, the bulletin said.The state has witnessed over 300 COVID-19 cases in the last six days.On the brighter side, 39 coronavirus patients were discharged from various hospitals, taking the number of total cured people to 2,167 in the state, it said.There are 497 active cases in Punjab.Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 502 coronavirus cases, followed by Jalandhar (311), Ludhiana (266), Tarn Taran (160), Gurdaspur (152), Patiala (139), Hoshiarpur (135), Mohali (133), Sangrur (116), SBS Nagar (109), Pathankot (94), Faridkot (73).Seventy-one cases each were reported in Rupnagar and Muktsar, 70 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 67 in Moga, 55 in Bathinda, 48 in Fazilka, 46 in Ferozepur, 40 in Kapurthala, 34 in Mansa and 27 in Barnala, according to the bulletin.Five patients are critical and are on ventilator support, the bulletin said, adding Punjab has seen 55 coronavirus deaths so far.A total of 1,36,343 samples have been taken so far for coronavirus testing, it said. PTI
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD demands Rs 3,000 per acre compensation for paddy growers in Punjab||The opposition SAD on Tuesday urged the Punjab government to pay Rs 3,000 per acre to farmers as compensation for bearing the additional cost for paddy transplantation.A resolution to this effect was passed at a meeting of the core committee of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) which was presided over by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal here.The core committee, the party's highest decision-making body, took into account the crisis in the farming sector due to unavailability of labour leading to doubling of paddy transplantation costs.It said in case the government did not step in and give compensation of Rs 3,000 per acre to all paddy growers, the agrarian crisis in the state would deepen.The core committee also demanded that the Congress-led state government pay the power, water and sewerage bills for the entire three months period of the lockdown from the proceeds of the state disaster management fund, a party release said.It said neither the common man nor the industry was in a position to take this load and the government should pay the three months dues to the state electricity and water utilities as a one-time measure.The meeting passed resolutions demanding from the state government to give a complete account of the alleged Rs 5,600 crore revenue loss incurred by the excise department and fix responsibility for the same.The opposition party also decided to bring all these issues to the notice of Governor V P Singh Badnore on June 11.The party said it would demand an inquiry into the alleged liquor, seed and ration scams.It also alleged that the state government was trying to bury the Rs 5,600 liquor scam and the Rs 4,000 crore seed scam by going after the “small fish” even as the kingpin roamed scot-free.The party demanded an inquiry to find out how a large part of the central food grain relief was reportedly diverted and never reached the beneficiaries, the release added.PTI
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sanctions additional Rs 200 crore for ongoing road, bridge projects||The Punjab government on Tuesday sanctioned an additional Rs 200 crore for completing all ongoing planned road and bridge projects on priority in the current and next fiscal.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also issued directions for expeditious time-bound completion of critical public and building work projects while chairing a video conference meeting of the empowered committee of cabinet on projects of key concern to the state, an official release said.The meeting was attended by the finance minister, public works minister, forest minister and several senior officials, it added.The allocation of an additional Rs 200 crore would give a big boost to the ongoing road and bridge projects, which had been budgeted earlier at a cost of Rs 854 crore.The fund infusion would raise the total budget for execution of these works to Rs 1,054 crore.The chief minister also directed to complete on priority building works currently in progress at a cost of Rs 356 crore, the release said.He also underlined the need for timely completion of national highway projects in the state.Singh asked the concerned departments to focus intensively on expediting the process of forest clearance, land acquisition and utility shifting.He directed the concerned departments to take adequate and prompt measures to clear all impediments in completing projects on time. PTI
09-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Sikhs feed protestors of 'Black Lives Matter': 'Guru ka Langar always there'||Whether it is the Delhi riots, the bushfires in Australia, or even providing food to the elderly during the deadly coronavirus pandemic, the Sikh community always comes forward to lend a helping hand. The Sikh community has again come forward to support the protestors who are protesting against racism in the US in light of the recent killing of George Floyd.  In a post on Facebook by Kalgidhar Trust-Baru Sahib, it was revealed that "Pandemic or Protests – Guru ka Langar is always there."The post read: "Pandemic or Protests – Guru ka Langar is always thereAs we all know that the world is dealing with the deadly COVID-19 Pandemic Outbreak. But there are few people who are risking their lives for the betterment of society. Gursikhs are one of those few people. Langar-Seva is one of the basic principles in the Sikhism. And the Sikh community across the globe is doing the same in this need of the hour. The Gurdwara Sahib of New York, in Queens Village, has served more than 1,45,000 free meals in the last two months. Gurdwara Harmandir Sahib, Amritsar has daily served more than 100,000 people. In the latest example of selfless service, the Gurdwara Sahib of Queens Village fed a group of protestors who were there for George Floyd killing. These Gursikhs are trying their best not to let anyone sleep empty-stomach. They are working day and night in fighting for COVID-19 as well as global starvation. We must feel proud of these noble souls. And we should learn from them how to work for the other selflessly. Share and Support.Naam Japo, Kirt Karo, Vand Chhako Source: New York Times #Sikhi #Selfless_service #Sikh_volunteer." Pandemic or Protests – Guru ka Langar is always there As we all know that the world is dealing with the deadly COVID-19...In a report to the New York Time, Himmat Singh, coordinator at the World Sikh Parliament talked about how they want to help those who are peacefully protesting against the wrong and are going to peaceful protests to provide food to them.
09-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||AAP MLA from Bhadaur on indefinite protest||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, June 9Alleging violation of norms during the auction of reserved village common land at Pakhon Kalan on April 30, Bhadaur AAP MLA Pirmal Singh Dhaula along with five panchayat members have been sitting on an indefinite protest in front of Barnala Deputy Commissioner (DC) office since Monday.As per information, Panchayat department had conducted the auction of the land on April 30. But as per allegations, department officers allegedly allowed the upper caste landlords to participate in auction of reserved land for Dalits in the names of Dalits.“Since general category candidates took the reserved land under the names of dummy Dalit candidates, its violation of norms as only Dalits, who want to cultivate land, could take the reserved land. I gave application to authorities on May 6 for the cancellation of bogus auction, but till date officers have not taken any action,” alleged Bhadaur AAP MLA Pirmal Singh Dhaula while sitting on an indefinite protest.Five Panchayat members have also been sitting on protest, out of total 11 members of Panchayat.They alleged that to help the upper caste landlords, officers have been assuring them to conduct a detailed inquiry.“Since within a day or two paddy transplantation would start, officers want to help upper caste by ordering an inquiry. Why did not they order an inquiry last month when I had requested them? We would not lift our protest till the cancellation of bogus auction of reserved 14.5 acres,” said the MLA.Barnala SDM Anmol Singh Dhaliwal, who has met protesters, said: “We are ready for an inquiry, but MLA and Panchayat members are demanding immediate cancellation of the auction. We are looking into the matter thoroughly.”
09-06-2020||Moga||Cop killed, 2 others injured as man opens fire in Punjab's Moga||A police constable was allegedly killed and two other cops were wounded in a shooting at Moga‘s Khosa Pando village in the small hours of Tuesday, police said.A police team had been despatched to detain one Gurwinder Singh, who had a property dispute with his uncle, Moga Superintendent of Police Harmanbir Singh Gill said. Gurwinder Singh allegedly used his father Sukhdev Singh’s revolver to shoot at the cops, fatally wounding 45-year-old Jagmohan Singh and wounding Assistant Sub-Inspector Tarlochan Singh and Head Constable Bedham Singh.The ASI is undergoing treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot. Bedham Singh is at Ludhiana’s DMC, the officer said.Two locals, Kala Singh and Gurdeep Singh, were also allegedly wounded in the firing and are currently at the district hospital.The suspect, Gurwinder Singh, fled soon the shooting after in his car, but met with an accident near Daulatpura village and was placed under custody. He was brought to the emergency ward of Moga district hospital, which sent him to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot.Police have booked Gurwinder Singh for murder (Section 302) and attempt to murder (Section 307) along with some other sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as the Arms Act.
09-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Chided by Capt, Local Govt withdraws order||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 8The Punjab Local Government Department has withdrawn instructions issued by its top officer on being ticked off by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for “arbitrarily interfering” in the functioning of the Punjab Bureau of Investment (Invest Punjab) that is directly under his purview.Reacting strongly to Additional Chief Secretary’s instructions withdrawing concurrent powers vested with the officials in the bureau for single-window clearance to change of land use (CLU), layout and building plans, the CM pointed out that these not only violated “the spirit of ease of doing business”, but had been issued without consulting him.The instructions were issued by Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Sanjay Kumar upon approval by Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra. When contacted, the minister said: “The CM is supreme. On his instructions, the ACS has withdrawn the letter.” The ACS was not available for comment.The Bureau of Investment and the Local Government Department have had differences on the ‘ease of doing business’. Local Government officials claim that project clearances by the bureau have caused revenue losses and that there is no check on technical aspects.The development comes close on the heels of a controversy over a firm being allegedly favoured by introducing a clause in the Rs 650-crore Budha Nullah revival plan tender.The Chief Minister’s Office today intervened to ensure an open tendering process. The CEO of the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), Ajoy Sharma, had objected to the tender being restrictive and favouring a particular firm.
09-06-2020||Surinder Bhardwaj||Labour shortage hits steel town||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 8Though industrialists of the steel town of Punjab — Mandi Gobindgarh — have started production in their units, the shortage of labour has greatly affected them. Not only are they finding it difficult to get skilled and unskilled labour, but the labourers available have also started asking for more wages.Those who used to charge Rs 100 to Rs 150 per tonne for loading and unloading of iron goods in the trucks have now started charging between Rs 250 and Rs 350.Mohinder Pal Gupta, president, Furnace Association, rued they had provided food for labourers during the lockdown and on the directions of the government, had paid their salaries too, but now as the factories had started functioning, labourers were “blackmailing” them.He said the exodus of labour had caused great losses to them. He said they had urged the government to cancel the trains so that they do not go away but now, the huge amount spent by the government, industrialists and NGOs on them had “gone down the drain”.
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jagmeet Brar now part of SAD core committee||A year after Jagmeet Singh Brar, former Congress MP, who later had an alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party, joined the Shiromani Akali Dal, he has been included in the core committee of the party.The leader, apart from being known for his oratorical skills, had been the biggest critic of the Badal family. He had even defeated SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal in the 1999 Lok Sabha elections.Parambans Singh Romana has been appointed president of the Youth Akali Dal. Party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said Sukhbir had announced the 19-member core committee of the party consisting of previous members with fresh inclusion of Jagmeet Singh Brar.The other members of the committee are Gobind Singh Longowal, Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Jathedar Tota Singh, Charanjit Singh Atwal, Nirmal Singh Kahlon, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, Dr Daljit Singh Cheema, Bibi Jagir Kaur, Dr Upinderjit Kaur, Sikander Singh Maluka, Janmeja Singh Sekhon, Bikram Singh Majithia, Hari Singh Zira, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Gulzar Singh Ranike, Surjit Singh Rakhra and Baldev Singh Mann.Sukhbir has also named Bibi Jagir Kaur as president of women wing, Ranike of the SC wing and NK Sharma of the trade wing. — TNS
09-06-2020||---||After lull, spike in cases||Chandigarh, June 8After managing to contain the Covid spread for around two weeks in May, the state has again witnessed a sudden increase in the number of cases over the last one week.A steep hike in cases was earlier witnessed for two weeks from April-end to mid-May when pilgrims from Nanded had started arriving and a large number of them were tested positive. In those two weeks, the average number of cases in a week was more than 700. But from mid-May onwards, the number of cases started declining and the situation continued for almost three weeks.Between May 10 and May 31, the state reported just 456 cases, averaging 150 cases a week. However, in last week of May, after relaxations were announced and people started entering state from outside, the cases began to rise.In the last one week, over 350 cases were reported. Most of the new patients have travelled from outside the state.The government has now ordered all deputy commissioners to form special teams to ensure home quarantine of people, who recently entered Punjab from other states. In a communication, Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, has issued directions to all deputy commissioners to keep track on the people entering their districts from other states.The government is anticipating that the number of people entering Punjab will be much higher in the coming days. The DCs have been asked to act strictly against those violating quarantine norms.
09-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Not paid, youths stuck in Kuwait seek help||Khanna, June 8About 600 youths from Punjab who went looking for greener pastures in Kuwait are stuck there amid the outbreak of Covid-19. They want to return to India but their employer companies are allegedly not giving them their passports and they are forced to live without money and proper food. They rue that they have requested all concerned but no one has come forward to help them.Tale of woesManpreet Singh, a resident of Bhatian village near Machiwara, says he and some other youths of his village and others from across Punjab are stuck in Kuwait and are eagerly waiting to return home. He says they worked in AGL Company but the work there had stopped about three months ago due to the pandemic. Thereafter, the company allegedly refused to pay them and the management is not even returning their passports. He says they are only given rice to eat and that too isn’t adequate for them.The youths say there is no hope of their work resuming in a few months and they cannot go on living without money or proper food. They they have been trying to communicate with the Indian Embassy for many days, but no one is allegedly heeding to their pleas. They say they have also appealed to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann, philanthropist SPS Oberoi and others to help them return to their families.
09-06-2020||---||Rationalise expenses, CM tells departments||Chandigarh, June 8Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday directed all departments to further rationalise their expenses in order to ensure no shortage of funds for fighting the pandemic at all costs.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterThe capital expenditure in essential sectors will be retained at Rs 5,000 crore, notwithstanding the economic crisis being faced by the state.With studies and reports from around the world presenting a grim picture on the Covid outlook, the projections were not good, the CM said at a videoconference meeting of the Empowered Committee of Cabinet on Fiscal Management.The CM said the capital expenditure in essential sectors such as health, education and infrastructure would be retained at Rs 5,000 crore, notwithstanding the economic crisis being faced by the state, which was expecting a shortfall of nearly 30 per cent in the total revenue receipts in FY 2020-21 on account of the Covid and lockdown effect.Reviewing the economic situation of the state amid the unprecedented crisis, the Chief Minister said the focus of his government was on ensuring that salaries and pensions continue to be paid on time along with power subsidy to the PSPCL. In spite of its strained finances, the state had successfully paid all grants to Local Bodies and PRIs, ensuring they do not face problems in disbursement of salaries, the Chief Minister said. He said up to date releases had been made for medical bills, POL bills and all other SOE expenditure, as well for the successful rollover to the new IFMS.To help the state tide over the critical economic situation, the CM underlined the need for fast-paced industrial revival. The focus should be on attracting more investments, particularly from industries and businesses seeking to shift out of China in the wake of the pandemic, he said.
09-06-2020||Raikot||Clear stand on Takht remark, Sukhbir told||Cooperation and Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today said SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had not cleared his stand on statements issued on the demand for a separate Sikh state by SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal and Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh recently. “Does the SAD support the divisive and secessionist agenda being pursued by the SGPC president?” he asked.He also dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clear his stand on the issue of “hidden agenda” of the SAD and the SGPC in demanding a separate Sikh state. — OC
09-06-2020||
||Poor footfall on Day 1||Amritsar, June 8 The footfall of devotees was low at the Golden Temple and Durgiana Mandir which were reopened officially today.  While taking precautionary measures, ‘karah parshad’ was distributed and langar served to devotees at the Golden Temple complex. This, however, defy the guidelines of the Union and state government in the wake of curbing Covid-19 spread.  SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal had already lodged his contest against putting a ban on ‘parshad’ and langar in gurdwaras. “The ‘karah parshad’ and langar are part and parcel of ‘rehat maryada’ with which the sentiments of devotees are associated. How could these activities be discontinued? But we have been firm on the implementation of precautionary measures like maintaining hygiene and physical distancing. We have asked the government to be lenient on this condition officially,” he said.  Golden Temple’s chief manager Mukhtiar Singh said between 30 and 35 per cent devotees turned up to pay obeisance today compared to normal day’s footfall, yet it tends to increase ahead.  Devotees were made to pass through a makeshift passage where medical teams monitored their temperature and their hands were sanitised. From Darshani Deodi, devotees were made to go inside the Sanctum Sanctorum in batches while maintaining distance from each other.  In Durgiana Mandir, there was scant rush of devotees. President of Durgiana Committee Harish Sharma said, “Since the restrictions over interstate travel were still there, only the locals could come. Compared to normal day’s footfall, today it was around 25 per cent,” he said.  He said langar tradition was carried on as per routine, but offering ‘parshad’ was discontinued for the time being.
09-06-2020||Anirudh Gupta||No let-up, 81 kg heroin seized in two months||Ferozepur, June 8Despite a strict lockdown here and restrictions in neighbouring Pakistan in view of the pandemic, cross-border smuggling continued unabated along the 550-km-long Indo-Pak border in Punjab.As per information, a total of 81.84 kg of heroin worth Rs 409.22 crore was seized by law enforcement agencies, including the BSF, STF and the CIA, between March 24, when the lockdown was imposed, and May 31.Of this, almost 55 kg contraband was recovered in the Ferozepur sector alone during this period. In the latest seizure on May 27, three plastic bottles containing 1.68 kg of heroin worth Rs 7.5 crore were seized by the jawans belonging to 136 Battalion of the BSF in this sector.Earlier seizures were made on May 24 (2 kg), May 22 (10.19 kg and 1.90 kg in separate incidents), May 14 (7.70 kg), April 22 (1 kg) April 21 (4.5 kg), March 31, (3 kg), March 26 (5 kg), and March 23 (4.27 kg)A BSF official said, “In the last over two months, our forces have thwarted several attempts by anti-national elements to push contraband inside the Indian territory.”He said Pakistani smugglers continued their activities taking advantage of the standing wheat crop along the border even during the lockdown period.An intelligence official said, “This region was known for arms and gold smuggling till early 90s when the focus shifted to heroin and other psychotropic drugs. The smuggling activities are mostly taking place in border districts of Pathankot, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Amritsar and Gurdaspur.”Sources say the BSF allowed farmers to work in their fields beyond the barbed wire fence during the day. Many of them are lured by peddlers across the border to work as their carriers, they say, adding that Pakistani smugglers tie up with peddlers on this side of the border and deliver consignments through the carriers.
09-06-2020||Aman Sood||Sowing begins tomorrow, power demand to go up||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 8Punjab is all set to start paddy sowing season that officially begins from Wednesday with the two key sectors — power and agriculture departments — all set to address the woes of farmers in the wake of coronavairus and limited migrant labour.Officials say agriculture sector’s power demand is likely to cross 4,000 MW.Farmers in the state are still waiting for migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to sow and harvest nearly 25 lakh hectares of paddy in Punjab. However, barring a few handful being brought in specially hired buses, not many migrants are interested in coming back.“There are chances that the area under paddy cultivation might further increase despite the fact that the state government is promoting maize cultivation by providing subsidy,” said an official of the Agriculture Department.As per the department, paddy was grown on 29.30 lakh hectares in Punjab last year and this year, Punjab has decided to shift 2.50 lakh hectares from paddy to other crops. In addition, a new method of paddy sowing called the direct seeding of rice (DSR) has been recommended by the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. “The DSR system does not require intensive labour but the area under the DSR has exceeded 7 lakh hectares with 4,000 specialised DSR machines purchased by farmers and thousands of wheat sowing machines being modified to sow paddy,” says Secretary, Agriculture, Kahan Singh Pannu.CMD, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), A Venu Prasad said, “The PSPCL is committed to providing an eight-hour daily uninterrupted power supply to its 14 lakh agriculture tubewell consumers for the paddy season. The supply to all agriculture-related power consumers has been divided into three groups at each substation.”He said consumers could lodge complaints by giving a missed call on the PSPCL toll-free number 1800-180-1512. “Consumers can also register their complaints on 1912 by SMS or phone call,” he stated.
09-06-2020||Our Correspondent
||1.3 lakh litre lahan destroyed||Ludhiana, June 8 In a drive against distillation, smuggling and sale of illicit liquor in the city, the police carried out a series of raids in the Mand area along the Sutlej river on Sunday.  Yash Pal Sharma, in-charge, Anti-Smuggling Cell, said 1.3 lakh litre lahan was recovered from different places and was destroyed on the spot.  Meanwhile, the police arrested four persons and recovered illicit liquor from their possession. In another raid conducted at Razapur village, the police seized 50 litres of illicit liquor that the accused, Mal Singh was selling at his residence. The accused fled from the scene. A case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered against him.
09-06-2020||Barnala||Staffers allege harassment by principal||Five teachers of Baba Gandha Singh Public School, Barnala, climbed atop a water tank, alleging harassment by school principal and management. Slogans were also raised against the police for not taking any action.Principal Col Srinivasulu (Retd) said: “Of more than 100 teachers, only few are leveling baseless allegations and I have CCTV footage to prove that.”“We have been demanding an FIR against the principal, as he has been raising questions about our religion,” said Guramrit Kaur, a teacher. Barnala DSP Baljit Brar said: “A case is on in the court. We are also conducting a probe. There is no delay on our part.” —–TNS
09-06-2020||
||AAP: Govt to blame for students’ plight||Chandigarh, June 8 AAP has held the state government responsible for the problems being faced by students, parents, managements and private schools’ staff in the wake of Covid-induced lockdown. In a joint statement issued from party headquarters in Chandigarh on Monday, state core committee chairman principal Budhram, party’s chief spokesman Prof Baljinder Kaur, Deputy Leader of Opposition Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and master Baldev Singh, all MLAs, said the people of Punjab wanted Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to tell them as to what the government had done to mitigate the sufferings of millions of private school students, parents, managements, teachers and other staff members in this distressing period? They also wanted the Chief Minister to make known where a whopping amount of Rs650 crore of the ‘reserve fund’ which was collected from private schools in the form of security fee had been squandered away?     The AAP leaders questioned Minister Vijay Inder Singla if he had convened even a single departmental meeting to work out the modalities on state-level policy to address the problems faced by the parents of students studying in private schools?
09-06-2020||---||Couldn’t take online classes, teen ends life||Mansa, June 8A 17-year-old girl, Ramandeep Kaur, from Kotdharmu village in Mansa reportedly committed suicide on Friday. Her family members claimed she took the extreme step as she didn’t have the facility to attend online classes for her Class XI studies. However, the police have refuted the theory.Her father Jagseer Singh, a farm labourer, said, “My daughter was demanding a smartphone as she wanted to study, but I was unable to fulfill her desire as I do not have money for it, due to which she ended her life.”However, a senior police functionary refuted the theory and stated that in the initial probe, it had come to light that her mother had an illicit affair and she had gone out with the person, when her father returned home. The girl committed suicide in tension, according to the preliminary inquiry. He said the girl’s mother had come up with the story to cover up the matter, but the probe was underway.
09-06-2020||Balwant Garg||Faridkot inheritance battle on over ‘assignment deed’||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 8In another twist to the legal fight over the inheritance of assets worth a staggering Rs 25,000 crore of the erstwhile Maharaja of Faridkot, nine persons, in a petition in the Patiala House Court in Delhi, have claimed that one of the princesses had entered into an agreement with them, selling all her rights in the disputed property on February 14, 1996, for Rs 65 lakh.9 persons file petitionLast week, after about a three-decade-long legal fight, while nullifying a ‘will’, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had ruled that his two daughters — Amrit Kaur and Deepinder Kaur — would largely inherit Maharaja’s wealth along with his nephew.In their petition in Patiala House Court, Gurpreet Singh and his eight associates claimed that during the pendency of legal fight over the property, Amrit Kaur had entered into an assignment deed with them, for a total consideration of Rs 65 lakh, selling the property.After the payment of Rs 65 lakh to Amrit Kaur, the latter had also executed a Registered General Power of Attorney in favour of Gurpreet Singh and his associates, the petitioners claimed.As per the assignment deed, Gurpreet and his associates were to bear and incur all expenditure for the litigation connected with or arising out of it. As per this deed, the properties awarded to the Maharaja’s daughter will now be evaluated and Gurpreet and his associates shall pay 20 per cent of the evaluated amount of the property to become absolute owners of the properties.The district court in Patiala House, New Delhi, has fixed July 30 as the next date of hearing in this case for framing of issues.Some members of Mehrawal Khewaji Trust said as Amrit Kaur had already sold all her rights in the property during the pendency of the decision on the authenticity of the will, she had no right to pursue the case after February 14, 1996.
09-06-2020||Saurabh Malik
||HC issues notice to DGP over plea on DSP seniority list||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 8 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the then Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Nirmaljit Singh Kalsi on notice on an application alleging deliberate failure to settle the final seniority list of DSPs to ensure retirement of senior officers likely to be considered for promotion to the IPS cadre. Notice has also been issued to Punjab DGPDinkar Gupta and another respondent. The notice by Justice Suvir Sehgal came on an application filed by Gurdial Singh and another petitioner seeking the revival of a contempt petition filed against Kalsi and other respondents. The petitioners, through counsel Sartej Singh Narula, contended that the delay in finalising and uploading the final seniority list on the official website was in blatant violation of the directions issued by the High Court in November 2018. It was also intentional violation of an undertaking given before the court in December last year during the hearing of two contempt petitions. “The seniority list was to be finalised by March 8. About three months have expired even thereafter without the undertaking having been complied with. This, by itself, amounts to contempt of court as defined under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, warranting appropriate proceedings against the respondents,” the petitioner-applicants contended. The Bench was also told that the respondents and the state were manipulating and delaying publication of the final seniority list to give benefit to a select few.
09-06-2020||Ropar||Staff protest pay cut||Workers of Punjab Alkalies & Chemicals Limited (PACL) have been sitting on a dharna since June 1 protesting against salary cut at Naya Nangal near here. Leaders of the PACL Karamchari Sangh said there was no need of pay cut due to Covid-19 as the factory remained operational even during the lockdown. However, the PACL authorities claimed that it was a mere temporary cut due to sharp decline in demand of company’s products and the deducted amount from the salaries of workers would be reimbursed in future.  Workers said due to the lockdown the factory was shut down from March 22 to March 31. — TNS
09-06-2020||
||Probe cancellation of blue cards: Locals||Sangrur, June 8 Residents of various villages in the district, under the banner of Zameen Prapati Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC), today protested near the local residence of Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla in favour of their demands. The main demands included inquiry into the cancellation of blue cards and action against erring officers who cancelled the cards without any “valid” reasons, action against micro-finance companies that are pressuring the poor to repay loans despite directions for relaxation during the lockdown period and auction of reserved common land on merit. “The district administration has called us for a meeting on Tuesday to discuss our demands. We have  evidence to prove that some officers are creating problems in the auction of reserved land,” said Parmjit Kaur, secretary, ZPSC.
09-06-2020||---||CBI seeks time to file reply on plea in abduction case||Chandigarh, June 8The Punjab Police today filed an additional application in the Special CBI Court in Chandigarh in a nearly 29-year-old kidnapping case.In the application, the Punjab Police mentioned that the Punjab and Haryana High Court had returned the status report in the case to the CBI in 2016.On June 6, the Punjab Police had filed an application in the court seeking record of the preliminary inquiry conducted by the CBI in the kidnapping case as they had restarted investigation in the case and they wanted certain information from the record.In its reply, the CBI had stated that the agency had registered the FIR in 2008 on the directions of the High Court and conducted a preliminary inquiry. However, the FIR was quashed by the Supreme Court on technical grounds in 2011.The CBI submitted that the agency keeps record of old cases for five years and as per the policy, they had weeded out the record, as the preliminary inquiry had been conducted 12 years ago and the FIR had been quashed in 2011.Disproving the reply of the CBI, in the additional application, the Punjab Police submitted that the High Court had returned the status report to the CBI in 2016, then how could the agency say that it did not have any record.The CBI has sought time to file reply on the additional application. Now, the matter will come up for hearing on Thursday.The Punjab Police had recently booked former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and seven other police personnel in the kidnapping case that took place in 1991.
09-06-2020||Abohar||Action sought against civic body employees||Welcoming the restoring the possession of 5 kanal prime land to the MC, eight former Congress councillors on Monday demanded action against former municipal council president and other officials for reportedly exchanging its 5 kanal 8 marla of land with Gurdit Singh against his 1 kanal 8 Marla land to facilitate construction of Nai Sadak to link Aggarsein Chowk with a flyover in 2006. — OC
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||'Act tough in seed scam'||
09-06-2020||---||Infant among 4 dead, toll rises to 55 in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 8With four more deaths, including that of an eight-month-old child in Amritsar, the state count of casualties due to Covid-19 has reached 55.Three victims are from Amritsar district and one from Patiala. It is the highest single day toll in the state so far.An eight-month-old child, Sukhdeep Singh of Gopalpura Manjwind village, was admitted to the pediatric department at Government Medical College, Amritsar, with fever cough. The child was shifted to the ICU. His Covid test had come positive. He expired this evening.The other two deceased are Sat Pal, a 78-year-old resident of Sharma Colony, and 60-year-old Arjun Kumar of Katra Sher Singh locality in Amritsar. Both were suffering from co-morbidities, said health authorities.The fourth patient was a 46-year-old resident of Nabha, who died at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, last afternoon. The deceased was an employee of a private company. He was taken to Nabha civil hospital from where he was referred to Patiala on Saturday.Dr Harish Malhotra, Civil Surgeon, Patiala, said, “The patient did not have any travel history. He, however, had diabetes and other ailments. We have already collected samples of his close contacts.”Meanwhile, 55 new Covid cases came to the fore in the state on Monday. As per the media bulletin, 14 cases were reported from Jalandhar, 12 from Amritsar, nine from Ludhiana, five from Patiala, three each from Pathankot and SBS Nagar, two each from Faridkot, SAS Nagar and Sangrur and one each from Fazilka, Gurdaspur and Moga.With 14 new cases in Jalandhar, the district tally has risen to 307. For the third consecutive day, two children are among those who tested positive.Amritsar district remained the worst hit with cases rising to 481.
