09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab's Chhatbir zoo to reopen from Thursday||The famous Chhatbir zoo in Punjab will reopen for the public from Thursday after being closed for nearly eight months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said.The zoo will remain open six days a week and a maximum of 2,700 visitors will be allowed on a single day, according to a government release.Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park or Chhatbir Zoo will reopen on Thursday, Field Director M Sudhagar said, adding that the administration has worked out a standard operating procedure (SOP).A limited number of tickets will be available in different slots to ensure staggered entry and social distancing, and all visitors will have to compulsorily wear face masks.People above 65 years and children below 5 years of age are requested not to visit the zoo, the government statement said.All visitors shall compulsorily pass over the medicated foot-mat at the entrance of the zoo. Only cashless and online booking will be allowed for buying entry tickets, it said.Touch-free sensor-based hand wash facilities have been provided at the entry of the zoo and other strategic points. Apart from these, touch-free sanitiser dispensers have also been installed at the zoo premises.The visitors will get an opportunity to see tiger cubs Amar, Arjun and Dilnoor and Indian fox with her newborn pups for the first time, it said.However, the reptile house, nocturnal house and wildlife safari (lion safari and deer safari) will remain closed initially.Based on the experience and feedback of the initial month, the facilities may be considered to be opened for the public in a phased manner. PTI
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Rejection of Centre's proposal by farmers ‘unfortunate': Punjab BJP chief||Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on Wednesday dubbed the farmers decision to reject the Centre's proposal to amend the new farm laws as “unfortunate”.He urged the protesting farmers to review their decision.“It was unfortunate that farmer leaders have rejected the proposed amendments to the three agriculture bills,” Sharma said in a statement here.He said the Centre has addressed all the major concerns about the minimum support price (MSP) and the mandi system in the proposed amendments which the “farmers should accept with grace”."The respect for farmers had prompted the Centre to address the issues which affected the community, and in all fairness, the protestors should have accepted the offer,” he said.The BJP leader suggested that the farmers should withdraw their agitation in view of the offer made by the Centre.Farmer leaders rejected the government proposal on the three contentious agriculture-marketing laws, and said they would intensify their agitation against the legislations with a nationwide protest on December 14.The government has proposed to give a "written assurance" that the existing MSP regime for procurement will continue.It has also proposed to make necessary amendments on at least seven issues, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the mandi system.PTI
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Stop playing games with farmers: SAD to Centre||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday asked the BJP-led Centre to “stop playing games” with innocent farmers and withdraw the three farm laws "immediately and unconditionally".The SAD, which had pulled out of the National Democratic Alliance amid the consistent digs at it by the Congress after the enactment of the laws, also backed the farmers' rejection of the Centre's proposal on these laws.“These proposals were nothing but delaying and diversionary tactics and tricks which have rightly been rejected by the farmers,” it said."We are with the farmers in everything and in every way," it added.Farmer leaders on Wednesday rejected a government proposal on the three contentious agriculture-marketing laws and said they would intensify their agitation against the legislations with a nationwide protest on December 14.In a statement here, senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said there was nothing new in these proposals."These are the same proposals which had been rejected by the SAD before quitting the government and the NDA to stand with farmers,” he said."It is so tragic that the country's 'annadata', the farmers, are battling cruel and biting cold along with their family members ranging from barely 14-day-old infants to elders in their late eighties and nineties," said the Akali leader.He urged the government to "abandon its stubborn refusal to listen to farmers and announce an unqualified and unconditional acceptance of their demands".“The government says the farm laws are meant for farmers' welfare. If the farmers don't want these, it is absolutely unreasonable, wrong and undemocratic to thrust these laws upon them," said the former minister.The senior Akali leader expressed grave concern over how "our country's soft and civilised image is taking a huge beating with the government's repressive handling of a peaceful stir”.“What an irony that people and institutions from all over the world, including the UN, have felt deeply touched and extended solidarity with our brave but beleaguered farmers while our own elected government continues to be utterly callous and insensitive to their sufferings," alleged Majithia.“The unspeakable miseries, which the country's breadwinners are braving, present a touching human spectacle that can move even the most heartless enemy,” he said.The Akali leader alleged that the government's “apathy” towards its people and its "love and preference for the rich corporates" have brought back memories of the "colonial rulers"."The pity is greater because the rulers today are not foreigners but our own elected representatives. People elected them in the hope that they would address their problems as does a parent in a family. Unfortunately, the parent has turned cruelly and heartlessly against its own children," he alleged. — PTI
09-12-2020||---||UK PM in Parliament confuses farmers’ protest with India-Pak dispute||London, December 9British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday seemed to confuse two separate issues when he reiterated the UK government’s stance that any dispute between India and Pakistan was for the two countries to settle bilaterally.British Sikh Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, who has been leading a drive to keep the protests by the Indian farmers against the government’s agricultural reforms in the news in Britain, repeated one of his previous Twitter statements on the issue in the House of Commons during the weekly Prime Minister’s Questions (PMQs) session.“Many constituents, especially those emanating from Punjab and other parts of India, and I were horrified to see footage of water cannons, teargas and brute force being used against peacefully protesting farmers. However, it was heart-warming to see those very farmers feeding those forces who had been ordered to beat or suppress them. What indomitable spirit and it takes a special kind of people to do that,” the Opposition lawmaker said.“So, will the Prime Minister (Johnson) convey to the Indian Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) our heartfelt anxieties, our hopes for a speedy resolution to the current deadlock and does he agree that everyone has a fundamental right to peaceful protest,” he questioned Johnson.Johnson, in his brief response, went on to address a completely unrelated matter instead.“Our view is that of course we have serious concerns about what is happening between India and Pakistan but these are pre-eminently matters for those two governments to settle and I know that he appreciates that point,” said Johnson.Dhesi, who looked visibly perplexed, was quick to take to social media once again as he posted the exchange on Twitter, adding: “But it might help if our PM actually knew what he was talking about!”The UK government has so far refused to be drawn into the ongoing protests in India, with the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) saying the matter of handling protests was an internal one.“The police handling of protests is a matter for the government of India,” an FCDO spokesperson said last week, following a letter initiated by Dhesi and signed by 35 other UK MPs over the issue.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26, seeking repeal of the three farm laws enacted in September.Dubbing these laws as “anti-farmer”, these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislations would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. — PTI
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||617 new COVID-19 cases in Punjab, death toll nears 5K||The death toll from COVID-19 rose to 4,980 in Punjab with 16 more fatalities, while 617 new cases raised the infection tally to 1,57,928 on Wednesday, according to a bulletin.Six new deaths linked to the novel coronavirus were reported from Jalandhar; two each from Mohali and Tarn Taran and one each from Barnala, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Patiala, Rupnagar and Sangrur, according to the medical bulletin.There are 7,325 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, it said.Mohali reported 125 new cases, followed by 70 in Jalandhar and 64 in Amritsar.A total of 530 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the recovery count to 1,45,623, according to the bulletin.Twenty-two critical COVID-19 patients are on ventilator support while 155 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 34,23,632 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said. —PTI
09-12-2020||Vijay Mohan||Punjab cadet among three who bag top honours at IMA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9A cadet from Punjab is among three soon-to-be Lieutenants who have bagged top honours in various fields during their pre-commission training at the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun.Academy Cadet Adjutant Watandeep Singh Sidhu, who hails from Threeke near Ludhiana, received three medals for excellence in physical endurance, PT and tactical ability. He had joined the National Defence Academy, Kharakvasla, in November 2016 and after completing the three-year course in 2019, proceeded to the IMA.Two other cadets, Academy Under Officer Majji Giridhar and Battalion Under Officer Ashish Kumar also received three awards each. Of the total of 18 individual medals and trophies awarded for the top positions in various categories at the awards ceremony of Autumn Term – 2020 held today, the three bagged 50 per cent of the awards.Cadets of this term, comprising the 147th Regular Course and 130th Technical Graduate Course, will formally pass out from the academy on December 12. The courses include 325 Indian and 70 foreign cadets.Addressing the cadets, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, Commandant IMA, said the country demands willing, unhesitating, unfaltering obedience and loyalty from each young officer. He said that leadership is composite of a number of qualities, among the most important of which are self-confidence, moral ascendancy, self-sacrifice, fairness, initiative, decision, dignity and courage.The Commandant said it is important for an officer to maintain a competitive streak within the parameters of sportsmanship and fair play at all times. He mentioned that the urge to win and excel as a team should always be there. In the profession of arms, it is always a collective and a team effort that is important as there are no runners up in war.The training imparted at IMA is designed to provide a comprehensive knowledge of military fundamentals and leadership, as well as proficiency in basic military skills. It aims to develop the qualities of character, intellect, fitness and competence needed by future ready officers who at all times in their career must be prepared to lead.While the COVID-19 outbreak disrupted training in most educational institutes in the world, IMA implemented an effective action plan by integrating all preventive guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health, Army Headquarters and the Army Training Command.  A healthy routine was evolved for the cadets and staff and it was ensured that there was no dilution in training standards.Sidhu got the Parachute Regiment Medal for being best in endurance and physical toughness, Maratha Light Infantry Medal for being best in PT and the Rajputana Rifles Medal for being best in tactical ability.Giridhar received the Brigade of The Guards Medal for being best in service subjects, Jat Regiment Silver Medal for being best in officer-like Qualities and the Sikh Light Infantry Silver Medal for being best in turnout and drill.Kumar received the 9 Gorkha Rifles Medal for standing first in military studies, the Corps of Signals for standing first in Science and Warfare and Rajput Regiment Silver Medal for being best in Academics.The Commandant’s Banner for standing overall first in inter-battalion championships went to the Bhagat Battalion.
09-12-2020||New Delhi||NIA charge-sheets 16 people based abroad under anti-terror law for pro-Khalistan activities||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a charge sheet against 16 people based in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada under the anti-terror law, UAPA, for allegedly indulging in seditious activities and promoting enmity on the grounds of region and religion in the country.The NIA charge sheet alleged that the seven accused from the US, six from the UK and three from Canada were involved in an organised conspiracy for launching a concerted secessionist campaign under the banner of ‘Referendum 2020’ for the creation of ‘Khalistan’.The charge sheet was filed under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) before the designated court here.The accused included Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, Hardeep Singh Nijjar and Paramjit Singh who have been designated as terrorists by a home ministry notification under the anti-terror law. Pannun stays in the US, Nijjar is at present in Canada and Singh is in the UK.The others named in the charge sheet are Avtar Singh Pannun, Harpreet Singh, Amardeep Singh Purewal, Harjaap Singh, Sarabjit Singh and S Himmat Singh (all from the US); Gurpreet Singh Baagi, Sarabjit Singh Bannur, Kulwant Singh Mothada, Dupinderjit Singh and Kulwant Singh (from the UK) and J S Dhaliwal and Jatinder Singh Grewal (from Canada).These people, according to the NIA, are members of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), an organisation declared as ‘Unlawful Association’ under the UAPA.According to the NIA spokesperson, the probe in the case showed that Sikhs for Justice, a secessionist outfit floated in the garb of ‘human rights advocacy group’ with its offices in various foreign countries like the US, Canada, the UK, Australia, is a frontal organisation of Khalistan terrorist outfits operating from foreign soils including Pakistan.Under this campaign numerous social media accounts on Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, YouTube Channels and a number of websites have been launched, which are being used “to propagate sedition as well as enmity on the grounds of region and religion, to radicalise impressionable youth, to cause disturbance to peace and harmony and to raise funds for terrorist activities”, the NIA said.The SFJ has been attempting to undermine the security of the Indian State by instigating Sikh personnel in the Indian army to rise in mutiny against India besides trying to radicalise youths of Kashmir and openly extending support for the secession of Kashmir from India, it said.The spokesperson said based on the dossiers provided by the NIA and other agencies, the chief patrons of SFJ namely Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, Hardeep Singh Nijjar and Paramjit Singh alias Pamma have already been designated as ‘Terrorist’ under UAPA.During the course of the investigation, the spokesperson said, “the NIA identified immovable properties belonging to terrorist Pannun in Amritsar and terrorist Hardeep Singh Nijjar in Jalandhar.“Based on the request of NIA, the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, in exercise of powers conferred under Section 51-A of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967, has ordered attachment of these properties.” — PTI
09-12-2020||Kolkata||Shillong Sikhs fear fresh drive to evict them||Sikhs of Shillong have appealed to various organisations in Punjab, including the state government, to not lose sight of the grave danger the Sikhs are living in the Meghalaya capital to continue to face from parochial Khasi organisations.The picturesque hill town—also known as "Scotland of the East"—is witnessing an agitation by Khasi tribals for the introduction of the inner line permit (IPL) system to make the state out of bounds for people from outside unless the visitor owned a permit issued by the state government.Khasi miscreants have often targetted Bengali living in the region, but there has been a sudden increase in racial attacks which has prompted the Bengalis of Shillong to write to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for aid.Amid the disturbances, the Khasi exclusivist organisations have also turned their attention to Shillong-based Sikhs making members of the community nervous.Confederation of Meghalaya Social Organisations (COMSO)—an umbrella outfit of 11 Khasi organisations—on Tuesday, expressed disappointment over the delay by the High-Level Committee in submitting its final recommendation regarding the relocation of Harijan Colony.“There is nothing communal in it (in the demand for the relocation of the colony where Dalit Sikhs—whose ancestors had come to Shillong with British colonial troops over a century ago—reside ), and it is mainly for the reconstruction, and redevelopment of the site as the areas are unhygienic and unsafe”, said COMSO, chairman, Robertjune Kharjahrin.“I don’t know why it is taking so much time to evict illegal settlers”, wondered Kharjahrin.He further added that the Syiem (local Khasi chieftain) of Hima Mylliem (name of the Khasi chiefdom) had made up its mind to hand over the land to the government.Gurjit Singh, chief of the Harijan Colony panchayat told the Tribune News Service over the phone from Shillong, that the only objective of the COMSO, and even the High-powered Committee (HPC) set up by Meghalaya government, under Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong, was to evict the Sikh residents from Harijan Colony—which was located near a prime commercial district of the city.Citing the successive court cases won by the Harijan Panchayat Committee on the issue of their right to reside in the colony, Gurjit Singh said that the “Syiem” could no longer roll back the land given to the ancestors of the present residents of Harijan Colony more than a century ago.It is feared, that the fresh pressure by Khasi organisations may force the Meghalaya government to once again swing into action against the Sikh residents of Harijan Colony.
09-12-2020||Ruchika M. Khanna||‘Listened to my conscience’: PAU soil scientist who refused to accept award from Union minister||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9This erudite soil scientist’s world was restricted to his research laboratory in Punjab Agricultural University at Ludhiana, and the fields where he carried out his experiments on reducing the use of fertilisers, while maintaining high productivity of crops.But when he refused to accept the FAI Golden Jubilee Award for the Best work done in the field of plant Nutrition, from the Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers yesterday, his humble and brief submission captured on a mobile phone, made him an overnight hero of the ongoing farm struggle.Talking to The Tribune, Varinderpal Singh says he had not planned to return the award initially, though he was pained by the reference to the poor farmers as “terrorists”. “I only listened to my conscience. I am an agriculture professional and son of a farmer. Obviously, I feel for the hundreds of farmers braving the cold weather in the open, protesting and demanding restoration of their rights,” he says.#Salute : Dr. Varinderpal-SinghPh.D. (Soils) Principal Soil Chemist, Department of Soil Science, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana registered his protest against the #AntiFarmerlaws of GOI while denying FAI Golden Jubilee Award for Excellence and Gold Medal from...(1/2) pic.twitter.com/OhLsfaQBRI  This soil scientist says as he reached Delhi to receive the award, he hired an autorickshaw and the auto driver is the one whose conversation weighed on his conscience and he then decided to return the award. “The auto driver was from Uttar Pradesh and said he had been going to the protest sites on Delhi borders. He kept insisting that Punjabis are fighting for the rights of farmers in the entire country, and each one must make his own efforts to strengthen the ongoing struggle. I went to Bangla Sahib gurdwara first, paid obeisance and felt fearless in returning the award,” he told The Tribune.My Letter to Prime Minister, India denying FAI Golden Jubilee Award for Excellence for best work done in Plant Nutrition pic.twitter.com/3xJf0zPCRN  When he was called out to receive the reward yesterday, he had said the technology he had developed would help save Rs 750 crore in Punjab alone, and trillions of rupees in India. “But when farmers are on the roads, I cannot accept this award. The work I did is only for the farmers and the nation. So I would be guilty if at this point I receive this great award. I have great gratitude towards the honourable minister....” he said.Varinderpal Singh added that he had received the invite for receiving the award on November 6. “I am pained at how the poor farmers have been on the roads for months now. I hope the government resolved their issue. As for the public, I pray no one calls the “annadaata” a terrorist. Nothing can be more painful than this,” he says.
09-12-2020||Archit Watts||Married to a cause: Muktsar family refuses ‘shagun’, asks wedding invitees to put money in a box for farmers’ protest||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 9In a heart-warming gesture, a farmer's family at Sheikhu village in Muktsar district recently placed a donation box at a wedding reception, asking invitees not to give 'shagun' to them but to donate for the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Delhi border.Village sarpanch Jasdeep Singh Jassi Brar said, “It was my nephew Abhijeet’s wedding reception at our village on December 7. We placed a donation box near the dance floor to collect money for the farmers’ protest rather than receiving ‘shagun’. We have collected around Rs 1 lakh and will soon send it to the farmers.”“Many people have been calling us, appreciating the move. Punjabi singer Kanwar Grewal also shared a video on his Facebook page,” he added.Jasdeep said, “We are god-fearing people and don’t believe in dowry. On the wedding day too, we did not accept ‘shagun’. However, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal who attended the marriage gave us ‘shagun’, which we have put in the donation box.”A video of the reception is being shared on social media, wherein the DJ is appealing to the gathering to put the ‘shagun’ amount in the donation box.
09-12-2020||New Delhi||Farmers’ unions reject Centre’s proposal, stir to continue||Farmers' unions on Wednesday rejected a fresh draft proposal by the Centre and said that they would continue their struggle against the three contentious farm laws. With the Centre-farmer talks ending in a stalemate, thousands of farmers stayed put at Delhi borders on Wednesday to press for repeal of the agri marketing laws.A farmers' forum received a proposal from the Union government and held a meeting at Singhu border to analyse the proposal.Also read: 5 Opposition leaders meet Prez Kovind seeking repeal of farm lawsReady to give written assurance on continuing MSP: Govt's proposal to agitating farmersAs farmers reject conciliatory proposals, BJP-led Centre in Catch-22 situationTomar meets Shah after protesting farmers reject govt’s draft proposalThe united forum of farmer leaders rejected the amendment proposal of the Union government on Wednesday. The leaders now have decided to intensify their protest.The farmer leaders announced to seal Jaipur-Delhi and Jaipur-Agra highways till December 12.The nationwide protest at district level is scheduled for December 14.During the nationwide protest, farmers will protest and gheroed the BJP offices.The unions have also decided to boycott Ambani and Adani products, JIO mobile and petrol pumps owned by Reliance.A meeting called by Home Minister Amit Shah ended in failure on Tuesday night as farmer leaders rejected the government's offer to amend new farm laws, saying they would settle for nothing less than the scrapping of the legislations.The sixth round of talks between the government and farmer unions to end the protests on Delhi's various borders, which was scheduled on Wednesday, has been cancelled.This comes after many farm leaders had threatened to boycott the talks.As the protests continued, traffic was disrupted at border points with farmers agitating on the Singhu, TIkri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi.Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about that the Tikri, Jharoda, Dhansa Borders are closed for any traffic movement. However, Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement. It also said that those travelling to Haryana can take Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders."Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed on both sides. Take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli, NH8/Bhopra /Apsara borders /Peripheral expressway, the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.It also said that the traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road and suggested commuters to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road, NH-44. Farmer leaders have been firm on their demand for repeal of three new farm laws enacted in September. With PTI
09-12-2020||Patiala||Excise officials to visit Rajpura after sealing of illegal liquor manufacturing unit||Senior excise officials will visit Rajpura and hold a meeting with local officials concerning the illegal liquor manufacturing unit that was sealed on Tuesday.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal suspended SHO City Rajpura for his "laxity" and a show-cause notice was served to DSP Rajpura for their failure to act against the illegal unit.Excise officials are expected to ask local officials to identify the source of ENA that was also confiscated from the spot.Excise Department, Punjab had on Tuesday evening unearthed a spurious manufacturing unit of country-made liquor at Rajpura.Joint Commissioner of Excise, Naresh Dubey, had said that from the manufacturing unit cum godown, a tanker of Extra Neutral Thanol (20000 litres), 43 cases of illegal Country Made Liquor (with labelling to Punjab Rasila Santra), labels, corks and sealing machine has been recovered.AIG (Excise Police) APS Ghumman and SP Pritipal Singh who were accompanying the excise officials in this raid, said that two persons, one Dipesh Grover, a resident of Rajpura and another Karaj Singh resident of Shamaspur were arrested. Besides, a tank having distilled illegal liquor was recovered, they added.Excise Officials and police said that they were working on a tip-off.Sources confirmed that the excise officials will now probe the role of two contractors who own a liquor Venda and were instrumental in buying the bulk of this fake liquor being produced using ENA.
09-12-2020||New Delhi||30 more die in Punjab as national Covid cases reach 97.35 lakh||India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 97.35 lakh on Wednesday, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 92 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.66 per cent, according to the Union health ministry.The total coronavirus cases mounted to 97,35,850 with 32,080 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 1,41,360 with 402 new fatalities, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,15,581, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.66 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent.The COVID-19 active caseload remained below four lakh for the third consecutive day.There are 3,78,909 active coronavirus infections in the country now which comprises 3.89 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.India's COVID-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and 70 lakh on October 11. The figure crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20.According to the ICMR, 14,98,36,767 samples have been tested up to December 8, with 10,22,712 such examinations being conducted on Tuesday. The new fatalities include 57 from Delhi, 53 from Maharashtra, 49 from West Bengal, 31 from Kerala, 30 from Punjab, 23 from Uttar Pradesh and 20 from Rajasthan.The total number of deaths reported so far in the country includes 47,827 from Maharashtra, 11,880 from Karnataka, 11,822 from Tamil Nadu, 9,763 from Delhi, 8,820 from West Bengal, 7,967 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,042 from Andhra Pradesh and 4,964 from Punjab.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities."Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI
09-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Out with washing machines to solve farmers’ laundry issues||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 8People from Punjab have been thinking beyond unthinkable to ensure that the farmers putting up on the Delhi-Haryana border do not feel inconvenienced.The kabaddi players of the region, with the help of a group of NRIs from Shahkot Tehsil here, have bought two new washing machines and set up a laundry service for farmers staying put at the Singhu border. The farmers had left from their places on November 25 with a limited set of clothes. Sensing their need for clean clothes at the dharna site, the volunteers rose to the occasion.Harnek Singh, a farmer from Malupur village of Jalandhar, said, “When we came here and spent about a week, we checked on every small problem that farmers were facing. Their daily dilemma was how to manage with dirty clothes. They had only one option — to dispose these and buy new ones. But this was not easy and could not go on long for all of them. So, we discussed this and found a solution. We came back and bought two washing machines from here and started this laundry service.”Young boys, majorly kabaddi players from Seechewal, Bagga and Rurkan Kalan villages, have been catering to the washing and drying facility for protesting farmers. Mangi, a youth from Bagga village, said, “We are using the open verandah of an eatery here. The owner has provided us with a motor connection for water supply. He has also allowed us to use his lights in the evening and early hours. He even permitted us to use his power connection for charging our phones. So, we collected about 40 different sets of extra chargers from our homes and got them here.”Tony, another youth from Rurkan Kalan village, said, “We realised that the farmers required undergarments, towels, toothpastes, brushes and toiletries and we brought each of these items in abundance. We have also got extra pair of slippers for farmers. A donor from Muggowal village of Hoshiarpur left some blankets and shawls with us to hand it over to farmers who require it to keep themselves warm.”Other kabaddi players, including Sukh from Bhangal village, Manjinder from Seechewal village and Kanta from Pasla village, said they, too, had joined their friends to set up three counters of langar daily.
09-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Khalsa Aid erects temporary shelter homes for farmers at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 8Continuing with their efforts to bring comfort to the protesting farmers at the Delhi-Haryana border, the teams of Khalsa Aid, have erected temporary shelter homes for farmers of the Singhu border. The farmers of Punjab and Haryana have been braving the elements for long now, protesting against the three agri laws enacted by the Centre.While the peasants assembled in large numbers on the outskirts of Delhi are least bothered about peaceful sleep, Khalsa Aid, a UK-based global Sikh charity body, is leaving no stone unturned in providing homely atmosphere to them at the protesting site.Considering the hardships faced by the agitators, especially women and children, the charitable organisation has erected two 300 bed capacity tents for them. Apart from comfortable mattresses and blankets, the tents are waterproof to keep farmers warm amid cold weather.Tejinder Pal Singh, a city-based Khalsa Aid member, who has been at the site for the past few days, said, “Amid limited supplies and unavailability of proper beds, we thought of creating temporary homes for farmers. For security, CCTV cameras have also been installed inside the tents for round the clock surveillance. In addition, special guards have been deployed to ensure safety of farmers. In view of the prevailing pandemic, the tents have been sprayed with disinfectants and hand sanitisers have been kept at the entrance to contain the spread.” It’s pertinent to mention here that the non-profit organisation has been with the farming fraternity from Day 1. Its volunteers arrange for tea and breakfast every day to keep the farmers proactive. They regularly prepare meals throughout the day. Since women had to struggle in the beginning, Khalsa Aid ordered 50 portable washrooms for their convenience. Tejinder elaborates on conveniences in the nipping weather.“Washing machines and warm water taps have also been installed for the safe hygiene of the farmers at the site so that the farmers do not face any problem,” he said.Farmers from about 35 farm organisations, mostly from Punjab, are staying put and protesting at Delhi borders since November 27 seeking repeal of the ‘Draconian' Bills which were passed hastily by the government.
09-12-2020||Neha Saini||Theatre artistes from Amritsar stir up creative quotient of protesters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 8“Revolution, anywhere in the world, has always given birth to protest art that has defined the way for those who helmed it. Similarly, what’s happening at the farmers’ agitation will define how the Punjabi music and art will chart its way from now on,” said Kewal Dhaliwal. The acclaimed and celebrated theatre director has been leading some powerful displays at the site of protests at the Singhu border. He is joined by several other prominent names from the fraternity in Punjab, who are lending a creative colour to the stir.“Creative expression of protesting is the most peaceful way one can support the farmers. The overwhelming support from Punjabi music and art fraternity to the movement has been a positive development,” he said. Dhaliwal recently performed a musical play ‘Hariyan Sohniyan’ along with his team at the site of protests. The play was a narrative about how a Punjabi farmer sows two crops a year and feeds the nation, while he himself remains in hunger and depravity.“It was a folk musical play that raised a lot of questions for farmers as well as the politicos, who choose to see them with apathy. Despite growing food that eventually feeds the country, a farmer has always remained in poverty, never with a full stomach and a full pocket. The marginalised farmers, who are in large numbers in these protests, have always been exploited, whether by government agencies or by private players. Their condition never changed,” said Dhaliwal.Along with him, Gurmail Shamnagar, another theatre artist from Majitha, also performed with his team. Dhaliwal will be heading to the site for another play.“The site has become a canvas for expression to those who chose to do it peacefully. So, we have a proper itinery prepared for the art and creative activities being organised at the place. We have performed at the petrol pumps while on our way and interacted with lot of protesters, who appreciated the support,” he said.
09-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||Punjab’s largest kisan union Ugrahan not invited for talks by Amit Shah||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8Union Home Minister Amit Shah chose not to invite Punjab’s biggest farm organisation, the BKU (Ugrahan), for talks on Tuesday. On November 27, when the union began its march to Delhi, Shah had called up its president Joginder Singh Ugrahan, inviting him to ‘informal’ talks, which the latter declined.On Tuesday, Shah invited 13 organisations, including nine from Punjab. He seems to have deliberately ignored the BKU (Ugrahan). Ugrahan claimed that such attempts to “divide” Punjab’s farmers had been made in the past too.The buzz since Sunday was that the farm unions had been approached by Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for parleys and had sought a list of their representatives. This triggered a debate among the 32 unions as they had already rejected a similar proposal for talks earlier.Sources said six organisations, including the Kirti Kisan Union, Bharti Kisan Union (Krantikari) and Doaba Kisan Union, opposed any “informal” talks, arguing the government was trying to divide the farmers.
09-12-2020||Karam Prakash||350 MBBS students skip Covid meet, suspended||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 8The Principal of Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, has suspended over 350 final year MBBS students for “not attending” a meeting called to discuss safety measures to check the spread of Covid.Gross indisciplineNot attending an important meeting, called to discuss Covid-safety protocol, amounts to indiscipline. The students will remain suspended till further notice. - Dr Rajan Singla, GMC  (Patiala) PrincipalThe meeting was scheduled at 4 pm on Monday, but only a few students turned up, which reportedly angered the Principal, Dr Rajan Singla.The suspension order mentions that “only 17 of the 225 2016 batch students and 66 of the 225 from the 2017 batch attended the meeting”.Citing an example of a college where 80 MBBS students had tested positive, the Principal said he wanted to avoid such a situation.Asked how safe was it to call over 200 students for a meeting in an indoor auditorium, he said, “The venue can accommodate 600 persons and minimum distancing could have been easily maintained.”The students, meanwhile, have termed the punishment “harsh” saying their studies would get affected. “Moreover, how safe is it to assemble 220 students in a closed place amid the pandemic when several of our classmates have already tested positive,” asked a student.Another student said their exams were approaching and every class, particularly practical ones, was crucial.
09-12-2020||---||Illegal liquor unit sealed in Rajpura, ENA seized||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 8Almost six months after an illegal liquor manufacturing unit was unearthed in Ghanaur, excise officials today sealed another such unit in Rajpura, which was being run by the same accused.The officials said kingpin Dipesh Kumar had been arrested. He was manufacturing Punjab Medium Liquor (PML) from extra neutral alcohol (ENA) using the same modus operandi.The officials said they located the illicit liquor unit while following a tanker loaded with ENA. On a search, they seized 20,000 litres of ENA and counterfeit stickers and bottles of PML brands sold in Punjab.A Venu Prasad, Principal Secretary, Excise, said: “We will track the source of raw material and identify all those involved in the racket.”Dipesh was earlier arrested in June for running an illegal distillery in Ghanaur. A senior police officer said: “Dipesh had gone to Uttar Pradesh to meet professional bootleggers and buy machinery for preparing liquor from ENA.”Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said: “The involvement of several persons will come to the fore as raids are still going on.”
09-12-2020||---||Two former officials of Punjab Labour Welfare Board nabbed||Mohali, December 8The Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) has arrested two former officials of the Punjab Labour Welfare Board for misappropriation of government funds worth crores. The two employees posted at the Mohali office had been booked by the VB at the Kharar police station.A spokesperson for the VB said on the basis of an inquiry, Sucha Singh Bandi, former deputy welfare commissioner, Labour Welfare Board; and Jagdeep Singh Saini, former deputy controller finance and Accounts (DCFA), had been arrested for embezzlement and causing huge loss to the state exchequer.The VB spokesman said Hina, accounts assistant of this board, was arrested earlier in this case. He said Hina, in connivance with the two officials, had misappropriated about Rs 1.57 crore through Internet banking.Hina, a resident of Manav Enclave, Kharar, had embezzled the amount through 172 transactions to multiple bank accounts. During the probe, it came to light that Bandi and Saini never cross-checked the cash book with the bank transactions. Therefore, it has been established that these two officials were involved in the misappropriation of government funds.The VB had already registered a case against them under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, and 120-B of the IPC at the Kharar police station.Cash book not cross-checkedHina, a resident of Manav Enclave, Kharar, had embezzled the amount through 172 transactions to multiple bank accounts. Sucha Singh Bandi, former deputy welfare commissioner, Labour Welfare Board; and Jagdeep Singh Saini, former deputy controller finance and Accounts (DCFA), never cross-checked the cash book with the bank transactions.
09-12-2020||
||Centre treading dangerous path, says Akali Dal||Mohali, December 8  The Shiromani Akali Dal on Tuesday fully supported the call for Bharat bandh by the farmers and their organisations against the three farm laws.  Chandumajra, who led the protest near Gurdwara Sahib Singh Shaheedan, Sohana, said the strategy of the Union Government to drag, hang and exhaust the peasant struggle would prove to be dangerous for the peace and economy of the country.  He said the success of Bharat bandh was a great lesson to the Central Government in meeting the demands of the farmers. He said the Central Government should focus on repealing the three laws instead of advocating for them.
09-12-2020||Chandigarh/Fazilka||NDA with corporates, not farmers: Cong||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday said the virus of arrogance among those in power was a major threat to democracy in the country.  Addressing the district-level dharnas organised by the Congress at Landran to protest the farm laws, he said the Central Government was not ready to listen to thepeople, which was dangerous for the democracy. Jakhar said the very foundation of democracy was a government elected by people, which was sensitive to their demands and expectations. He alleged that the BJP government at the Centre was securing the interests of corporates rather than paying heed to people’s demands.  Asserting that authoritarianism had no place in democracy, the PPCC president said though the Prime Minister was repeatedly saying that the new laws would abolish middleman in agriculture but the Central Government was itself acting as intermediary of big corporates for implementing these laws.  Meanwhile in Fazilka, Gidderbaha MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring andseveral other Congress leaders gheroaed the residence of BJP’s former Health Minister Surjit Kumar Jyani at his native Katehra village on Tuesday. A complete bandh was observed in Fazilka town by the traders to express their solidarity with the striking farmers. — TNS
09-12-2020||Balwant Garg
||441 MBBS seats declared vacant for second round of counselling||Tribune News Service Faridkot, December 8 After the first phase of MBBS counselling in the state to fill 1,425 seats in nine medical colleges, a total of 441 seats were declared vacant today after all medical colleges submitted the list of surrendered seats to the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS).  For the second phase of counselling to fill these seats, the BFUHS has invited applications from the students. A large number of medical aspirants have surrendered their seats due to hike in the tuition fee. For the second round, Adesh medical college has offered 111 MBBS seats. The college has total 150 MBBS seats. In SGRDMC, Amritsar, of 150 MBBS seats, 79 have been declared vacant. Total number of vacant MBBS seats in government medical colleges (GMCs) at Faridkot, Amritsar and Patiala is  24, 35 and 43, respectively. There are 24 vacant seats in the DMC, Ludhiana, 18 in CMC, Ludhiana, 52 in PIMS, Jalandhar and 55 in Gian Sagar, Banur. Due to Covid, all medical colleges in the state are facing shortage of NRI candidates. All nine medical colleges in Punjab offer 160 NRI quota MBBS seats, the BFUHS has declared 129 vacant.  It is the DMC, Ludhiana, which has minimum (5) NRI seats vacant. The number of vacant NRI quota seats in GMCs at Faridkot, Patiala, Amritsar is 19, 13 and 13, respectively. Among the private medical colleges, Gian Sagar, Adesh, PIMS and SGRD have 23, 22, 22 and 12 vacant seats, respectively.
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||2 ex-labour board officials nabbed for fund bungling||The state Vigilance Bureau (VB) today arrested two former officials of the Punjab Labour Welfare Board for misappropriation of government funds worth crores of rupees. An official spokesperson of the VB said on the basis of an inquiry, accused Sucha Singh Bandi, former Deputy Welfare Commissioner, Labour Welfare Board; and Jagdeep Singh Saini, former Deputy Controller, Finance and Accounts; have been arrested for  embezzlement and causing loss to the state exchequer.  He said Hina, Accounts Assistant of the board, was arrested earlier. He said Hina, in connivance with the two officials, had caused loss to the tune of Rs 1,56,91,063 via Internet banking. After the probe, it came to light that Sucha Singh Bandi and Jagdeep Singh Saini were involved in the misappropriation of government funds. The VB has already booked them under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, and 120B IPC at Kharar. — TNS
09-12-2020||Bathinda||2 duped of Rs 54 lakh in Bathinda||Two locals have been duped of Rs 54 lakh on the pretext of sending them abroad.In the first case, the Civil Line police have booked three residents of Zirakpur for duping a person of Rs 40 lakh. In a police complaint, Vijay Kumar of Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar, said the accused, Ravi Kumar, his wife Ruby Garg and son Arun Garg, were known to him. Vijay said the accused had promised to send his son Kamaldeep abroad, for which they sought Rs 30 lakh.However, when they failed to send Kamaldeep abroad, Vijay asked for a refund and warned of filing a case against them. Later, Arun pressurised Vijay to compromise and introduced him to Davidar Garg and his wife of Green City Colony. The duo told Vijay that instead of Rs 30 lakh that the accused owed him they would give him his shop worth Rs 40 lakh. But they asked Vijay to first pay Rs 10 lakh to them.Vijay gave the money but even after a year, the shop was not transferred in his name.In the second case, the Maur police booked a Patiala resident for committing a fraud of Rs 14 lakh. Jaskaran Singh of Bathinda’s Dhadde village said the accused, Parviner Singh of Ghagga village, use to send people abroad. He was known to him. Parvinder promised to send Jaskaran to Canada on work permit. For this, he took around Rs 14 lakh from him, but even after two years the accused neither sent him abroad nor returned the amount. — TNS
09-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Balwinder’s wife seeks paramilitary security||A day after the special cell of the Delhi Police nabbed two prime suspects allegedly involved in the murder of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh, along with alleged ultras from Kashmir, his wife Jagdish Kaur said their claims stood true that his killing was an act of terrorism.  The family now urged the state and the Centre for security from paramilitary, alleging that the terrorists could harm their family. At present, they’ve been provided home guard jawans for security.  The special cell of the Delhi Police nabbed Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bura, of Kharal, and Gurjit Singh Bhaa of Lakhanpal (both villages of Gurdaspur district), along with  three alleged militants from Kashmir.  The special cell clearly called the shooters of Balwinder as militants having links with further foreign militants. Besides, Balwinder, his wife Jagdish Kaur, brother-in-law and his wife were also honoured with the Shaurya Chakra by the President for their fight against the militancy during the heydays of terrorism in Punjab. Ever since the murder (of her husband), the police had been repeatedly calling it an outcome of personal enmity and we had been saying that it was a terrorist act, she said. The police questioned her sons Ganagdeep Singh and Arashdeep Singh many times, causing harassment to them, she alleged.   Dhruman H Nimbale, SSP,  said the police probed the case in a scientific and transparent manner. “We are trying to contact the Delhi Police for seeking details of the probe and the basis of their findings. The Delhi Police were calling the shooters of Balwinder terrorists.” — OC
09-12-2020||
||SI suspended, 4 held||Amritsar, December 8 The police have suspended Khandawala police chowki in-charge Sub-Inspector (SI) Sarvan Singh and arrested four persons in connection with the mysterious death of ASI Gurnam Singh.  The police have bookedseven persons, including Lawrence Road police chowki in-charge Manjit Singh, on the charges of abetting suicide. Manjit was still at large. He was immediately suspended by Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill following the registration of the case. A special investigation team (SIT) headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik is probing the case. ACP Dev Dutt Sharma and Chheharta police station SHO Rajwinder Kaur are the other two SIT members.  Besides Manjit Singh, others who have been booked in the case include Amrit Lal, Aarti, Meenu, Rajni, Puja and Bablu, all residents of Dhakka Colony falling under Chheharta police station here. They were booked following a protest by the family members of ASI Gurnam Singh and the residents of Dhakka Colony.  Though the role of the SI was under investigation, he has been suspended and shifted to the Police Lines till the probe was on.
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir moves High Court in defamation case||Former Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking the quashing of a complaint alleging defamation and other offences.  Directions have also been sought for quashing the summoning orders and non-bailable warrants. The petition filed through counsel HS Brar is scheduled to come up for hearing before Justice Jaishree Thakur on Wednesday. In the petition against Rajinder Pal Singh, spokesperson for religious organisation, Brar submitted that the complaint under Sections of the IPC dated January 31, 2017, and the subsequent orders were an abuse of the process of law. Brar said the magistrate summoned Sukhbir in a casual manner against the settled  law. Bailable warrants were issued without following the procedure laid under the provisions of the CrPC. He said necessary ingredients to constitute the offence of defamation were missing in the case as the intention to harm and mens rea was a condition precedent to constitute the offence. Besides, the magistrate at Chandigarh did not have the territorial jurisdiction to try and adjudicate the complaint. — TNS
09-12-2020||
||Capt: Bandh response clear message to scrap farm laws||Chandigarh, December 8 Reiterating that the farm laws were anti-farmer and were introduced without any discussion with the stakeholders, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the unity showcased by the farmers through the Bharat bandh had underscored the need for repeal of the laws, followed by a detailed discussion on agricultural reforms. Congratulating farmers for ensuring peace during the Bharat bandh today, the Chief Minister cautioned them against elements that could try to take advantage of their agitation and spoil the peaceful atmosphere of the state.  The Chief Minister asked why the CentralGovernment could not heed the demands of the farmers agitating across the country to scrap these laws and hold fresh talks with all stakeholders. “Had I been in their place I would not have taken a minute to accept my mistake and revoke the laws,” he added. Asserting that the whole country was with the farmers in their pain and in their fight for survival, Capt Amarinder said the Central Government should allow the existing system to continue instead of scrapping the arhtiya and mandi system, which the farm laws intended to do. There was no reason why the Central Government could not listen to the farmers, who were braving the cold, and send them home happily after resolving their concerns, said Capt Amarinder. This was what he had told Union Home Minister Amit Shah too, he said, adding that he urged Shah to do everything possible to resolve the concerns of the poor farmers in their interest, and also in the interest of India’s security. Rejecting the BJP’s allegation that the Congress manifesto had also talked about scrapping the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, the Chief Minister said his party or the Manmohan Singh government never said the existing system should be discontinued. The Congress manifesto spoke about modernisation and not about doing away with what we have, he added.
09-12-2020||
||Bharat bandh brings Punjab to a standstill||Chandigarh, December 8 Getting widespread support from all sections of society, the Bharat bandh called by farm organisations in protest against the BJP-led NDA government’s three farm laws saw a complete shutdown in Punjab today. The entire state echoed with the sentiments of farmers and a clarion call to repeal the laws as people in large numbers came on roads carrying placards ‘no farmer, no food’ to express solidarity with farmers who have been observing a peaceful protest at the Delhi borders.  The attendance in government offices was thin as over 50,000 state government employees were on a one-day mass leave in support of farmers. Dharnas organised at block levels at 60 locations by different farmer unions saw large gatherings.  In Patiala, the protesters blocked the main roads and highways. Residents sat on  dharnas at various places while Youth Congress workers burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Fountain Chowk in Patiala.  Around 2,000 engineers wore black badges and participated in protest rallies across the state in support of the farmers’ agitation and the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill-2020. The PSEB Engineers’ Association, a body of power engineers in Punjab, also supported the struggle of farmers. The teaching faculty members and students of Punjabi University, Patiala, came together in solidarity with farmers against the Centre. Around 300 in number, they closed the entry gates of the university and held a protest. Dr Nishan Singh Deol, president, Punjabi University Teachers’ Association, Patiala, said all businessmen, students, farmers and people of other professions had come together against the farm laws. The Patiala District Bar Association also led a march in support of bandh call of the farmers. Jatinderpal Singh Ghumaan of the association said the Centre should find a solution to the concerns raised by farmers. “We will provide all legal help to farmers wherever required,” Ghumaan said. Health workers under the banner of the NHM Employees’ Union, Punjab, also burnt the effigy of the Prime Minister. Employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) also participated in the Bharat bandh and staged a protest outside the PRTC bus stand.  Bathinda and Mansa witnessed a complete shutdown in support of the bandh call given by farmers. Tension erupted in the morning during the farmers’ protest at Kanhaiya Chowk in Bathinda when protesters damaged the windscreen of a private car of an Army man. He was going to Bikaner, but as farmers had given the call of a bandh, they were not ready to allow him go further. Later, senior farmer union leaders allowed passage to the car. The supply of essential commodities was hit badly in these areas. Fruit and vegetable markets remained closed in all the cities and towns of the Malwa belt. The supply of milk was partially affected in many areas. Farmers blocked and staged protests at various points in Bathinda district. They blocked the Bathinda-Amritsar national highway at Kanhaiya Chowk and near a toll plaza in Jeeda village. In Moga, the farm unions staged protests at 13 locations. The continuous protest outside the silo owned by a corporate giant in Dagru village also continued on the 62nd day today. The petroleum dealers also closed the filling stations to back the call for the nationwide strike.  Darshan Singh Maiserkhana and Mothu Singh Kotra of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said the Central Government brought the farm laws in haste without consulting the farm organisations. Shops and commercial establishments remained closed in Ferozepur, Fazilka, Ropar, Faridkot, Muktsar and other districts as well.
09-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||In Sangrur, panchayats vow to send villagers to Capital in batches||Tribune News Service Sangrur, December 8 To support the protest taking place in the national capital against the Central farm laws, many village panchayats have decided to send all their residents to join the stir on a rotation basis. Many announcements are being made from public address systems of gurdwaras while special committees are also working to mobilise maximum residents from their villages.  There are many villages from where 600 to 1,000 residents have already participated in the protest while many more are set to take part in the coming days. Village sarpanches with the help of their panchayat members are preparing lists, and making arrangements of tractor-trailers, ration and woollens.  Sarpanch Jaskarn Singh of Kadial village said, “In our village, there are around 2,300 people of which 750 have participated in the protest and more are getting ready to reach Delhi. To prevent any problem, we are sending the residents on rotation and everyone is coming back after staying there for two-three days.” Another Sarpanch Gurpreet Singh of Kauhrian village said they had around 3,100 voters in their village of which nearly 1,000 had already participated in the protest.  “Apart from going on rotation for the protest, around 100 residents of our village are staying there permanently to help in the preparation of langar. We have decided that everyone from our village will participate in the protest except those with health issues,” he said. The current protest has ended all differences. To boost morale, songs like “Uthi lehar kalla kalla naujwan uthiya, pind pind vicho tufan uthiya” are being played in villages.
09-12-2020||Moga||16 trains cancelled, short-terminated||In view of the ongoing protests by farmers over the Central laws, the Northern Railway authorities extended the cancellation, short-termination and diversion of at least 16 trains in the state falling under the supervision of the Ferozepur Railway Division. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee has blocked the track at the Jandiala Guru railway station in Amritsar and the trains to and from Amritsar were being diverted via Beas, Tarn Taran and Bhagtan Wala railway stations. The 05211 Dibrugarh-Amritsar Express Special Train JCO will remain cancelled on Wednesday. Consequently, the 05212 Amritsar–Dibrugarh Special Train JCO will also remain cancelled on December 11. The railway authorities stated that at least 10 trains would be short-terminated in the next couple of days as a precautionary measure.  The 02715 Nanded-Amritsar Express JCO will be short terminated at New Delhi on Wednesday. Consequently, the 02716 Amritsar-Nanded express JCO will short-originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi on December 11. The 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Express JCO will be short-terminated at Chandigarh on Wednesday. Consequently, the 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Express JCO will short-originate from Chandigarh  and remain partially cancelled between  Chandigarh-Amritsar-Chandigarh on December 11.  Meanwhile, in Ferozepur, the railway track at Makhu was blocked, due to which the movement of trains was affected. — TNS
09-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana 
||Farm union leaders caution youth against ‘rowdyism’||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, December 8 Overcoming the smear campaign of being attached with the Khalistan movement, farmer leaders are now engaged in entailing supporters to refrain from rowdy behaviour and liquor consumption in the camps on the Delhi borders at night.  Addressing a rally at the Singhu border yesterday evening, BKU (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said: “I don’t want to talk about the farm laws. I only wanted to request you not to indulge in rowdy behaviour after consuming ‘daaru’.”  BKU (Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh Patiala said: “We are aware about the unpleasant behavioural aberration of certain youngsters and are working on it.” BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) general secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “These youngsters have come independently. They have no experience in farmer unions’ movements so they lack the expected discipline.”  “I am shocked to see youth loitering aimlessly at night and indulging in rowdy behaviour… They are giving fuel to agencies engaged to tarnish our peaceful movement,” said Rajewal.  “The ones indulging in making noises at night have nothing to do with the farmer movement. Our teams are convincing them of the negative fallout that these could bring to our movement which is now at a crucial stage. It is working,” said Mann.  Patiala said he knew it was a peculiar situation but they were all fighting it out. Rajewal, in his emotional appeal, said attempts were being made to derail the movement on one pretext or the other, particularly religion. “Everyone today knows that our movement has turned national. The movement, however, is being portrayed by interested parties as only Punjabi. We need to counter the negative publicity,” he said. Managing the stage at Tikri, Dr Gurdev Singh, said: “It gets difficult when certain people who have nothing to do with the farmer movement come and forcibly occupy the stage. They derail peaceful speeches against the farm laws after provoking religious sentiments or promoting self-interests.”
09-12-2020||
||Moga man dies of cardiac arrest at protest in Delhi||Moga, December 8 A 48-year old man, identified as Mewa Singh, a resident of Khote village in Nihalsinghwala subdivision in Moga district, died of a cardiac arrest during the ongoing protest of farmers on the outskirts of Delhi in the wee hours today. He was working as a tailor in the village. He actively participated in the ongoing protest of farmers for the past over two months.  Family sources said he was also a writer and wrote many songs for Punjabi singers. Sources in the village said he braved water cannons and tear gas shells in Haryana to reach the Delhi border along with hundreds of other farmers and labourers.  A pall of gloom descended on the village on Tuesday morning when the news of Mewa Singh’s demise reached here. His body is still in Delhi. Officials of the local administration claimed his body would be brought here tonight. His last rites and cremation ceremony would be done on Wednesday at his native village.  General secretary of BKU (Ekta) Sukhdev Singh Kokri urged the Punjab Government to provide financial assistance to the kin of the deceased as he was the only bread earner in the family.
09-12-2020||
||SGPC keeps offices shut, few turn up at Golden Temple||Amritsar, December 8 Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, observed a ‘chakka jam’ on the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT road for four hours today. Showing solidarity with farmers, Sikh bodies like the SGPC and Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) kept their offices and institutions closed for the day. The footfall of devotees at the Golden Temple remained low. An SGPC official said they stood by farmers against the “rigid attitude” of Centre. “On our part, we have been providing langar, medical aid and other services for the convenience of protesting farmers in Delhi,” he said.  CKD president Nirmal Singh said more than 50 educational institutions run by the diwan, including schools and colleges, were closed. Sikh outfit Dal Khalsa joined the farmers’ protest at Bhandari Bridge while appealing PM Narendra Modi to concede to the rightful demand of farmers and withdraw the three contentious farm laws.
