11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Janmashtami: Punjab govt relaxes coronavirus curfew for 2 hours||The Punjab government has decided to give a two-hour relaxation in the coronavirus curfew across the state on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday in the wake of Janmashtami, an official said.The partial relaxation will be only for one night, said a spokesperson at the Chief Minister’s Office.Currently, the state has imposed a night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am to tackle the spread of coronavirus. In cities of Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala, the government has imposed a stricter curfew from 9 pm to 5 am.The spokesperson said on account of Janmashtami, the curfew will remain in force only from 1 am to 5 am on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.Special Chief Secretary (Home) Satish Chandra has issued detailed instructions in this regard and directed all the district magistrate to issue orders accordingly. — PTI
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records over 1,000 fresh cases, 32 COVID-19 deaths||Punjab on Tuesday reported a record 32 fatalities due to COVID-19, pushing the death toll to 636, while 1,002 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 25,889.As many as 11 fatalities were reported in Ludhiana, four in Sangrur, three each in Amritsar, Patiala, Jalandhar and Mohali, and one each in Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Kapurthala, Muktsar and Tarn Taran, according to a medical bulletin.Among districts which reported new cases are Ludhiana (252), Patiala (118), Amritsar (118), Mohali (83), Hoshiarpur (77), Pathankot (64), Jalandhar (54) and Bathinda (38).A total of 1,055 COVID-19 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far, 16,790 people have been cured of the infection.There are 8,463 active COVID-19 cases in the state, the bulletin said.As many as 21 patients are critical and on a ventilator, while 139 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.The state has till now tested 6,97,327 samples for COVID-19.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said the Punjabi attitude of ‘koi gal nahin’ was causing people to delay their COVID-19 testing until it became inevitable, warning them it could prove detrimental in some cases. PTI
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bajwa accuses Punjab DGP of abdication of professional integrity; CM hits back||Punjab Congress leader Partap Singh Bajwa on Tuesday accused police chief Dinkar Gupta of “complete abdication of professional integrity” in withdrawing his security cover, asserting that intelligence reports have validated the threat perception against him.Bajwa also claimed that his security was withdrawn because of “political interference” and the state police was acting on the “whims and fancies” of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.Responding to Bajwa’s outburst, Singh asked the Rajya Sabha member to write to him or to the party leadership in Delhi if he had grudge against the government. He also accused the Rajya Sabha member of lacking political maturity and lowering the morale of the police force.Last week, the Punjab government decided to withdraw the state security given to Bajwa, saying he enjoys the central security cover and virtually faced no threat. Bajwa had then accused Singh of resorting to “hitting below the belt” as he had criticised his government.On Tuesday, the former Punjab Congress chief wrote to Gupta to express his anger.“I am compelled to highlight your complete abdication of professional integrity and impartiality in the discharge of your duties as the DGP of Police, Punjab,” he wrote.I have also written to @DgpChdPolice Sh. Sanjay Baniwal IPS. If any harm does come to my family, Capt. Amarinder Singh and the DGP of Punjab Police are solely responsible for it. pic.twitter.com/caDCQMht3R  Bajwa said he did not write the letter for restoration of the security cover. “However, I am concerned with the politicisation of threat assessment reports and allotment of security to protectees,” he wrote.Bajwa said he has been highlighting the “politico-police-drug nexus” and production and distribution of illicit liquor under “state patronage” and rampant illegal mining for a few years.“That my threat perception stands confirmed and validated by several intelligence reports over the past few years, however, it is evident that due to political interference and manipulation, a bogus threat assessment report was prepared overnight by the Punjab Police to rule out any threat,” Bajwa wrote.He alleged that the state police apparatus was “acting on the whims and fancies” of the chief minister by furnishing their reports according to his convenience.He asked Gupta why police security cover given to former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia were not withdrawn on the same grounds that they too have the central security cover.In another letter to Chandigarh DGP Sanjay Baniwal, Bajwa said the chief minister and the DGP will be solely responsible for any harm to his family due to the security withdrawal.In a statement, the chief minister said Bajwa’s letters reflected his “frustration and desperation” and exposed his “shameless lies”.Making it clear that it was his decision as home minister to withdraw the security cover, the chief minister said Bajwa’s personal attack on the DGP was not only “misplaced” but also against the culture and ethos of the Congress party, of which he is a senior member.“If he does not have confidence in me or my government, why has he not approached the party high command all this time with his grouses? Does he have no faith even in them?” the CM asked. — PTI
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt employees go on 4-day pen-down strike||Punjab government employees in Chandigarh and Mohali went on a four-day pen-down strike against the state’s decision to reduce their mobile phone allowance and cut down the pay scale for new recruits to bring it on par with the Central pay scale.The employees staged protests and raised slogans against the state government for its “apathetic” attitude towards their demands.Punjab and Union Territory Employees’ Joint Front Convener Sukhchain Singh Khaira said the employees have also stopped work at the offices of Cabinet ministers at the Civil Secretariat and added that the pen-down strike would continue till August 14.Khaira said employees were against the government’s decisions to reduce their mobile phone allowance and cut down the pay scale for new recruits. They are also demanding release of pending dearness allowance, arrears, implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission and restoration of the old pension scheme.Khaira warned of a complete strike on August 18 across the state. — PTI
11-08-2020||---||Spike in Covid cases: 3,500 to 4,000 more prisoners to be released from Punjab jails||Chandigarh, August 11Punjab would soon release 3,500 to 4,000 prisoners in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases in the state. Earlier, 9,500 were released.Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said this decision has been taken to bring the number of prisoners to the 50 per cent of the authorised capacity so as to provide adequate space for keeping the prisoners under quarantine besides ensuring social distancing.Randhawa said this exercise is being undertaken considering the relaxations in lockdown restrictions, increase in number of new inmates owing to spiralling of crime rate, regarding which the recommendations were made by the High Powered Committee on the orders of the Supreme Court.The minister said the average admission in Special Jails is around 3,000 per month, due to which the present population of jails stands at around 17,500, which is approximately 73% of total capacity. 449 prisoners and 77 prison officials have tested COVID positive till date. Most of the above cases have been detected in last few weeks though 2-levels of testing of all prisoners had started since mid-May.The minister added that considering the challenges faced by the Prison Administration related to containment of COVID and related issues, third meeting of the High Powered Committee was held on August 31 to achieve further decongestion of jails to bring the population down to around 50% of authorised capacity, ensure sufficient social distancing, provide sufficient space for quarantining those being shifted from Special Jails to the regular jails.Since 80% of total population is of under-trials, the criteria for recommending the release of prisoners was of under-trials only, and mainly of those accused under NDPS Act, with recovery up to intermediate quantity and not having more than 3 cases.Other Sections of IPC which have been included for recommending release on Interim-bail are 379, 420,406, 452, 323, 324, 188, 336, 316, 279, 170, 337, 338, 315 and 498-A. In addition to new criteria, it has been reiterated that interim bail of all the prisoners presently out from jail on Interim bail, may be extended further till the notification of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 is in force. The Committee has also recommended that cases of COVID positive prisoners may be taken up on priority basis by Judicial officers concerned for interim bail.
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabis’ ‘koyi gal nahin’ spirit amid COVID-19 pushing up mortality: Capt Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the Punjabi spirit of ‘koyi gal nahin’ (no worries) causing people to delay going for testing and treatment of COVID-19 was a cause for worry.While this was a nice spirit, it could prove to be detrimental in certain instances, as amid the pandemic, he said, adding that he had conveyed as much earlier in the day to Prime Minister Narendra Modi too.The higher than Haryana mortality rate of Punjab was due to this attitude, which led people to delay going to the hospital till it became inevitable, he added.He was addressing a virtual meeting with top industry leaders across the country as part of a day-long brainstorming conference, steered by Chandigarh University Chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said he wanted the state to lead in both, industry and agriculture, to put it on the path to future progress.The chief minister thanked Chandigarh University for being among the first to come forward during the pandemic crisis to offer their premises for conversion into a 1000-bed Covid Care Centre, and to distribute sanitisers, masks and other essentials.The chief minister desired to kickstart the process of the transformation within his lifetime so that the future generations in the state could be secure.Inviting the industry stalwarts to visit Punjab and gauge for themselves the conducive industrial climate created by his government, Capt Amarinder cited the state’s business friendly policies, seamless connectivity, high-end infrastructure, skilled labour, along with reputed educational institutions offering excellent placement opportunities with focus on skill development as some of the key factors making it an ideal investment destination.Capt Amarinder lamented that the Akali politics had cost Punjab its industrial belt by pushing for state’s reorganisation in their bid to create a Sikh dominated state through the Punjab Suba Movement. Further, he said the water crisis had impacted agriculture too, putting the state in a difficult situation.With agriculture not sustainable any longer due to the depleting ground water table, his government had gone into an overdrive to boost industrial development, he said, adding that the new rules allowing deferred clearance for industry would facilitate growth in this area.There is a lot of interest in Punjab, with the various incentives and policies, including power at Rs 5/unit, attractive potential investment, said the chief minister.With investments worth Rs 65,000 crore secured on ground in the past three years, and with four mega industrial parks coming up, Punjab has already proved itself as offering attractive investment potential for large corporates, he added.Even during Covid, the state has received investment of about Rs 2500 crore, he disclosed, adding that migrants were returning in large numbers since the lifting of the lockdown and 2.34 lakh units in Ludhiana were already operational.This, he said, showed that the state and its industry had always looked after the migrant labourers and the absence of strikes, truck unions etc were further encouraging industry to come in large numbers.To revive industrial growth and economy in the post-Covid era, the state government had appointed a high-level expert committee headed by leading economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia to formulate short and medium term action plans, the chief minister informed the meeting.
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to face Covid peak in September, request PM to review UGC exam decision, says Amarinder||Amid a surge in Covid cases, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the UGC decision on mandatory exams for exit classes to be held by September 30.During a video-conference between the Prime Minister and other Chief Ministers, Amarinder said, "Punjab may not be in a position to conduct exams in September as it may be facing its coronavirus peak at that time."Citing the state’s rising Covid cases, which have gone up to 24,891 with 604 deaths, the CM suggested promoting the students on past performance and internal assessment, with the option to take exams later for those wanting to improve their performance.Punjab also sought central government assistance for online school education, especially for poor children of Classes X and XII. More money was needed for creating the infrastructure required to support online education, he added.With a 50% decline in revenue in the first fiscal quarter of Punjab, Amarinder also sought from the Prime Minister a liberal financial package for states to fill the collection gap caused by the pandemic, and also flexibility on Covid-related terms of expenditure in the SDRF.Amarinder said the current cap of 35% in the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) for Covid-related expenditure, as per MHA guidelines, is not sufficient to meet the current requirements.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan also participated in the meeting.The Chief Minister thanked the Centre for accepting Punjab’s proposal to set up a National Institute of Virology for the North Zone saying the state government would soon give 25 acres of land for the institute.Though Punjab is conducting 23,000 tests per million for Covid (higher than the national average) and planned to increase RT-PCR tests from 12,000 to 20,000 in the next 15 days, it needed to scale up the testing capacity further, the Chief Minister stressed.He requested the Prime Minister to direct the central institutions in Chandigarh and Punjab to increase testing capacity.Expressing concern over the state’s mortality rate of 2.4 per cent, Amarinder said though it was lower than the all-India deaths per million and 91 per cent of the fatality cases were with co-morbidity, it was still higher than the neighbouring Haryana.Patients were coming to hospitals late and 86 per cent deaths were occurring in tertiary hospitals, he added.Amarinder requested immediate operationalisation of Covid testing and treatment at AIIMS Bathinda, where OPDs are already functional saying this would be useful for the people of southern Punjab. Noting that the PGI Chandigarh is a premier tertiary care facility for Punjab, he sought an increase in the bed capacity at the hospital and strengthening of the existing PGI Satellite Centre at Sangrur, especially for Covid treatment.The Chief Minister further urged the Centre for immediate commencement of work on the newly sanctioned PGI Satellite Centre at Ferozepur.While of the three already sanctioned medical colleges, Mohali Medical College will start classes this year, more such institutions were needed, said the Chief Minister, requesting for new colleges in districts of Gurdaspur, Sangrur and Moga.Covid had shown that we needed to strengthen public facilities in health, he added.Giving an update on the Covid situation in the state, Amarinder said it had seen cases go up from 500 to 1,000 in two weeks, with a positivity rate of the last five days at 8.73 per cent.The majority of cases were coming from Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala cities, though cases were increasing in all districts, he added. The number of micro-containment zones was being increased in high-incidence districts like Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar, he said.To augment its fight against Covid, the state has opened two plasma banks (in Patiala and Amritsar), with another set to open soon at GMC Faridkot, the Chief Minister said.
11-08-2020||Aman Sood||Lizard skin, toxic chemicals ‘used’ in making illicit liquor||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 10High cost boosts illegal tradeIt has come to light that to increase revenue, the Excise Department has raised the prices of Punjab Medium Liquor, which is mainly consumed by the labour class. “Daily wagers can’t afford a drink priced at Rs 150 per quarter. Therefore, they buy their daily quota from illegal suppliers, who charge them less than Rs 40 for a quarter,” an official said.Sewage, industrial waste, water from stagnant ponds and canals carrying heavy pollutants or chemicals are some of the adulterants which go into the making of illicit liquor in the state.To add more kick to the illicit booze, bootleggers have also started adding lizard skin, Alprazolam tablets and muscle relaxant balms to make it a deadly concoction.Highlighting the unhygienic condition under which such liquor is made, officials, who have conducted raids to bust such rackets, say, “Water collected from nearby sources is laced with chemicals and then filled in tyre-tubes, which are buried under hot sand for over a week.”A cop, who has been a part of over a dozen such raids, says, “Water used in brewing cheap liquor is compromised. During the raids, we were shocked to see dead lizards, sewage and even tyres floating in illicit liquor containers. Usually, by the time seniors reach the spot, the recovered illicit liquor is either destroyed or filled in drums as case property. In most of the cases, ASIs deals with such recoveries while the SHOs hardly visit the spots. Following the recent deaths, things have changed.”Earlier, ingredients such as rose petals, cumin seeds and mint were used to prepare home-made liquor. Sources claim there are 20 to 30 illicit distilleries producing country-made liquor in the state. Often, country-made liquor guarantees a stronger kick than any other form of alcohol.Chemicals pilfered from sugar mills, hardware industry and distilleries often end up in the hands of bootleggers, who add ingredients and sell it as a cheap liquor.Methanol, along with denatured spirit that automatically emerges in the liquor distilleries, makes the bootlegging job easy and profitable.Illicit liquor manufacturers allow it to undergo high boiling temperature and vaporisation. “Instead of discarding the initial liquid collected through condensation, it is allowed to be mixed in liquor. Further, the impurities and chemicals worsen its quality,” says Kahan Singh Pannu, Director, Mission Tandarust Punjab.Excise and Taxation Principal Secretary A Venu Prasad said stock checking of distilleries would continue to ascertain if any chemical, including ENA, was pilfered.“Bootleggers use many harmful chemicals and excise officials in the field have been warned against any laxity,” he stated.
11-08-2020||---||1.33L litres of lahan seized in three districts of Punjab||Chandigarh, August 10Joint teams of the Excise Department and the police on Monday destroyed 1.33 lakh litres of lahan in Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Fazilka districts.A spokesperson for the Excise Department said the joint teams destroyed 1,33,500 litres of lahan in a major operation in the three districts. Approximately 1,25,000 litres of lahan was seized and destroyed in Ferozepur and Tarn Taran districts.Around 6,500 litres lahan was seized from Mahalam in Jalalabaad of Fazilka district and 2,000 litres from Ferozepur district. The spokesperson said a raid was conducted in the enclaves of confluence of the Sutlej and Beas at Harike. Around 1.25 lakh litres of lahan was recovered along with 26 plastic tarpaulins and 10 iron drums. The raiding team destroyed the lahan and got an FIR registered at the Harike police station.Similarly, an excise team along with the police also conducted a raid at Mahalam village (Jalalabad) and seized 70 bottles of illicit liquor along with 6,500 litres of Lahan. The team destroyed the lahan in the fields.The spokesperson further said that a joint operation was also held in Ferozepur. A team conducted a raid at Dhani Dariya Wali village and seized 2,000 litres of lahan. Subsequently, the team destroyed the lahan in the fields and started the process of registering the case. “Action against illegal liquor will continue in the coming days till the state is not made free from this scourge,” added the spokesperson.
11-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Relationship status can’t be hurdle in giving security: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10The society cannot determine how an individual should live life and social unacceptability of a relationship cannot be a disincentive for granting protection life and liberty, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled in case of two women “intending to be in a live-in relationship”.Justice Alka Sarin added the Constitution guaranteed the right to life to every individual. The choice of a partner was an important facet of the right. Justice Sarin also observed the petitioner-women were major and had every right to live their lives as they desired within the four corners of the law.“The social unacceptability of any relationships can in no manner be a deterrent to granting protection under Article 21 of the Constitution… The petitioner-girls may face ostracisation because of the nature of their relationship and are allegedly facing many hurdles and threats.“Despite people becoming more open about their sexuality, there are several who are having difficulty and the fear is still present to admit their sexual status in society,” Justice Sarin observed, while adding the petitioners in the present case had taken a bold step and wished to lead their lives on their own terms.Referring to a Supreme Court judgment, Justice Sarin added the Bench had no hesitation in holding that the petitioners were entitled to protection of life and liberty as envisaged under Article 21 of the Constitution.Justice Sarin directed the Ludhiana Commissioner of Police to consider the petitioners’ representation for protection. Till the decision on the representation, the state and other official respondents would ensure the safety and security of both the petitioners.
11-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||Action sought as Cong man claims to be MLA of Dirba constituency||Tribune News Service Sangrur, August 10  Dirba Congress halqa in-charge Ajaib Singh Ratol, who lost the last Assembly election, has not only put up a name plate claiming to be an MLA outside his house, but has also defended his decision. Dirba AAP MLA and Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema has demanded strict action against the Congress leader for “impersonating” as the area MLA. “I am MLA of my area because I am working as the halqa in-charge of the Congress. I am working hard for development of Dirba and getting full support of my party. Since the formation of the Congress government, I have worked for development of every nook and corner of the town,” said Ratol.  When asked about his claim, he said, “If my party asks me, I will reply. Since my political opponents have nothing concrete against me, they are using such petty issues to target me.”  It’s not the first time that Ratol has kicked up a controversy. In March this year, sarpanches of various villages of the Dirba constituency had written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh claiming that Ratol was supporting non-Congress sarpanches, thus creating problems in developmental work. In February, a video of Ratol firing in the air had gone viral. “It is really surprising that Ratol has openly been claiming himself to be the MLA of Dirba. It amounts to impersonation. I have written to senior police authorities for legal action against Ratol,” said Cheema, who had defeated Ratol in the 2017 Assembly elections.
11-08-2020||Amritsar||Stuck in Pakistan, 83  Indians return via Attari-Wagah border||As many as 83 Indian nationals, who had got stranded in Pakistan in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, were today repatriated through Attari-Wagah border. The returnees belonged to Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, New Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.Protocol Officer Arun Pal Singh said a total of 118 Indian nationals were supposed to return. “As of now, we have details of only 83 Indians who crossed over,” he said.He said as the lockdown has been relaxed, around 495 Pakistanis were repatriated.As they reached at the joint check post at Attari, medical teams examined them. After completing customs and immigration formalities, they were ferried in special buses.SDM-2 Shiv Raj Singh Bal said those from Punjab were quarantined in Amritsar and neighbouring districts. — TNS
11-08-2020||Bathinda||Minister wants ‘kisan rail’ for kinnow growers||Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today urged Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to start a dedicated “kisan rail” with refrigerated bogies from Abohar to Bangalore and Abohar to Kolkata during the harvest season between December and March to benefit growers of Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana.She said due to the highly perishable nature of the fruit only 35 to 40 per cent of the harvest reached the end consumers. “The remaining gets wasted due to high temperature during road transport,” she added. — TNS
11-08-2020||
||Punjab Government using farm funds on Covid: SAD||Chandigarh, August 10 The SAD on Monday alleged that Punjab farmers were being made to pay the price for the loot of the state exchequer by Congress men with the government running away from releasing Rs 300 crore given by the Centre to subsidise paddy stubble management machinery. It has informed the Supreme Court that the funds had been used to fight Covid-19. In a statement here, former minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said it was shocking that the Congress government had submitted in the apex court that it had used the funds meant for purchasing 23,500 straw management machines to fight the pandemic. “The Punjab Government seems to have misled the apex court as it has not utilised the disaster management funds lying with it. The Congress government has also admitted that it has not utilised Rs 60 crore accumulated with it as part of the CM Relief Fund meant to fight the pandemic,” said Dr Cheema. He said: “Besides, Central funds have been received by Punjab under various heads to fight the pandemic. The government is yet to exhaust this money and submit the utilisation certificate for the same.”
11-08-2020||
||Trimming of MP’s security a routine exercise, says Punjab CM||Chandigarh, August 10 Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday rejected Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa’s charges of “vindictiveness” in the withdrawal of his state police security, saying it was a “routine exercise” based on a periodic review of his threat assessment. Bajwa had charged the Chief Minister for hitting “below the belt” by withdrawing the security.  The CM said while his government would never deny security to any person genuinely in need, it could not afford to spare police personnel unnecessarily, particularly when the force was under severe constraints and stress amid the Covid pandemic. Pointing out that his government was providing security to the Badals in view of the specific inputs indicating a threat to their security, Captain Amarinder said Bajwa’s complaint on this account was “petty and frivolous”, and not based on facts. With Punjab Police intelligence showing that he was not facing any specific terrorist or militant threat, Bajwa was only entitled to security cover as a Member of Parliament, he added. He said the Congress MP continued to have a security detail of 14 persons, with one  escort Gypsy with driver, as on March 23, 2020, when some of the personnel were withdrawn for Covid duty. Post March 23, 2020, Bajwa continued to have six security persons and one escort vehicle with a driver. He pointed out that all protectees and VIPs in the state lost some of their security as 6,500 police personnel were withdrawn for district and Covid duty.  Their security had actually been reduced, unlike Bajwa who, in fact, now had a bigger security team than he had earlier, he added.
11-08-2020||GS Paul||Spurious liquor tragedy victim’s kids refuse aid offered by Sonu Sood, say won’t leave native place||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 10Four children, who lost their parents in the Tarn Taran spurious liquor tragedy, have turned down actor Sonu Sood’s offer to take care of them. Despite several constraints, they chose to stay at their native Pandori Takhatmal village with their paternal uncles.District Child Protection Unit officials said the children’s wish would always be the prime consideration while deciding their future.Sonu Sood had extended a helping hand to these children after he learnt about their story. Through his friend Karan Gilhotra, a couple of children’s home were shortlisted for their stay and education. A rickshaw-puller Sukhdev Singh (34), father of the children — Karanbir (13), Gurpreet (11), Arshpreet (9) and Sandeep (5) — had died after consuming chemical-laced cheap liquor on August 1. On learning about his death, his wife Jyoti (32) died of shock the same day.Her brother-in-law Mewa Singh said he was a trained mechanic and earned a reasonable income by repairing farm machinery, “We are grateful that Sonu Sood spared a thought for our children, but they do not want to leave us. Arshpreet and Sandeep will stay at my house. Right from the beginning, they have been addressing me ‘daddy’. I only have a daughter (7) who studies in Class 1. Now, the God has fulfilled my wish and gave me not one, but two sons ”, he said.He said his brother Satnam Singh too had volunteered to contribute towards the upbringing of the other two siblings.CM Capt Amarinder Singh has announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to the victims’ kin. The process of opening bank accounts of the children was underway.District Child Protection Officer Rajesh Kumar said a meeting had been scheduled with the family and children tomorrow. “Under the law, it would be mandatory to take the child’s consent at first place if he or she is 5 years or above. The children were reluctant to leave their family and native place. The paternal side relatives would be their first guardians. Taking all aspects into consideration, the decision will be taken”, he said.About the utilisation of ex gratia amount, he said, “ The amount of Rs 5 lakh would be fixed deposited on behalf of the children under the supervision of the child protection wing. Each and every penny would be used only for their welfare,” he said.SDM Rajneesh Arora said these children would be given benefit under the state government’s child welfare schemes, be it education, boarding and lodging, applicable under such circumstances.
11-08-2020||Mansa||Kahneke resigns from Akali Dal||Master Mithu Singh Kahneke, senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and SGPC member from Mansa, has resigned from the party’s primary membership.He said differences had developed between him and the party leadership on the issue of the Centre’s ordinances and reforms in education system of the SGPC.After sending his resignation to SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, Kahneke said the Akalis had diverted from its panthic and Punjab related principals. He said the SAD had remained silent over the issue of missing “saroop”. — TNS
11-08-2020||lwant Garg||Class XII pupils of Punjab to get cellphones tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 10Smartphones will be distributed among Class XII students of government schools in the state on August 12, the International Youth Day.For the first phase of smartphones distribution, Krishan Kumar, Secretary, School Education Department, has asked deputy commissioners to organise small functions following the Covid safety measures.Not all students would get phones on the first day due to the pandemic, said Vimal Setia, DC, Faridkot.The rest would be given mobile phones at school level, said Parminder Singh Brar, DEO (Secondary), Faridkot.Sources in the School Education Department said 1,877 government senior secondary schools in the state had about 1.73 lakh Class XII students and there was a target to distribute smartphones to all these students by the end of November.Since the closure of all schools in the state from mid-March due to Covid-19, the School Education Department had started online classes. But as most of the students in government schools belong to economically weaker section, in the absence of smartphones they were facing problems in taking online classes.
11-08-2020||Tribune Reporters||Farmers in Punjab refuse to relent, hold statewide protests||Chandigarh, August 10Farmers across the state took out rallies by heading towards the houses of Congress and SAD-BJP leaders in protest against the three farm ordinances.Protests were held in all districts, except Mohali. While the Akali-BJP leaders were urged to raise their voices against the ordinances in Delhi, the Congress leaders were reminded by the farmers to call a special session of the Vidhan Sabha immediately and announce their decision not to implement these ordinances in Punjab.As many as 10 farmer organisations had participated in these protests. Darshan Pal, convener of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, said the farmers in different districts handed over memorandums to 100 political representatives. “We have issued them a warning that if they failed to act, they will have to face the ire of the farmers,” he said.In Bathinda, more than 200 activists of the BKU Sidhupur gathered outside the deputy commissioner’s office and courted arrest. Kaka Singh Kotra, state secretary, BKU Sidhupur, said, “These ordinances will ruin the farmers as the Centre is planning to scrap the MSPsystem.” Ashwant Singh, DSP (City), said, “Around 250 farmers have been detained so far. Further talks are on with them.”In another protest, farmers took out a bike rally to Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s office in the city, but the police halted their march. Later, they went to AAP MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby’s house to stage a protest. However, Ruby took the memorandum from them and assured her full support.In Muktsar, farmers staged protests and met SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal at his Badal village residence.They also staged a protest outside the residence of Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and handed over him a memorandum demanding that the Vidhan Sabha should pass a resolution against these ordinances.Meanwhile, farmers blocked Kotkapura-Bathinda bypass road along the district administrative complex.
11-08-2020||Bathinda||No threat to MSP, free power: SAD||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir SIngh Badal today said he was ready to make “any personal or political sacrifice” in the fight to preserve, safeguard and promote the cause of the peasantry in Punjab. The SAD president was talking to a delegation of the All India (Kul Hind) Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee at his residence this morning. “Be it the issue of any threat, present or future, to the MSP regime with assured marketing of the crop or to free power facility for the farmers introduced by the SAD-BJP. We will never allow anyone to rob the already beleaguered peasantry through fanciful new ideas,” he said. On the alleged confusion on the intricacies of the ordinances, Sukhbir said: “As farmers, we are simple and straight-forward people and we want everything put in simple and straight words. I have already conveyed to the Union Government that neither the MSP regime with assured marketing nor the free power facility in Punjab can be allowed to be withdrawn under any pretext.” In response to a question from leader of the delegation on assured marketing under the MSP regime, the SAD president said he had thoroughly studied the three ordinances issued by the Union Government and found nothing in them which might imply that the government would withdraw from the market. — TNS
11-08-2020||---||Covid claims 20 more lives in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 10The state reported 20 deaths and 988 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours. Patiala reported the most number of seven deaths, followed by Ludhiana (6), Jalandhar (3), Ferozepur (2) and Moga and SAS Nagar (1 each).Those who lost their lives in Ludhiana included an ASI. He was posted at the Police Lines and his report came positive on July 26. He was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, on August 7, where he died today.Besides, a 27-year-old male died in Ludhiana. He was admitted to Deep Hospital and belonged to Harcharan Nagar. A 90-year-old also succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, at present 129 patients are on oxygen support and 22 are critical and are on ventilator support.Ludhiana district reported the maximum number of 246 fresh cases, followed by Patiala (198), Jalandhar (156), Sangrur (60), SAS Nagar (59), Gurdaspur (37) and Amritsar (32).
11-08-2020||---||‘Illegal’ mining under judicial scanner||Chandigarh, August 10Alleged illegal mining in Pathankot, Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur districts today came under judicial scanner with the filing of a petition in public interest on the issue before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.In his petition against the state of Punjab and other respondents, Karan Singh through counsel Saurav Bhatia sought directions for a thorough probe and a complete stop on illegal mining. Describing it as illegal, unjust and arbitrary, Bhatia submitted that it was also endangering the agricultural process in the nearby villages, besides putting the environment in dangerHe added that illegal mining was being carried out at enormous scale despite the lockdown after taking benefit of “lesser public scrutiny”. He said the auction of these sites had not taken place and illegal mining was being undertaken by the sand mafia. Taking up the petition, the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli fixed August 24 as the next date of hearing in the matter.
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court begins training of judicial officers||Amid spurt in Covid-19 cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today began a programme to train judicial officers for the states of Punjab and Haryana. As many as 50 newly recruited judicial officers will be trained for a year as a part of the process.Clearly indicating that the justice delivery mechanism could not be placed in the state of suspended animation following the outbreak, Justice Rajan Gupta inaugurated the online training programme. Also the president of the board of governors of the Chandigarh Judicial Academy, Justice Gupta asserted: “A life of a judge demands the best and the tough out of life. A judge is a missionary whose mission is to impart justice in society. A selfless service for the humanity is what a life of a judge is”.Justice Gupta added a judge was required to be courteous, humble, sensitive and a person with minimum needs. The human race was passing through the unprecedented crisis following the outbreak. It had made a paradigm shift in the ways humans had been conducting themselves. For addressing the challenge, new modes and methods of lifestyle were required to be adopted.“The pandemic has restricted our physical movements, but connected us digitally,” Justice Gupta said, adding that he felt proud to say that the country had leapfrogged in technology to undertake all necessary activities in the moment of crisis. Director (Administration)-cum-District and Sessions Judge Shalini Singh Nagpal and Director (Academics) Dr Balram K Gupta were present at the time of address. — TNS
11-08-2020||Dinanagar (Gurdaspur)||Wine shop worker shot at in Dinanagar||Two youths fired at a wine shop employee near Sibghowal village after an altercation. Senior Superintendent of Police Rajinder Singh Sohal along with his team rushed to the spot.Eye witnesses claimed that the employee was shot in his stomach. He was rushed to the Gurdaspur Civil Hospital from where doctors referred him to Amritsar.Sources said the miscreants came on a motorcycle and purchased liquor. The quarrel started when the youth asked the employee to return remaining amount. “We have gone through CCTV footage and accused will be nabbed soon,” said Sohal. — TNS
11-08-2020||Faridkot||Ex-sarpanch booked for cheating villager in Faridkot||A former sarpanch in Faridkot has been booked under Section 420, IPC, for allegedly taking Rs 4 lakh from a person purportedly for giving “bribe” to the police. It is alleged that Harcharan Singh, former sarpanch of Arianwala village, had taken Rs 4 lakh from Pipli resident Baljit Singh after his son’s name figured in an FIR. In a complaint, Baljit alleged Harcharan Singh took money from him, assuring a clean chit to his son in the case. Baljit said his son’s name had figured in the case that was registered after a clash between some residents of Arian Wala and Pipli villages on April 24. — TNS
11-08-2020||---||Four more Covid labs start functioning in Punjab||Mohali, August 10Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu Health Minister today inaugurated Covid-19 testing labs at Punjab Biotechnology Incubator and Punjab Forensic Science Laboratory, Mohali.Speaking on the occasion, Soni said with four more laboratories becoming operational in the state today, the testing capacity had increased from 16,000 to 20,000 tests per day. The other two labs that became operational today are Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, and Viral Testing Lab at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana.Sidhu said with timely tests, the infected people were being isolated from others thus reducing the chances of spread.
11-08-2020||---||Charanjit Singh Channi launches MRSPTU portal||Bathinda, August 10Technical Education and Industrial Training Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today launched the portal of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU) to provide online services to students in the presence of Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Technical Education and Industrial Training.The students would be able to raise application requests online for availing various services such as provisional degree certificate, transcript, documents/degree/ detailed marks card, correction, verification, attestation etc. They can pay fee online and receive document copies online on their student login.The minister said during these tough times due to Covid-19, online administrative services and classes were the best ways for students so that they do not face any academic loss.He asked the officials to be extra cautious of the online fraudulent practices while running the online service provider systems.Verma assured the minister that soon such online service provider system would be put in place in the Technical Education Department and Board, besides IKG PTU would be directed to start online services on this pattern within a week.Dr Mohan Paul Singh Ishar, Vice Chancellor, MRSPTU, said the students could also opt to receive the documents by post by paying postage charges.
11-08-2020||Bathinda||Debt waiver sought for women||They took out a march till the DC office and gave a memorandum to the tehsildar. Morcha state president Bhagwant Samao, PKU chief Ruldu Singh Mansa among others were present. Pawan Sharma
11-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Covid: Violators made to stand for hour||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 10The district police have started implementing the new guidelines of the state government by punishing people violating the Covid norms, especially those not wearing a mask.The violators were made to stand along the roadside for an hour and then masks were distributed among them.Harpal Singh, SP (Investigation), said the new guidelines of the government were being implemented in letter and spirit. He said instead of imposing fines those roaming without a mask, they were being asked to stand for an hour in a public place. He said: “If we can save our society and family just by wearing a mask and maintaining social distance, we must follow it.”He said the police were working round the clock and guarding all nakas to save people from the pandemic. He said residents should also co-operate and follow all the directions.
11-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Wife among four held for man’s murder in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 10The district police claimed to have solved the blind murder mystery of one Paramjit Singh, alias Raju, a resident of Kaleran village in the Bassi Pathana subdivision with the arrest of the wife of the deceased and her three accomplices.The police also recovered the stick and other weapons used for murder, along with a motorcycle.Addressing the media, SSP Amneet Kondal said a body was found lying on the outskirts of Rampur Kaleran. The deceased was identified as Paramjit Singh. She said the murder case was solved in 24 hour and arrested Kuldeep Kaur, wife of the deceased, arrested. Her accomplices were Maninder Singh, alias Mani, a resident of Samrala, Sunny, who is the brother of Kuldeep Kaur and a resident of Amritsar, and Parwinder Singh, alias Gaggi, a resident of Sangrur.She said the reason behind the murder was that Paramjit Singh was a habitual drinker and used to beat his wife and torture her. He was a government employee, but remained absent from the duty. The suspects had murdered him and threw his body on the outskirt of the village.She said a case has been registered under Section 302, 120B, 34 of the IPC.
11-08-2020||Satya Prakash||Supreme Court tells Punjab, Haryana to list steps taken to curb stubble burning||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 10The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday asked Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh to spell out steps taken to stop stubble burning. The practice virtually turns the entire NCR into a gas chamber during October-November.A Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra asked the Punjab Chief Secretary, who attended the hearing through video-conferencing, about the steps taken to provide machines and equipment to small and marginal farmers, so as to dissuade them from burning stubble.The Punjab Chief Secretary told the Bench that subsidy was being provided to small and marginal farmers, but the state was facing financial constraints due to the pandemic.The court asked the Centre about the subsidy being given and the implementation of its orders in the case. It asked all stakeholders to give a detailed report on the issue of stubble burning.Maintaining that policies needed to be put in place to prevent stubble burning, the SC sought to know if panchayats had been roped in for spreading awareness about government projects aimed at stopping stubble burning.It asked all parties to file affidavits detailing the steps taken to deal with pollution hotspots in the region. The Punjab Government was also asked to apprise the court of the steps taken to deal with industries found non-compliant with pollution norms.“What steps have been taken? We want affidavit on all issues...not just stubble burning... We want involvement of the Centre on formulation of rules/laws to prevent and confiscate vehicles running on kerosene,” said the SC.The top court, which is seized of a PIL on air pollution in the NCR, directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to file an affidavit on the present status of 13 pollution hotspots in the national capital and steps taken to control air pollution.
11-08-2020|| Vishav Bharti||10 days, 9K cases in Punjab, 70% with no signs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10Though Punjab has witnessed almost 9,000 Covid cases over the past 10 days in what is being seen as the latest spike, the consolatory part is around 70 per cent of the patients haven’t reported any complications and are asymptomatic.According to the state Health Department, a majority of the fresh cases were being tracked as the contacts of the already positive patients.“There are only around 30 per cent patients who are developing some symptoms, the most common being fever and sore throat,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Punjab nodal officer for Covid.But what’s worrying the health authorities is the late reportage of the infection. “A small number of cases are reporting serious symptoms. The problem, however, is such patients are coming to hospitals quite late, which limits their treatment options,” said Dr Bhaskar. A sudden rise in cases has been seen in the state after mid-July. The first case in Punjab was reported on March 8 and the count reached 8,800 till July 15. However, the cases surged three-fold in the last 25 days and touched 25,000.The same goes with fatalities as from March till July 15, the state reported 221 casualties. But over the next 25 days, the death toll shot up to 604.
