12-07-2020||Chandigarh||3-member SIT to probe COVID-19 testing scam in Amritsar: CM||A three-member Special Investigation Team will probe the alleged COVID-19 testing scam by a private lab in Amritsar, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Sunday.The chief minister announced this during his ‘AskCaptain’ Facebook Live session in which he warned that his government will not allow private hospitals or laboratories to profiteer from this unprecedented COVID-19 crisis facing humanity.Singh said he had received a complaint against the private lab and had asked the Vigilance Bureau to look into the matter.But when initial investigation showed that there was no involvement of any government department or officer, the case was transferred to the Punjab Police, he said.The three-member SIT will be headed by the police commissioner of Amritsar, who is a doctor, Singh said, adding that among its members will be a civil surgeon.Singh said he has ordered the SIT to conduct a thorough investigation and submit its findings soon so that suitable action can be taken.Besides from the fact that the Vigilance Bureau had, prima facie, not found any complicity of any government department or official in the case, the lab itself had moved the court challenging the bureau’s jurisdiction, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office later said.The government deemed it fit to transfer the case to the Punjab Police to ensure that no legal hurdle is posed later, he said.    The chief minister has also taken strong exception to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Majithia’s attempts to “politicise” the simple jurisdictional decision of transferring the probe to the district police, the spokesperson said.Majithia on Saturday had demanded an independent inquiry by a central agency or a sitting judge of the high court into the “fake COVD-19 reports” scam by the private testing lab in Amritsar.    Singh said that rather than raising such a “nonsensical” issue and weakening the morale of the police, Majitha should invest his time and energy in pressuring the SAD’s political masters in Delhi to put a stop on the Central Bureau of Investigation’s “interference” in the Punjab Police’s probe into the Bargari and other sacrilege cases, and the subsequent policing firing incidents.                           The SAD is an ally of the BJP, which is in power at the Centre.On the issue of university and college exams for final-term students, the chief minister made it clear that he does not agree with the latest University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines that make it mandatory for the examinations to be held by September-end. The UGC should leave it to states to decide, given their ground realities in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, he said.                       Singh hoped that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would understand the state’s concern and intervene in the interest of the safety of students. He had written to Modi in this regard on Saturday.                  The chief minister tasked the education department to work out ways to ensure seamless delivery of education to students with no or inadequate online access.                  Given the COVID-19 situation, which is preventing regular offline classes to be held, it is imperative to ensure equal educational opportunity and access for all students, including the poor and rural students, Singh said in response to a question during the Facebook session.                                 The department is exploring ways and means to deal with challenges of imparting education to those who do not have access to online systems, he said. The new processes would be put in place very soon to ensure that students do not suffer due to the prolonged suspension of physical classes, the chief minister said. PTI
12-07-2020||---||Punjab reports 234 fresh COVID-19 cases, four deaths||Chandigarh, July 12A total of 234 COVID-19 positive cases and four deaths surfaced in Punjab on Sunday, taking the state tally to 7,821.Ludhiana reported the maximum number of cases at 60 followed by Jalandhar (36), 23 each in SAS Nagar and SBS Nagar, Amritsar (22), Patiala (21), 12 each in Sangrur and Bathinda, Mansa (6), Ropar (4), two each in Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Muktsar, Ferozepur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Kapurthala, one each in Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Faridkot.The state has 2,230 active cases while 5,392 patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals in the state.Of the 7,821 cases, the maximum number of cases have been reported from Ludhiana (1,376) followed by Jalandhar (1,223), Amritsar (1,062), Sangrur (641), Patiala (584), SAS Nager (391), Gurdaspur (288), Pathankot (246), Tarn Taran (217), Hoshiarpur (196), SBS Nagar (213), Ferozepur (157), Faridkot (153), Muktsar (146), Fatehgarh Sahib (146), Moga (143), Bathinda (141), Kapurthala (128), Ropar (128), Fazilka (105), Barnala (74) and Mansa (63).Meanwhile, with four more deaths reported, the death toll in the state has climbed to 199. The four deaths are reported from Amritsar (2) and one each from Pathankot and Sangrur.Of the total deaths, Ludhiana has reported 31, Jalandhar (25), Amritsar (53), Sangrur (19), Patiala (12), SAS Nager (7), Gurdaspur (8), Pathankot (8), Tarn Taran (5), Hoshiarpur (7), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (3), Faridkot (0), Muktsar (1), Fatehgarh Sahib (2), Moga (4), Bathinda (4), Kapurthala (6), Ropar (1), Fazilka (0), Barnala (2) and Mansa (0).Meanwhile, 352 more patients were cured and discharged today. They include 277 from Ludhiana, nine from Sangrur, 17 from SAS Nagar, two from Pathankot, five each from Hoshiarpur, Moga, Muktsar, Mansa and SBS Nagar, four from Ferozepur, two from Fatehgarh Sahib, one each from Fazilka and Kapurthala, six from Barnala and eight from Bathinda.
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab government to announce new guidelines for gatherings, says CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Sunday that his government was working on stricter guidelines for social, religious and public gatherings.In his live interaction programme, the Chief Minister said people were not seriously adhering to protocols on social distancing, wearing masks and other measures.He said the new guidelines will be announced on Monday.“I do not want Punjab to go the Delhi and Maharashtra way. It is necessary to come out with revised guidelines on gatherings. The guidelines would be announced tomorrow,” Chief MinisterAmarinder Singh said.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh blamed the swell in Punjab’s cases on increased testing and the rise in the number of people entering Punjab from outside.“In the last four days, 63,828 persons from outside had entered the state. The health and police authorities were tracking them and implementing in quarantine measures wherever required,” he said.The development comes on a day when Punjab added 234 new coronavirus cases and four deaths to its tally, taking the infection count in the state to 7,821. Its death toll now stands one short of 200.Punjab has been seeing a consistent rise in coronavirus cases since last month---a trend that matches the national trend of a surge in the number of infections. A look at Punjab’s figures shows that 71 per cent of the state’s 7,821 cases have been recorded since June 1.The surge also corresponds Punjab's easing of stricter restrictions on movement imposed on movement in March, when the state reported its first COVID-19 case. Punjab eased restrictions along the lines of the central government's orders that came in an attempt to restart a stalled economy.
12-07-2020||Phagwara||Woman, daughter die after roof collapses due to storm in Phagwara||A mother-daughter duo died after the roof of their house collapsed due to heavy rain and storm here, police said on Sunday.City SHO Inspector Onkar Singh Brar identified the deceased as Savita (28) and her daughter Mahi (7) of Mohalla Satkartarian Bansawala bazaar.                 Savita’s husband—Jai Parkash (30) and their 8-month-old daughter Priya were pulled out of debris by people and were saved. They sustained minor injuries.                    Jai Parkash told newsmen at the incident spot that the family were asleep when the roof caved in due to a heavy storm and rain on late Saturday night.                  “Even the iron girder of the house got twisted”, he said.                Brar said the bodies of Savita and Mahi were sent to civil hospital for post-mortem examination. PTI
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police arrest Sudhir Suri from Indore over 'objectionable' video||Punjab Police on Sunday arrested Shiv Sena (Taksali) president Sudhir Suri over the viral video clip denigrating women and inciting enmity between different groups, after a nearly 1300 km chase that ended in Indore, Madhya Pradesh.Two Punjab Police teams, comprising 11 personnel of Amritsar (Rural) district, nabbed Suri on Sunday morning, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.Gupta added that a manhunt had been launched after the release of a video where Suri allegedly made derogatory remarks against women. He had followed it by a Facebook video in which he had claimed that the objectionable video clip was a voiceover by some other person using his name.The DGP revealed that on July 8, after the first video went viral and was heavily criticised in India and abroad, Jandiala Police, Amritsar (Rural) had booked Suri in criminal case FIR no. 208 u/s 153-a, 354A, 509 IPC and 67 IT Act. Despite Suri’s denial of any involvement in the said objectionable video clip that had appeared in the social media, the DGP said he had ordered a massive manhunt against the suspect through Amritsar (Rural) Police.Gupta said he had also directed the Punjab Bureau of Investigation to get the clip examined though the Forensic Science Laboratory at the earliest. Subsequent investigations revealed that fearing arrest, Suri could have fled to Indore, said the DGP, disclosing that the operation was successfully conducted in coordination with the Madhya Pradesh Police.The DGP said he spoke to Vivek Johri, his counterpart in Madhya Pradesh, at the time of the dispatch of the two police teams to Indore. The teams, consisting of  DSP Harish Behl (Crimes against women), 2 SIs, 3 ASIs and 5 constables, were dispatched for arresting Suri.Punjab Police is now moving for bail cancellation requests before the concerned Judicial courts in cases where Suri has already been bailed out earlier.The DGP asserted a zero-tolerance policy against any individuals or organisations trying to incite communal hatred and fan communal passions through their speeches, statements, writings, posts on social media platforms etc. He further said the Punjab Police was “highly sensitive towards dignity, safety and security of women and would take strict action, as per law, against anyone showing women in a bad light.”
12-07-2020||New Delhi||BSF jawan arrested by Punjab police in drug smuggling case||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan posted along the International Border in Jammu has been arrested by the Punjab police in a drug smuggling case, officials said on Sunday.Arms and ammunition have also been recovered from the personnel, a resident of Gurdaspur district in Punjab.The jawan, whose name was not immediately available, was posted with a BSF unit deployed in the Samba sector of Jammu.A pistol, 80 bullets of 9mm calibre gun, 2 rounds of 12 bore rifle, 2 magazines and 3 mobile phones have been recovered from the jawan, they said.The BSF guards the over 3,300 kms long border with Pakistan running across the states of Jammu, Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat.—PTI
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amitabh Bachchan's message on COVID-19 inspired millions: Punjab CM Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday wished a speedy recovery to actor Amitabh Bachchan. He said that Amitabh's message on the COVID-19 had inspired millions.Bachchan along with his son Abhishek has tested positive for COVID-19. The actors have been admitted to the Nanavati hospital in Mumbai."Just learnt that Amitabh Bachchan has tested Covid-19 positive. His message of Mission Fateh has inspired millions here in Punjab," he said on Twitter, adding he is sure he will win the fight against Covid-19."I wish him a speedy recovery," the Chief Minister added. IANSJust learnt that @SrBachchan has tested #Covid19 positive. His message of #MissionFateh has inspired millions here in Punjab. Am sure he will win the fight against #Covid19. I wish him a speedy recovery.
12-07-2020||Patiala||Coronavirus: Patiala witnesses surge as nearly 56 per cent cases reported in last 11 days||Nearly 56 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in Patiala have been reported in the last 11 days and experts attribute the surge to lack of cooperation and concealing of travel histories.Of total 553 cases of coronavirus in the district, 312 were reported in July month only.It has been learned that people are not following social distancing norms in the micro-containment-areas which has led to a spike in the number of coronavirus cases.The caseload of COVID-19 in the district continues to rise because people are not cooperating, say experts.With people hiding travel history and violating social distancing norms, Patiala is inching towards becoming a hotspot of the corona.Worryingly, the majority of the cases are being reported from the micro containment areas.Most of the cases were reported from containment zone Top Khana Mor.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “There is no let-up in the cases in the containment areas. People should realise the gravity of the corona crisis and should follow government guidelines to stem the spread of the virus.”He added that hiding of the travel history by the people was one of the main reasons that caused the spike in the corona crises. He said, “People are still hiding their travel history. I again request people to report to the health department.”
12-07-2020||Sarika Sharma||Majha versus Malwa: Punjabi word war||Divided by Beas and Sutlej, Majha and Malwa regions of Punjab have largely been united in culture. The nitty-gritty, the finer points, however, have always been a bone of contention, sometimes in a lighter vein, but, not always! As lockdown tethered them to their homes, NRIs Raji and Veenu, who go by their first names in their virtual lives, engaged in a light banter to bring out these nuances in their video series, Majha Vs Malwa, which went viral on the now-banned TikTok and was shared on WhatsApp around here so many times. The videos are now part of their YouTube channel, Sadi Life.In the three-part vlog, the sisters-in-law engage in a war of words. Raji, who hails from Malwa, starts off with a random word in Malwai and Veenu gives a Majhi word for the same. And while it begins with basic words such as roka and thaka for engagement, shalgam and gonglu for turnip, khaaj and khurk for itch, it gets complex. There are words you haven’t heard; tones underlining the difference. It is as much fun as it is enlightening. If the street is called bihi in Malwa, it is gali in Majha; anger is aakad in Malwa and duss in Majha; if Malwa-wallahs call a corner khunja, in Majha it is nukkar; a sua (a smaller canal) turns nkhasu as you look towards Amritsar; haday (pleas) are tarlay in Majha; if the ubiquitous broom is radka in Malwa, it is bokar in Majha!YouTube channel, Sadi Life, was launched in 2019 by three brothers — Kulvinder Singh, Preet Gill, Navjit Singh, and their brother-in-law Sarab Singh. They wanted to share glimpses into their North American Punjabi lifestyle. It was during the lockdown that Raji and Veenu, who have been in the US for 20 years, got involved.Born and bred in Patiala, Raji hails from Malwa whereas Veenu is from Amritsar, Majha region. They say the idea of Majha vs Malwa was derived from their own confusions and understanding, rather misunderstanding, of each other’s dialects. Sometimes Veenu would ask Raji for something, but Raji would have no idea what to do since she didn’t understand Majhi and vice versa. “We decided to make a TikTok and YouTube video for entertainment purposes, comparing and contrasting our two different dialects. Much to our surprise, the video went viral and was shared on all major social media platforms,” says Raji. The family was flooded with phone calls from relatives and friends settled worldwide.The videos evoked mixed feelings in people — it was fun for some and overwhelming for others. “People were thrilled that we brought back words they hadn’t heard since childhood and were perhaps in danger of extinction from the vocabulary of next generation of Punjabis,” says Veenu.After the first video went viral, people wanted more and some even suggested as to which words to include in the next vlog. Some wanted a Majha vs Doaba, which they followed up with shortly. The duo says it feels proud to have represented its language in such a way and to have started a dialogue about its preservation. “We enjoy making videos exploring various idiosyncrasies of Punjabi culture. We also like to discuss topics such as mental health, that might be considered taboo.”Raji and Veenu say they take pride in celebrating Punjabiyat every day even as they live away from their homeland. “It’s wonderful to share our rich language, culture, and heritage with the world. It doesn’t matter where Punjabis reside on this planet; we are all connected at the heart!”
12-07-2020||Sangeet Toor||Filthy pond turns into lake: Two young men change the face of their village||At his village Shreenh Wala Brar, Ferozepur, Gurpreet stood by the filthy banks of the pond and envisaged a small lake with serene waters, lined with trees, recreation and sports area at the far end, and a clean reflection of his village in the water. The sheer expanse of the pond, the garbage mounds along the edge, the amount of sewage drained into the water, and the miasma did not deter his determination to find a way for his dream to come true. He drew a map of the serene pond, and set out to convince and organise his peers, the village elders and the panchayat. The year was 2011.Passion is contagious. Soon enough, it affected others. Baljinder Brar was one of them. In 2013, the old village library, Guru Nanak Dev Pustak Ghar, was resurrected by them with the help of other reading aficionados from the village. Punjabi writer Ninder Ghugianwi was invited as chief guest; he brought the place under the ambit of Punjabi Sahit Sabha, New Delhi. The books poured in; the youth poured in. They started convening in the library on a weekly basis and brought to life the campaigns to clean the village, clean the crematorium, curb drugs, and ultimately clean the pond.The beautiful villages in Punjab often have dreamers who live abroad or who are distinguished citizens. The ideas of such individuals are well received by the villagers. Gurpreet and Baljinder were unassuming teenagers when they started out. They built the platform for their recognition purely on their own. They engaged with progressive people near and far; they organised sports events to expand their base in the nearby Guru Harsahai.Social media played a crucial role in the imaginings of an alternate reality of Gurpreet and Baljinder. They came across young men and women in other villages who were on a similar quest. They took advice from the ones who had accomplished their goals to achieve the look, feel, and workings of an ideal village. Gurpreet created a group called the Ideal Villager, and started a Facebook page to reach out to a bigger number of advisers and audience.Cleaning the pond was no easy task. It wasn’t until 2017 when the extent of the effort was measured up. Gurpreet initiated and then remained in close contact with Sant Seechewal to treat the pond water. The idea was to fill up two third portions of the pond and keep the rest since the maintenance would be easy. Baljinder collaborated with the local youth to fill up the pond as planned. It took 5,000 trolleys of sand. Yes, that’s right!The pond was deep. Nobody could have imagined that the filth and slime had such depth, not until they dug up an extended area of good earth. Gurpreet envisioned a large-scale change to how life was lived in the village. Life is dependent on water. Potable water had remained a commodity that was fetched by the villagers from the nearby canal after travelling for a few kilometers. Everyday, day after day. Now that the people became a collective, they found and implemented a solution that catered to everyone. The potable water arrived right inside the village. Similarly, more than four dozen solar lights were installed in the streets.A great part of the collective responsibility and action is hinged on the fair use of shared resources. Gurpreet, who is greatly inspired by the writings of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and Mahatma Gandhi, aspired to catalyse the ultimate change. By peaceful means. This subsequent step — to free the shared village land called Shamlaat of illegal ownership — was accomplished recently. And accomplished rather peacefully. Such a feat wouldn’t have been possible without Baljinder giving up what hadn’t belonged to him. Additionally, the barren Shamlaat land was reclaimed and made cultivable.The pond breathes quietly on the outskirts of the village. The serene waters reflect the mounds of soil lined according to the plan. The plan, which is a map of the recreational area around the pond, is printed on a life-size board and fixed near the pond. The things are working smoothly with tractors, trolleys, excavators working in unison. The project is closely monitored by village sarpanch S. Surjit Singh Dhawan.However, reality is a continuum of a bigger dream. The journey continues for these young men who, after achieving the goal, recognition and power, and having given up the prime of their career-forming youth, have set out to cities to find a job, earn a living. They talk like wise people and sound far ahead of their time. While Baljinder is a fellow at Punjab Youth Leadership Programme 2020-2022, Gurpreet realises that the challenges he accepted and changes he envisioned are just a beginning. His goal is to establish himself as an entrepreneur and create jobs. Nothing is unachievable.
12-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Heroin coming from Punjab seized in Nurpur, 2 held||Nurpur, July 11A team of the Damtal police station in Indora seized 36.62 grams of heroin (chitta) from a Scorpio car at the Bhadroya chowk late Friday night.The team, led by SHO Harish Guleria, was on routine patrolling near Bhadroya when it spotted a car (with Punjab registration number) parked near the Bhadroya chowk and noticed suspicious movement of two persons near the vehicle. The police caught the duo identified as Lavpreet Singh of Abdhal (Majitha) village in Amritsar and Dimple Mahajan of Begoval (Taragarh) village in Pathankot district. In the meantime, two persons sitting inside the vehicle fled from the spot by driving away the jeep. The police have also registered case against them and they are yet to be arrested.During the interrogation, the nabbed drug peddlers confessed that they were used to bringing narcotics from Amritsar for further supply to drug peddlers in different part of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab.DSP, Nurpur, Sahil Arora said a case under the NDPS Act had been registered against the accused who were today produced in the court that sent him to five days’ police remand.
12-07-2020||Jalandhar||Father-son duo electrocuted in Jalandhar||Members of the Garment Traders’ Association and councillors of Ward Number 50 and 51 held a protest against the zonal Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officers after a father and son duo was electrocuted at Peer Bodla Bazaar last night.Reportedly, both died after they came in contact with a live wire during heavy rain last night and landed in a waterlogged road in Peer Bodla. The father-son duo has been identified as Man (13) and Gulshan (42). The incident was reported around 9.30 pm, when both of them were heading back home in Ali Mohalla, after closing their shop at Pucca Bagh.While the son used to study in Class V at St Soldier Divine School, his father used to work as a photo-frame maker.SHO, police division 4, Nirmal Singh said the passers-by tried saving them with a wooden stick, but to no avail and they were declared brought dead at ESI Hospital. A case under Section 174 of the IPC has been registered.Meanwhile, garment traders said had the Electricity Department taken timely action in repairing the loose wires, such a major incident could have been averted.
12-07-2020||Jammu||Amend Gurdwara Act: J&K Sikhs||Sikh groups today urged Lt-Governor Girish Chandra Murmu to amend the Gurdwara Act on the pattern of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Act. They also appealed to the government to constitute ad hoc committees for the smooth functioning of gurdwara affairs.“The tenure of the District Gurdwara Parbandhak Committiees (DGPCs) and the Gurdwara Parbandhak Board has expired. The DGPC, Jammu, is facing serious allegations regarding misappropriation of funds, mismanagement and arbitrary decisions,” Harjinder Singh Raina, a former secretary of the DGPC, Jammu, told the media. He appealed to the Lt-Governor to induct a Sikh in the Public Service Commission. — TNS
12-07-2020||---||IELTS, tuition centres eager to resume business||Amritsar, July 11Owners of over hundred IELTS and tuition centres here have urged the government to allow them to resume business, saying their livelihood has been hit hard by the Covid-induced lockdown.Staging a protest here on Friday, they said they would hand over the keys of their offices to the Deputy Commissioner in the next week if the government failed to respond to their demands.Kanwar Bikram, who led the protest, said: “We have also apprised leaders of the ruling party of the problems being faced by us and requested them for help.” He said they earned their living from the centres which they started after failing to get a suitable job.“Now after becoming self-employed and even creating jobs for other youngsters like us, we have been forced to keep our business shut for the past three months,” said Bikram, adding that if buses could be allowed to operate, if too must be given permission to resume classes.Another IELTS centre operator Arshdeep Singh said: “We have been paying huge amount as rent as stopping payments would mean we have to vacate the buildings. Our investments in bettering infrastructure are going waste.” He said licensed centers should be allowed to resume operations.“We are ready to abide by all instructions issued by the government to contain Covid spread. We understand that safety is paramount but if restaurants and hotels can operate, why can’t the less-crowded IELTS centers,” he said.The centre owners said they were finding it difficult to pay rent and staff salaries.
12-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Locked in, people prefer usual homely clothing over swish ones||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, July 11“The sale of fancy fabrics and formal wear has almost vanished in the market and is giving a tough time to the wholesale and retail merchants,” laments Rajiv Aneja, a wholesale readymade garment merchant.Understandably, Aneja’s claim had always been on the horizon, it was just a matter of time before it materialised into reality. The coronavirus has shaped fears, derailed economy and has hardly left in the world where its mark cannot be seen. And clothing industry is no different.As the majority of populace has continued to stay indoors, the shift in lifestyle was also bound to happen with many opting for the usual homewearing garments and shunning the luxury, fancy apparels. “The demand for kurtas, pyjamas, shorts, capri, cargo apart from conventional t-shirts has risen remarkably after reopening of markets following the lockdown”, he observes.The demand has not only surged among men, kids but also women.“Otherwise they were the major buyers of fancy and luxury apparels,” Aneja says. “Since the government has put restrictions on the number of gathering in parties and with people avoiding to visit malls, eating joints and upscale locations, they no longer require swish attires. So, the sale of western dresses, suits, lehanga and saree have plummeted and their traders have no other option but to store them,” he adds.Meanwhile, a segment of readymade shopkeepers selling the casuals cornering the moolah, however, the wholesalers have been dealing on the low as supply from manufacturing hubs — like Ludhiana, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Kolkata and Mumbai — has taken a hitTarlochan Singh Chhabra, president of Amritsar Wholesale Readymade Garments Association, says: “The demand of daily use apparels being worn in houses have risen sharply but the wholesalers are not receiving regular supply from the manufacturing hubs like Ludhiana, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Kolkata and Mumbai.”He added that the supply from Kolkata had come down. Whereas from hubs in Delhi and Ludhiana it fell down to 30 per cent.
12-07-2020||---||Bringing cultural sites to people's doorstep amid Covid pandemic||Amritsar, July 11Before being hit by the pandemic, the heritage tourism industry in Amritsar was one of the main economic lifelines, with thriving prospects. But the tourism sector took a beating amid the Covid outbreak. The popular sites of international heritage tourism in city include Golden Temple, Wagah Border, Heritage Street, Partition Museum, Gobindgarh Fort, Ram Tirth, Jallianwala Bagh, War memorial and Pul Kanjri. All of these places had been shut due to Covid-19 until fresh guidelines on its re-opening are issued. Till then, the new normal for the management of these places lie in exploring the digital space.Partition Museum, the only dedicated museum to the Partition of India in the world, has shifted its activities online. They have been posting virtual tours of its galleries on their social media space, hosting interactions with historians, poets, documentarians across the world on relevant subjects through live web sessions and posting eye witness accounts from their archives of the partition. The video and audio files are also being shared with Department of education under their school education programme to create awareness regarding the history of the Partition. Similarly, The Punjab State War Memorial and Museum also have been marking important days and anniversaries by sharing their archives and video tours online. The district Tourism Department runs programmes such as heritage walk.The conservation and restoration works at some of the sites, including Gobindgarh Fort, Hall Bazaar and Town Hall are being carried keeping in mind the safety guidelines. These projects are being carried with 50 per cent or more staff present on site.SPEAKING OUTWe are carrying out all conservation works with social distancing norms in place. These sites get huge footfall usually and the pace of work will depend on when these places reopen. For now, the new normal for us means following the safety guidelines without a doubt. —AR Mishra, Project manager, Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion BoardUntil the guidelines to reopen these sites of tourism come, we are only carrying out conservation projects with 50 per cent workers on some of these sites. The new normal would be very difficult to define for heritage tourism as the footfall will be restricted in the first few months. —Gursharan Singh, district Tourism OfficerAlthough we want to open for physical tourism as soon as possible, given the situation, we are exploring digital space to reach out to more people. Our galleries need to be sanitised more, we will have to limit our footfall. —Mallika Ahluwalia, CEO, Partition MuseumWe are updating video and audio files, pictures and text on our social media platforms to keep in touch with our audience. Our galleries are being sanitised regularly and virtual tours are being offered on our digital platform till we reopen for footfall. —Col HP Singh, director, Punjab State war Memorial and Museum
12-07-2020||---||Punjab School Education Department forms buddy group for awareness||Chandigarh, July 11While expressing satisfaction over the role being played by teachers in creating awareness among the masses related to Covid-19 pandemic, Krishan Kumar, Secretary, Punjab School Education Department, said they have formed a buddy group to give more impetus to this campaign.He said members of the buddy group would share the work done in their districts with their counterparts and this would result in best teaching practice.
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||SAD for probe into fake Covid-19 reports||The SAD has demanded an independent inquiry into the fake Covid-19 reports, saying the latest order from the Chief Secretary, “taking back the inquiry from the Vigilance Bureau and entrusting it to the Amritsar police had shaken the faith of the people in the Congress government”.Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia alleged that it was shocking that efforts were being made by Congress men to save a diagnostic centre for committing a crime against humanity by declaring Covid-19 negative patients as positive. — TNS
12-07-2020||Patiala||4 booked for misbehaving with frontline warriors||Singer booked for flouting normsPatiala: The police have booked Punjabi singer Gurnam Bhullar and others for violating social distancing norms and not wearing masks during a video shoot. The singer and others were shooting at a mall in Rajpura town of the district on Saturday. It is learnt that the crew members were also not wearing masks. The police said the singer did not have the required permission to shoot at the mall. TNSBest performing districts honouredChandigarh: On the occasion of World Population Day, the best performing districts under the family planning programme were honoured. Mansa stood first in tubectomy, Jalandhar in vasectomy and Amritsar in mini lap, said Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. He said the World Population Day was being observed to spread awareness about the free services of family planning methods being provided at government hospitals. TNS
12-07-2020||---||Murder case solved, 2 arrested in Bathinda||Bathinda, July 11The Bathinda police today solved the murder case of a man by arresting his wife and brother. The police also recovered the iron rod used in the crime, a motorcycle and clothes with blood stains.The reason behind the murder of Jony Ram, a resident of Poohla Colony, was stated to be the alleged illicit relations between his wife and brother.On Friday, Jony’s body was recovered from a plot near Mandir Colony in Adarsh Nagar.DSP (City 2) Ashwant Singh said, “During the probe, it came to the fore that Jony was killed by his brother Tony Ram. Tony had illicit relations with Jony’s wife Radha and Jony had come toknow about this.”The police got a tip-off that Tony was fleeing the city, after which hewas arrested. Later,Radha, too, was arrested from her home.
12-07-2020||---||PWD workers take to streets, seek regular jobs||Bathinda, July 11Members of the PWD Field and Workshop Workers’ Union staged a protest in front of the office of the Water Supply and Sewerage Board in Bathinda and demanded release of salary to employees along with regular jobs to contractual and outsourced workers.Gurdeep Singh, a union leader, said, “As many as 104 employees, whose services were regularised in 2016, must be given full salaries without any objections. At least one family member of the deceased employees should be provided a job on compassionate grounds and services of all contractual and outsourced workers should be regularised.”“The old pension scheme must be revived and vacant posts should be filled on a priority basis,” he added.
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Commission to seek info on graveyards for minorities||To deal with the problem of graveyards faced by minority communities, the Punjab State Commission for Minorities has decided to seek information from all deputy commissioners regarding graveyards in their respective districts.In a meeting held recently at the Punjab Bhawan under the chairmanship of Minister for Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, it was decided that the DCs would be asked to explore the possibility of providing proper access roads to graveyards.It was decided that the Welfare Department might publicise around all educational institutions and also at the offices of the deputy commissioners about the financial assistance that students of minority communities could avail.The chairman of the commission urged the state government to bring an Act for the protection of minorities from harassment and atrocities. — TNS
12-07-2020||---||Summon former jathedar, says Congress farm body||Amritsar, July 11The All India Congress Committee (Kisan Congress) has approached Akal Takht to summon former Jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh, under whose term pardon was granted to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim in a series of sacrilege cases.The dera chief and his allies have been nominated as the accused in the chargesheet filed by the Punjab Police in a case related to the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015.In a letter addressed to Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, AICC (Kisan Congress) national coordinator Pritpal Singh Baliawal said Giani Gurbachan Singh should be questioned on why and on whose instance the dera chief was pardoned.He also demanded scrutinising the role of the SGPC, which had spent “golak” money to the tune of Rs 95 lakh to release advertisements in leading dailies to justify the exoneration of the dera chief.
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister writes to Modi on exam cancellation||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has written to the Prime Minister, seeking permission to let the state government adhere to its July 3 decision on cancellation of university/college examinations in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.In his letter, the Chief Minister urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to advise the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MoHRD) and the University Grants Commission (UGC) to reconsider their decision on mandatory conduct of final term exams by September.“The UGC may be asked to reiterate its earlier issued guidelines of April 29, wherein it had been clearly mentioned that the guidelines were advisory in nature and each state/university would chart out its own plan of action taking into consideration the issues pertaining to the pandemic,” he urged the Prime Minister. The Chief Minister said the state, after due deliberation, had decided to cancel all pending UG and PG final term examinations and to promote students on the basis of performance in previous years or semesters. — TNS
12-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Bi-monthly online school exams from tomorrow in Punjab||Jalandhar, July 11The Education Department is all set to conduct the online bi-monthly examination for students of Classes VI to XII from July 13.A webinar via YouTube was organised in this regard by the department to impart training to the teachers for the smooth conduct of the online examination as well as the assessment of answer sheets. The webinar was attended by officials of the department along with 30,000 schoolteachers across the state. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said the teachers were made aware of latest digital applications and techniques on how to conduct the exams, carry out online evaluation and declare results.He said the date sheet for the exams had been released by the department and the teachers had circulated it among students via WhatsApp groups. The exams for Classes VI to X are scheduled to be held from July 13 to 18, while for Classes XI and XII, they will be held from July 13 to 24. “The question papers are being prepared by the head office and will be sent to the teachers online. Every exam will be of 20 marks and there will be both objective and subjective questions. The results will be declared in a week after the last exam,” he added.
12-07-2020||---||Eight more die, 231 fresh cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 11With 231 fresh cases in the past 24 hours, the state count of Covid-19 cases has reached 7,587. Eight deaths were reported in the state today.Two deaths each were reported from Patiala and Jalandhar, and one each was reported from Pathankot, Sangrur, Ludhiana and Bathinda. With these deaths, the number of casualties has reached 195. Besides, 59 patients are on oxygen support and nine are on ventilator support.In Sangrur, a 62-year old Malerkotla resident died at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Patiala, last night,after breathlessness and other problems. The deceased did not have any co-morbidities.The Secretary, Regional Transport Authority, Jalandhar, tested positive today. This has taken the district tally to 1,177. A 58-year-old man from Raipur Rasoolpur and another from Gandhi Nagar died today. Of the 75 who tested positive today, 14 are employees of the Mehatpur police station. There has also been a spike in cases in Nakodar and Shahkot.In the highest single-day spike, Patiala today reported 55 cases of Covid-19. After the sudden rise in the number of cases, many areas in the district have been declared micro-containment zones. In Samana, the Health Department declared three micro-containment zones after 17 cases were reported on Saturday.As per the state media bulletin, the districts which were badly affected by the virus in the past 24 hours include Jalandhar with 77 cases, Patiala with 55 cases, Ludhiana with 29 cases, Amritsar with 19 and SAS Nagar with 12 cases.Govt caps charges for Covid test in Private labs
12-07-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||AAP, SAD up ante with regular protests||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 11The 2022 Assembly elections are nearly two years away, but the political scene has started heating up in the Malwa region where the SAD and AAP have intensified their campaign against the state government on several issues.It seems that Bathinda is emerging as the state’s protest capital with a number of farmer and employee bodies and political leaders holding their protests in the district. Every day, two to three protests are taking place in the city.Most protests revolve around demands for loan waiver, restarting of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant, pending salaries, regularisation of employees and reduction of VAT on fuel.With an eye on elections, the SAD, which did not get a single seat in the district in the 2017 polls, is boosting its cadre to retain lost ground. Similarly, AAP, which had won three seats in the district, wants to consolidate its base and increase its graph in 2022.AAP state spokesperson Neel Garg said, “The party is in the poll mode and the high command is holding regular meetings with state president Bhagwant Mann and state incharge Jarnail Singh to plan the poll strategy. The party is standing with people on the ground and will oppose each and every wrong decision of the Centre and state.”
12-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Move to omit Sec 304 to weaken case: Rights body||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 11Even as the special investigation team (SIT) of the Government Railway Police (GRP) submitted a challan in the court in the 2018 train tragedy case, questions are being raised over the move.Though an FIR was registered under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) along with 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the GRP has filed the challan just under Section 304-A.‘Challan filed under bailable offences’Though police and MC officials will face the music from their respective departments for criminal negligence, the organisers will go scot-free as the challan has been filed under bailable offences. — Sarabjit Singh Verka, Member, Punjab Human Rights OrganisationThe Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), an NGO headed by retired Justice Ajit Singh Bains, pointed out that the development would weaken the case against the culprits. In December 2019, the PHRO had filed a plaint with the Commissioner of Police and the GRP for nominating the accused in the FIR.Sarabjit Singh Verka of the PHRO said the GRP’s decision to omit Section 304, IPC, in the challan would benefit the accused. “Though cops and MC officials will face the music from their respective departments for criminal negligence, the organisers will go scot free as the challan has been filed under bailable offences,” he said.The SIT has nominated seven members of the organising committee, including Saurav Madaan, alias Mithu Madaan, an aide of former Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu in the case. Other members named in the FIR include Rahul Kalyan, Deepak Kumar, Karan Bhandari, Kabal Singh, Deepak Gupta and Bhupinder Singh.The SIT found that the organisers held the event without the mandatory permissions and safety measures. They had held the programme at Dhobi Ghat that lacked space to accommodate a huge gathering.Sukhwinder Singh Malhi, SHO, GRP, who was also a part of the SIT, said the investigation into the case did not prove the charge under Section 304 (culpable homicide). Hence, the challan was filed under Section 304A and other relevant sections.
12-07-2020||---||Jailed for flouting visa norms, 150 Punjabis return from Malaysia||Amritsar, July 11A group of 150 residents of Punjab, most of whom had been languishing in camps in Malaysia after the completion of their jail sentences for illegal stay, today arrived at SriGuru Ram Das Jee International Airport.On board a chartered flight, they landed at the airport in the afternoon. This was the first batch of residents with more expected to reach India soon as the Malaysian government has agreed to repatriate 350 people after Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal took up the issue with the Malaysian High Commissioner as well as the External Affairs Minister.The residents claim they had been duped by travel agents who had taken them to Malaysia on the pretext of giving them employment. They had to fend for themselves and in the process, they overstayed in Malaysia after the expiry of their visas.Earlier, Malaysian Helping Hands, an NGO headed by Paul Dholli, had brought the issue into the notice of the Youth Akali Dal through its Punjab representative Rajwant Kaur. The families of the affected youth had met Harsimrat and YAD secretary general Sarabjot Singh Sabi.‘Duped by agents’
12-07-2020||Sameer Singh||Ponds not cleaned for years, villagers bear the brunt||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 11Village ponds in the district are in a bad shape since no repair or cleaning work has been undertaken for the past many years.With a large volume of sewage from villages making its way into the ponds, the artificial water sources are getting polluted. As a result, residents living near the ponds not only have to bear foul smell, but also face the risk of getting sick.‘Can’t irrigate fields’ The pond in our village has not been cleaned for over 15 years now. There was a time when it was cleaned on time and regular supply of water was ensured. Decades ago, farmers even used pond water for irrigation, but we can’t do that now. — Bindra Singh, ResidentAs per records of the Rural Development and Panchayat Department, there are 724 ponds in the district. Sources claim that a majority of these have not been cleaned for the past many years.Residents of villages such as Mehma Sarkari, Ablu, Ganga, Mehma Sarja, Nehianwala, Goniana Kalan and Jeeda claim that ponds in their areas are in a bad state. Last year, as part of the government’s pond-cleaning campaign, Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa had instructed department officials to carry out the work to clean and desilt the ponds in all 13,124 villages in the state. Many ponds were cleaned as a part of the campaign, but in Bathinda, most water bodies remained untouched.Residents of Mehma Sawai village said they could not even recall the last time the village pond was cleaned.Ranjit Singh of Ganga village said: “After waiting for the government to act, we recently got the pond cleaned with funds collected by the village committee.”Harjinder Singh Jassal, District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO), said: “Of the 724 ponds, the cleaning of 562 has been completed by the department and the work on the remaining ponds is underway.” Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “At least 70 per cent cleaning work of the ponds has been completed.” On the deplorable condition of ponds in several villages, he said: “I will look into the matter and take action accordingly.”
12-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court questions promotion for excelling in tug of war||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11In a tug of war with his employer, Jaswinder Singh could not pull the court’s opinion towards his side. The Mandi Board employee scored an own goal after his plea for promotion was not only turned down by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, but liberty was also granted to the authorities concerned to find out how the picnic game was used to provide promotion and other benefits to him.Claiming to be the former champion of the team game, Jaswinder Singh had moved the High Court seeking promotion as District Mandi Officer. Justice Arun Monga’s Bench was told that the petitioner initially joined as a clerk in August 1989, but was promoted as a junior assistant in April 2001, and a senior assistant in August 2008.His post was upgraded as Secretary, Market Committee, in January 2009, after recognising his achievement in ‘tug of war’. The Bench was told that he was a member of the team which secured first position in the 6th Senior Federation Cup National Championship. Thereafter, he was promoted as Deputy District Mandi Officer.Justice Monga asserted that the petitioner was literally in tug of war with his employer. After, perhaps, running out of luck “of conniving in past with certain board officials to get benefit of so-called team sport,” he approached the High Court.The sport concededly was not even based on individual feat/prowess. “What happened to the other team members, if they too were government employees? Did they also get out-of-turn promotion like the petitioner? Be that as it may, the petitioner’s speculative confidence is that since earlier too he was given the benefit of team performance in the so-called sport of tug of war, why not now?”Referring to the state government’s unequivocal stand that ‘tug of war’ was not a recognised sport, Justice Monga added there was no room for interference and the petitioner’s claim for promotion on the basis of previous upgradation and promotion by the virtue of his sports achievement did not survive any more.
12-07-2020||---||Clash averted over reserved land, Sangrur village tense||Sangrur, July 11After peace prevailed for some days, tension resurfaced in Gharachon village when some members of the Dalit community tried to take possession of the reserved common land.In the village, the community is divided into two groups. Demanding re-auction of the reserved land, one of the groups alleged that the Panchayat Department had allotted the land to ‘dummy’ bidders, planted by members of the upper caste.“Ignoring the bid of 174 Dalit families, the Panchayat Department had on May 27 allotted 48 acres of the reserved land to the second group of five persons, who are working as ‘dummy’ candidate for the upper caste. Today, the ‘dummy’ bidders, with the help of upper caste members, tried to take the possession of the land, but our group opposed them,” alleged Mukesh Malaud, zonal president of the Zameen Prapati Sangharash committee (ZPSC).When one group tried to take possession of the land, the other started raising slogans. Timely action by the police averted a clash.“We have met senior officers many times for a re-auction, but no one paid heed to our demand. Now, the other group wants to take possession of the land forcibly. We have been sitting on an indefinite protest. We will not allow upper caste members to take the reserved land through dummy bidders,” said Bikkar Singh, another ZPSC leader.Bhawanigarh SHO Ramandeep Singh said the situation was under control.“We have deputed police personnel and informed the Panchayat Department,” the SHO said .
12-07-2020||Vishav Bharti||For tests, ministers, officers demand ‘doorstep service’ in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11While people have to slog in long queues in hospitals for getting tested for Covid-19, some IAS officers and ministers have asked doctors to collect their samples from their homes.In the last week, some IAS, PCS and police officers have been found Covid positive. Following this, there was a widespread panic among bureaucrats and politicians. In some cases, they ordered government doctors to visit their residences for the collection of their and their families’ samples for Covid-19 tests.Some visit hospitalsSome senior IAS officers visited government hospitals for Covid-19 tests without any fussAn officer posted in the CMO recently visited a government hospital like a common man and gave his sampleAccording to sources in the Health Department, two Punjab cadre IAS officers, one from the 2003 batch and another from the 2005 batch, who had suspicion of coming into contact with Covidpositive persons, sent messages to the State CovidControl Room to depute doctors to collect samples from their residences.However, health officials expressed their reluctance to do so, citing a huge rush in the hospitals.Another Punjab cadre IAS officer of the 1997 batch also asked the doctors to visit his home for the collection of samples. When he was requested to come to the district hospital, he wanted the premises to be vacated before his visit. When health officials told him that was not possible, he visited the hospital and his swab sample was collected while he sat in his official car parked outside the hospital.Some onlookers and patients lodged protest over the VIP treatment given to the bureaucrat.At the same time, some senior IAS officers visited government hospitals for Covid tests without any fuss.Sources said an officer posted in the CMO recently visited a government hospital like a common man and gave his sample. In the last two days, health teams also visited houses of some ministers to collect samples.Significantly, in the last one week around 10 PCS and two IAS officers have tested positive for Covid.
12-07-2020||---||College duped of Rs 6 lakh on pretext of admissions in Faridkot||Faridkot, July 11As more private colleges are engaging commission-based agents for enrolments due to a slump in admissions, a nursing college in Faridkot has been duped of Rs 6 lakh by con men.Promising the Baba Farid Nursing College at Kotkapura of enrolling 55 students from Bihar, the con men allegedly collected Rs 6 lakh as payment for their service.They lured the college management into the trap by providing fake certificates and other documents of 55 candidates of different localities in Bihar. They also provided 55 fake demand drafts of Rs 39 lakh in lieu of admission and tuition fee for the students, but neither any student was enrolled nor the fee was received as the certificates and demand drafts were found to be fake. The accused have been identified as Bhagat Singh and Anwar, residents of Kishanganj in Gaya district of Bihar.At a time when many students head abroad to study and then to find employment in foreign countries, most educational institutions, particularly private colleges, are complaining of a sharp drop in admissions. Facing closure, many engineering and nursing colleges are relying on commission-based recruiting agents to lure students from Bihar, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh.The payment to the agents is generally linked to the money received by the colleges from the recruited students. On the complaint of the management of the college, the Kotkapura police have registered a criminal case under Sections 420, 465, 468, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.
12-07-2020||---||Muktsar traders get extortion calls, probe underway||Muktsar, July 11The business community in Muktsar town is nowadays living in fear as five to six persons are learnt to have received extortion calls from unidentified callers in the last few days. One of them has even lodged a complaint with the police. Subsequently, the cops launched a manhunt, but have not been able to trace any accused so far.Businessmen panickyThe businessmen have so far showed reluctance to lodge a formal complaintas they are fearful of the repercussions. Gangsters are behind the calls. — Social activistA local told The Tribune that five or six local businessmen had got extortion calls on WhatsApp in the last few days.“The businessmen have so far showed reluctance to lodge a formal complaint with the police, as they are fearful of the repercussions. I was told by one of the traders that he had received an extortion call a few days ago and that the caller had introduced himself as a member of Lawrence Bishnoi’s gang. It is a shocking development, which has sent everyone into a tizzy,” said a local social activist.Mohan Lal, SHO, Muktsar (City) police station, said, “I heard that some people have got extortion calls in the last few days. However, except one person, no one has lodged a complaint with us. However, we are alert and trying our best to locate the caller with the help of IT cell. The complainant informed us that the caller was demanding Rs 10 lakh extortion money. However, since the day we launched an investigation into the case, the complainant has not got any fresh extortion call.”Meanwhile, on the night of July 6, four armed robbers had opened two rounds of fire at a sanitary shop at Killianwali village near Dabwali town and decamped with Rs 1.2 lakh. They are yet to be arrested. The incident was captured in CCTV cameras.
12-07-2020||Minna Zutshi||Surge in domestic violence complaints since lockdown||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 11There has been a surge in complaints of domestic violence received by the police during the lockdown period. As many as 1,576 distress calls/complaints were received by the cops from April 1 till June 30.In the pre-lockdown period (from January to March), only 867 complaints were received.Though 80 per cent of the complainants were women, 20 per cent were men who complained against the “uncalled for interference” by their in-laws.“Not that there were no issues earlier in the pre-lockdown period. It was only that during the lockdown, buried issues surfaced,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police Akhil Chaudhary.With its concomitant fears, insecurities and lack of social contact, the lockdown provided a simmering ground for the problems to manifest, he added.Dr Sarabjeet Singh, director, University Counselling and Placement Guidance Cell, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, said the lockdown aggravated the already-present problems.“The weakened family fabric could not further withstand the pressures of the pandemic,” he said.“During the lockdown, the additional financial strain coupled with the financial insecurity and the fear of contracting Covid-19 compounded the problem,” he added.Sharing information from his recent counselling experiences, Dr Singh said he suggested ‘writing therapy’ to a senior citizen who was facing mental turmoil due to the inflammatory family environment.“As the senior citizen was repeatedly rejecting all suggested solutions, I told him to start the ‘writing therapy’. He had to follow a protocol – write two pages of ‘Japji Sahib’ every day and while writing he had to recite it. And most importantly, he had to keep smiling while doing this exercise,” said Dr Singh.In many cases, reinterpretation of the complainant’s narrative helped in finding a solution, said Dr Singh. “Problems may seem huge and insurmountable, but once we talk about them, they seem less overwhelming. Counselling experts can reinterpret the problems to make them less threatening and more manageable,” he said.
12-07-2020||Washington||Indian envoy holds virtual meet with US Sikh leaders||Indian Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu held a virtual interaction with members of the Sikh community in the United States, during which the participating diaspora leaders pledged to contribute to India's development with particular focus on Punjab.“Wonderful interaction with prominent members of the vibrant Sikh Indian-American community,” Sandhu tweeted on Friday soon after the virtual meeting, which was attended by about 100 eminent Sikh leaders. During the two-hour-long meeting, the ambassador briefed the community members on the India-US strategic ties and praised their immense contribution to the socio-economic milieu of the United States and development of India.Focus on Punjab developmentWonderful interaction with prominent members of the vibrant Sikh Indian-American community. There was a lot of enthusiasm to do something for development of Punjab. —Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Indian Ambassador to the USThe Sikh leaders expressed interest in helping to develop Punjab in sectors such as education and environment.“There was a lot of enthusiasm to do something towards the overall development of Punjab,” according to a participating official. During his previous postings in the US in various capacities, Sandhu has been instrumental in engaging the Sikh diaspora.He had played a key role in the first ever meeting of the Sikh community leaders here with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the latter's visit in 2016. —PTI
