12-04-2020||Surinder Bhardwaj||Covid-19: Councillor, brother allegedly attacked over free ration distribution||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 12Congress councillor Sunder Lal from Ward Number 5 of Municipal Council, Sirhind, and his brother Rajeshwar Parsad were allegedly beaten up by people for “not giving them free ration” sent by the state government for distribution in view of Covid-19 pandemic.The brother of the councillor has been admitted in civil hospital at Fatehgarh Sahib.On the complaint of Sunder Lal, an FIR has been registered against Munish Kumar, Jassi, Mona, Saroj, Chinda and Varinder Singh. No arrest has been made so for.In the FIR, the councillor has alleged that he was preparing lists of needy people for distribution of free ration, when these people allegedly stopped his motorcycle and alleged that he was not giving them the rations sent by the government.Sunder Lal said he told them their names figure in the list whenever he will receive the consignment, he will distribute rations among them. But they did not listen to him and accused him of having received the consignment and not giving it to them deliberately.Sunder Lal said, in the meantime, his brother and the latter’s daughter came there along with other family members, but the alleged attackers continued to hackle him. “They slapped my niece and attacked my brother who started bleeding and was taken to hospital,” Sunder Lal alleged.
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Pray from homes on Baisakhi: Punjab CM to people||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, here on Sunday, urged people to pray on the occasion of Baisakhi on Monday at their homes for the state's victory over Covid-19.In a message, the Chief Minister said this was a different Baisakhi in view of the coronavirus pandemic because of which people could not go out to celebrate the festival with traditional fervour in large congregations.It was necessary for all to stay at home in this difficult time and observe the occasion with prayers for Covid-19's elimination from the state, he said."Let us pray to Wahe Guru to keep us, and our Punjab, in the Charhdi Kala, to keep us safe and happy always," said the Chief Minister and added even the Akal Takht and the SGPC had urged people not to gather outside to celebrate Baisakhi this year.Expressing the hope and confidence that Punjab would defeat the pandemic, Singh appealed people to do their duty as lakhs of frontline warriors to keep them safe and protected.He thanked doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, other health and sanitation workers, the police, the revenue staff, the religious organisations, the NGOs and everyone else engaged in the Covid-19 battle, putting their own lives on the line. — IANS
12-04-2020||New Delhi||Congress MP writes to MEA on Kabul gurdwara attack: Ensure no Pak interference in probe||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pratap Bajwa has urged the government to work with the Afghan authorities to ensure there is no Pakistani interference in the probe into the Kabul gurdwara attack last month.In a letter to Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Bajwa urged the government to ensure all efforts are taken for a fair investigation in the March 25 attack that left 25 Sikhs dead and eight injured.Pakistan had earlier demanded that Afghan authorities hand over Aslam Farooqui, the alleged mastermind and the leader of the ISIL-Khorasan wing, to it. But Afghanistan had declined the request.Pakistan has claimed that Farooqui is wanted for conducting “anti-Pakistani” activities.Bajwa believed that this demand is an attempt by Pakistan to hide information regarding their involvement in the terrorist attack.The attempt to coerce Afghanistan into handing over the main accused to Pakistan would negatively impact the investigation and further harm the safety and security of Sikhs in Afghanistan, he said.Bajwa also said if Farooqui is given to Pakistan, the nascent NIA case on the attack could also be impacted.Therefore, he urged the minister to take all steps to ensure the non-interference of Pakistan in these investigations.A heavily-armed Islamic State-Khorasan suicide bomber stormed the gurdwara in the heart of Afghanistan’s capital on March 25, killing 25 Sikhs and injuring eight others. PTI
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cop’s severed hand re-implanted after 8-hr surgery at PGI||After nearly eight hours of surgery, a team of doctors at the PGI on Sunday successfully re-implanted the left hand of Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police that was chopped off in a clash by Nihangs in Patiala early morning.The 50-year-old patient had an amputation through the proximal wrist of left hand, said the PGI.The re-implantation was started around 10 am after initial preparation of the amputated part. Both radial and ulnar arteries, the vena comitantes and an extra dorsal vein were anastomosed (reconnection of blood vessels). All the flexors and extensor tendons were repaired, it said in a statement.All the nerves at the wrist required bony fixation done using three K-wires. The approximate time taken was about 7.5 hours.The PGI said this was technically very complex and challenging surgery, which was successfully done.It was evaluated at the end of surgery that hand is viable, warm with good circulation, it added.After a phone call from Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, PGI Director Jagat Ram activated the emergency team at Advanced Trauma centre and he gave the responsibility to Ramesh Sharma, Head Department of Plastic Surgery, for hand re-implantation.The surgery team comprised Sunil Gaba, Jerry R. John, Suraj Nair, Mayank, Chandra, Shubendu, Ankur, Abhishek and Purnima, while the nursing team comprised Arvind, Sneha and Arsh. — IANS
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab health department identifies 17 hotspots as state’s cases rise to 170||Punjab’s health department has identified 17 coronavirus hotspots in the state---a development that comes on a day when the state reported 12 new coronavirus cases.  Officials said on Sunday that areas with more than one confirmed case of the virus are being treated as a hotspot---that is, an area that could potentially see a community outbreak of the contagion.READ: Punjab reports 12 new coronavirus cases; state tally stands at 170These 17 hotspots---Mohali being the foremost of them---have reported a total of 108 cases of Punjab’s reported 170.Mohali, which has 53 reported cases so far, tops the list with six such areas, followed by SBS Nagar, Amritsar and Jalandhar with two areas each. Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Mansa, Pathankot, and Ropar have one each.In Mohali, Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur village, which has so far seen more than 30 cases, is highest on the list, followed by Phase 3-A, Phase 5, Phase 9, Sector 69 and 91. In SBS Nagar, Pathlawa with its 12 cases and Sujjon village with six cases have been identified. Other areas are Nijatam Nagar locality and Virk Patts village in Jalandhar; Diamond Estate Colony and Udham Singh Nagar in Amritsar; Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur; Amarpura in Ludhiana; Budhlada in Mansa; Sujanpur in Pathankot; and Chatwalli in Ropar.The state government said it would intensify its containment strategy in these areas by using RT-PCR and rapid kits to test extensively in these areas.Punjab recorded 12 new cases on Sunday, taking the state tally to 170.Seven of the 12 cases reported on Sunday came from Jalandhar, three from SAS Nagar, one each from Faridkot and Kapurthala.
12-04-2020||Patiala||Amid COVID-19 pandemic, Punjab doctors appeal for incentives||Amid coronavirus pandemic, the frontline warriors, doctors, demanded incentives for risking their lives in the fight against the COVID -19, here on Sunday.The state doctors have already appealed to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to exempt them from income tax for this financial year countrywide.Punjab State Medical & Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA) requested Union Finance Minister Sitharaman to totally exempt the government doctors from payment of income tax for the current financial year throughout the country to boost their morale in fighting the corona pandemic.Dr Mridu Gupta, president, PSMDTA, said presently the government doctors were heavily burdened with income tax with loss of almost their three month salary as income tax.The doctors association said that neighbouring Haryana Government had already decided to double the salary of all medical staff involved in the fight against corona.The association has appealed to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to pursue the matter personally with Central government.Keeping in view the looming pandemic, Dr DS Bhullar, general secretary, PSMDTA, said the government should announce incentives to the doctors involved in corona related duties.He said, “The best option is to give full insurance coverage to the government doctors and other paramedical staff. The state government should also ensure full protection to the doctors on duty—keeping in view the reported incidents of assault on doctors.”Doctors donate to Punjab Chief Minister Covid-19 Relief FundIt is pertinent to mention that faculty in medical and dental colleges—under state government—would contribute, at least, their one day salary to Punjab Chief Minister Covid-19 Relief Fund to supplement the state government efforts fighting the corona pandemic.
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab ready for bumper wheat harvest of 182 lakh tonnes||Punjab is ready for the harvest of bumper wheat crop of 182 lakh tonnes, a record of sorts, from April 15 and for this the government has made elaborate arrangements amid the coronavirus pandemic, an official said on Sunday.The government expects over 137 lakh tonnes of wheat would arrive in grain markets.Taking stock of the arrangements, Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Viswajeet Khanna said all arrangements are in place by the Mandi Board for the procurement that will continue till May 31.And if need be, it will be on till June 15.He said the cash credit limit of Rs 22,900 crore has been approved by the Centre to ensure prompt procurement in all 22 districts by creating 3,691 purchase centres, including 153 main yards, 280 sub-yards, 1,434 purchase centres, besides 1,824 yards of rice mills.He said nearly 137 lakh tonnes of wheat is expected to arrive, out of which 135 lakh tonnes would be purchased by government agencies and the remaining by private traders.Khanna said the Centre has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) of wheat at Rs 1,925 per quintal against Rs 1,840 in last year.A total of 17,500 combine harvesters would be operating for harvesting the crop in the state.Against the total requirement of 4.82 lakh gunny bales, 3.05 lakh have already been made available.To avoid crowding, Khanna said an action plan has been prepared to undertake procurement by staggering arrival of produce in the markets by issuing coupons fixed with holograms to the farmers through commission agents.With each coupon, a farmer will be entitled to bring one trolley of about 50 to 70 quintals of wheat. A farmer will be entitled to take multiple coupons each day or on different days depending on space in the purchase centre in order to avoid rush in the mandis.About 27 lakh such coupons would be issued by the market committees to the ‘arthiyas’.—IANS
12-04-2020||New Delhi||Hardeep Puri demands ‘exemplary punishment’ for Nihangs who chopped off policeman’s hand||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri demanded an “exemplary punishment” for the members of a Sikh sect who chopped off a policeman’s hand with a sword and injured two others on being asked to show curfew passes in Patiala on Sunday.Condemning the inhuman attack, the Union housing and urban affairs minister said “such criminals and anarchists” should be brought to justice at the earliest.The inhuman attack on policemen in Patiala needs to be condemned in the strongest of terms. Such criminals & anarchists should be brought to justice at the earliest.They deserve exemplary punishment. I pray for speedy recovery of the injured policemen.  The Nihangs severed a hand of an assistant sub-inspector and injured two of the policeman’s colleagues after their vehicle was stopped outside a vegetable market and they were asked for curfew passes.“The inhuman attack on policemen in Patiala needs to be condemned in the strongest of terms. Such criminals & anarchists should be brought to justice at the earliest. They deserve exemplary punishment. I pray for speedy recovery of the injured policemen,” Puri tweeted.Hours after the incident, police arrested seven men, including five of the attackers, from a gurdwara in Balbera village in Patiala district.Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta described the incident as “unfortunate”.“In an unfortunate incident today morning, a group of Nihangs injured a few police officers and a mandi board official at sabzi mandi, Patiala. ASI Harjeet Singh whose hand got cut-off has reached PGI Chandigarh,” Gupta tweeted.—PTI
12-04-2020||Ludhiana||79-year-old Ludhiana man volunteers to cremate COVID-infected after families refuse to accept bodies||A 79-year-old man in Ludhiana offered his services to the district administration for performing the last rites of those who die of COVID-19 after he was moved by reports that families refused to cremate them.“Look at the magnitude of human tragedy. The fear of contracting COVID-19 has weakened human relationships. In some cases doting and affectionate children are refusing to perform the last rites of their COVID-infected mother or father and the immediate family too is refusing to attend the funeral services of their COVID-infected dead relative,” says Mewa Singh who retired from the service of the Punjab Government in 1999.Singh calls the situation "sad and almost inhuman"."The fear psychosis has taken over the feelings of love and belongingness. The fear of pandemic has become so strong and entrenched that some villages are reluctant to cremate the COVID-infected deceased in the village crematorium," says the 79-year-old.Singh has urged the Deputy Commissioner and the Civil Surgeon that his services may be enlisted for the cases where the family refuses to perform the last rites of the COVID-infected deceased.“Apart from Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) that helps in preventing the transmission of the virus, I do not require anything else for performing these services,” he says.
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 12 new coronavirus cases; state tally stands at 170||Punjab recorded 12 new coronavirus cases, taking the state's tally of infections to 170 with 12 recorded deaths.Jalandhar, Mohali, Faridkot and Kapurthala recorded new coronavirus cases, a health bulletin from the state government showed on Sunday evening.Jalandhar recorded seven new coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the district's tally to 22. The district now has the most number of cases after Mohali.Five of the seven new cases are contacts of already diagnosed positive cases. One has been linked to last month's Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin. A woman from Jalandhar's Kotla Keran village who died recently was diagnosed with coronavirus on Sunday. She has yet to be counted in the state's official tally, but when it does, her death would be the thirteeenth from the virus in the state and the second in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, after reports that the woman who sources say was aged between 58-60 years showed she had COVID-19, the district's health team made their way to the area. Sources said that after the woman died, 70-80 people had attended the woman's final rites. Mohali and Kapurthala also reported new coronavirus cases.Mohali reported three more cornavirus cases, all of them from Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur village, a coronavirus hotspot.All three cases were contacts of previously diagnosed cases, the state bulletin said. All three cases, including two women, were immediate family of the people already diagnosed with the infection, officials said.They have all been isolated.The development takes the infection tally in the village alone to 37 and Mohali district to 53.In Kapurthala's Phagwara, a student of Lovely Professional University who was staying at the institution’s hostel tested positive late on Saturday. The woman, believed to be originally from Mumbai’s suburbs, is believed to have travelled nowhere recently and had been staying at the hostel for several months now. The state bulletin shows this is a new case.District health authorities have sealed the campus and are conduct thorough health checkups. They are also tracing the people the woman may have come in contact with.Meanwhile, district health authorities in Nawanshahr said reports of three people who had previously been isolated at the district hospital after they tested positive have come back for the second consecutive time. Authorities have declared that they had been treated successfully and will be released soon.The number of people cured in the district now stands at 13, officials said. Health authorities also said that the district had only five more people in its isolation centre.Of the 4,281 samples sent for testing in Punjab, 3,590 have come back negative. Authorities are awaiting reports in 521 cases.
12-04-2020||Mohali||Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur village reports two more positive cases; Mohali tally stands at 53||Two more people tested positive for coronavirus in Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur village on Sunday, taking Mohali district’s tally to 53.Of that number, 36 have been reported from that village alone.Two women aged 55 and 80 whose family had already tested positive were diagnosed with the infection on Sunday.They have been admitted in the isolation ward at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh Civil said that helath teams were now taking swabs of all those people they were in touch with, including other family members.None of the 36 patients have any travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic, and were diagnosed with the infection only after testing.Reports said some members of Tablighi Jamaat---a sect that held a religious congregation last month and that has since led authorities to diagnose hundreds of coronavirus cases among its members---had stayed in the village, but have now left.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that the district administration was undertaking extensive contact tracing and sampling.Authorities are treating the village as a coronavirus cluster----t he district administration has already sealed Jawaharpur, along with other villages such as Devigarh and Mehmudpur villages, as part of its cluster containment strategy. Punjab police have sent 75 cops with three PCR vehicles to the area.
12-04-2020||---||Student tests positive for coronavirus in Punjab, LPU hostel sealed||Ashok KauraPhagwara, April 12After a Lovely Professional University Student was tested positive the Health and Police Administration have launched a large scale drive to trace the people who came in contact with the patient.The Bachelor of Physiotherapy student is identified as Neeti Chauhan. She hails from West Mumbai.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal told, this correspondent, on Sunday, that the police have sealed the campus of LPU and nobody will be allowed to move out till the medical examination is complete, that includes 3,200 people—1,700 students and 1,500 staff memebers. Deputy Commissioner told medical teams led by SMO Phagwara, Dr Kamal Kishore and SMO Panchhat, Dr Kanta have been sent to the campus.The teams that are led by Corona Specialist Dr Sukhwinderpal Singh and Nodal Officer Dr Naresh Kundra are examining the patients.Around 7,00 people were examined till late Saturday night. It is the first positive case in Phagwara.No travel history of the patient came to light.She was a resident of Durga Mata Chawl, behind Noorani Maszid Gandhi Nagar, in West Mumbai and was residing in LPU for more than two months.When contacted Deputy Commissioner Kapurthala Deepti Uppal it was confirmed that the girl who was tested on Friday and has been sent to the Kapurthala Hospital to be kept in isolation.It was learnt that 63 students are residing in hostel no 5, while around 110 girls are residing in adjoining hostel no G6.Both hostels have a common mess with 39 workers and two wardens. All are under quarantined now.Meanwhile, 22 Cops and 25 employees of the civil administration were medically examined in Phagwara on Saturday.
12-04-2020||Patiala||Cop’s hand chopped off, 4 others injured in attack by ‘Nihangs’ in Punjab's Patiala||Eleven persons were on Sunday arrested in connection with the horrendous attack on a police party at the vegetable market in Patiala in the morning, in which an ASI’s hand was cut off by a group of Nihangs.The accused included the five persons involved in the brutal attack on the Punjab Police team posted at the vegetable market in Sanaur early Sunday morning.Also read: Punjab cop’s severed hand re-implanted after 8-hr surgery at PGIThey had crashed through a series of barricades and attacked the police personnel who inquired about their curfew passes, said DGP Dinkar Gupta, adding that Baba Balwinder Singh, the Nihang Head, was the main perpetrator of the attack on the police party at the Patiala Sabzi Mandi this morning. He came to the market with four other persons, in a Tata Xenon vehicle.The accused, including a woman, were nabbed after the Patiala Police Party led by Jatinder Aulakh IG Patiala Range and Mandeep Sidhu, SSP Patiala, were fired upon from inside the Nihang Dera Complex which also houses Khichdi Sahib Gurdwara. The operation followed several hours of stand-off and many rounds of appeals and negotiations led by Patiala SSP with the Dera Head Baba Balwinder Singh to surrender with their weapons and swords but the Nihangs refused to surrender. One Nihang, Nirbhav Singh, suffered an injury in the incident was taken to Patiala Hospital.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has condemned the attack and warned that anyone violating the curfew, imposed in the state since March 23 to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, would be strictly dealt with.DGP Dinkar Gupta said a huge cache of weapons as wells as hand held weapons, such as ‘barchhe’ and ‘kirpans’, and some used cartridges were seized from the accused, in addition to two petrol bombs and LPG cylinders, five bags of poppy husk mixed with ‘sulpha’, other drugs in commercial quantity and Rs 39 lakh in cash. Some bottles with chemical substances were also found from the premises.ASI Harjit Singh, whose hand was reportedly cut off with a sword during the attack at the vegetable mandi, is undergoing a plastic surgery at PGI, Chandigarh, for suturing back his hand, where he was rushed after the incident, said the DGP.The police party observed full Maryada while entering the Gurdwara premises. There were also women and children inside, who were unharmed, and have been left secure within the Gurdwara as before.￼  Besides the ASI Harjeet, three other police personnel were injured in the incident. Inspector Bikkar Singh, SHO Sadar, Patiala, suffered sharp injuries on his left arm, leg and back; ASI Raj Singh was inflicted a sharp weapon injury on his left leg, and ASI Raghbir singh  had got blunt injuries on his body. A Mandi Board official, AR Yadwinder Singh, suffered some minor injuries in the attack.  Grateful to PGI for full support. Director PGI tells me that surgery has already started by 2 senior surgeons who will do their best. All of us praying to Waheguru for his full recovery!  Gupta claimed despite repeated announcements from the public address system, the accused refused to surrender and, instead, abused the police and threatened them with serious consequences if they tried to come closer.The police then persuaded the sarpanch and some villagers to go in and persuade the men to come out but they failed. Soon thereafter, the police party heard loud shouts and noises from inside the gurdwara premises, suggesting that some innocent people and hostages within might have got caught in the trouble, according to the DGP.A Patiala Police team led by IG Patiala and SSP Patiala along with a team of the Special Operations Group (SOG), led by ADGP Rakesh Chandra, moved into the premises to flush out Nihangs. A few shots were fired by the accused at the police personnel before they were nabbed, said the DGP, adding that entire operation was handled delicately so that the maryada and sanctum sanctorum of the Gurdwara Sahib was not disturbed in any manner.Two separate cases have been registered against the accused.  The first has been registered for the incident at Sabzi Mandi, Sanaur Road, Patiala at PS Sadar Patiala for attempt to murder, grievous hurt, rioting, attack on public servant under the IPC, and also under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The second case has been registered against 11 persons, including the woman, at PS Passiana, Patiala.Another case under NDPS Act has also registered for recovery of 5-6 bags of poppy husk and other drugs from Khichri Sahib Complex, Balbera, where the Nihangs were living. Their property will also be attached on account of the recovery of commercial quantity of drugs.
12-04-2020||Amritsar||Isolation on wheels in Amritsar||The Railways has also stationed one more coach for the medical staff at the Amritsar railway station. The state government has made arrangements for 3,500-bed isolation centres for symptomatic cases in different parts of the holy city.The centres are being set up in the backdrop of mass screening of nearly 12 lakh residents with infrared thermometers.These coaches are on platform number 1A. Security has been tightened in and around the isolation centre. TNS
12-04-2020||Abohar||Woman activist leads sanitisation drive||DSGMC allots serai for Amritsar docsNew Delhi: The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has decided to hand over Guru Tegh Bahadur Yatri Niwas for doctors of Amritsar. The authorities of Amritsar-based Guru Nanak Dev Hospital had approached the DSGMC for the accommodation of doctors at the building situated at Shastri Nagar. DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, “We have agreed to their demand. This will serve as quarantine facility for doctors only. The responsibility for regular sanitisation will rest with the hospital authorities.” TNSNo procession on Gurpurb eveAmritsar: On the eve of the Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur, the SGPC on Saturday refrained from organising any nagar kirtan. A symbolic prayer will be held on the occasion at the Golden temple on Sunday. Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had issued directions that no programme would be held to avoid the rush of devotees. Mukhtiar Singh, manager, Golden Temple, said as per the maryada, all traditions would be followed at the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, Akal Takht and Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai. TNSCops’ wards extend helping handRopar: Wards of police personnel having degree in medical science have volunteered to work at a quarantine facility set up at the local police lines. Ropar SSP Swapan Sharma said there were nine beds (can be increased to 18) in this makeshift hospital to admit Covid-19 patients. Dr Natasha (MBBS) and her sister (pursuing B.Sc. nursing), Inderjit Kaur (B.Sc. nursing) and Parveen Bano (BMLS) are among the volunteers. Many family members of police personnel are already preparing face masks since and packing dry ration for the poor. TNS
12-04-2020||---||825 foreign nationals sent back home: DGP Punjab||Chandigarh, April 11In line with the Union Government’s standard operating procedures for making transit arrangements for foreign national stranded in India, the state government has so far facilitated the return of 825 such persons, including NRIs, to their respective countries between March 31 and April 9.DGP Dinkar Gupta said a committee of senior police officers, comprising ADGP (Law & Order) Ishwar Singh and AIG (Cyber Crime) Inderbir Singh had been involved in facilitating the return of foreign nationals to their respective countries. In many cases, such facilitation and coordination has had to be carried out at the senior most levels with the MEA to get the necessary approvals in time for the scheduled flights.Giving the break-up regarding evacuation, Gupta said they included 28 from Finland, 86 Denmark, 43 Sweden, 50 Norway, 14 Latvia, six Japan and two citizens each from Russia, Slovenia, Czech Republic and Belarus and one from Uzbekistan. In addition, 170 citizens of Canada and 273 of the United States were also facilitated for evacuation from the state. Next in line are British nationals for which the British Government is arranging repatriation flights from Amritsar/Chandigarh.Apart from these, 15 citizens from South Korea, 33 Malaysia, 17 Spain, seven Switzerland, four each from Taiwan and Mexico, nine Netherlands and 57 from Singapore were also safely sent back to their countries.
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Infection source of 10 patients untraced in Punjab||After a spike in Covid-19 cases in the past three days, Saturday brought some relief as just seven cases were reported. This is just one-third of the last three days’ average. The total count has now reached 158. Two of the patients are in critical condition. As per the state’s media bulletin, three cases have been reported from Jalandhar, two SAS Nagar and one each from Patiala and Pathankot.The surfacing of two more positive cases at Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi block in Mohali took the total count to 34 in the village and 50 in the district. The two patients were neighbours of earlier positive persons, aged 38 and 58. They have been admitted to the isolation ward of Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur.In Jalandhar, with three more people testing positive, the total number of cases reached 15. All three new patients are the relatives of the 59-year-old Ayurvedic chemist, who died on Thursday. They are chemist’s 34-year-old son, 60-year-old wife and a six-year-old grandson. The contacts of none of the three have yet been found to have travel history.The total cases in Jalandhar where infection source hasn’t been traced rose to 10. The spread of Covid-19 in the Mitha Bazar family has also fuelled fear as the 34-year-old is an aide of Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry, son of senior Congress leader Avtar Henry.Seven members of the Henry’s family are already under self-quarantine. Bawa Henry had met the 34-year-old regarding disbursal of ration in the area. Several Congress councillors and leaders had also met him.Dr TP Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “The patient had met the MLA on March 13. Since the incubation period is over, there is no need to test the MLA.”Meanwhile, a 32-year-old gardener, who works at the residences of top Patiala bureaucrats, including the DC, was tested positive on Saturday. The gardener along with his family is putting up at a servant quarter at the residence of a PCS officer in the Passey Road area, Civil Lines, Patiala.Health officials have already started a survey to detect any other suspected case. The gardener has no travel history and didn’t have any close contact with a suspected Covid-19 patient. The department has not been able to identify the source from where he got infected.Four family members have been admitted to the isolation ward at Government Rajindra Hospital. A 33-year-old patient tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridkot, taking the total count to three in the district.LPU student tests +ve, hostel sealedPhagwara: A 21-year-old student of LPU was tested positive for coronavirus. She was residing at the university hostel. All students and staff residing on the campus would be examined, the Kapurthala DC said. The hostel has been sealed. OC
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Capt: Can’t afford to ease restrictions||Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday recommended extension of the national lockdown by at least a fortnight, while suggesting a slew of health and relief measures to the people in the Covid-19 battle, in addition to seeking concessions for industry and agriculture sectors on an urgent basis.‘Scale up testing’Underlining the need to substantially increase the number of tests being done and go for rapid testing, at least in the state’s hotspot areas of Nawanshahr, Dera Bassi and Mohali, the CM said the Centre should hasten the supply of testing kits. He also asked for early permission for testing in DMC and CMC, Ludhiana.Participating in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s videoconference with all chief ministers, Capt Amarinder pointed out that there was uncertainty about the likely incidence of disease and the nation was in for a long fight. Given the trend in China and several European countries, it was necessary to continue the lockdown, he said, adding that though the restrictions were causing a lot of hardships to the people, India could not afford to take any chances. “The people of Punjab have a high morale, and will continue to support government efforts to combat the pandemic,” he added.Capt Amarinder informed the meeting that the state had already decided to go for curfew/complete lockdown till May 1, with all educational institutions to be closed till June 30, with state board examinations also deferred till further orders. Section 144 remains in place, along with prohibition of public service vehicles till May 1.Pointing to the excellent work being done by these people in the current crisis, Capt Amarinder sought special risk insurance for all government employees.
12-04-2020||Sangrur||Row over notice at singer’s house||Home quarantine sticker pasted outside the house of Punjabi singer Kaur B has triggered a controversy. The singer said government officials came to her residence on April 10 while she had been in her native village for the past 15 days.“Earlier, nobody came to my place. But on Friday, health officials came and examined me and my family. They spread false news that I was quarantined,” she said. Moonak SMO Dr Rajesh Kumar said it all happened due to miscommunication as the team of another department pasted the sticker without consulting the Health Department. TNS
12-04-2020||Amritsar||Suspended for opposing cremation||Harpal Singh Verka, who led a protest in Verka a few days ago against the cremation of ex-Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, has been suspended by the District Education Office. Harpal, who is the head teacher at Government Elementary School, Majitha, has been suspended for unspecified time period.The order, issued late Friday evening, did not mention the reason for the action. Sources from the department said the order might be related to his opposition to cremation of Bhai Nirmal Singh. “His act had invited strong criticism from all circles, including the state government. There were several other complaints regarding him, including misuse of political connections,” said the sources. The order said his services would be at the disposal of the Gurdaspur office. Harpal had been accused of instigating villagers against the cremation of Bhai Khalsa who died due to Covid-19 related complications on April 2. — TNS
12-04-2020||Bathinda||3 held for FB post against Manpreet||The police have booked three persons for allegedly posting on Facebook that “Manpreet Badal is missing. Can anyone tell is he in Punjab or outside?”It has been learnt that the accused are SAD youth wing workers.Bathinda SSP Dr Nanak Singh said, “We have written to Facebook officials to provide the details of three IDs where the post has figured.”Investigation officer Daljit Singh said the case had been registered on a tip-off that Facebook IDs in the name of Gurjinder Singh Brar of Faridkot, Amritpal Singh Gill of Khemkaran and Akali Yodha had the objectionable post.— TNSPlaint over video on BadalsMuktsar: Youth Akali Dal Lambi circle president Ranjodh Singh on Saturday lodged a complaint, alleging that one Varinder Kaur, a TikTok user, made a video using unparliamentary language for SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and circulated it on social media. SI Jatinder Singh said, "A woman has been booked in this regard." — TNS
12-04-2020||Jalandhar||Aggressive testing, strict vigil helped village contain virus||Pathlawa village in Nawanshahr, the state’s first Covid hotspot, has succeeded in containing Covid spread.While it’s been 16 days since Pathlawa saw its last positive case, a mix of aggressive testing coupled with community effort and policing enabled it to achieve the positive results.Nawanshahr carried out testing — at one point of time indulging in mass testing (135 per day).Mass testing began after March 22 when a priest, who was close to the 70-year-old victim, tested positive, triggering fears of community spread.The villagers took it upon themselves to enforce social distancing norms. To date, of the 16 positive cases in the village, 10 have returned home. Three persons tested negative and three more are being treated.A village committee started a token system and distanced queues to prevent social contact. With nakas at all village entrances, a helpline was launched for providing medicines and ration.Armed with cartwheels, villagers went door to door to distribute sanitisers and masks.Another village group, members of which include 28-year-old Mohammed Khan, 50-year-old advocate Jaspal Kaur and residents Harpeet Singh (35) Amarpreet Singh Ladi (47) and Jaspal Singh (48), has even volunteered to cremate victims, whose kin refused to perform the last rites.Harpreet Singh said: “Villagers knew they had to fight this crisis. Be it Gujjars or Nihangs, our team has everyone on board. Every villager contributes. Tokens were introduced at the panchayat ghar, where villagers were to line up according to token number to avoid crowding. 3 feet distancing circles have been drawn at all ration disbursal areas to prevent close contact. Those under quarantine weren’t allowed to come out. Packets of food were kept outside their homes.” Only teams provide ration and other essential items.Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani said, “A majority of those receiving treatment have recovered. We have tested 451 persons, sought the state’s help and called teams from Patiala and Amritsar to scale up testing. We are now in the next phase of surveillance and door to door monitoring of symptomatic people”
12-04-2020||Pathankot||Pathankot witnesses spurt in cases, 9 reported in two days||With 9 new cases being reported in two days, Pathankot has emerged as another Covid-19 hotspot in the state. Now, there are 16 cases in the district.Ground reports suggested that open movement of the public had been highly restricted for the past two days. Deputy Commissioner (DC) Gurpreet Singh Khaira is regularly holding meetings with health officials to review the situation.Senior Medical Officer Dr Bhupinder Singh said of the 16 cases, one patient died while 13 had been traced to the family of the deceased. The 15th case, a middle-aged man, who had no interaction with Covid patients or their family members, is now in the isolation ward of Pathankot Civil Hospital.Last week, Raj Rani (75) of Sujanpur complained of breathlessness and was taken to Civil Hospital. Later, doctors referred her to an Amritsar hospital where she died. Her husband, Prem Lal Mahajan, too has tested positive and so have 12 others of the family. All of them have been quarantined in Chintpurni Medical College and Hospital.All 14 belong to Sujanpur’s Sekhan mohalla. “We were quick to declare that area and the adjoining municipal wards as a ‘containment zones’ wherein all types of movements have been restricted except in the cases of emergencies. I have deployed a posse of police personal who do not allow anybody to enter to exit. Only people with medical emergencies are being allowed to move out,” said SSP Deepak Hilori.“What is confusing us is the 15th case is from Pathankot. The place is 15 km away from Sujanpur, where the other cases were traced. He may turn out to be a case of ‘community transmission.’ We are still investigating how he caught the virus. If it indeed is a case of ‘community transmission’, then it is really dangerous. In any case we are taking all necessary precautions and there is no need to worry,” said Dr Bhupinder Singh.ADC (General) Abhijeet Kaplish, who led a team of senior officers which traced the contacts of Raj Rani, said a Canadian citizen, who is her nephew, did meet her. “However, that was quite some time ago. We are not sure whether she contracted the disease from him or not. Investigations are still in progress. I will comment only when I have finished my probe,” he said.
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Youth Congress to rescue of truck drivers stuck in Gujarat||The Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) has reached out to over 300 truck drivers stranded in Palanpur district of Gujarat, through the Gujarat unit.The truck drivers, in video messages posted on social media, had complained that they had been putting up in their vehicles parked on the roadside for many days due to lockdown and facing acute shortage of food and water. A majority of these truck drivers were from Malwa. They had taken raw material for cattle feed for Gujarat factories.Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon said after learning about the plight of truckers, he contacted Gulab Singh Rajpur, Gujarat president of the Youth Congress. He said it was unfortunate that factory owners in Gujarat had refused to unload the material. — TNS
12-04-2020||Bathinda||Panic-buying, chemists out of HCQ stock||Chemists, both retail as well as wholesale, have run out of stocks of hydroxcychloroquine (HCQ) as people have resorted to its panic-buying for its possibly effective use against Covid-19.Notably, US President Donald Trump’s request to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to export the medicine to combat the Covid pandemic in his country, has acted as trigger for people rushing to buy the medicine in the region.Shockingly, there have been instances where people not only bought the medicine, but also consumed it without any medical condition or prescription. Chemist shop owners in majority of the districts in the Malwa region, including Bathinda and Mansa, confirmed that they had run out of stock of hydroxcychloroquine as people were buying it in large numbers.Surendar Duggal, president of North India Chemist Association, said, “Not just in Punjab, there is an acute shortage of the medicine in the northern region. Trump’s request to India to export the medicine has acted as a celebrity endorsement of the drug. People without even wasting a minute, thronged shops to buy it.”Duggal said, “We have warned chemists in the region that they must abstain from selling it without prescription as there are no proven clinical results with regard to the effectiveness of the drug on Covid patients.”
12-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Test report negative, yet youth faces hostility in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, April 11Despite testing negative for Covid, a youth from Hardokhanpur village in Hoshiarpur is facing hostility post his return from the hospital.After showing symptoms, Malkit Singh was immediately taken to the Civil Hospital. After his test report came out negative, he was discharged. When he came home, most villagers avoided him.To put an end to the stigma, Hoshiarpur SDM Major Dr Amit Mahajan went to the village. He called Malkit at the chowk and asked villagers not to avoid the youth, saying he was healthy and there was no reason to boycott him.“When I learnt that a youth was being treated badly for no fault of his, I decided to create awareness among villagers. I knew appeals won’t help. So I went there and assured the people that there was need to panic and ostracise the youth. I, along with other officials, visited the village and interacted with Malkit in front of the residents,” said the SDM.Malkit Singh was happy that the officials made the villagers understand that boycotting people was not going to help.He said: “Even if someone tests positive, he/she should not be treated badly. One has to understand that a patient or a suspect needs support and compassion. By stigmatising a disease, people only worsen the situation. In such grim times, one should show compassion. Only this way the battle can be won.”
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||At Cabinet meet, ministers flag ‘liberal’ passes by cops||The issue of rampant issuing of curfew passes by other rank police officers, in wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, was raised in the Cabinet meeting on Friday.Expressing apprehension over the misuse of the passes, some ministers pointed out to the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh that the SSPs in the district should monitor the issuance of the passes so that the document does not land in wrong hands.The situation in Jawaharpur, a village near Dera Bassi town accounting for a majority of the positive case in Mohali district, is being attributed to unregulated use of passes issued by police officials to politicians, including the sarpanch, who has tested Covid positive.Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa pointed out that he was getting complaints of misuse of police curfew passes by unscrupulous elements. “The SSPs or senior police officers should verify credentials of the persons being issued the passes,” he said.It was pointed in the Cabinet that cases had come to light wherein the Station House Officer or even police post in-charge had issued passes in violation of the rules, as the powers under Section 144 of the CrPC were vested with the DCs only. The curfew orders issued by different DCs in the state clearly state that the district magistrate, additional district magistrate, SDM or any other officer authorised would issue the permits.To simplify the process, the state government has given the task to Assistant Commissioner (General), SDM, Tehsildar or any other person authorised by the DC. As per the instructions, DCs would have to declare the authorised signatories and inform the district police accordingly.Some DCs admitted that though no such permission had been granted by them, the district police had started issuing passes to individuals. The CM is learnt to have directed the Home Department to look into the matter.
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Congress slams ‘diktat’ on pvt thermal plants||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar has slammed the Central government for ordering payment of electricity charges to the private thermal plants, even when power was not being purchased from the plants during the lockdown.Jakhar said the electricity consumption had nosedived since the lockdown was imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The power corporations had issued notices to the power plants, invoking the ‘force majeure’ clause as the situation caused by the pandemic was a natural disaster and beyond human control, hence the PPAs could not be enforced and no payment would be made during this time.“Unfortunately, the Government of India had taken an anti-people decision and issued directions to the state governments, to pay money to private thermal plants without purchasing power from them. This will cost Punjab Rs 10 crore daily,” he said, adding that the money could instead be spent on the welfare of people during this difficult period.He said Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was demanding a special package from the Centre in the hour of the crisis, besides arrears of GST and other revenues so that the economy could be saved.
12-04-2020||Muktsar||Farmers: Labour shortage set to compound problems||Farmers in the state are worried that not just wheat procurement, which is scheduled to begin from April 15, but also the sowing of paddy is likely to be affected due to shortage of labour.Grain markets encroached upon in Fazilkaby a contractorThe contractor had allegedly dumped gravel and mud in a large quantity in mandis about three months ago. He was reportedly allotted the work of construction of a road along the drainDeputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said he was aware of the matter and had asked the District Mandi Officer, Fazilka, to remove the encroachers from the yards immediately. ocThe gigantic exercise of wheat procurement, marketing and straw management requires a large number of skilled and unskilled labourers. The sowing of paddy too is a labour-intensive work, in which migrants are considered more efficient than locals. Since a majority of them have already returned to their home states, it is set to pose a serious problem, they claim.Paddy transplantation begins in mid of June, but the sowing begins in May and the process begins immediately after the farmers get free from rabi produce. The maximum area of cultivable land in the state is covered under the paddy crop and the remaining comes under cotton, maize, etc. and horticulture.In Muktsar district alone, of the 2.1 lakh hectares cultivable land, 1.38 lakh hectares was under paddy crop last year.The farmers are now saying that the state government should start preparations well in time for smooth sowing of paddy. “This season, there will be a shortage of migrant labourers. They are efficient in loading, unloading, cleaning, filling and sealing bags. The work is bound to be affected given the fact that a large workforce has already left the state,” said Ranjit Singh, a farmer of Gurusar village.Gurpreet Singh, agriculture officer, Muktsar, said, “The shortage of migrant labourers may affect the sowing of paddy crop, but we can make some arrangements like providing DSR machines. .” Prof (Retd) SPS Brar, Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, PAU, Ludhiana, said, “The government can increase area under cotton crop. It can also advance the paddy transplantation.”
12-04-2020||Ludhiana||Seek nod to make alcohol for sanitiser||The farmers are having a tough time in making necessary arrangements to start harvesting. Amid the shortage of labour, the other problem they are facing is arranging sanitiser to clean tractors, combines and other farm equipment, besides providing it to workers working in the fields.The shortage and high cost of sanitisers is bothering the marginal farmers. They are now asking the government to allow them to make alcohol so that they can prepare their own sanitiser by using alcohol and aloe vera.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU, said, “The government has asked us to sanitise the tractors and combines and also provide it to the labour. The sanitisers are sold for Rs 500-1000 per litre and are not easily available in the market. If one combine is to be sanitised, it will require almost two litres of sanitiser per day. The combine will have to sanitised every time it goes to a new field. This will cost operators Rs 50,000-60,000 for the harvesting season.”“We should be allowed to make alcohol for three months. We can mix it with aloe vera and prepare a sanitiser that will cost only Rs 50 per litre,” he said.
12-04-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Strict vigil in Tarn Taran helps check virus spread||Though Tarn Taran has reported seven suspected Covid cases, not even a single person has tested positive for the infectious disease so far.Some concernsmarkets, which will witness huge rush during procurementHealth Department does not have even a single ventilator in the districtHaving a population of approximately 11.7 lakh, the district shares its boundary with Pakistan.Reports of five of these suspects have come out negative, while those of the remaining two are awaited. Sample of a patient was sent twice and the report is awaited. Those with symptoms have been admitted to the Civil Hospital and are recuperating.The Health Department does not have even a single ventilator in the district.The authorities of Guru Nanak Dev Super-specialty Hospital have offered the department 10 ventilators.The administration has sealed the interstate border, except national highways.Vehicles entering from the highway are being checked properly. The administration has installed an “Automatic Disinfection Chamber” at the entrance of the Civil Hospital, which is used by approximately 2,000 persons a day.“The district administration has received information about 1,428 persons with international travel history, but officials could not trace 13 persons due to non-availability of their addresses and those traced have completed the 14-day quarantine period,” said Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal.There were 72 persons with domestic travel history, most of whom have completed the quarantine period.SSP Dhruv Dahiya said during the last 10 days from April 1, 410 cases have been registered against 621 persons for violating the curfew orders.The administration has stepped up efforts to provide food and other essentials to the needy.
