12-06-2020||---||Haryana second, Punjab fourth in number of cadets passing out from IMA||Vijay MohanTribune News ServiceJune 12Haryana is second in the number of cadets from the Spring Term-2020 passing out from the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, on June 13, while Punjab is fourth among all states in the country.Out of the total of 333 Indian cadets getting commissioned as officers, 39 are from Haryana and 25 from Punjab.With 66 cadets, Uttar Pradesh tops the list. The third slot is shared by Uttarakhand and Bihar with 31 cadets each. The cadets belong to the 146th Regular Course and 129th Technical Graduates Course. In addition, there are 90 cadets from nine friendly foreign countries who also form part of these courses.This year, the passing out parade, one of the most cherished moments in an officer's career, is being held without parents, siblings and friends of the cadets because of the restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The parade and piping ceremony, instead, is being telecast live.In an another departure from convention due to the prevailing circumstances, the cadets  will not get leave to go home after completion of their training, but will proceed directly to join at their respective place of first posting in the Army. This leave period was generally 2 - 3 weeks.
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar reports 63 new COVID-19 cases, highest single-day rise in district since May||Amritsar reported 63 new coronavirus cases and three of Punjab’s four deaths in a span of 24 hours---the highest single-day rise the district has witnessed since first week of May.Punjab reported 99 new infections on Friday, taking Punjab’s numbers to 2,986---a few short of 3,000.  The state also reported four new deaths---three of them from Amritsar. The last one was from Jalandhar.Punjab’s death toll now stands at 63.One of Amritsar’s three fatalities was Naresh Kumar, a 70-year-old man who was critical and was on ventilator. District health officials died of cardiac arrest. Officials said he suffered from hypertension.Details of the other two patients from Amritsar are still awaited.In Jalandhar, a 67-year-old woman who had previously tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here, died on Friday. She was diabetic and had a heart condition.Amritsar has not seen infection numbers this high since the first week of May, when several pilgrims returning from Nanded Sahib in Maharashtra tested positive.Ludhiana (12), Sangrur (5), Ropar (5), Jalandhar (3), SAS Nagar (3), SBS Nagar (2), Hoshairpur (2), Fazilka (2), Barnala (1) and Ferozepur (1) were the other districts that reported new COVID-19 cases, Punjab’s COVID bulletin showed.  Thirty-one of Amritsar’s 63 new cases were categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness), 19 were contacts of already diagnosed cases, and 13 were new cases, the bulletin showed.Three new deaths took the district’s death toll to 16.Of Ludhiana’s 12 cases, four were contacts of already diagnosed cases, four were categorised as ILI, three were new cases and one was categorised as ANC.In SAS Nagar, two were contacts of an already diagnosed case, and one was ILI.(READ: 68-year-old Zirakpur woman tests positive for Covid-19; 25 active cases in Mohali)In Sangrur, one patient recently returned from Delhi, three were policemen tested positive and one was a prisoner.Both of SBS Nagar’s cases had recent travel records---one had come down from to Delhi and the other from Uttar Pradesh.   Likewise, Hoshiapur’s cases also had recent record of having travelled from Gurugram and Jammu and Kashmir.Two of Jalandhar’s three cases were categorised as new, and the third was a contact of an already diagnosed patient.Three of Ropar’s five cases were contacts of a positive case, one was an angawadi worker and the last was a new case.One of Fazilka’s two cases had recent travel record. In Barnala, a policeman tested positive.Ferozepur’s lone case was categorised as new case.Amritsar’s COVID-19 numbers now stand at 592. The district accounts for 19 per cent of all COVID-19 cases in the state and 26 per cent of the state’s deaths.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 cases in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (592), Jalandhar (319), Ludhiana (307), Tarn Taran (160), Gurdaspur (166), Hoshiarpur (137), Patiala (148), SAS Nagar (143), SBS Nagar (114), Sangrur (135), Pathankot (132), Faridkot (86), Ropar (76), Fatehgarh Sahib (73), Muktsar (72), Moga (69), Bathinda (56), Fazilka (49), Ferozepur (47),  Kapurthala (41), Mansa (34), and Barnala (29).    The state's death toll stands thus: Amritsar (16), Ludhiana (10), Jalandhar (10), Hoshiarpur (5), Pathankot (4), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Patiala (3), Tarn Taran (1), SBS Nagar (1), Sangrur (1), Ferozepur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).Punjab's coronavirus cases have been steadily rising in June. The state has now 641 active cases---a 2.5 times the number in the beginning of this month.The development also comes on day when the Punjab government imposed new restrictions on movement for weekends and holidays.
12-06-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Hoshiarpur jail inmates say forced to sell mobile phones, drugs inside prison; video goes viral||Hoshiarpur, June 12A video shot inside the Central Jail Hoshiarpur by inmates has gone viral on social media.In the video, two inmates could be seen making serious allegations against Central Jail Deputy Superintendent Harbhajan Singh and other prison staff.The duo can be seen holding three mobile phones, one of which is a smart phone while the video is being shot from another mobile.They accuse Harbhajan Singh and another person, Desa Singh, of forcing inmates to sell mobiles inside the jail at exorbitant prices. The two alleged that they were being tortured for refusing to Harbhajan Singh’s demands.One of the two alleged that a basic mobile phone was sold in the jail for Rs 10,000, while a smart phone was being sold for Rs 25,000.One of the prisoners, showing a smart-phone, alleged that it had been sold to him for Rs 20,000 and now he was now being forced to sell it further for Rs 40,000.The inmates claimed that on refusal, they were threatened to be indicted in cases.They further alleged open sale of drugs, provided to them by the prison staff, inside the jail.The prisoners also said they were forced to pay Rs 18,000-20,000 per month or else threatened to be indicted in false cases and tortured.Harbhajan Singh though denied all the allegations. “The prison administration is being strictly vigilant in the jail regarding use of mobile phones, etc. In the last few days, many mobile phones have been recovered from the prisoners. In order to avoid this strictness, such allegations are being made to pressurise the jail administration,” the officer told The Tribune.He said the two inmates seen in the said video were Shivam, convicted under the NDPS Act and serving a 10-year jail term, and under trial Rajinder Kumar Bangar – accused in three criminal cases.They were locked in a separate cell for assaulting another prisoner in the jail a few days ago. As a result of which, they have made the video to pressurise the jail administration, said Harbhajan Singh.
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab launches mobile app for house-to-house surveillance to contain COVID-19||The Punjab government, on Friday, launched a mobile application aimed at undertaking house-to-house surveillance to contain the spread of COVID-19.The app, ‘Ghar Ghar Nigrani’, was launched by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh through a video conference, an official release said.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh described the health department's initiative, encompassing ASHA (accredited social health activist) workers and community volunteers, as a tool for early detection and testing of coronavirus.Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Anurag Agarwal, said the entire rural and urban population of Punjab above 30 years of age would be surveyed as part of the drive, which would also cover persons below the age of 30 having co-morbidity or influenza-like illness.The survey would capture full medical conditions of a person for the previous one week and complete details of his/her co-morbidity, Agarwal said, adding that this would help the state develop an extremely important database to further plan its COVID containment strategy and make targeted interventions for the community.According to Special Secretary, health-cum-testing in charge for COVID, Isha Kalia, the user-friendly app had been developed and designed in-house by the health department, and field-tested in Patiala and Mansa.Around 20,628 persons were surveyed, of whom 9,045 were found to be asymptomatic and 1,583 with symptoms like cough, fever, sore throat, breathlessness etc.The survey is currently underway in 518 villages and 47 urban wards.Around 4.88 per cent of the people surveyed have been found to be hypertensive, 2.23 per cent diabetic, 0.14 per cent having kidney disease, 0.64 per cent with heart disease, 0.13 per cent having TB and 0.13 per cent having cancer.The ASHA workers and community volunteers will be paid Rs 4 per head incentive/honorarium for every person surveyed and shall cover 500 households.A supervisor will oversee the work of ASHA and community volunteers, and would be engaged on a voluntary basis for Rs 5,000 per month. PTI
12-06-2020||---||Punjab weekend guidelines: Non-essential shops to be closed; no inter-district movement||Chandigarh, June 12Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday approved weekend and holiday restriction guidelines as per which the inter-district movement will be barred except for e-pass holders, and only shops dealing with essential commodities and services will be allowed to operate on all days of the week.During a COVID preparedness review meeting on Thursday, the CM had said his government’s focus was on saving the lives of Punjabis, even if it meant taking tough measures, particularly in the light of the grave projections of the pandemic peaking over the next two months.The guidelines issued on Friday are in addition to those notified earlier by the state government for Lockdown 5.0/Unlock 1.0, and will remain in force on weekends and gazette holidays till further orders.Under the new guidelines, shops dealing with essential commodities/services shall remain open on all days till 7 pm. However, other shops, whether standalone or in shopping malls, shall remain closed on Sundays, while on Saturdays they can open till 5 pm.Also, restaurants – for take home/home delivery only – and liquor shops will continue to be open till 8 pm on all days.The orders further stated that in addition to the Sunday closure, the District Magistrates might choose, in consultation with the respective market associations, to order closure of the non-essential shops on any other day of the week also, especially in the high-risk areas where the cases are high.Inter-district movement shall be allowed against e-pass, which will be issued only for essential work, but no pass shall be required for such travel in case of medical emergency, read the order.Further, e-pass will also be required for marriage functions, and will be issued only for 50 specific persons, it added.Expressing grave concern over the spiralling COVID cases in the country, particularly Delhi, Amarinder Singh appealed to the people of Punjab to strictly adhere to the social distancing norms and mandatory wearing of masks.The situation demanded stringent compliance with all the restrictions, he stressed, adding that though the situation in the state was relatively in control, his government was not ready to take any chances.
12-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Asymptomatic COVID patients and those with mild symptoms will be now home-quarantined in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 12With only 569 active cases, the Punjab government has now changed the admission policy of COVID-19 patients. Henceforth, asymptomatic patients and patients with mild symptoms will be now home quarantined if they fulfil the guidelines.Notably, as of now, the state health department is admitting every positive patient to the hospital.Amid the reports of a shortage of beds for COVID patients in various parts of the country, the director of the state Health and Family Welfare Department, in an official communique to all Civil Surgeons and Deputy Commissioners, said only those positive patients, who did not have home-isolation facilities, would be admitted to the hospital.A patient with asymptomatic and mild symptoms should have clean, well-ventilated rooms with attached washrooms for the patient and home contacts. If anyone fails to fulfil the requirements for home-isolation, the patient would be admitted to the hospital.The home isolation of the positive patients will be considered over after 17 days provided no fever persists in the last 10 days. The health department will not test mild and asymptomatic patients after completion of 17 days.In the meanwhile, epidemiologists informed that Punjab had not witnessed any major outbreak so far in the state, therefore, resorting to home-isolation for positive cases at such an early stage could prove fatal in the future.Moreover, the majority of the cases in the state had been migrated cases, added the experts.It has been learned that Civil Surgeons and district epidemiologists had objected to the move during a video conference.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said: “We have just received the orders and will now follow the new guidelines.”Notably, Patiala has only 29 active cases while the district has availability of more than 650 beds.
12-06-2020||---||In biggest-ever illicit liquor haul, Ropar police seize 2-lakh litre ‘lahan’ from two Himachal villages||Ropar, June 12The Ropar police have recovered ‘lahan’ (illicit liquor) and destroyed several stills during a 10-hour long operation against liquor smuggling on the Himachal Pradesh border, near here, on Friday.Senior Superintendent of Police Swapan Sharma said two lakh litres of illicit liquor was recovered in the operation launched at Majari and Dabt villages, located two kilometres inside the Himachal Pradesh jurisdiction.The operation was a challenging one as the area has a dense forest with seasonal rivulets giving an advantage to liquor mafia, making it difficult to access.Police personnel had to cut the dense and thorny undergrowth to get in.Besides two-lakh litre of ‘lahan’, seven working stills (bhatti) were also found on the spot.Five persons had been arrested in this regard and the investigation was in progress to trace further links of the accused across Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, the SSP said.Keeping in mind that the area was in Himachal Pradesh, the local police was roped in. Following this, the search operation started at 3 am and continued till 1 pm with 22 police teams comprising seven police personnel each.The police cordoned off the area and searched six-kilometres long stretch across the state border. This was the highest recovery made in the state to date, claimed the SSP.In fact, Majari and Dabt villages and the surrounding area are notorious for liquor and drug smuggling.The SSP said taking advantage of the terrain and foliage, the mafia had been flourishing there. As many as 26 cases in Punjab and 38 cases in Himachal Pradesh had been registered against them in the past five years.
12-06-2020||Washington||Award-winning Indian-American soil scientist for stopping of stubble burning in India||Eminent Indian-American soil scientist Dr Rattan Lal, who won the prestigious World Food Prize 2020, has called for the immediate stopping of burning of crop residue in India, saying taking everything away from the land is not good as there is a law of return.Lal, 75, was on Thursday named the recipient of the USD 250,000 World Food Prize, considered to be equivalent to a Nobel Prize for agriculture, in recognition of his contribution to increase the global food supply by helping small farmers improve their soil’s health.In his career spanning more than five decades and four continents, Lal has promoted innovative soil-saving techniques benefiting the livelihoods of more than 500 million small farmers, the World Food Prize Foundation, which is based in Iowa, said in a statement.His work has also improved the food and nutritional security of more than two billion people and saved hundreds of millions of hectares of natural tropical ecosystems, it said.The foundation said that Lal, a native of India and citizen of the US, will receive the 2020 World Food Prize for developing and mainstreaming a soil-centric approach to increasing food production that restores and conserves natural resources and mitigates climate change.Lal, a Distinguished Professor in the College of Food, Agricultural, and Environmental Sciences (CFAES) at the Ohio State University, said that he would donate the USD 250,000 award money for future soil research and education.“Soil science has been recognised by this award. I feel very happy about it,” he told PTI after the announcement.The eminent soil scientist called for the immediate stopping of burning of crop residue in states like Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.“Taking everything away from land is not good for land. There is a law of return. Whatever you take from the earth, you must return it back,” he said.Stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana is a major cause of air pollution not only in the two states but also in Delhi, the national capital. The two states annually generate 220 lakh tonne and 65 lakh tonne of paddy stubble, respectively.Lal said that organic matter content in the surface layer should be between two and three per cent. But soil in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi, Central India and Southern parts contain maybe 0.5 per cent or maybe 0.2 per cent.“They are severely depleted, degraded. Consequently, not only that the productivity is low, yields are low, but also the use efficiency of inputs, like fertilizer irrigation varieties, is also low. When crops are grown on an unhealthy soil, the quality of the food, nutritional quality is also poor.“When health of soil is degraded, the health of people is also degraded. I think it’s very important for India and other developing countries to really pay attention to restoring the health of the soil,” he said.Brick-making, which is fast depleting soil, is another major concern for Lal.“India should have a soil protection policy,” he said, adding that certain parts of agricultural land cannot be taken out for brick making.He also called for rewarding farmers who help in protecting the soil by not burning crops, more use of compost and manure.“Soil protection policy is important. We should have a regular soil health assessment report every five years at the national level. How is soil changing and we should protect agricultural land against other usage patterns like urbanisation, brick making,” he said, adding that fertilizer is not a good substitute for crop management.Stating that the crop yields in India are about half of that in China and even lesser than that of the United States, Lal noted that there appears to be no reason for that.“We should have a crop yield as good as any country. The health of our soil is poor. We have given a lot of emphasis on varieties. Varieties are important. (But) one cannot do anything if the soil is poor. That is a part which we must recognise.“I think Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi can do quite a lot on that part, improving soil health and (launch a) soil health movement,” he said.Lal said the award is especially important because the first recipient of this prestigious award in 1987 was Indian agricultural scientist Dr M S Swaminathan, the father of India’s Green Revolution.In a country like India, he said, soil is prone to degradation because of harsh climate and other factors.“So, this award to a soil scientist highlights the importance of restoring and managing soil health. We need to give more attention to Dharti Mata (mother earth). Our shastras and puranas also indicated that we must pay respect to Dharti Mata. So, this award means a lot to me,” Dr Lal said.“Dr Lal’s stellar work on management and conservation of agriculture’s most cherished natural resource, the soil, set him apart,” said Gebisa Ejeta, chair of the World Food Prize Selection Committee and 2009 recipient of the award.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo lauded Lal’s research in soil science, saying he is helping millions of small farmers around the world with his work on increasing food production and recycling of nutrients.“The world’s population continues to grow and we need to use the resources we have more productively, and efficiently to make sure everyone has enough food on their table,” Pompeo said.US Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue said the scientific innovations, like those developed by Lal, embody the US Department of Agriculture’s motto of to do right and feed everyone.” PTI
12-06-2020||---||68-year-old Zirakpur woman tests positive for Covid-19; 25 active cases in Mohali||Mohali, June 12One more coronavirus positive case has surfaced in Mohali district taking the tally of infected people so far to 144.A 68-year-old woman, a resident of Zirakpur, is the latest case. She has been admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali.Giving details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the woman is a resident of Swastik Vihar and had recently returned from Saharanpur in UP, where she had gone to meet her daughter.He said that on June 10, she was admitted to Fortis Hospital after she complained of breathlessness. He said the reports of her samples taken at the hospital showed that she was coronavirus positive. She will remain admitted to Fortis Hospital only, he said.Dr Singh said that with this the total cases in the district have reached 144 out of which 116 have recovered, three have died and there are 25 active cases at present.
12-06-2020||Ludhiana||67-year-old Jalandhar woman dies of Covid-19||A 67-year-old coronavirus-positive patient, who was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here, died on Friday. She was diabetic and had a heart condition.The woman was admitted on June 5 and tested positive on June 6. Since then she had been on ventilator.Medical Superintendent of DMCH Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said she died around midnight; and had been admitted to the hospital following other health complications, and when her Covid-19 test was done, she was found positive.
12-06-2020|| ||Vigil up on Kangra-Punjab border after arrest of 2 militants in Pathankot||Dharamsala, June 12Vigil has been increased in areas along the border that Kangra district shares with Punjab after reports emerged that two militants had been caught in Pathankot.  Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan confirmed the development. He said security had been scaled up in the border areas of Kangra district and an alert had been sounded at all police posts.
12-06-2020||Ludhiana||Dr Inderjeet  takes charge as GADVASU VC||Dr Inderjeet Singh today joined as the Vice-Chancellor of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana.Dr Inderjeet Singh was working as Director of the Animal Husbandry Department, Punjab, since November 2018. He has been working in the field of Veterinary Sciences & Animal Husbandry Sector for the past three decades. He holds a bachelor’s and master’s degree in Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry from Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, and did his PhD in Animal Reproduction from University of Liverpool, UK. He got many overseas professional recognitions and assignments. — TNS
12-06-2020||---||GNDU improves NIRF ranking for third year||Amritsar, June 11Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has improved its ranking in the National Institute Ranking Frame (NIRF) – 2020, released by Minister of Human Resource Development Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Thursday.The university is ranked 51st among all Central, public and private universities in the country. Earlier, it stood at the 59th place. Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu said the NIRF ranked the institutes on the basis of five parameters — teaching and learning resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcome, overall inclusivity and perception.This year, GNDU improved its performance in three out of the five criteria — research and professional practice, graduation outcome and perception.A good ranking in the NIRF enables the universities to get several prestigious grants from federal funding agencies.GNDU is also ranked among the top 9 per cent universities in the world and the top 10 state public universities in the country as recently assessed by a leading international evaluation agency — Centre for World University Ranking (CWUR).
12-06-2020||---||Historic well of Guru Arjan Dev dedicated to devotees||Amritsar, June 11The SGPC today dedicated the historic ‘athh nukra khu’ (eight-cornered well) located at Gurdwara Sahib Patshahi Panjvi at Othian (Batala) to devotees after getting it restored.This historic well is associated with the fifth guru of Sikhs, Guru Arjan Dev, who had got it dug following the demand of devotees.Senior vice-president, SGPC, Rajinder Singh Mehta said the renovation of the historic well was entrusted to Baba Sewa Singh of Khadoor Sahib wale.Nanakshahi brick was used to match it with the ancient contours. “This initiative was taken up to preserve the Sikh heritage," he said.SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh said a green belt would be erected on the gurdwara premises and traditional saplings would be planted. One acre had been demarcated for the purpose and five saplings were planted today.
12-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||With medical degrees, these bureaucrats face Covid head-on||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 11PLAYING A PIVOTAL ROLEDr Sanjeev Sharma, SDM, Shahkot, is a PhD with all his doctorate work on virusesIn the ongoing fight against Covid-19, four civil officials posted here have been playing a pivotal role in handling the disease, especially because of their qualification and background. While three of them are qualified doctors, the fourth one has a doctorate degree on viruses.The overall coordinator for the Covid-19 management from the administration side is Dr Shena Aggarwal, MBBS passout from AIIMS (2009 batch). Having remained the topper in AIIMS as well as in her IAS examination, the entire team of officials banks on her for managing duties, hospital beds and testing norms. Dr Shena Aggarwal is posted as the CA, Jalandhar Development Authority.Both Dr Jai Inder Singh, SDM-1, and Dr Vineet Kumar, SDM, Phillaur, are BDS passouts. While Dr Jai Inder passed out from SGRD College, Amritsar, in 2009 and appeared for PCS examination in 2013, Dr Vineet passed out from the Laxmi Bai Institute of Dental Sciences in 2012 and joined the civil services in 2016.Says Dr Jai Inder Singh, “Our professional qualification has certainly helped us in performing our roles amid the Covid outbreak. I have been the nodal officer for the Civil Hospital. Understanding all terms such as SARI and ILI, which doctors are using on a daily basis, was not at all a problem for us. We have ourselves worn PPE kits and entered wards to make arrangements for the entertainment of patients. We have counselled the patients a number of times and have even done contact tracing for many by taking their history.”Dr Vineet shared, “As doctors, we could gauge how the disease was coming and what all planning we might have to do. There have been discussions on the WHO guidelines on preparing 1 per cent solution for sanitisation. So it is here, we could pitch in and help our teams understand what all it is about. When the disease initially came in my subdivision at Virk village, I was thoroughly involved in the management and we ensured that it is properly contained. The best part is that the Civil Hospital doctors and health workers do not treat you like any layman. Also, since there is a frequent change in the guidelines, we as doctors can better understand how to proceed and re-strategise things.”Dr Sanjeev Sharma, SDM, Shahkot, is a PhD with all his doctorate work on viruses. “In this time, I could understand the behaviour of viruses, their mutations and how to keep safe. So I was tasked with creating awareness and preparing material for people to understand the problem and take precautions.”
12-06-2020||Bathinda||Social distancing norms flouted by Cong leaders||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s brother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal, who flagged off the tractors, said these would be used to sanitise various zones in the city. TNS
12-06-2020||Muktsar||Two booked for attempt 
to kill policemen||The Lambi police have booked two persons for allegedly attempting to mow down some cops on duty at Deonkhera village on Tuesday night. ASI Kulbir Singh said he, along with ASI Kashmir Singh and head constable Gurpreet Singh, was present at a "naka" when two car-borne persons tried to mow down them. The accused have been identified as Simranjit Singh of Tappakhera village and Jagmeet Singh of Deonkhera village. They are yet to be arrested. TNSSangrur9 booked for pilfering 200 bags of wheatSome unidentified persons allegedly stole 200 wheat bags from a godown near Dhuri. "We have registered a case against nine unidentified persons after Pungrain authorities lodged a complaint about the theft of 200 wheat bags. Investigation is on," said Sukhchain Singh, ASI posted at Dhuri Sadar police station. TNSFaridkotFaridkot eighth police range of stateThe state government has established Faridkot police range, comprising Faridkot, Moga and Muktsar districts. Now there are eight police ranges in the state. These include Border Range, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Rupnagar, Bathinda, Ferozepur and Faridkot. Kaustabh Sharma, IG, STF, has been posted as the Inspector General of the Faridkot range. TNSMuktsarMiscreants vandalise houses, probe onA large number of people on Wednesday night attacked some houses on Kotli road in Muktsar town. Residents said the attackers (around 50) were carrying, swords, acid bottle and stones. They allegedly vandalised some houses and a dharamshala. The police have launched an investigation into the incident. TNS
12-06-2020||---||PTU gives nod to online examination||PTU gives nod to online examination Chandigarh, June 11 Students of the colleges affiliated to IK Gujral Punjab Technical University can now opt for the online system of examination. The decision has been taken in view of the lockdown restrictions. Students may choose to come to the exam centres for the semester examinations to be held in July. An official in the Technical Education Department said examination centres would be established in other states also. The All-India Council for Technical Education has asked the state technical universities and the Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training to promote students of the intermediate semesters. Nearly 1.5 lakh students are enrolled with two state technical universities. — TNS
12-06-2020||---||Parents move HC over school fee||Chandigarh, June 11Forty-four parents have moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking directions to the State of Punjab and other respondents against the charging of the admission fee, annual and development charges by private-unaided schools for academic year 2020-2021.‘Issue order’In a plea filed by Amandeep Singh and other petitioners through counsel Charanpal Singh Bagri and Gurjit Kaur Bagri, the petitioners sought directions to the state and other respondents to issue a notification, order or memo to private-unaided schools for imposing certain restrictions keeping in view the situation arising due to the pandemic.In the petition filed by Amandeep Singh and other petitioners through counsel Charanpal Singh Bagri and Gurjit Kaur Bagri, the petitioners prayed for directions to the state and other respondents to issue a notification, order or memo to private-unaided schools for imposing certain restrictions keeping in view the situation created by Covid-19 pandemic.Charanpal Singh Bagri submitted that such schools should be asked to charge only the tuition fee on the basis of actual classes conducted online.Taking up the matter, Justice Jaishree Thakur asserted: “The High Court is seized of the fact that connected matter pertaining to charging of fee by schools, be it private-unaided schools, is pending consideration before the High Court for June 12.” Issuing notice of motion, Justice Thakur fixed the case for hearing tomorrow along with related matters.
12-06-2020||---||Sugarfed told to pay Rs 149 crore to farmers||Chandigarh, June 11Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered Sugarfed to pay balance amount of Rs 149 crore to liquidate full arrears of Rs 299 crore payable to cane-growers by cooperative sugar mills.Amount sanctionedThe Finance Department hassanctioned Rs150 crore to pay outstanding dues to farmers.On the directives of the Chief Minister, the Finance Department sanctioned Rs 150 crore to make payment of the outstanding amount to the farmers, while Rs 149 crore would be paid by Sugarfed from its own resources.The CM also directed private sugar mills to immediately clear the pending payments of farmers.Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa, meanwhile, said it was a positive sign for the farming community in the state. By ordering the release of Rs 150 crore by the Finance Department and Rs 149 crore by Sugarfed, the interests of the farmers have been protected.“I hope the Chief Minister would also make efforts to recover Rs 383 crore pending with private sugar mills in the state,” he said.
12-06-2020||---||Debt-ridden Moga farmer ends life||Debt-ridden Moga farmer ends life  Moga, June 11 A 37-year-old debt-ridden farmer allegedly committed suicide by consuming pesticide at Patto Hira Singh village in Nihalsinghwala subdivision of Moga district, police officials said here today. The deceased was identified as Manjinder Singh who had taken a loan of Rs 9 lakh from a bank and Rs 51,000 from an “arhtiya” (commission agent), but was unable to repay the amount. BKU (Ekta) activists Saudagar Singh Khai, Balvir Singh and others said bank officials were pressuring him to repay the loan. Otherwise, his land would be attached, they told him. He was under stress for the past couple of months. It was due to this reason that Manjinder ended his life, alleged Paramjit Kaur, his wife. — TNS
12-06-2020||---||Punjab CM seeks 14,144 MT wheat for migrants||Chandigarh, June 11Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today urged Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan to allocate additional 14,144 MT wheat, along with 1,414 MT pulses, for two months for distribution among migrant labourers and non-NFSA cardholders.The step would be instrumental in incentivising workers to return to work, besides fully reviving the industrial activity, said the CM.Purchasing power hitIn a letter to Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan, CM Capt Amarinder Singh said an additional supply of foodgrain was necessary as the loss of wages had crippled the purchasing power of migrants.In a letter to the Union minister, the CM said the initiative was necessary on part of the Centre as the loss of wages in the past few months had crippled the purchasing power of migrants and the poor.The Centre had allocated 14,144 MT wheat and 1,015 MT pulses for distribution among migrants and non-NFSA beneficiaries under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. The distribution of the stocks is going on in the state and is expected to be completed in the next 10-15 days.Under the abhiyan, the state government is distributing more than 14 lakh dry ration packets containing 10 kg wheat flour, 2 kg dal and 2 kg sugar to migrant labourers and non-NFSA beneficiaries.As the Centre gave only 10 kg wheat and over 500 gm dal per person, the state government decided to convert the wheat into flour for easier and quicker consumption by migrants. In addition, the quantity of the dal, which was found to be grossly inadequate, increased from 500 gram to 2 kg. Sugar was also added to make the packet more wholesome.The CM migrants had started returning to Punjab. Apart from this, industrial activity has also been largely normalised.
12-06-2020||Ropar||Thousands of fish found dead in Sarsa||Thousands of fish were found dead in the Sarsa near Ghanauli village on Wednesday. The reason behind their death is suspected to be discharge of effluents from factories in the Baddi area of Himachal Pradesh.  Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and the Fisheries Department officials have sent the samples of river water and dead fish to Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, and water laboratory of the PPCB in Patiala. Similar incidents were reported from the Baddi-Nalagarh area of Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday. Senior fisheries officer Jatinder Singh Gill said after he got to know about the incident, he reached the spot and got the samples of dead fish collected.  — TNS
12-06-2020||Barnala||Teachers’ protest enters fourth day||Entering the fourth day of protest, teachers of Baba Gandha Singh Public School, Barnala, have refused to budge and are demanding registration of an FIR against school principal.  The protesters are accusing the principal of harassment. However, principal Col Srinivasulu (retd) said he had the CCTV footage to prove that the allegations were baseless. “Many organisations and locals have extended their support to the protesting teachers. Meanwhile, both police officials and civil administration are trying to persuade the teachers to end their protest,” said Mahinder Pal Singh Daangarh, president, Insaaf Di Awaz party. — TNS
12-06-2020||Faridkot||Take action against shamlat land encroachers: Dept||To do away with encroachments on about 1.70 lakh acres of shamlat land in the state, the Rural Development and Panchayat Department has directed all District and Block Development and Panchayat Officers (DDPOs and BDPOs) to start legal proceedings against the illegal occupants.  The department has directed all district and block-level officials to submit certificates with the department, confirming that no panchayat land was encroached upon in their area or in case if there was any encroachment, then assurance of legal action against the illegal occupants. As per the letter issued to the DDPOs and BDPOs this week, the department has revealed that about 1.70 lakh acre of shamlat land was under encroachment. Sources in the department said over Rs700 crore revenue could be generated annually from the land by leasing it out. In February, the Panchayat Department had directed the DDPOs and BDPOs to submit the details of encroached property in their areas and take legal action against the wrongdoers after AAP MLAs had raised the issue in Vidhan Sabha. However, 4 months on, no progress has been made.  “Now, we have fixed the deadline and we have written to the district-level officials to initiate legal action against the encroachers of shamlat land or else face music,” said a senior functionary in the department. — TNS
12-06-2020||
||Illegal mining on Sutlej riverbed in full swing||Ropar, June 11  The district Deputy Commissioner, Sonali Giri, raid on mining mafia has led to the seizure of three poclain machines and tippers from the Sutlej riverbed near Saidpur and Agampur villages.  On seeing the officials, accused managed to flee from the spot, leaving behind the machines.  Giri said the officials concerned had been asked to identify the offenders and register cases against them accordingly. For years, there has been no quarry operational in the area, but the mining mafia has been continuously digging the riverbed day in and day out. Owing to the large-scale mining, cracks have been developed along the one-km-long Agampur bridge and many electricity poles standing alongside the riverbed have been damaged completely, leading to a loss of crores of rupees to the exchequer.  The DC said she had visited the area to assess the progress of road construction work when she noticed illegal mining taking place in the region. Subsequently, she asked the Mining Department officials and the police to reach the spot. However, on seeing the officials, the accused had fled from the spot, said the Deputy Commissioner.
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD releases first list of office-bearers||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal today announced the first list of party office-bearers for the next five years. Balwinder Singh Bhunder has been appointed secretary general of the party. Those appointed senior vice-presidents include Jathedar Tota Singh, Nirmal Singh Kahlon, Charanjit Singh Atwal, Dr Upinderjit Kaur, Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Dr Daljit Singh Cheema, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Janmeja Singh Sekhon, Adesh Partap Singh Kairon, Naresh Gujral, Jagmeet Singh Brar, Prakash Chand Garg, Harmanjit Singh Delhi and Harmel Singh Tohra. NK Sharma will be the treasurer, while Hira Singh Gabria and Manjinder Singh Sirsa will be members of the core committee. Sikander Singh Maluka has been appointed president of the Kisan wing and coordinator of the employees’ wing. Sarbjit Singh Sabi has been appointed secretary general of the Youth Akali Dal and Pawan Kumar Teenu secretary general of the SC wing of the party. The party had dissolved its organisational setup in December last year after Sukhbir Singh Badal was reelected president of the party. — TNS
12-06-2020||
||Accused who killed a cop dies in hospital||Moga, June 11 Gurwinder Singh, who allegedly killed a police constable and injured four others in a shootout at Khosa Pando village in Moga district on June 9, died while undergoing treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot, SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said here on Thursday. The SSP said Gurwinder had suffered a bullet injury in a shootout and also met with an accident at Pandori Khatri village. He had tried to flee using his mother Sukhmandar Kaur as a human shield after firing shots at cops.
12-06-2020||---||Weekend, holiday travel curbs in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 11Restrictions on public movement are back in Punjab with a surge in Covid-19 cases and reports of community spread amid projections that the pandemic peak in the state is still two months away. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered stricter lockdown on weekends (Saturdays and Sundays) and public holidays, restricting movement to e-pass holders.Till Thursday evening, the state had reported 2,887 cases, while the number was 2,415 on June 4. Such surge was not witnessed earlier, said a government spokesperson, adding the restrictions would come into effect immediately and the decision would be reviewed as per the prevailing situation later.All citizens, barring medical staff and essential service providers, would be required to download e-passes from state government's COVA app, the CM said during a meeting held via video-conferencing to review preparedness.Capt Amarinder Singh, CMCases spirallingTough measures have been necessitated on account of spiralling cases globally.Industry, however, would be allowed to function normally on all days, he said, asking the state police to ensure strict implementation of the directives to prevent large gatherings. The CM said tough measures were necessitated on account of spiralling cases across the world. Stringent curbs could help delay the peak, which experts say would hit in two months. With no early vaccine or treatment in sight, following strict protocols is the only way out, the CM observed.E-pass must for movement; health services exempt A decision on stricter curbs on those coming from Delhi would be taken after a review by experts, said the spokesperson.Also read: In 42% cases, source of infection untraced in Punjab67-year-old Jalandhar woman dies of Covid-19Punjab teachers battle it out, virtuallyPointing out that many of those who had come from outside had behaved irresponsibly and not reported to the health authorities, the CM said tough measures would have to be taken.The CM asked health experts to consider imposition of stricter conditions, including mandatory testing certification for entrants from Delhi, where cases are rising substantially. On an average, 500-800 vehicles from Delhi were entering Punjab every day, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.The CM suggested those coming from other states should be tested a week after their arrival and during the period, they must adhere to self-quarantine. Referring to complaints of overcharging by private hospitals, the CM directed the Health Department to ensure strict application of the CGHS rates. Data on the availability of beds, etc., must be put in public domain, he added.
12-06-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Punjab teachers battle it out, virtually||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 11Amritpal Kaur, a teacher at Government Senior Secondary School (Boys), Nakodar, talks to her students even while she cooks a meal for her family. Regularly in touch with her students’ families over the cellphone, she is the face of thousands of teachers in 8,000 middle, high and senior secondary Punjab schools, holding online classes, interacting with students from 7 am to 11 pm every day.ONLINE CLASSES: PROBLEMS GALORESome teachers say online teaching makes it difficult to address all students at the same time. Also, a section of students has no mobile connectivity, they point out. “This is the beginning of the academic session and except for 15-20 per cent students, the rest are just not involved,” a principal based in Tarn Taran district says.Another teacher says there are students who have cellphones but lack sufficient funds for recharging. “Downloading video lessons for different subjects can be expensive,” she observes. Programme planner Chander Shekar admits that online teaching demands continuous innovation. “For example, a section of students insists that lessons be sent to them in their teacher’s voice. Some teachers have been pleading with parents to lend their mobiles to poor students to help them attend classes. Each day we face new challenges and look for ways to overcome these.”Secretary Education (Schools) Krishan Kumar says: “Our biggest achievement has been our planners laying out an effective road map. Our programme has delivered beyond our expectations.”
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||In 42% cases, source of infection untraced in Punjab||The source of infection in 42 per cent cases reported in the last 10 days in the state remains untraced.According to information compiled in state media bulletins, a sudden spike has been witnessed in the number of cases in the last 10 days. It was the time when travelling norms were relaxed and a large number of people started coming to the state either from abroad or other states. Fear of community spreadSince June 1, total 456 Covid-19 cases have been reported. But the fact that remains worrying is that 196 cases have been reported as new cases, which neither had any travel history nor their source of infection could be traced. It makes around 42 per cent of the total cases in the last 10 days.The bigger worry is infected people, including prisoners, policemen, health professionals and municipal workers, whose contact history remains untraced.A majority of such cases include those who self-reported to hospitals with flu-like symptoms and later were found to be positive.Before May most of the cases reported from the state either had travel history or were contact of already reported positive cases.Apart from that there are areas like Amritsar that has witnessed a sudden spike in cases. In Amritsar 63 influenza-like illness cases among total 122 cases have been reported since June 4. The community spread in the district seems to have already begun and could be the reason for the recent spike in cases. In the same period only two persons with travel history, 46 with contact history and 11 asymptomatic cases have been reported.The district has reported the highest number of 527 positive cases till date. With 13 deaths so far, the district has the highest number of Covid-19 casualties in the state. In Amritsar a change in pattern has been witnessed in the last week of May when locals with no travel or contact history started testing positive.Story HighlightsWhile the number of cases in the city is increasing, Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni attributed the rise to increased testing. Soni claimed that around 1,000 samples from the district were being tested every day which was the reason why more positive cases were being reported.The emerging situation has caused panic among the residents and increased trouble for health teams out to collect samples of residents in the two containment zones in the district. Many residents in the Bambay Wala Khoo area refused to give swab samples and cooperate with visiting health teams.However, experts feel that the situation is still under control in the state. A former head of School of Public Health, PGI, Chandigarh, said the recent hike in cases was mainly due to the increase in testing capacity, which had gone up to 9,000. “We use tests for diagnostic purpose as well as for surveillance. The state is now using testing for surveillance,” he said.Covid-19 CasesDiSTRICT-WISE COUNT
12-06-2020||Mahesh Sharma||Employed in factories, marginal farmers take leave for paddy sowing||Mandi Ahmedgarh, June 11While rice cultivators in the region are shuttling between big cities and neighboring states to hire migrant labourers for paddy transplantation, small and marginal farmers employed in factories have taken leaves to undertake paddy transplantation on their own. There are many who have started working as daily wagers in the fields of paddy cultivators.High rates of transplantation, want of traditional migrant labour and temporary layoffs are cited as major reason behind the tendency.Jasvir Singh and Baljinder Singh of Chhanna village near Ahmedgarh in Sangrur district said they had decided to undertake agricultural chores related to paddy cultivation on their own as traditional labour was either unavailable or demanded exorbitantly rates for transplantation.“Though earlier we used to get everything done by migrant labourers, this time we choose to do it on our own,” said Jasvir Singh, who works as a boiler operator with an industrial group. “Though our employers have not asked us to proceed on leave, we understand that the unit is running slowly due to the market situation. Instead of being burden on our employers and pay extra to labourers, we will avail leave in case of need,” said Balinder Singh, who works as an electrician.
12-06-2020||Kuldip Bhatia||Relief for farmers as migrants return||Ludhiana, June 11The new Jalpaiguri-Amritsar weekly express train, which arrived in the afternoon here with hundreds of migrants on board, brought cheers to the faces of farmers and members of industry, who were grappling with labour shortage after the exodus of nearly 4 lakh migrants from the industrial hub amidst Covid-19 lockdown.Migrants might have been forced by circumstances to go back to their native places during the two-and-a-half month of lockdown, but many of those who de-boarded at Ludhiana and were waiting in queues for registration at the railway station, apparently had renewed hopes on their faces in anticipation of getting back to their jobs at the factories or being employed as farm worker for paddy sowing.Darshan Singh, a farmer having driven to the city from Mohali in search of farm workers for paddy sowing, said he had hired six workers for paddy plantation. “I had to promise them payment of one-and-a-half time more wages in addition to good food, accommodation and some other perks,” he said, while adding that a little extra expenditure was worth it because any delay in paddy sowing would have cost him dear.Three migrants hailing from Bihar had come here in response to a telephone call made by an industrialist to one of them with a request to come back as work in the factory had resumed. Jamal, who had gone back during the lockdown, said, “My employer had called asking me to come back and also bring along some others who were looking for work. That is why I have brought two of my friends who will also get work in the same factory,” he said.A few other migrants from among those who arrived today said though they do not have any offer for job but they were hopeful that with a vast majority of workers having gone back, they would get employment. Ram Khilavan, a native of Bihar, said, “Now that there is bound to be demand for workers, I shall be able to make some money.”
12-06-2020||Minna Zutshi||Alternative livelihood in times of Covid||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 11With people’s aspirations having been shrivelled up because of the pandemic, the focus has shifted to the very essentials. Luxuries are out and only necessities matter.For 29-year-old Ramandeep Goyal, the pandemic led to the closing down of his gift shop. The shop that was doing fairly well prior to the pandemic hardly had any customers in the last three months. Fruitful business Ramandeep could not keep waiting for customers to turn up. Mounting overheads made it difficult for him to sustain his business. The shop was on rent. Even if there was no earning, the rent had to be paid every month. How long could he carry on with this kind of business? Even the catering business that he handled ceased to be financially viable. However, since catering is a seasonal business, he could wait and did not wind it up. The gift shop had to be closed down.It was frustrating, but he did not give up. Made of sterner stuff, he started thinking of an alternative livelihood. It had to be something that has buyers even in the times of the pandemic. Dairy, vegetables, fruit – the list of the alternatives was not very long. “Profit margin in the vegetable business is not so high. Dairy as a business needs exploring and a lot of ground work,” he says. Finally, he ventured into the wholesale business of fruit. Getting to know the ins and outs of the new business was not easy. Fruit has a short shelf-life. He learnt it the hard way when the fruit he bought soon turned rotten and spoilt. But instead of feeling dejected, he took it as a learning experience. Ramandeep is hopeful that his fruit venture will be fruitful.
12-06-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Amid Covid lockdown, small traders struggle to pay wages||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 11The Covid-induced crisis has crippled small entrepreneurs across the state and they are struggling to pay rents and salaries to their employees. Moreover, facing losses, many have started shutting their businesses.Though the state government allowed opening of business last month, till date it has failed to pick up pace. Being the education hub, many universities, colleges and around 200 ILETS and immigration centres were running in the district and more than 20,000 students were staying here. But since all educational institutes are closed, students have left.Many small entrepreneurs like juice sellers, eatery owners, stationery and gift shop owners, who were dependent on these students, have been hit hard and are battling for survival. Even event sector, which includes DJ, florist, decoration and caterer, have been hit hard as wedding parties and functions are not taking place.Dispute between tenants and land owners have been reported in the state where owner is not ready to waive rent during lockdown and tenant is not ready to pay. Some have approached court while some vacated shop.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal had visited markets in the city a few days ago after which he had tweeted: “Whether it is sweet shop owners, electrical goods sellers or tailors, the pain and anguish of shopkeepers is visible. Business sentiment has never been so low”.Gursharan Singh, president, Dhobi Bazaar Market Association, said, “Shops are open, but customers are not coming due to which shopkeepers are facing problem in paying rents and salaries to their staff.” City-based jeweller Daravjit Thakur said the situation was quite bad in the market. He said he had suggested a few measures to the minister to simulate economy in the state.
12-06-2020||---||‘Missing’ Sangrur patient traced, admitted to isolation centre||Sangrur, June 11A team of health officials and cops today traced a Covid patient and admitted him to an isolation centre at Ghabdan.The patient, a resident of the Sunami gate area in Sangrur, was found Covid-19 positive at a Ludhiana hospital yesterday. He later first went to his relatives’ house and today, took a PRTC bus to Sangrur.As per information, he had gone to the hospital for knee transplantation. He was tested for Covid and was found positive.“We don’t know yet whether he escaped from the hospital or doctors asked him to leave. We have sought details from the Ludhiana hospital. We are also tracing his contacts as he stayed at his relatives’ house in Ludhiana last night and later boarded a bus to Sangrur. He then took a rickshaw to reach his house,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Sangrur Civil Surgeon.After reaching home, he met his neighbours and also went to market, it is reported.Health Department officials in Sangrur said after he tested positive, the Ludhiana hospital authorities called them and asked them to trace, saying he was missing from the hospital. When Health Department teams visited his house last night and today morning, it was locked. Neighbours were unaware of his whereabouts.“He was finally traced in the afternoon and shifted to an isolation centre,” said Gurbhajan Singh, SHO, Sangrur city police station.
12-06-2020||
||Four more lose life to Covid in Punjab, toll 60||Chandigarh, June 11 With four more deaths reported today, including three in Amritsar and one in Patiala, the total number of casualities has reached 60 in the state. In Amritsar, the district health authorities reported three more Covid-19 casualties, taking the total death count there to 14. The deceased included Ashok Kumar, a 45-year-old tea vendor from Lahori Gate, Amarjit Kaur (62) from Nwa Kot and Satish Kumar (63) from Gate Hakeema area. The total case count in the district increased to 529 with the state media bulletin reporting 14 new cases. While one among them is a Khasa resident who returned from Mumbai recently, nine are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases and one came in contact with a Covid patient. The remaining three are self-reported cases. The district has 160 active cases now. A 70-year-old Malerkotla resident died at a Patiala hospital last evening. Admitted to the Patiala hospital for the past five days, he had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 6. Eighteen persons tested positive for Covid in Ludhiana today. Two pregnant women, one from Dhillon Nagar and another from Gobindpura, were among them. With this, the total number of pregnant women testing positive for Covid so far has gone up to eight.  The spike in Covid-19 cases, meanwhile, continued with total 82 fresh cases, with which the number of cases in the state has reached 2,887. As per media bulletin, among districts, 19 cases were reported from Pathankot, 18 from Ludhiana, 14 from Amritsar, 10 from Sangrur, six from Patiala, four from Jalandhar and SAS Nagar, two each from SBS Nagar, Moga and one each from Bathinda, Muktsar and Gurdaspur.
12-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Unsettling to skip passing out parade, say IMA cadets’ parents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 11Several parents from Punjab, whose children would be passing out from IMA, Dehradun, this Saturday, have expressed their anguish for not being able to be with their wards in one of the most seminal moments of their lives.“Had the world not been gripped by the coronavirus, we would left for Dehradun to be with our sons and celebrate their achievement. Like all parents, we too would have performed the pinning ceremony and got pictures clicked. We are finding it a tad difficult to come to terms with the fact that we won’t be there with our children,” say parents of several young boys, who had studied together at Sainik School, Kapurthala, trained together at NDA and will now be passing out from the IMA.Couple Malkinder Bajwa and Harjinder Bajwa, both of whom are teachers at Sainik School, Kapurthala, said their son Harman Bajwa would be passing out from IMA, Dehradun. “In all these years, it will be for the first time that parents of cadets won’t be able to attend the passing out parade of their children. We had even readied a frame to be put on the wall of our drawing room, but now we won’t have the picture for it. Perhaps, it wasn’t in our destiny. Even, our son won’t be able to fly to us to spend his one month break. From the academy, he will be straightaway going to Assam, where he will join the Special Forces.”Tarn Taran-based Birinder Kaur Dhillon, mother of cadet Akashdeep Dhillon, said, “Of course, it’s sad that we would be missing out on one of the important events in our son’s life, but we can’t do anything about it.”Dasuya-based Arvind Gautam and his wife Anjani Kumari, both of whom are government school teachers, recalled, “Since when he was very young, our son Tapeesh Gautam wanted to join the Army. We supported him in fulfilling his dreams. And now, when it was time to see him accomplish his childhood dream, we won’t be able to celebrate his happiness with him in person.”
12-06-2020||---||Two LeT operatives held with arms||Pathankot, June 11With the arrest of two Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) operatives, the Punjab Police today claimed to have foiled an attempt to smuggle weapons into Jammu and Kashmir to carry out terror attacks there.Ten hand grenades, one AK-47 rifle, two magazines and 60 live cartridges were seized from suspected militants, identified as Aamir Hussain Wani (26) and Wasim Hassan Wani (27). The arrests were made after the Pathankot police intercepted a truck at a check post on the Amritsar-Jammu highway.Past attacksDGP Dinkar Gupta claimed the preliminary investigation had revealed that the terrorists received the consignment from Ishfaq Ahmed Dar, alias Bashir Ahmed Khan, a former J&K constable, near vegetable market on the Maqboolpura-Vallah road in Amritsar.The consignment was hidden in the truck used for transportation of vegetables and fruits from Amritsar.Aamir Hussain Wani revealed that he had collected hawala money worth over Rs 20 lakh during his earlier visits to Punjab. He did so at the behest of his handlers, Ishfaq Ahmed Dar and Dr Rameez Raja, he said. The latter is lodged in a J&K jail following his involvement in terror activities.Aamir also said during his previous visits to Amritsar, he had ferried two armed Hizbul Mujahideen and LeT militants from Punjab to J&K. Incidentally, both of them are now dead.A case under the Arms Act, Explosive Substances Amendment Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has been registered at the Sadar police station.According to the DGP, the arrest of Aamir and Wasim has corroborated recent intelligence inputs that Pakistan’s ISI has been pushing weapon consignments and infiltrating militants from across the border into Punjab, and further to the Kashmir valley for carrying out terror activities.
12-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab State Cooperative Bank to lend Rs 400 cr more to farmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 11In the wake of the rising input costs for crops to be sown in the just started kharif marketing season, state farmers will have access to higher institutional finance from the Punjab State Cooperative Bank.The bank will be lending an additional Rs 400 crore to farmers as term loans, extending the facility of cooperative liquidity. Loans will be extended through the primary agriculture credit societies (PACS). This has been possible after the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) increased refinance to the state cooperative bank from Rs 3,800 crore in 2019 to Rs 4,200 crore this year. The higher recovery rate of the previously advanced loans (recovery is higher by 7 per cent) has also helped in getting additional finance for the state cooperative bank.The circle for seeking credit from the cooperative financial entities begins in July. This year, the cost of labour for paddy transplantation has increased by 60-70 per cent and the cost of insecticides and pesticides has increased by 15 per cent. Against this high input cost, the increase in price realisation (minimum support price) is just 2.9 per cent. As a result, financially stretched farmers will be looking at the credit from institutional and non-institutional sources.“We have received additional Rs 1,000 crore for the regional rural banks as part of the stimulus package announced by the Centre to be given through NABARD. We are trying to get another Rs 1,000 crore to meet the credit needs,” Varun Roojam, managing director of the Punjab State Cooperative Bank (PSCB), told The Tribune.
12-06-2020||Ravi S Singh||Jal Shakti Ministry writes to state over unutilised funds||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 11The Centre has written to the Punjab Government over the unutilised funds allotted for providing clean and piped water to every household in the state. It has also called for expeditious implementation of the centrally sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM).In a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat stated that the Centre had provided funds to the state based on the number of functional household tap connections (FHTCs) provided last year. “In 2019-20, the Centre allocated Rs 227.46 crore to Punjab, out of which the state utilised only Rs 73.27 crore,” Shekhawat said in the letter.Central projectThe Centre has asked Punjab to expedite the implementation of the centrally sponsored Jal Jeevan MissionWith the opening balance of Rs 257 crore, including unspent Rs 98 crore under the National Water Quality Sub-Mission, along with the allocation of about Rs 363 crore in 2020-21, Punjab has said Rs 620 crore Central funds were available for utilisation.“With state’s matching share, Rs 1,239.78 crore will be available under the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide water connection to families in rural areas of Punjab in 2020-21,” said the CM.Implemented by the Union Jal Shakti Ministry, the JJM aims at providing safe and piped water to all rural households in the country by 2024. Several states, including Punjab, have assured the Centre that the mission will be implemented in toto by 2022.The Punjab Government has informed the ministry that a large number of households have been already provided tap water connections.Complimenting the CM on his commitment towards the JJM, Shekhawat expressed optimism that Punjab would provide the remaining households with tap connections soon. He suggested the CM to focus on the augmentation of the existing water supply systems in villages to provide connections to the remaining households.The CM pitched for piped water supply to all households in arsenic and fluoride-affected habitations before December 2020.
12-06-2020||Ravinder SoodPalampur||NHAI okays fourlaning of Pathankot-Mandi highway||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has given its clearance to the Rs 8,000-crore Pathankot-Mandi highway four-lane project.Alignment alteredThe alignment of the new four-lane highway has been changed and now only a few stretches of the old highway will be used.It has been proposed to construct eight bypasses, three tunnels, three railway overbridges and three flyovers between Mandi and Pathankot.All major towns such as Nurpur, Mattor, Nagrota Bagwan, Palampur, Maranda, Baijnath, Paprola and Joginder Nagar have been bypassed in the new project.The longest (33-km) straight bypass will be constructed between Paror and Chauntra along the Pathankot Joginder Nagar railway line without any curve on the highway.The NHAI had discontinued the land acquisition process in May last year. However, the exercise has now been restarted and the NHAI will float a global tender for the construction of the first phase of the project between Pathankot and 32 Mile in the next two months. The project has already been delayed by two years.A senior NHAI official said construction work would begin after the payment of land compensation to the affected persons. A detailed project report had been completed by Joint Ventures and Infrastructure Casta Limited, a private company, in 2016. The total cost of the project has been evaluated at Rs 8,000 crore. The alignment of the new four-lane highway has been altered and now only a few stretches of the old highway will be used.As per the proposal, eight bypasses, three tunnels, three railway overbridges and three flyovers will be constructed between Mandi and Pathankot. Special stress has been laid on ensuring minimum inconvenience to those living along with the highway and minimize environmental degradation.After the project completion, the distance between Pathankot and Mandi will be reduced from 219 km to 171 km. All major towns such as Nurpur, Mattor, Nagrota Bagwan, Palampur, Maranda, Baijnath, Paprola and Joginder Nagar have been bypassed in the new project.The longest 33-km bypass will be constructed between Paror and Chauntra along the Pathankot-Jogindernagar railway line without any curve on the highway which will skip important towns such as Palampur, Maranda, Baijnath and Paprola.Another seven-km bypass will be constructed between Sunehar and Malan to avoid the congested areas of Nagrota Bagwan subdivision.Besides, tunnels will be constructed between Kotla and Draman, Mattor and Kachhyari and Bijni and Mandi town.
