12-05-2020||Ruchika M. Khanna||Punjab chief secy Karan Avtar divested of excise and taxation dept charge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12In a damage-control exercise, the Punjab government on Tuesday night divested its Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh of the charge of Excise and Taxation Commissioner.The development follows a unanimous stand taken by Punjab Council of Ministers yesterday, saying they would not attend any meeting where the Chief Secretary was present.The charge of the Excise and Taxation department has been given to A Venu Prasad, who will continue to also hold charge of Power, Mines and Geology and Water Resources department. Interestingly, the transfer orders have been issued by the Chief Secretary himself.Prasad is presently on leave till May 20 and in his absence Anirudh Tewari, Principal Secretary, Finance, will be in charge of the Taxation department. This finally paces the way for announcement of liquor policy, which has been hanging fire because of the stand-off between political rulers and bureaucracy.ALSO READ Punjab ministers walk out of meeting on liquor policy as Chief Secy's remarks don’t go down well with FMBajwa blames ‘govt-contractor nexus’ for Punjab missing excise revenue targetsPunjab Cabinet authorises Capt Amarinder Singh to approve new excise policySources in the Punjab government have told The Tribune that parleys continued between various ministers throughout the day, with senior ministers approaching Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for a rapprochement.While Badal reportedly did not meet the CM’s emissary, because of his father’s ill health, a senior minister is learnt to have met Channi.The decision to divest Karan Avtar Singh of the charge of taxation department seems to be aimed at calming the frayed nerves of ministers.It had also become imperative in wake of the “conflict of interest” charge levelled against the chief Secretary by some ministers, PPCC president Sunil Jakhar and MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring. It remains to be seen whether the ministers and Congress MLAs will succumb to the pressure and agree at just the divestment of charge, or insist on their earlier stand of not attending any meeting in the presence of the CS.
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bajwa blames ‘govt-contractor nexus’ for Punjab missing excise revenue targets||Claiming that the “government-contractor nexus” is the reason behind the state failing to achieve its excise revenue targets for the last three years, Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Tuesday sought a probe into the functioning of the department.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh holds the excise and taxation portfolio, among others.“The Excise Dept of Punjab has missed revenue targets for three successive years. The missed targets amounts to thousands of crores in losses to the exchequer. The Excise Dept comes directly under your control @capt_amarinder  Ji,” Bajwa wrote in a series of his tweets.Bajwa’s claim comes a day after two Punjab cabinet ministers, Manpreet Badal and Charanjit Singh Channi, had said that they would not participate in any meeting attended by the state’s chief secretary, following a showdown between the ministers and state’s top bureaucrat last week.Also read: Punjab ministers walk out of meeting on liquor policy as Chief Secy's remarks don’t go down well with FMPunjab Cabinet authorises Capt Amarinder Singh to approve new excise policyChanni was learnt to have opposed any relief for liquor vend owners in the excise policy under discussion.The Punjab chief secretary had allegedly made some “curt remarks” after Channi spoke. Upset over it, Badal and Channi had walked out of the meeting that was held on Saturday.In another tweet, Bajwa said: “As Punjab is in a precarious financial position due to the mismanagement of funds by the previous regime, one would have hoped, that excise being a money spinner for the State, would be the #1 priority in achieving revenue targets.”“Given that the Govt has constantly failed in meeting these targets, the only answer is that there is something wrong within the Dept. I fear a Govt-Contractor nexus has formed and this must be probed immediately,” he added.Pointing out that either there might be some firms selling liquor “illicitly without paying taxes” or “unlicensed distilleries” are operating in the state, Bajwa demanded in his tweet that an inquiry be initiated into the functioning of the excise department.Bajwa, a Rajya Sabha MP, also sought investigation into accusations levelled by a Congress MLA against Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh.“@capt_amarinder ji I also urge an investigation into the allegations raised by a sitting Congress MLA on the conflict of interest against the Chief Secretary. Either he should be cleared of all charges or fired accordingly,” Bajwa tweeted.Congress legislator Amrinder Singh Raja Warring had on Monday alleged that the chief secretary’s son had an undeclared business interest in a Punjab distillery.Most of liquor vend owners, who have shut their shops, have been seeking a waiver in license fee and also demanding collection of fee on the basis of actual liquor sales as against the fixed quota system, saying they are badly hit by the lockdown. — PTI
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Major narco-gangster module busted in Tarn Taran; 3 held with 6 weapons||Punjab Police have busted a major narco-gangster module with the arrest of three persons, allegedly linked to the 532 kg Attari drug haul.Six illegal weapons have been seized from the accused, and a case against them at Bhikiwind police station, under sections 27 of NDPS Act, 25, 54, 59 of Arms Act, 188, 269, 270, 506 of IPC and 51B of Disaster Management Act, DGP Dinkar Gupta said on Tuesday.Gupta said a team of DSP/detective and in-charge CIA, Tarn Taran arrested Gurpreet Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Sarabjit Singh.The weapons recovered from them included a 12 bore double barrel rifle, a 32 bore Beretta pistol, two 32 bore pistols, a 12 bore pistol and a 315 bore pistol, along with two live rounds of 315 bore and two live rounds of 32 bore.Gurpreet was reportedly in contact with several gangsters and drug smugglers currently in prison.Giving details, the DGP said Gurpreet Singh’s questioning had revealed that he was in direct contact with Shubham, a Batala-based gangster and a prime accused in the case of armed robbery of nearly Rs 7 crore from a jewellery shop in Amritsar in 2018.Shubham was arrested in 2019 and is currently lodged in Central Jail, Amritsar.Based on the forensic and technical investigation conducted so far, it has been found that Gurpreet Singh was in contact with Shubham, and supplied weapons to his associates in Tarn Taran and Ferozepur areas.The DGP further said on the basis of investigation done by the team led by SSP Dhruv Dhaiya, three other associates of the gang, all residents of Ferozepur, had been identified.They were found to be actively involved in supply of weapons into Harike, Patti and Bhikiwind areas of Tarn Taran.He said Surya had been identified as another key associate of Shubham, who was involved in the illegal weapons supply, in coordination with Gurpreet Singh.Investigation revealed that Gurpreet Singh was in direct contact with Kuldip Singh, who is the brother of Ranjit Rana, the prime accused in the 532 kg heroin Attari drug haul case, and arrested recently by Punjab Police.Gupta further stated that Kuldip Singh, an accused in three cases of NDPS Act, including a case of 22 kg heroin registered in 2014 by SSOC, Amritsar, is currently lodged in Central Jail, Amritsar.Links of Gurpreet Singh had also been traced to Sarabjit Singh, who is an accused in a case of 13 kg heroin and is also now lodged in Central Jail, Amritsar.Gurpreet Singh has repeatedly procured commercial scale heroin consignments from the above smugglers.The DGP said that in-depth forensic and technical analysis of the mobile devices of Gurpreet Singh and his associates was being conducted.The links of the gang with gangster Shubham and major drug smugglers, including the accused of the 532 kg heroin haul from Attari border, was also being investigated further.Reiterating the firm commitment of Punjab Police to eliminate the scourge of drug trafficking and smuggling from the state, Gupta said that since enforcement of curfew on March 22, 15.802 kg heroin had been recovered in the Tarn Taran district.Further, the district police had been rigorously pursuing cases of freezing and forfeiture of illegally acquired properties of major NDPS drug smugglers, under provisions of NDPS Act.
12-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Alleging pay cut, Malerkotla mill labourers pelt officers, cops with stones||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 12The industrial area of Malerkotla town in the district has been tense since Monday night after some migrant labourers working in Arihant Spinning Mill alleged salary cut due to the spread of Covid-19 and sale of essential commodities on excessive rates in factory canteen.The later started a protest outside the mill and pelted civil and police officers with stone when they tried to pacify protesters.Malerkotla SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey, DSP Sumit Sood and another ASI Jaswinder Singh, posted as gunman with Malerkotla SP, suffered injuries while officers are still trying to pacify around 500 labourers, who are allegedly sitting in factory with stones, rods and sticks.Authorities have deployed police in large numbers to keep situation under control and have also registered a FIR against 400 unidentified persons for curfew violations.Tension is still simmering as despite repeated attempts of Malerkotla administration to resolve the issue through discussion, labourers have refused to send their representatives to meet members of mill management and officers.“Mill authorities are making us work for 12 to 16 hours, but they are giving more payment to persons who are sitting idle outside of mill,” alleged a labourer on the condition of anonymity.“The grocery items are being sold at higher rates in mill canteen. There are different rates for officers and labourers. We are demanding our full payment and would not allow any salary cut as we have worked full time,” he said.Another youngster alleged that officers have got full payment, but authorities have deducted the salary of only labourers and mill authorities are unwilling to listen to them.“We have not been given any salary slips by authorities and they have deducted our salaries without any valid reasons,” alleged another labourer.Neeraj Jain, director of the mill, denied any salary cuts.“We have paid salaries to all employees as their working hours and not deducted the salary of anyone. We never received any complaint from them labourers about the sale of grocery items on excessive rates. But if they have any problem, we are sitting here to discuss it and they should come,” said Jain.Malerkotla SDM Panthey said that as there was no union or any representatives from labourers’ side, they were finding it tough to conduct a meeting.“Around 500 labourers armed with sticks, rods and stones are inside the mill and unwilling to discuss their demands. Last night, I along with DSP and another ASI suffered injuries after the labourers resorted to stones pelting,” said the SDM.Malerkotla SP Manjit Singh Brar said last night after labourers started pelting cops with stones, they brought the situation under control with use of mild force. “We have deployed police and registered a case against 400 persons and situation is under control,” said Sandeep Garg, SSP, Sangrur.
12-05-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus: 14 RPF policemen among Punjab's 31 new cases||Fourteen from policemen from the Railway Police Force were among Punjab's 31 new coronavirus cases, the state's daily COVID bulletin showed on Tuesday.Ludhiana (16), Jalandhar (9), Fatehgarh Sahib (8), Patiala (1), Fazilka (1), Amritsar (1) and Kapurthala (1) all reported new cases, the bulletin showed.Thirty-one new cases would take Punjab's coronavirus tally to 1,914, of which 89 per cent of the cases---1,711---are still active.The 14 policemen were among Ludhiana's positive cases. The other two who tested positive on Tuesday were pilgrims who returned from a pilgrimage to Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra's Nanded.Jalandhar reported nine new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, officials said---a development that takes the district’s COVID-19 tally closer to the 200-mark.Among Tuesday's cases in the district, eight were contacts of already diagnosed cases and one was a new case, the bulletin showed.A five-month-old was among the new cases cases.Eight people tested positive in Fategarh Sahib---all contacts of previously diagnosed cases. Patiala and Fazilka each reported a new case.Pilgrims tested positive in Amritsar and Kapurthala.The district-wise break-up of cases now stands as follows: Amritsar (297), Jalandhar (197),  Tarn Taran (158), Ludhiana (127), Gurdaspur (122), SBS Nagar (103), SAS Nagar (102), Patiala (99), Hoshiarpur (91), Sangrur (88), Muktsar (65), Moga (59), Ropar (56), Fatehgarh Sahib (55), Faridkot (46), Ferozepur (44), Fazilka (4), Bathinda (40), Mansa (32), Pathankot (29), Kapurthala (25), Barnala (21). Seven districts---Amritsar, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran, Ludhiana, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar and SAS Nagar---each have over 100 coronavirus cases, and account for over 58 per cent of Punjab’s cases.  Almost 75 per cent of Punjab's 1,914 cases were reported in May alone.Punjab also revised its death toll from COVID-19 to 32 as it added the death of a 91-year-old in Jalandhar to its tally.  Ludhiana and Jalandhar have each reported six deaths. Hoshiarpur (4), Amritsar (3), SAS Nagar (3), Patiala (2), Kapurthala (2), Gurdaspur (1), SBS Nagar (1), Ropar (1), Ferozepur (1), Pathankot (1) and Barnala (1) make up the rest of the count.
12-05-2020||Ropar||Coronavirus: Four employees of Ropar Civil Hospital test negative five days after first test came back positive||Four employees of Ropar’s civil hospital tested negative for coronavirus---a development that comes two days after district authorities said 13 people from the hospital’s medical staff tested positive and also raises questions on how there could be contradictory results for the same people.The most recent results came from swab samples sent to a virology laboratory in Patiala. The previous samples, taken for testing on May 6, had been sent to IMTECH, Chandigarh.  Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said among the several reasons for contradictory results could have been breach of standard testing procedure by district health authorities. Usually samples taken multiple times are sent to the same laboratory for testing. She also said the other possible explanation is that there could have been a fall in virus load between the first and the second test.Samples for the second test were taken five days after the first.“Higher authorities at the health department have been informed about the violation of standard operating procedure by local officials,” she said.Among those who tested positive previously was a senior medical officer. The test results had caused some panic among district authorities.
12-05-2020||Pathankot||Punjab litchi growers facing losses amid lockdown||The litchi growers in Punjab staring at huge losses as the farmers are yet to be approached by contractors for their orchards amid a prolonged countrywide lockdown.In the past, contractors—mostly from outside states, including Uttar Pradesh—used to visit Punjab to take litchi orchards on lease, besides reserving them by paying advances to farmers.Last year too, litchi growers had suffered huge losses in Punjab, as many videos surfaced on social media, linking the fruit to acute encephalitis syndrome (AES).At that time, farmers reeled under losses as the litchi's price fell very low.Arvind Kalra, owner, of 85 acres of litchi orchard here, said that till today, only one person from Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur has approached him on phone."Such a situation was once seen at the time of operation blue star when ripened fruits were not plucked. Without traders and commission agents, how can we sell our fruits which are perishable items. Lockdown situation brought the harsh situation for farmers like us," he said.He has litchi orchards in Himachal Pradesh too, but he will not be able to go there due to the lockdown.In Punjab, mainly two varieties of litchi—Dehradun and Calcutta—is grown by nearly 1,100 farmers in few districts, including Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Ropar, covering nearly 3,000 acres of lands.Around 48 trees are grown in one acre and each tree yields approximately 50 to 100 kg of litchi according to its age, experts said.Jatinder Singh, horticulture development officer, Pathankot, said that this year, there is a very high yield production but like last year, farmers are facing a serious problem."The harvesting time of litchi is from June 10 to June 25 and in- between, things will be under control to some extent," he noted.Mostly Punjab's litchi is sold in main vegetables and fruit markets in Delhi and Mumbai, from where it is sent to other states and exported to countries, including the UAE,  he said."We will issue passes soon to outstation traders, middlemen and commission agents and labourers so that farmers don't face any suffering," Jatinder Singh said.With nearly 12,500 labourers registered to be moved for their native states from Pathankot alone where orchards of litchi have spread over 1,600 acres of land, shortage of workers is another problem for the farmers.Sukhdev Singh Randhawa of Batala said that he has 17 acres of litchi orchard in Pathankot's Madhopur."I am residing in Batala around 90 KM away from my orchards in Madhopur and irrigating litchi tree is very essential for bumper production, otherwise the yield gets damaged. Warden of my orchards mostly from Bihar has already registered to return to their native village. In the coming days, labour shortage will more be a problem, when harvesting time will be at its peak. PTI
12-05-2020||Harshraj Singh||30 migrants who boarded private bus to UP, dropped back at Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 12Around 30 migrant workers, who had boarded a private bus of a renowned operator to go to Uttar Pradesh, were dropped back at Ludhiana on Tuesday morning. The labourers had boarded the bus from Ludhiana on Monday evening but the driver reportedly took a U-turn before Ambala and dropped the migrant workers at the Ludhiana bus stand at around 7:30am on Tuesday.The migrant workers said that the bus staff had charged Rs 3000 from each person to take them to Uttar Pradesh. The labourers said that they didn’t have money to survive in the city because of which they wanted to go to their home state.“After returning, the bus staff told us to return to our homes. But we told them that our landlord will now allow us to stay. The bus staff did not return the money and dropped us at the Ludhiana bus stand,” said Raghunath, a migrant worker.“We have been sitting outside the Ludhiana bus stand. We are hungry. The driver has now assured us that they have got the required permission to take us to UP. We don’t have any work or money to survive in the city due to which we want to go to our villages in UP,” he added. Another labourer said, “We had boarded the bus at around 5 pm on Monday. The driver took us to Gill Chowk, Ludhiana, where our medical screening was done. We don’t know who did our medical screening. We were then taken to Giaspura area of Ludhiana. The bus departed from Ludhiana at 10:30 pm.”“The driver stopped the bus outside a gurdwara on the way and ate langar. Before reaching Ambala, the driver stopped the bus. After some time, he took a U-turn and started driving towards Ludhiana. We faced a lot of harassment. We want to go to our village in Uttar Pradesh as we don’t have money to arrange even ration in Ludhiana.”A social activist, Gurpal Singh Grewal, demanded an inquiry from the district administration. “The bus staff left the migrants outside the bus stand. The migrants were sitting hungry. We are arranging meals for them. The government should mark an inquiry as the migrants were harassed. It should be inquired whether the bus company had taken the required permissions to take the migrants to UP,” Grewal said.The bus driver, Talwinder Singh, said, “We had got the permission to take the migrants from Ludhiana to UP yesterday. But one of the buses was stopped at Muzzafarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. When we got this information, we returned to Ludhiana this morning. We have obtained a new permission today and the migrants will be taken to UP later today.”Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal could not be contacted for a comment.  However, Punjab Medium Industries Development Board Chairman Amarjit Singh Tikka said, “I have brought the matter into notice of the district administration and the police officials.”
12-05-2020||Ferozepur||Fire breaks out in Ferozepur house; residents rescued||A double-storied house in the heart of Ferozepur city caught fire on Monday night but the residents were safely rescued.The fire, which was caused by a short circuit, was doused by the fire brigade and the family was rescued. —TNS
12-05-2020||---||Four Shramik trains to depart from Jalandhar daily||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11Around 2,400 migrants on Monday boarded two ‘Shramik Express’ trains from the city to Chapra (Bihar) and Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh). The state government has paid the whole boarding expense of the migrants.Cheques worth Rs6.78 lakh and Rs6.42 lakh were given to the Railways authorities by the administration. The 18th ‘Sharmik Express’ train for Chapra left at 8 am and the 19th train for Azamgarh at 11 am under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner of Police Balkar Singh and SDM Rahul Sindhu.Vikas Jaitely, a Railways official, said, “Now, four trains will depart from Jalandhar for the safe and early transportation of migrants. The first train will leave at 8 am, second at 11 am, third at 5 pm and fourth at 11 pm.”Earlier in the day, the migrants, who were scheduled to board the trains, were transported from various transit points set up by the district administration to the city railway station by buses.A team of the Health Department is present at the railway station for medical screening of every migrant boarding the trains.
12-05-2020||Surinder Bhardwaj||9 more test positive for Covid in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 11Nine more persons tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the tally to 57 in the district. The district had witnessed 20 positive cases yesterday. Of these nine patients, four were from Behrampur village, three from Khamano, one from Kotla village and one cop from Fatehgarh Sahib. The patients have been admitted to the Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. Civil Surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said all nine are from the close contacts of a positive patient.No activity will be allowed in villages included in the list of hotspots/containment zones. The supply of essential items will be ensured by the administration. — Amrit Kaur Gill, District Magistrate, Fatehgarh SahibMeanwhile, District Magistrate Amrit Kaur Gill declared the following villages/areas as hotspots and containment zone, Gunia Majri village; Adarsh Nagar, Sirhind; Naraingarh Channa; Bibipur; Kheri Bhai Ki; Chuni Majra; Randhawa and Alipur Sodian from Fatehgarh Sahib sub-division. From Khamano sub-division Ward No.5, 6 and 4, Khant; Sanghol; Panaichan and Lakhanpur. From Bassi Pathana sub-division Kotla; Behrampur; Pamour; Daulatpur; Khanpur Bir and Kotla Gopalon, From Amloh sub-divison only Talwara village has been declared as a hot spot/ containment area and sealed outrightly. She mentioned that no activity will be taken out in these villages and the supply of essential commodities will be supplied by the administration.Two teen girls among 3 infected in KhamanoThree more persons of Ward No 4, Khamano, including two minor girls and a shopkeeper tested positive for Covid-19 today. Earlier two persons of the ward had tested positive. Harbhajan Ram, SMO, Khamano, said two girls, one nine-year-old girl and another 13-year-old, have been tested positive from the ward apart from a shopkeeper. He said now teams of the Health Department are verifying their close links. Meanwhile, the district administration today declared Ward No 4, 5 and 6 of Khamano, villages Khant, Sanghol, Panaichan and Lakhanpur as hotspots/containment zones with immediate effect.Meanwhile, Khamano SDM Paramjit singh gave information that from today onwards till further orders the whole Khamano sub-division will remain shut. The SDM said from tomorrow milk and vegetables will be supplied from 6 to 8 am. Chemist and kiryana shops will provide home delivery of items from 9 am to 1 pm. All other shops will remain closed.
12-05-2020||---||FIR against 4 cops for ‘torturing’ Dalit youths||Sangrur, May 11HAD SNATCHED Rs 20K AND FLEDThey claimed they were from the Punjab Police and asked the duo to accompany them to the police stationOn being asked to produce their identity cards, the accused beat them up and snatched Rs20,000 and fledWhen the youths went to the Sandaur police station to file a complaint, the police detained them and did not allow their relatives to enter the police stationTwo days after the suspension of four police officials for allegedly torturing two Dalit brothers at the Sandaur police station, an FIR has been registered against them.The Punjab State Scheduled Castes (SC) Commission has sought a report on the matter by May 13.The Sandaur police have registered a case under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person) and 34 IPC against two ASIs Sukhwinder Singh and Yadwinder Singh, constable Gurdeep Singh and Punjab Home Guard Kesar Singh. All were suspended two days ago by the Sangrur SSP.“We have registered an FIR against the four police officials. No one will be allowed to violate the law,” said Dr Sandeep Garg, SSP Sangrur.On the evening of May 6, four persons allegedly stopped the car of Simranjit Singh and Lakhvir Singh near Manki village. The unidentified persons, who were in a Bolero, claimed that they were from the Punjab Police and asked the duo to accompany them to the police station. But when Simranjit asked them for their identity cards, they started beating him up and snatched Rs 20,000 from Lakhvir and fled. In the evening, when the youths went to the Sandaur police station to file a snatching complaint, the police took them inside and did not allow their relatives to enter the police station.Both were released on May 7 after their family members threatened to resort to agitation. The youths were admitted to the Malerkotla Civil Hospital. The medical examination has confirmed 13 severe injuries on Simranjit’s body.“DSP (Special Branch) will probe the FIR, while departmental inquiry has been marked to the SP (Investigations). Investigation of the snatching case, registered on the complaint of Simranjit, will be conducted by the Crime Investigations Agency (CIA),” the SSP said.Punjab State Scheduled Castes (SC) Commission member Poonam Kangra said she would submit the report to the commission chairman for further action.
12-05-2020||Muktsar||Gurdas Badal on life support||The health of 88-year-old ex-MP Gurdas Singh Badal worsened yesterday, who has been admitted to a private hospital in Mohali for the last 14 days.  He is suffering from acute diabetes, sudden dip in blood pressure and heart problem. “He has been put on life-support system,” said Jagjit Singh, Gurdas’s nephew. — TNS
12-05-2020||Faridkot||To tide over labour crisis, Faridkot farmers go for automation||To tide over the labour shortage ahead of the paddy transplantation, farmers in the district have started buying Lucky seed drills which are used for direct sowing of paddy.The direct sowing of paddy saves 30 to 35 per cent of water. The state government offers 40 per cent subsidy on the machines.The transplantation of paddy saplings is a manual job and most of the farmers rely on migrant labourers for this work, paying them Rs2,200 to Rs2,500 per acre. As it is hard to find labour during the Covid-19 lockdown, the rate of paddy transplantation has increased to Rs4,500 to Rs5,000 per acre.So, farmers see Lucky seed drills as solution to this. But the only problem is dealers have run out of stock. “We have sold off the entire stock. Because of the lockdown, we are unable to assemble Lucky seed drills,” said Sarbjit Singh, a dealer in Talwandi Bhai which is a hub of agricultural tools.The suppliers have asked farmers to wait. But ask farmers and they say time is running out. — TNS
12-05-2020||
||Mining mafia opens fire at locals in Saidpur, Ropar||Ropar, May 11  The district police have booked unidentified persons for allegedly opening fire at residents of Saidpur village after they tried to stop illegal mining in their area last night. Village sarpanch Shingara Singh, along with residents, filed a complaint that illegal mining was being carried out in their area and when they tried to stop it, the mining mafia opened fire at them. SHO Jatin Kapoor said on the complaint of villagers, a case under Sections 336 and 188 of the IPC and the Arms Act had been registered against unidentified persons.  AAP general secretary Dinesh Chadha said it was strange that the mining mafia was still active. Fazilka: Meanwhile, The police on Sunday arrested two persons and impounded sand-laden tractor-trailers in Shahpura village of Arniwala sub-tehsil.  The accused have been  identified as Sukhwinder Singh of Arniwala village and Mohinder Singh of Ojhanwali village.
12-05-2020||Mohali||Witness lawyer records statement against Sumedh Singh Saini||Advocate Gursharan Kaur Mann recorded her statement under Section 164 CrPC as a witness in the 29-year-old case, making serious revelation about the alleged brutal torture of Balwant Singh Multani by former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, in the Mohali court today.She alleged that she along with her husband and two-year-old son were picked up by the police on the intervening night of December 10/11, 1991, from Phase 4 Mohali after picking up victim Balwant Singh Multani. She said they took them to Chandigarh’s Sector 11 police station where they were tortured.She said on December 12, they were taken to Sector 17 police station. She said on the night of December 13, Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP, visited the police station and they along with Multani were presented before him. Multani could not walk and fell on the floor. Saini starting hitting Multani with his shoes, she alleged.Mann alleged that the next day, she saw Multani lying in the veranda and bleeding profusely from the anus. She said Saini arrived on the scene and ordered cops to put Multani in a vehicle and where they took him they did not know. Mann said that they later came to know that they had been picked up by the police as they had found out that Multani had met them. — TNS
12-05-2020||---||Home Guards jawan commits suicide, probe on||Muktsar, May 11A Home Guards jawan, Lakhwinder Singh, who was about to retire, allegedly committed suicide by jumping into the Sirhind feeder canal near Adhnian check-post. Some locals tried to rescue him, but he could not be saved. The police have started inquest proceedings and sent the body to the Malout Civil Hospital for autopsy.
12-05-2020||---||Man held with gun, intoxicating powder in Moga||Moga, May 11The police have arrested a robber and recovered an Alto car, Rs 5,000, .12 bore gun, machete and 150 gm of intoxicating powder from him.SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said the accused had been identified as Rajanjeet Singh, alias Sonu Bhau, and one of his associates, Jagjit Singh, was still at large.During interrogation, the accused confessed to have committed many crimes in Moga district.An FIR under Sections 379-B (2), 34, 411 of the IPC, Section 22 of the NDPS Act and Section 25 of the Arms Act has been registered against Rajanjeet and his associate Jagjit Singh.
12-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Kabaddi player dies of 'drug overdose'||Abohar, May 11Amritpal Singh, aka Sona, a budding kabaddi player from Rajasthan, has reportedly died of 'drug overdose'.Bewildered, family members and friends of the deceased have demanded a high-level investigation into the matter.Matilli Rathan police station incharge Rakesh Swami said a medical board conducted postmortem examination in the district hospital on Monday.On the statement of Amritpal’s uncle Sukhdev Singh, an FIR has been registered.The police said, “We are questioning Amritpal’s friends, who had escorted him and his friend Mani Brar to a private doctor in the border village of Mirjewala on Sunday evening. Following the advice of the doctor, the duo was brought to Medanta Hospital in Sriganganagar, where the doctors declared Sona as brought dead. On the other hand, Mani Brar has regained consciousness, but wasn’t in a condition to give any statement.”The police they would question Brar once his condition improved.
12-05-2020||Sangrur||69 FIRs in Sangrur for stubble-burning||
12-05-2020||Muktsar||Three more Muktsar patients cured||SAD chief flags off wheat-laden trucksMuktsar: SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, along with some party workers, on Monday performed ‘ardas’ at Badal village here and flagged off four wheat-laden trucks for langar sewa in the Golden Temple. A senior SAD leader said the trucks carried 1,600 quintal of wheat collected from the Lambi Assembly constituency. “The sangat, including Badals, has donated wheat for the langar sewa. One more truck will be dispatched soon,” he added. TNSBe extra vigilant, dept to boiler ownersChandigarh: Sibin C, Director, Industries and Commerce, Punjab, has advised all industries using boilers to be extra cautious while restarting their operations. In a statement issued here today, he said after the lockdown was lifted and industries resumed their operations, the boiler users were advised to be extra vigilant, follow all safety protocols and stick to proper procedure as prescribed in the Indian Boiler Regulations, 1950, to avoid any accident. TNSPharmacists seek job regularisationBathinda: Members of the Rural Health Pharmacy Officers’ Association ton Monday held a protest in front of the Civil Surgeon’s office, demanding job regularisation. Employed under the Panchayat Department, contractual rural health pharmacists gathered at the district hospital in Bathinda and resorted to sloganeering against the state. TNS
12-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Patients hold protest in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, May 11The district administration found itself in a tight spot when Covid-19 patients admitted to the local civil hospital today came out of their wards and demanded they be discharged immediately.There are 107 Covid patients in the hospital. They claimed that they were hale and hearty. They alleged administrative lapses on part of the hospital authorities.Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Surinder Singh, SP (Investigation) Jagjit singh Walia, Civil Surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar and other officials reached the spot and listened to their grievances.The patients claimed that as they had no health problems, they should be discharged without any delay. They said even their Covid-19 negative reports had been received by the administration.After an hour-long drama, the officials managed to convince them that as soon as the negative reports of their samples were received by the hospital, they would be discharged. On the assurance given by the officials, the patients agreed to return to their wards.
12-05-2020||Kuldip Bhatia||Delhi-Jammu train chugs off tomorrow, to halt at Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 11The decision of the Ministry of Railways to run AC special trains from New Delhi to several major cities across the country from May 12 has come as a big relief to those stuck away from their homes due to the Covid-19 lockdown.In this region, the lone special train will run from New Delhi to Jammu Tawi every day from May 13 and from Jammu Tawi to New Delhi from May 14 onwards. The train will have a single stoppage in Ludhiana on both sides.The New Delhi-Jammu Tawi-New Delhi special train will be the first to operate since the imposition of lockdown on March 23.A senior railway official told The Tribune over phone (from New Delhi) that ticket booking commenced at 4 pm today on the IRCTC website and no tickets would be issued at the ticket counters. The special trains would have fare structure based on the Rajdhani Express with a few stoppages.Only those passengers having reservation and agreeing to undergo screening and abiding by other Covid protocols would be allowed to board the trains, he added.“There will be no provision of ‘tatkal’ and ‘premium tatkal’ booking nor there will be concession in rail fare. The time-table of the trains is being given the final touches and departure and arrival time will be intimated to passengers at the time of booking tickets in advance on the IRCTC website,” the official said.
12-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Cabinet authorises Capt Amarinder Singh to approve new excise policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11The Punjab Council of Ministers today authorised CM Capt Amarinder Singh to approve the new excise policy, telling him they would not attend any meeting where Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh was also present. The Chief Secretary today stayed away from the Cabinet meeting, opting for half-day leave.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal is learnt to have told the CM that it was up to him to “restore his dignity”.As soon as the meeting began, Manpreet and Charanjit Singh Channi requested that their displeasure over the Chief Secretary’s behaviour be placed on record. Subsequently, the CM asked the ministers to bring it on record that they had no faith in the Chief Secretary. The officer, who is to retire in August, is likely to be asked to proceed on leave, said sources in the government.Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa pointed out that the son of a top bureaucrat had stakes in the liquor business. After the ministers had registered their protest, the CM is learnt to have told them that walking out of a meeting on excise policy two days ago was not correct. They were told that they should have told the Chief Secretary to leave after the face-off instead of walking out themselves.“As part of unofficial business, I moved a proposal that I would not attend any meeting where the CS was present. I was supported by my colleague Charanjit Channi. After the entire Cabinet backed us, we were told by the CM to put our objection on record,” Manpreet explained after the meeting, adding that the decision had been taken not because of ego clash, but in the “ highest interest of the state”.Liquor vend owners in Punjab are seeking extension of their licences, saying they are badly hit by the lockdown. Some of them are also against the Punjab Government’s plan on doorstep delivery of liquor.Meanwhile, in a series of tweets, Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring questioned the Chief Secretary regarding “the involvement of his son in running a distillery in Kapurthala as a partner with a top liquor contractor”.
12-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Ex-DGP Saini gets  anticipatory bail in 29-year-old case||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 11Three days after a case was registered by the Mohali police against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, a local court granted him anticipatory bail today in a 29-year-old case of alleged abduction and murder of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991.Additional District and Sessions Judge Monika Goyal in her order today ruled that there were serious doubts over the FIR’s maintainability at the present juncture. “Chances are that it is an outcome of political vendetta as the present applicant was instrumental in lodging FIRs against high-ups,” the court held. She added that Saini was ready to cooperate with the investigators. There was no reason to take him into custody, especially when the Supreme Court and the High Court were trying their best to de-congest the jails following the Covid-19 outbreak.“The purpose of investigation will suffice if the applicant is directed to join investigation and cooperate properly. Thus, the present is a fit case where he is entitled to anticipatory bail,” Judge Goyal asserted.The court observed the FIR had been lodged after 29 years. The allegations undoubtedly pertained to a heinous crime. But the only explanation for the delay by the prosecuting agency and the complainant (victim’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani) was that the applicant (the then DGP) was very influential and they could not take any action.The court added the Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed the CBI to investigate the matter and an FIR was lodged on July 2, 2008. But the Supreme Court quashed it with the liberty to the complainant/prosecution to take recourse to fresh proceedings, if permissible under law. But action was not taken by the Multani family since December 7, 2011, when the SC order was passed. The Judge said the counsel for the complainant argued he feared for the safety of his family because Saini was DGP, but he was not holding that post in Chandigarh Police since October 25, 2015, as he stood transferred, and retired in June 2018.Meanwhile, the counsels for the former DGP, APS Deol, Himmat Singh Deol and HS Dhanoa, said the court had granted the bail on their main contentions of Article 20 of double perjury and non-maintainability of filing of the case on the same sections again after 29 years.
12-05-2020||New Delhi||Hero Cycles resumes production in Punjab, Bihar units||New DelhiAudi India launches online sales, service initiativeGerman luxury carmaker Audi on Monday said it has introduced online sales and service initiative in India in order to enable customers book vehicles from their homes. The company has integrated its entire sales network to enable customers to book new vehicles or get vehicles booked for service from home. PTI
12-05-2020||---||Four children among 54 fresh cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 11Following a spike in Covid-19 cases in the first week of this month, the number of new patients has started declining. With 54 fresh cases coming to the fore on Monday, the state count touched 1,877.As per the media bulletin, Jalandhar topped the chart with 13 new cases, followed by Mansa (12), Fatehgarh Sahib (11), Gurdaspur (six), Moga and Ludhiana (two each), and Tarn Taran, Fazilka, Patiala, Faridkot, Ropar, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar and Ferozepur (one each).The tally in Jalandhar district has risen to 188. With the death of 91-year-old Jandu Singh, a patient at the CMC today, the death toll in the district has gone up to six. Of the 13 new patients reported today, 12 are from Qazi Mohalla and one (a 17-year-old boy) from the old vegetable market area. The 12 patients from Qazi Mohalla include four children aged between one and nine. All of them are contacts of a patient who tested positive a few days ago.Notably, the same man is the source of infection for a doctor of Guru Nanak Mission Hospital, four health workers of Kidney Hospital and nine persons who tested positive today at Qazi Mohalla. He had reportedly visited both hospitals.In Fazilka’s Azeemgarh area, health workers on Monday launched a door-to-door survey as a 25-year-old returnee from Gurugram tested positive. The patient, who was employed in a company in Gurugram, was ferried back by his brother on May 5 and quarantined at the civil hospital here. He was shifted to an isolation ward in Jalalabad.
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Centre’s nod to opening private hospitals||The Centre has allowed the opening of all private hospitals and asked all states and UTs to ensure smooth movement of medical professionals, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation personnel and ambulances. They have also been asked to ensure the opening of all private clinics, nursing homes and laboratories with all medical professionals and staff.  As a public interest litigation seeking improvement in the healthcare facilities and assistance to the people during the Covid lockdown period came up for hearing, Additional Solicitor General of India Satya Pal Jain and Dheeraj Jain told the HC that such movement would also be facilitated interstate, wherever required. The counsel for Punjab also submitted that necessary instructions had already been issued to the government and private hospitals to provide requisite treatment even to non-Covid patients and the instructions had already been implemented. — TNS
12-05-2020||---||Extend lockdown, Capt Amarinder Singh urges Modi||Chandigarh, May 11‘Mortality rate down to 1.8%’The Punjab Government has brought down the mortality rate to 1.8 per cent, Capt Amarinder Singh said, adding the state has so far conducted over 40,000 tests at the rate of 2,500 per day.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday pitched for the lockdown extension, but with a carefully crafted strategy backed by fiscal and economic empowerment of the states to save lives and secure livelihood.Favouring continuation of a strict lockdown in view of the escalating Covid cases nationwide, the Chief Minister said at the videoconference with PM Narendra Modi that states needed to be given greater flexibility in micro-planning as part of a carefully planned exit strategy, encompassing both Covid containment and a defined path of economic revival.The exit strategy should consider and focus on fiscal and economic empowerment of the states, which are responsible for the real action directly impinging upon the livelihood and social health of the common man, said the Chief Minister, suggesting that states should be allowed great flexibility in micro-planning, with MSMEs be allowed to function in red zones with proper safeguards. The decision on designating the red, orange/yellow and green zones should be left to the states, he said.Capt Amarinder demanded urgent financial assistance to the states to meet at least 33 per cent of their committed liabilities, along with revenue grants to the states for three months to meet shortfall in revenue and to fund expenditure on Covid-19.He called for a national strategy on Covid testing for making the battle more effective.
12-05-2020||Vishav Bharti||Over 85,000 addicts enrol at rehabilitation centres in 45 days in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11For the past 45 days, over 2,000 new addicts have been queuing up to enrol themselves with de-addiction centres in the state.As per the data compiled by the state government during the period of lockdown between March 23 and May 8, a total of 86,371 new addicts got themselves registered for treatment.Before March 23, there were 4.14 lakh addicts enrolled at various government and private de-addiction centres across the state. In the past one and a half months, the number has swelled to 5.05 lakh.According to government officials, due to the ongoing curfew in the state, the drug supply chain has been paralysed. Following which, failing to cope up with withdrawal symptoms, a large number of drug users started thronging the de-addiction centres.Among three regions of the state, districts in Malwa remained at the top. Sangrur tops the chart with 8,896 new drug users opting for treatment, followed by Moga 8,638, Ludhiana 8,479, Bathinda 7,689, Muktsar 5,765 and Patiala 5,328.Among districts of Majha, where the problem was grave, the enrolments remained low as compared to other regions. Pathankot is at the bottom with 437 new enrolments. Gurdaspur witnessed 1,216 new registrations and Amritsar 2,422. Tarn Taran fared better than other three districts of the region with 4,069 fresh enrolments.Minister for Health and Family Welfare Balbir Singh Sidhu said ever since the curfew had been imposed, the government had been taking initiatives for the treatment and care of addicts so that a maximum number could get rid of addiction.He said he had given instructions to all Outdoor Opioid Dependence Centres that none of the new patients should be sent back without medicine. Just at the beginning of lockdown, the state had allowed two weeks’ take home dose to the patients enrolled for the treatment against one week earlier.
12-05-2020||---||STF initiatives have paid off as 5L drug addicts get treatment, says ADGP||Chandigarh, May 11Claiming a major success against drug abuse during the lockdown period, Special Task Force chief ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu said 5,00,552 patients had been treated till May 6 since the STF was formed in 2017.Sidhu said the OOAT clinic programme was a success. Besides, the Drug Abuse Prevention Officers (DAPO) programme supervises community activities for preventing drug abuse and to link the drug users with de-addiction centres. Nearly 5.43 lakh DAPOs have already been registered, of whom 88,710 are officials and 4,54,332 are volunteers, he said.Sidhu said the STF had designed a comprehensive action against drug abuse (CADA) strategy based on enforcement-de-addiction-prevention (EDP) approach.He revealed that 14.90 lakh persons had been made aware about ill-effects of drug abuse. Besides, 2.05 lakh drug abuse victims had been contacted, out of which 98,278 had been sent to de-addiction/OOAT centres.
12-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Panel to chalk out blueprint for High Court functioning||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11‘Hear regular cases too’Senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia has written to the Bar Council suggesting that cases involving regular, and not just extreme, urgency were required to be taken up.Also a larger number of Benches were requested to hold courts through videoconferencing for taking up more cases.Patwalia also suggested holding of one or two regular courts with limited number of advocates for the electronically and technologically handicapped.Just about a week after the Punjab and Haryana High Court streamlined its functioning to hear up to 100 cases daily during the lockdown period, its administrative committee is scheduled to meet again in the next couple of days for chalking out the blueprint for future functioning.Among other things, the feasibility of easing out up to some extent the restrictions imposed on the High Court operations is likely to be discussed.The meeting comes at a time when the lawyers are demanding that both regular and e-courts should work together and appearance of the advocates should be made optional. “The court should give liberty to the Bar members that they can appear by way of video/audio conferencing or through physical presence as per their choice. For normal/physical working of the courts, the trial run should be tested in some Courts...,” an e-resolution passed by the Bar Association reads.A section of lawyers, including advocate RS Bains, also met in the Advocates’ Library. They were joined by Bar president DPS Randhawa and vice-president Vikas Malik. It was decided that all kind of cases should be heard, starting from the urgent matters such as bail, protection and paroles pleas to all civil cases involving the relief of stay.It is believed the need for ensuring expeditious disposal of pending regular and anticipatory bail pleas, filed during the lockdown period and prior to it, is also likely to figure during the committee’s discussions. The committee comprises top seven Judges of the High Court.Available information suggests the judges are not averse to the idea of easing out the restrictions for preventing the phase from turning into a denial of justice period. But the decision depends on several factors.The health and administrative authorities, including the UT Adviser and the PGI Director, may have to be consulted.Otherwise also, the non-opening of educational institutions, religious places, malls and multiplexes indicates inappropriateness of throwing open the gates of places having heavy footfall and the courts are no exception.
12-05-2020||Ravneet Singh||After govt snub, Patiala's law university postpones online exams||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 11Vacation from May 15The authorities of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law said the decision was taken in compliance with government orders, according to which summer vacation had been declared from May 15.As a result, the online examinations for final-year BA LLB (integrated course) and LLM students, scheduled to start on May 18, have been postponed.After the state government snubbed the Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) for deciding to conduct online examinations, the university has reversed its decision. The RGNUL academic council took the decision during a online meeting convened on Sunday.The university authorities said the decision was taken in compliance with government orders, according to which summer vacations have been declared in universities and colleges from May 15.As a result, the online examinations for final-year BA LLB (integrated course) and LLM students, scheduled to start on May 18, have been postponed.The Tribune had reported the matter on May 10.The university called a meeting after Higher Education Secretary Rahul Bhandari and Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit objected to the university’s decision in view of the Covid-19 lockdown.In a notice uploaded on its website on Sunday, the university stated, “The Punjab Government has declared summer vacations in all state government universities and colleges... the RGNUL Covid 19 Committee has recommended, in compliance with orders of the government, to postpone the online examinations scheduled from May 18. The recommendations of the committee have been approved by the RGNUL Academic Council in its meeting dated May 10, 2020.”Dr Paramjit Singh Jaswal, RGNUL Vice-Chancellor, said he had received a call from the DC’s office enquiring about the matter; so, the university decided to go as per the advice of the state government.
12-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Lobbying begins for Punjab Chief Secretary’s post||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh proceeded on half-day leave today amid stand-off between Council of Ministers over tweaking of the excise policy. His leave was “announced” by the government late in the evening.Vends may open for longer hoursThe proposal for home delivery of liquor is expected to be withdrawn and contractors may be given longer hours to operate vends.There is unlikelihood of the contractors getting an additional 36 days of business after March 2021, though they may get rebate in the licence fee. It is also learnt that the contractors will get an additional rebate of nine days of March for which they had already paid the licence fee.Though lobbying has begun in earnest for his successor, with lobbies in the government backing different candidates, it seems unlikely that the Chief Secretary will be replaced immediately.His immediate replacement could send a wrong signal in the corridors of powers, as it could project that the CM had succumbed to pressure of his Cabinet colleagues.While Karan Avtar Singh remained unavailable for comments, he is learnt to have attended the meeting of all Chief Ministers with the Prime Minister, through videoconferencing in the afternoon after the Cabinet meeting. Karan Avtar Singh has three more months before he hangs his boots in August this year. It may be a Herculean task for the government to function normally till the issue is resolved.In the race for the post are senior most IAS officer KBS Sidhu, Special Chief Secretary, Revenue; Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries and Governance Reforms; and Vishwajit Khanna, Additional Chief Secretary Development. The fact that Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Satish Chandra was called for the Cabinet meeting after Karan Avtar Singh “took a half-day leave” also leaves the room open for him, although he is due to retire in September.Though most of the ministers, contacted by The Tribune, said they had unanimously placed their displeasure with the Chief Secretary on record, sources in the CMO said only Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, whose statements regarding their refusal to attend any meeting headed by the Chief Secretary, were placed on record.
12-05-2020||---||Chief Secretary must step down, says Sunil Jakhar||Chandigarh, May 11The struggle for one-upmanship between the lawmakers and bureaucrats saw the first casualty with the Chief Secretary being asked by the government to abstain from the Cabinet meeting on excise policy. Officially, Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh proceeded on leave.Absence says a lotThe Chief Secretary not being part of the Cabinet meeting itself says a lot. There is no ambiguity left about his fate. It would be appropriate if he steps down on his own so as to salvage of what is left of the situation. Sunil Jakhar, PPCC chiefFor the last two days, ever since ministers staged a walkout against the behavior of the Chief Secretary while discussing amendment to the excise policy, senior ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Brahm Mohindra played a key role on the issue.To clarify their position, the ministers conveyed to the CM that they had full faith in him and were only against the behavior of the Chief Secretary.“Unlike the last time when a group of MLAs had tried to regroup before being made political secretaries, we did not want to give any such message that the protest was against the CM, which was in fact against the bureaucrats who do not show respect to the elected representatives,” said a minister.PPCC Chief Sunil Jakhar said, “The Chief Secretary not being part of the Cabinet meeting itself says a lot. There is no ambiguity left about his fate. It would be appropriate if he steps down on his own so as to salvage of what is left of the situation.”Ravneet Bittu, MP, said, “Congratulations to the Cabinet for showing their power today that is vested in them by people for betterment of the state. I urge them to stay united and authoritative in future as well and not just in front of the CM.” Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Raja warring, alleging conflict of interest on part of the Chief Secretary, said his relative was a partner of a prominent liquor contractor.
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt stands exposed: SAD||The SAD on Monday urged Governor VP Singh Badnore to dismiss the Congress government in the state on ground of breakdown of the constitutional machinery, even as it condemned ministers for browbeating the executive in a pre-Cabinet meeting. Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia told the media here the Cabinet should resign on moral grounds or be dismissed for refusing to acknowledge the head of civil service appointed by the Chief Minister. He said, “The ministers took on Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh because he pointed out that the state had incurred revenue loss because Congress men were patronising illicit liquor trade. An inquiry by a HC judge must be instituted to expose the Rs2,000 crore liquor scam.” — TNS
12-05-2020||---||Punjab health staffer, who visited Nalagarh, tests +ve||Solan, May 11A health staffer tested Covid-positive at Ropar yesterday had used an escape route located on the Himachal-Punjab border to visit her family at Manjholi village in Nalagarh on May 9. She is working at a Ropar hospital.She had visited her family on April 24 but had gone back the next day. She had again come on May 9 and had later gone back. Her Covid test was done on May 7 at Ropar and the report was received yesterday. Her husband is in the military and she has two children, one of whom was staying at her in-laws house at Manjholi. She had also come to Manjholi this morning as per police reports.SP Baddi, Rohit Malpani, said she wanted to enter the Nalagarh area from the Dheerowal inter-state barrier on May 9 but since she had no pass she was refused entry. She, however, used an escape route to enter the Nalagarh area.The fact that she was infected during her stay at Manjholi village on May 9 has created fresh trouble for the authorities here. Ten people comprising her in-laws, who reside in three houses, have been identified as her contacts and they have been quarantined at their homes.The SP said surreptitious entry of people from escape routes has added to their peril. A migrant from Uttar Pradesh, Ram Prakash, entered Baddi from Marrawala barrier to reach his workplace at Hetero Labs at Baddi today. He had been doing so for the last four to five days as he resided at a Haryana village. He has been booked along with the company management who were aware of his surreptitious entry.
