12-12-2020||Lahore||Maharaja Ranjit Singh statue vandalised in Pakistan||The statue of esteemed 19th Century Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh was vandalised at Lahore Fort here, officials said on Saturday.This was the second time that Maharaja Ranjit Singh's statue was defaced in the 'Mai Jinda' haveli at the fort since its unveiling in June 2019.Following the incident, the authorities closed the enclosure which displays the cold bronze figure of Maharaja Singh – popularly called Sher-e-Punjab – for public viewing.An official of the Lahore Walled City Authority on Saturday told PTI that a teenage visitor broke the arm of the Maharaja's statue on Friday."The security guards deployed there arrested the boy and handed him over to the police. The suspect has been booked under (sections) 295, 295-A and 427 of the Pakistan Penal Code," he said, adding that the suspect told the police that his 'religious sentiments' were hurt seeing the statue of a Sikh ruler at the fort.Early in August 2019, two young men belonging to a religious party – Tehreek-Labbaik Pakistan of Maulana Khaim Rizvi – had vandalised the statue. They had used sticks to damage the figure.In June 2019, Maharaja Singh's statue was unveiled in a colourful ceremony in which several Sikh delegates from India, Pakistan and other countries had participated. The event was organised by Bobby Singh Bansal from the UK, in collaboration with the Walled City of Lahore Authority.The nine-feet statue is made of cold bronze. It shows the regal Sikh emperor sitting on a horse, sword in hand, complete in Sikh attire.Sculpted by local artists, under the aegis of the Fakir Khana Museum, the statue is meant to invoke the feeling of the emperor being present, with its real life proportions, and was unveiled on his 180th death anniversary. Ranjit Singh died in 1839.“The project was meant to commemorate the 180th death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and to forge a lasting friendship amongst the people of Punjab,” Bobby Singh Bansal had said.His organisation SK Foundation, UK, commissioned the statue in 2016. “We donated it to the people of Pakistan to promote Sikh heritage and tourism here,” he had said.Maharaja Singh was the leader of the Sikh Empire, which ruled the northwest Indian subcontinent in the early half of the 19th century. PTI
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||21 more Covid deaths, 482 new cases in Punjab||Twenty-one more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Punjab, raising the death toll to 5,057 in the state, while 482 fresh cases brought the infection count to 1,59,579 on Saturday, according to a medical bulletin.Six new deaths linked to the pandemic were reported from Gurdaspur; four from Ludhiana; three each from Pathankot and Jalandhar; two from Hoshiarpur and one each from Patiala, Mohali and Moga, the bulletin said.Punjab has 7,091 active cases of the novel coronavirus, it said.Jalandhar reported 83 new COVID-19 cases, Amritsar 60 and Ludhiana 59.The COVID-19 recovery count in Punjab rose to 1,47,431 after 654 more patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, according to the bulletin.Nineteen critical COVID-19 patients are on ventilator support while 127 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 34,94,393 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. PTI
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police bust drug cartel with international trail||With the arrest of two people and seizure of 4 kg of heroin, Punjab Police on Saturday said it has busted a major drug cartel with an international trail as well as links to gangsters and terrorists.Initial investigations have exposed a nexus of the accused—Jaswinder Singh and Ramesh Kumar, both residents of Jalandhar district—with some gangsters lodged in Punjab’s jails and a Dubai-based smuggler.Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said investigations suggest that the proceeds generated from the sale of the drugs, smuggled into Punjab from Kashmir, were probably being used to fund terror activities.“Further investigations are in progress to unravel the international conspiracy and network, complete with backward and forward linkages,” he said.Besides the heroin, two .32 bore pistols and a car have been recovered from the accused, who used to bring drugs from Srinagar on instructions from imprisoned gangsters in Punjab.The drug cartel’s links have been traced to a Dubai-based individual, who is allegedly involved in networking with the drug smugglers in Kashmir for supply of drugs to drug smugglers and traffickers based in Punjab. IANS
12-12-2020||Barnala||In Barnala, National Lok Adalat ends 25-year-old litigation||The National Lok Adalat at Barnala helped bring to an end a case that has been going on since 1995.A total 693 cases were taken up in Saturday’s adalat through physical appearance of the parties and through E-Lok Adalat, of which 599 cases were disposed of and awards of Rs. 1,82,77,512 were passed.Barnala   District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman of  District Legal Services Authority Virinder Aggarwal said that in order to dispose of all type of Pre-Litigative and Pending cases by compromise, a total six benches were constituted.One of the several cases was a criminal matter dating back to 1995.“FIR was registered against the accused u/s 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 365 (Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (acts done by several people in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Police Station, Barnal,a but later on, untraced report was presented before the court which was accepted. Aggrieved from this order, complainant Jaswant Singh filed a criminal complaint against Mohinder Singh DSP and others. In this complaint, accused were convicted by the court of Amrinder Pal Singh  ACJM, Barnala,” Aggarwal said.On December 21, 2019, the complainant appealed the case for enhancing the sentence but a compromise was effected between the parties while it was still pending. “Today in the National Lok Adalat, complainant Jaswant Singh withdrew the appeal,” Aggarwal.
12-12-2020||Sonepat/New Delhi||Ready for talks with govt, but will first discuss repealing agri laws: Farmer leaders||Sticking to their demands, farmer leaders Saturday said they are ready to hold talks with the government, but will first discuss repealing the three new farm laws, and announced further intensification of their ongoing protest against the legislations.Addressing a press conference at Singhu Border here, farmer leader Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu said thousands of farmers will start their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur through the Jaipur-Delhi Highway at 11 am on Sunday.He said farmers from other parts of the country are also on their way to join the protesters here and they will take the agitation to the next level in the coming days.“If the government wants to hold talks, we are ready, but our main demand will remain the scrapping of the three laws. We will move onto our other demands only after that,” the farmer leader said.Farmer union leaders will also sit on a hunger strike between 8 am and 5 pm On December 14 against the new agriculture laws, he said. Leaders from all 32 unions will sit on hunger strike.Farmer leaders said they have given a call to women to intensify the protest. "We will make all arrangements for basic amenities for women by December 15," they said.They also denied any association with farmer leader VM Singh.Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni announced to begin indefinite hunger strike from December 19 if demands were not met by then.Pannu alleged the government tried to weaken the agitation, but that the protesting farmers did not let it happen. The farmer leader vowed to keep the protest peaceful.The government on Friday asked the protesting farmers to be vigilant against their platform being misused, saying some “antisocial” as well as “Leftist and Maoist” elements were conspiring to spoil the atmosphere of the agitation which has been going on for over two weeks now.Photographs of some protesters at the Tikri border seen holding posters demanding release of activists arrested under various charges had gone viral, prompting Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to say that these “antisocial elements” are conspiring to spoil the atmosphere of the peasants’ movement under the guise of farmers.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the ‘mandi’ system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. — TNS/PTIAlso read: Security at Delhi borders increased after farmers’ announcement to intensify stirRead the full text of the three bare Acts related to farming and agriculture marketingFarmers block toll plazas in Hisar, KarnalHow many sacrifices will farmers have to make to get agri laws repealed, asks RahulChapatti makers, washing machines ease farmers’ agitation at Tikri borderWhy MSP is a must for farmersRevoke farm laws, we’ll carry Modi’s posters, say unions
12-12-2020||New Delhi||On his birthday, World Cup hero Yuvraj hopes for swift resolution to farmers’ issues||Former India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh on Saturday turned 39 but instead of celebrating his birthday this year, the 2011 World Cup hero hoped for a “swift resolution” to the ongoing farmers’ issues through dialogue.Yuvraj also urged people to take necessary precautions against coronavirus as the country continues its fight against the pandemic.“Birthdays are an opportunity to fulfil a wish or desire and this birthday rather than celebrating I only wish and pray for a swift resolution of the ongoing talks between our farmers and our government,” Yuvraj said in a Twitter post.“Undoubtedly, farmers are the lifeblood of the nation and I truly believe that there is no problem which cannot be resolved through peaceful dialogue,” he added.The 2011 World Cup-winning star also distanced himself from his father Yograj Singh’s unsavoury comments made earlier this week during a protest rally.“As a proud Indian, I am indeed saddened and upset by the statements made by Mr. Yograj Singh. I wish to clarify that his remarks have been made in an individual capacity and my ideologies are not the same in any manner,” Yuvraj said.“I also urge everyone to continue taking precautions to fight against Covid-19. The pandemic is not over yet and we need to continue to be careful to defeat the virus completely,” he said and ended the post with ‘Jai Jawan! Jai Kisan! Jai Hind!’                  Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are camping at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they claim will dismantle the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporate houses.In a show of solidarity with the farmers, some sportspersons from Punjab and Haryana, including Khel Ratna awardee Vijender Singh, have threatened to return the national sports awards they had won.The agitating farmers’ concern is that these laws, aimed at reforming the sector, will eliminate the MSP and mandis that ensure their earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their produce. PTI
12-12-2020||Vijay Mohan||For third time this year, officer from Punjab bags Sword of Honour at an army institute||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12For the third time this year, a cadet from Punjab has bagged the prestigious Sword of Honour for being adjudged as overall best cadet of his batch during pre-commission training in an Army institution.The Sword of Honour for the Autumn Term, 2020, was awarded to Lt Watandeep Singh Sidhu during the Passing out Parade (PoP) held at the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, on Saturday.He has opted for the elite Parachute Regiment.Sidhu, who held the rank of Academy Cadet Adjutant in the final term at IMA, hails from Threeke near Ludhiana.An alumnus of the Rashtriya Indian Military College, he had joined the National Defence Academy, Kharakvasla, in November 2016 and after completing the three-year course in 2019, proceeded to the IMA.He had been adjudged best in physical endurance, PT and tactical ability.“It is a matter of great pride for our family and I am overjoyed at my son’s achievement. He had always wanted to join the Army,” said Watandeep’s father Baljinder Singh Sidhu, who is employed with the Punjab State Electricity Board.In the PoP held at the IMA in June for the Spring Term, 2020, the Sword of Honour was awarded to Lt Akashdeep Singh Dhillion from Tarn Taran, who also joined the Parachute Regiment.In March, this year, the Officers Training Academy, Chennai, saw the Sword of Honour being awarded to Lt Harpreet Singh from Ropar, who was commissioned into the Scinde Horse, an elite cavalry regiment.The year, also, saw another youngster from Haryana, Flying Officer Anurag Nain, who hails from Hisar but studied in Delhi, bagging the Sword of Honour at the passing-out parade at Air Force Academy, Dundigal, in June.There have been numerous occasions in the past with cadets from Punjab bagging top honours in service academies.As many as 325 Gentleman Cadets comprising the 147th Regular Course and 130th Technical Graduate Course were formally commissioned into the Army as Lieutenants during the PoP. In addition, 70 foreign cadets from nine friendly countries also passed out.The parade was reviewed by Vice-Chief of the Army Staff, Lt Gen SK Saini, who exhorted the cadets to be prepared for rising to challenging situations where they will be repeatedly called upon to safeguard the country’s territorial integrity against external and internal threats.Calling upon cadets to keep abreast with technological changes, which are perennially on the fast track, and to become knowledge warriors, fully equipped with digital tools, he advised them to remember that the man behind the gun retains prime importance. Lt Gen Saini also underlined the importance of character in the profession of arms.
12-12-2020||---||Sambar strays into Patiala colony; commotion among residents||Patiala, December 12A Sambar (deer) strayed into a green park colony here on Saturday morning, causing a commotion among residents.After scrambling for about 40 to 50 minutes, the residents and shopkeepers tied the animal to a rope.Ironically, the rescue team of forest officials didn’t reach in time.Further details are awaited.
12-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Chapatti makers, washing machines ease farmers’ agitation at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 12Farmers from across the state, who are protesting at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border along with their counterparts from Punjab, are making optimum use of technology to make the long haul at the protest site bearable.They are using technology to the fullest by using two roti-making machines, which churn out rotis in three seconds and knead the dough within minutes. They also have washing machines and WiFi supported LED televisions to keep them updated about the latest news. For continuous power supply, they have brought generator sets and solar panels at the site.“We brought the roti-machine on rent here from Delhi around 10 days ago to serve langar to scores of farmers. With this, we are able to feed 10 to 15 thousand farmers daily without any trouble as the roti-making machine churns out a roti in three second,” said Haryana Kisan Manch state president Prahlad Singh Bharukhera from Sirsa.He said eight persons remain engaged with the roti-making and dough kneading machines at one time.“We just put the dough in the machine, which first rolls out the roti and then prepares. The technology has made our job easier. The machine will be kept here and the langar continues until the protest ends,” he added.Another group of farmers from Fatehabad have put up an LED television and a washing machine under the Metro over bridge here.“Tractor-trailers and tents are our make-shift abode these days as we don’t know how long the protest will go hence television was needed to get updates about the protest while washing machine was required to clean the clothes as it has been over a fortnight away from home amid mud and pollution. Since most of the protesters being the elderly hence availability of washing machines is saving their energy to carry the fight forward,” said Navdeep Singh Nathwal, a farmer.Nathwal said these facilities have made it easier for the farmers to stay updated about the latest ongoings and also have eased them in performing their daily chores. The TVs are supported by the WiFi hence no one face any issue watching the latest news reports, he added.
12-12-2020||New Delhi||29 more die in Punjab, 23 in Haryana as national Covid tally goes past 98 lakh||India’s COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 98.26 lakh with 30,006 new cases in a day while 93,24,328 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 94.88 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.The total coronavirus cases mounted to 98,26,775 and the death toll climbed to 1,42,628 with the virus claiming 442 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.The COVID-19 case fatality rate further declined to 1.45 per cent.There are 3,59,819 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 3.66 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed.Also read: India’s active COVID-19 caseload drops below 3.6 lakh: Health MinistryAccording to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative total of 15,26,97,399 samples have been tested up to December 11 with 10,65,176 samples being tested on Friday.The 442 new fatalities include 87 from Maharashtra, 60 from Delhi, 50 from West Bengal, 29 each from Kerala and Punjab, 23 from Haryana, 16 from Karnataka and 14 each from Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.A total of 1,42,628 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,059 from Maharashtra followed by 11,928 from Karnataka, 11,870 from Tamil Nadu, 9,934 from Delhi, 8,966 from West Bengal, 8,025 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,049 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,036 from Punjab and 4,148 from Gujarat.The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.“Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the Ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures was subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI
12-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Revoke farm laws, we’ll carry Modi’s posters, say unions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11“We are willing to return home flying the national flag as well as putting up posters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on our tractors if the government repeals the contentious farm laws,” said BKU (Kadian) president Harmeet Singh Kadian while talking to The Tribune today.Not repealing the laws appears to be an ego issue with the PM and Home Minister Amit Shah, Kadian said while responding to a question on the deadlock.Not just Kadian, a number of farm leaders are firm about their demand for the withdrawal of the new laws. They fear that corporates will ultimately take control of the pricing mechanism and subsequently their land. The farmers are also not ready to accept the MSP “lollipop” because at “present too the government is paying MSP only on two or three of the 23 listed crops”.President of the BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) Jagjit Singh Dalewal said: “The entry of corporates in the fields of education, health and transport has affected the government set-ups. The same will happen to agriculture. History shows that budget planning by the corporates allows them to bear losses for a few years. Initially, they will lure farmers with more money, leading to closure of government mandis. Finally, corporates will be controlling the price.”Voicing similar apprehensions, BKU (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said: “Agreeing to government amendments would have been akin to allowing the neck of the corporate camel inside the tent of farmers. If not stonewalled now, this will render farmers homeless.”The trust deficit between the unions and the Centre doesn’t appear to have lessened after the recent proposal sent out by the latter. “Whether we were being administered 100% pure poison of the farm laws or whether it is being diluted by 50%, it will still be poison. Allowing our cases in civil courts means nothing to us because a common farmer does not have enough resources to fight the corporates,” said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher.“Ideally speaking, the government needs to withdraw the contentious farm laws for at least two years. Before bringing any change, the farmers need to be engaged in discussions,” he added.Vice-president of the Kirti Kisan Union Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala said the farmers were mainly protesting because agriculture was a state subject. “Why is the Centre thrusting the laws upon farmers? At this juncture we feel that even if the government makes amendments to the farm laws, it could backtrack and re-amend them after we call off our agitation.”“We are also finding it strange that the government that has not heard us for the past several months, agreed to make amendments within 10 days of our reaching the Delhi border,” Kadian said.
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab extends night curfew till January 1||Concerned over high fatality rate in Punjab, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Sigh on Friday extended curfew restrictions (10 pm to 5 am) in all cities and towns till January 1. The night curfew was earlier imposed from December 1-15.Besides, in view of complaints about violation of norms at weddings and other functions, the CM has limited gatherings to 100 for indoor events and 250 for outdoor.DGP Dinkar Gupta has been asked to strictly enforce these restrictions at marriage palaces and other such places and impose penalties on hosts in case of violations. — TNSMore restrictions
12-12-2020||Faridkot||Scholarship tests deferred||Due to the farmers’ protest, the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) on Friday postponed the scholarship examinations for the selection of students for PSTSE (Class VIII and X), NTSE (Stage-l) (Class X) and NMMS (Class VIII). While the PSTSE was scheduled to be held on December 12, the NTSE and NMMS test was to be conducted on December 13. These tests have been postponed to December 19 and December 20, respectively. The time of examinations, roll number, examination centres of the candidates etc will remain the same, the SCERT said. — TNS
12-12-2020||Manav Mander||Khanna sculptor’s plough with cannon wins hearts||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 11The plough of the farmer is his identity but if needed, he can also turn it into his strength. The strength and unity being put up by farmers at the Delhi border has set an example before the nation. Inspired from the struggle and strength of the protesting farmers, a Khanna-based sculptor has turned a plough into a cannon depicting the power of the agitating farmers. With so many requests for taking the sculpture to Delhi, a draw of lots will be done by him to select the farmer.Jaswinder Singh from Mehandipur village, Khanna, a sculptor and painter by profession, has been moved by the farmers’ protest. In his own way, he has depicted their unity through his sculpture with a plough and a cannon fixed above.Now, farmers from his village are making rounds to take the sculpture to Delhi at the protest site. “I am open to the idea but I am getting so many requests. I do not want to disappoint anyone as all villagers are either my extended family members or friends. Since I could not decide on whom to give the sculpture, I decided to arrange a draw of lots on the weekend,” he said.“The plough has been combined with a cannon. Plough is a symbol of hard work of the farmers and the cannon symbolises their strength. The two wheels symbolise fearless treading and constantly fighting for one’s demands. The slogan of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ is also fully represented in this art. I have created the art as a mark of protest,” he said.“His art piece will be a source of inspiration for the farmers to succeed in their mission. I, along with other farmers, will be marching to Delhi in the coming week. I expressed my desire to take the piece of art with me but Jaswinder candidly asked me to take part in the draw of lots,” said a farmer from Mehandipur village.
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Misleading narrative on farm laws: Tarun Chugh||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday regretted that a misleading narrative is being created on the agriculture laws because of which misunderstanding has spread among farmers.While urging farmers to withdraw their protest as he Centre has promised to make amendments to the laws keeping in view the objections raised by the farmer leaders, Chugh said farmers should not get misled by false propaganda.The seven undertakings given by the Centre, which included that the MSP and mandis would continue as they are, should dispel all doubts of farmers.Chugh denied that corporate houses would grab farmers’ land. “No private buyer can touch the land of a farmer,” he said. — TNS
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Will protest at Shambu border on December 14: Congress||The Punjab Congress on Friday announced a large demonstration in support of farmers at Shambu border on December 14.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said the inter-state Shambu border was chosen as the protest site as farmers had to face water cannons and tear gas shells at the border while moving towards Delhi on November 26 and 27.The PPCC has also decided to send MLAs in batches to join the party MPs who have been protesting the farm laws at Jantar Mantar. Jakhar said CM Capt Amarinder Singh would address a party rally in the coming days.Earlier, the PPCC chief held a meeting with Cabinet Ministers and MLAs in Chandigarh. Jakhar said the state government had strongly presented the real picture of the farm laws before the people of the state who are now standing with the peasantry. — TNS
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Take back complaint against farmers: SAD to Arvind Kejriwal||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today condemned AAP convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for allegedly creating the grounds for use of force against peacefully protesting farmers at the Singhu border by getting an FIR registered against 1,000 farmers through its Health Department.“Earlier also Kejriwal had proved that he was a wolf in sheep’s clothing when he notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, even though he had publicly supported the demand of farmers,” Sukhbir said, demanding the Delhi Government should not only annul the notification but also direct its Health Department to take back the police complaint. — TNS
12-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Will stop trains, if ‘rail roko’ resumes: Railways||Ludhiana, December 11With the deadlock continuing between the Central Government and farmer organizations over the farm laws, railway authorities have indicated that the train services might have to be completely withdrawn from December 14 if the ‘rail roko’ agitation resumes and protesters squat on the tracks as announced by union leaders.For the time being, Northern Railway authorities have further extended cancellation, partial cancellation and diversion of some trains in the state till December 13. Sealdah Jallianwala Bagh Express and Amritsar-Dibrugarh Express would remain cancelled till December 13. Trains which will remain partially cancelled are Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express would short-terminate at and short-originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi and Amritsar till December 13.
12-12-2020||Muktsar||Muktsar villagers await turn to join brethren in Delhi||The farmers’ protest at Delhi borders has completed 16 days, but a number of farmers in villages are still eagerly awaiting their turn to go there. They said when one batch would come back, the other would be able to go as a replacement.Ranjit Singh, a farmer from Gurusar village, said: “In our village, nearly 30 farmers are awaiting their turn to go to the Delhi borders to join the ongoing protest. We have arrangement for nearly 10 people there, thus when some people will come back, a fresh batch will leave from here.”Similarly, Gian Singh, a farmer from Bhuttiwala village, said: “Nearly 25 farmers from our village are awaiting their turn to go to Delhi border to join the ongoing agitation.” The situation is similar at Assa Buttar village too. — TNS
12-12-2020||Mansa||Women lawyers join Tikri protesters||Women advocates from Mansa have been standing strong with farmers in their agitation at the Tikri border . Apart from taking part in the protest, they can be seen preparing food at the site.Senior Bar member advocate Balveer Kaur Sidhu, Rajinder Kaur and Harsimran Kaur have been putting up at the protest venue for the past few days. Coming from families with well-to-do backgrounds, these women have been sleeping on floor with other women protesters.Balveer Kaur (40) has been participating in the stir along with her husband and children. She is also a leader and active member of BKU (Dakonda). While she can be spotted participating in and addressing massive gathering till afternoon hours, later she, along with her colleagues, tends to chores and prepares food in the langar for farmers.Balveer said: “We will stay put until the Centre repeals the new laws... burdened with debt, suicides, low income and ever-increasing input costs, the farming community in the state is already grappling with crises. But with these new laws, the agriculture sector would hit its lowest ebb and we cannot let that happen in front of us,” she says. — TNS
12-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Stir gets acceleration with modified tractors||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 11It is for the first time that a large number of tractors are lined up within a stretch of a few kilometres on the Delhi border. Each tractor-trailer doubles up as room with facilities like mobile charging points, electricity bulbs, mattresses and inverters.Six to seven persons can easily sleep in each trailer while for every eight to 12 trailers and its occupants, there is a special trailer loaded with vegetables like onion, potato and ration like sugar, flour and ghee. After modifying the trailers with iron grills and special nets and tarpaulins, hay is laid on its floor to provide heat while above it, special mattresses are placed.Besides, each trailer has quilts and blankets. “During nights, our trailers look like rooms as we have every facility here. We have so many inverters that we can light up our areas for around 55 hours continuously. We have made separate arrangements for women also,” said Harjeet Singh, a Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader from Sangrur.From his village, 12 trailers have gone to the Delhi border, of which four are for women, one for ration, while the remaining are for male members of organisations.
12-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Another protester loses life at Singhu||Mandi Ahmedgarh, December 11A septuagenarian farmer, who along with his other associates was protesting at Singhu border against the Central farm laws, died on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The deceased was identified as Bhag Singh (75) of Baddowal village in Ludhiana district.Was drenched by water canonThey demanded relief, complete debt waiver and job to the next of kin of the deceased farmerWhile the exact reason behind Bhag Singh’s death would be ascertained on receipt of post-mortem report, Kisan Union leaders have alleged that he died due to the cold he caught after excessive shooting of water with high velocity by the Haryana Police.Designating Bhag Singh with status of ‘Kisan Movement Martyr’ the union leaders demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a job for his kin, besides waiver of institutional and private loans.Rajinder Singh Lalton, a Punjab Roadways Union leader, and Master Jasdev Singh said Bhag Singh had been feeling unwell after being shot by water cannons by the Haryana Police when their jatha was heading towards Singhu border. “Though we had asked Bhag Singh to return home, he insisted on continuing his participation in the morcha till the farm laws were withdrawn. He kept motivating his fellow protesters till late Thursday.” Leaders said Bhag Singh had been playing a leading role in social welfare events being undertaken by his village residents from time to time.
12-12-2020||---||Jailed rights activists’ release part of charter of demands, say unions||Chandigarh, December 11Amid the row over protesting farmers’ demand for the release of intellectuals and human rights activists raised on Thursday, farm unions have said the demand had been there from the very beginning.On International Human Rights Day, they sought the release of jailed activists, poets, student leaders, including Varavara Rao, Sudha Bhardwaj, Gautam Navlakha, Umar Khalid and others.“The demand for their release was added in the charter in the very first internal meeting of the 32 farmer organisations held in Moga in the third week of September. It was raised in the meeting with the union agriculture minister on November 16 also,” said Rajinder Singh, vice-president, Kirti Kisan Union.Reacting to the controversy, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh said it was writings of scholars like Gautam Navlakha which helped us understand the economic policies and shape our struggles.” He said people like Sudha Bharadwaj have spent decades in service of the poorest. “We can’t leave them to lurch in jails,” he said.As per a demand charter submitted to the Union Agriculture Minister on behalf of 32 farmer organisations, the sixth demand read. “Withdraw all cases against the farmer leaders all over India, intellectuals, poets, lawyers, writers and human and democratic rights activists. Those who have been jailed in false cases should be released.”Stressing that attempts are being made to defame the farmers’ struggle, the BKU president said photographs of these scholars had been put up at toll plazas and other protesting sites in Punjab for the past two months. “We will keep on raising the issue in the future as well,” he added.
12-12-2020||---||More farmers from Punjab leave for Kundli border||Amritsar, December 11Eighty-year-old Bhag Singh from Attari is not physically fit to spend bone-chilling nights in open, yet he is determined to protest at New Delhi against the new contentious farm laws.He is part of a large contingent of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) which proceeded to Delhi’s Kundli border after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple and conducting ardas at the Akal Takht today.Bagh Singh, Attari farmerWill push for revoking lawsMy conscience did not allow me to stay home when my colleagues were going to protest at Delhi. We along with others will make the Centre revoke the laws that would destroy our ancestral occupation.“My conscience did not allow me to stay home when my colleagues were going to protest at Delhi. We prayed to the Almighty to keep everyone in ‘Chadhdikala’, including PM Narendra Modi and his ministers. We along with others will make the Centre revoke the laws that would destroy our ancestral occupation and coming generations,” says Bhag Singh.A youth, Amolakdeep Singh, from Attari wants to participate in the Delhi protest for another reason. “Young people like me are going to participate in the protest to negate negative perception about youth and fight for our rights,” he says.Amid slogans of ‘Bole So Nihal’, the farmers’ group consisting of approximately 2,000 farmers left from here in their tractor-trolleys and cars loaded with essentials, including eatables and other itmes. As a goodwill gesture, volunteers of the the United Sikh Organisation offered tankful of fuel for free. Later, farmers from Jalandhar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Batala, too, joined the entourage on the way.KMSC president Satnam Singh Pannu and general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher, who led the contingent, said the Centre’s stubbornness was troublesome.They said this was the second contingent that would join the protest at Delhi. The earlier group under the banner of the KMSC was already protesting at the Kundli border. The next group will leave on December 24 from Gurdaspur.“The government wants to exhaust us and force us to leave Delhi; that’s why various tactics are being adopted to scuttle the movement against the contentious laws. We are firm on the repeal of all three farm laws. Now, we have no choice but to intensify the agitation”, says Pannu.Pandher says be it Congress, BJP, SAD or AAP all parties when in power have an identical agenda of curbing the people’s voice.“That’s why no political party has been allowed to use our stage. They can extend support, but they will not be allowed to politicise our movement,” he stresses. With the addition of a large number of tractor-trolleys from the Beas bridge, the length of the convoy of vehicles increased to several kilometres.
12-12-2020||---||24% infected by Covid in Punjab: Sero survey||Chandigarh, December 11As much as 24.19 per cent of Punjab’s population has been infected by Covid, according to the second sero survey conducted in 12 districts of the state.Sharing the findings of the survey, conducted among randomly selected districts and population, Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed a high-level meeting chaired by ChiefMinister Capt AmarinderSingh that a total of 4,678 participants were interviewed and their blood samples collected.Of these, 1,201 tested IgG reactive, of which only 4.03 per cent were symptomatic and 95.9 per cent were asymptomatic.Urban areas showed positivity rate of 30.5 per cent and rural areas reported 21 per cent positivity. Ludhiana, with 54.6 per cent total positivity and 71.7 per cent urban positivity, was found to be the worst hit, followed by Ferozepur, Jalandhar and SAS Nagar (Mohali). Female positivity was found to be higher in both urban and rural areas.Each district was assigned the task of completing a sample size of 400 with 200 from rural areas and 200 from urban areas.
12-12-2020||---||Punjab gears up for Covid vaccine rollout||Chandigarh, December 11As the state gears up for the mega exercise with a total of 729 cold chain points, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today directed the Health Department to incorporate the results of the second sero survey in the state’s strategy for Covid vaccine rollout so that the high-risk population was covered first.At a high-level virtual meeting to review the Covid situation in the state, the Chief Minister noted the state’s readiness for the vaccine rollout in terms of database of priority lists; infrastructure for cold chain management; identification and training of vaccinators, etc.Apart from vaccine safety and vaccination site safety, correct and timely information communication is critical to the successful rollout of the vaccination, which is expected to be available soon in India, Capt Amarinder said.Besides a state-level vaccine store, 22 district vaccine stores and 127 block-level vaccine stores are being prepared for the rollout of the vaccine in Punjab, which will also have 570 cold chain points. Besides a walk-in freezer at Ferozepur, the Government of India has decided to provide one more at Chandigarh. In addition, the state will have one walk-in cooler each at Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur with more to be received from the Centre. In addition, the state has 1,165 ice-lined refrigerators and 1,079 deep freezers.In line with the Central Government’s guidelines, data of about 1.25 lakh healthcare workers (government and private) has been compiled by the state government for the first-phase vaccination.Hotel owner booked for violating normsFazilka: The owner and the manager of a hotel in Fazilka have been booked for violating Covid norms. Rajesh Goyal, a resident of Fazilka, and manager Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Himachal Pradesh, have been booked under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC. However, no one has been arrested so far. OC
12-12-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||6th pay panel report likely to be submitted in January||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11The wait of Punjab Government employees for the Sixth Pay Commission could end soon as the final recommendations of the commission are expected to be submitted to the government in January.The Pay Commission was set up by the previous government in 2015. After more than five years, the recommendations of the commission are expected to bring cheer to 7.5 lakh government employees and pensioners. The employees had been assured by the state government that the report would be submitted before December 31, but sources say it is likely to be submitted next month.While the employees can cheer about the new pay scales, the recommendations will bring a mixed response as the pending Dearness Allowance (DA) of the employees could be subsumed, say sources. Also, the new pay scales will not be applicable on the new recruitments in the government. It is also learnt that the new government recruits will get the pay scales on a par with the pay scales of Central Government employees.Jai Singh Gill, chairman of the Pay Commission and former Chief Secretary, Punjab, told The Tribune that the report of the commission was being given final touches, but refused to divulge any further details.“We will be ready to give our recommendations very soon,” he said. Sources in the commission said all information gathered by the commission, including representation by various employee organisations, had already been critically examined and noted.Sukhchain Khera, convener of the Sanjha Mulazam Manch, an umbrella organisation of all employee unions, said in case the commission recommended the new scales on a par with the Central pay scales, the employees would launch an agitation. “We only hope that the recommendations are employee-friendly,” he said.
12-12-2020||Vijay Mohan||War veteran who served in Air Force, Navy & Army turns 100||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11Marking a centenary is rare, and rarer still is a veteran who has had the unique opportunity of having served with not just all three branches of the armed forces but also the paramilitary.As Col Prithipal Singh Gill (retd) celebrated his 100th birthday in the city today, he fondly reminisced his stint in the uniform and the aura, adventure and elan associated with it.With a twinkle in his eye as felicitations poured in, he cut a cake amidst a small gathering of family members and close relatives. The World War II veteran recalled his eventful and chequered service life in the cockpit, on the high seas and with the big guns. Brigadier Ravi Kumar from the Western Command presented him a memento on behalf of the Army and another was also sent by the 71 Medium Regiment, the unit he had commanded.Col Prithpal Singh Gill’s journey began with him joining the erstwhile Royal Indian Air Force in 1942 as a flight cadet in Karachi, without telling his family. He had just spent a little over a year with the Air Force, learning to fly the Harvard aircraft, when his father learnt from a friend that he was a “good flyer” and pulled him out because flying in those days was considered unsafe and his father was afraid that he may die in an air crash. Then at the age of 23, he joined the Navy and served for five years (from January 1943 to September 1948) as a commissioned officer in the gunnery branch. He sailed on minesweepers and escort ships. During World War II, he was assigned to undertake escort duties for maritime convoys proceeding from the Indian mainland to the Persian Gulf. It was during his days with the Navy that then Sub-Lieutenant Prithipal Singh was detailed to attend the Long Gunnery Staff Course at the Army’s School of Artillery in Deolali, where he qualified as an instructor in gunnery.After a brief interlude with a government agency, he donned the olive green in April 1951, joining the Regiment of Artillery on account of his previous naval gunnery experience. He then served with the 34 Medium Regiment that had earlier served with distinction in Iraq, Palestine, Egypt and Italy during World War II. Later, he raised and commanded the 71 Medium Regiment that saw action during the 1965 Indo-Pak War. “The most eventful part of my service was during the 1965 Indo-Pak War when I was commanding the regiment,” he said. Born in 1920 in Patiala, he studied at Government College, Lahore. After retirement, he took up farming in his family land near Faridkot but continued to keep a healthy lifestyle.
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minister’s election as badminton body chief stayed||A day after Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s unopposed election as the Punjab Badminton Association president, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the election results.The order by Justice GS Sandhawalia came on a petition filed by Tejinder Singh Walia and another person against the state of Punjab and other respondents. “This court is of the opinion that since elections have taken place when proceedings were pending before this court, the election result declared on December 10 is liable to be stayed,” Justice Sandhawalia asserted, while fixing the case for further hearing on January 25, 2021. Four vice-presidents, along with other office-bearers, were also declared elected.The petitioners had moved the High Court claiming that the election scheduled on February 27 could not be held. Further activity could not take place, thereafter, due to Covid-19. The meeting/elections were now to be held on December 27, as per the decision dated November 19. The impugned order thereafter was passed on October 30 without issuing notice to the petitioners. — TNS
12-12-2020||
    
        
    
||Why MSP is a must for farmers||DARBARI economists will tell you that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system fattens a few rich farmers. Don’t listen to their lies and half-truths. Yes, it is true that only a lucky few manage to sell most of their produce at the government-mandated floor prices. But the MSP announced by the government acts as a signal price for all trade in crops across the country.If the govt had been serious about increasing farm income, it would have strengthened MSP-based procurement.How does that happen? Although most states are woefully short of government-regulated APMC mandis, the few that they have become the hubs through which most crops ultimately pass. The farmers themselves might not be able to access these mandis, but local grain traders do. Small farmers need cash almost immediately after harvest, so they sell their crop to local grain merchants. The merchants pick up the produce from the entire area and store it, till the official procurement process begins.These merchants have the linkages to raise money to rent godowns and later transport large amounts of wheat, paddy, pulses and oilseeds. They have the holding power which small farmers do not. Once FCI begins to buy, the grain merchants offload a part of their stock at the MSP. This becomes a form of insurance for them, which ensures they are able to pay for the cost of finance, transport and storage and make a decent margin, even if the open market collapses.This also ensures that they can pay steady prices to the farmers whom they bought from. If grain traders were exposed to the fluctuations that always take place in agricultural markets across the world, the small farmers would get even less. This is clear from the crops that do not have official procurement.Vegetables are a good example. Since there is no assured pricing system here, farmers are at the mercy of fluctuations in the open market. That is why we hear stories of farmers selling onions at Re 1/kg to the trader and the consumer paying Rs 30 for it. That is also why we see images of tomatoes dumped on the road by angry farmers when they fail to earn even enough to cover the cost of transport.The experience of farming across the world tells us that the standard laws of supply and demand do not work in food production. That is why even the developed capitalist world, where free markets supposedly rule, subsidises its farming communities. The reason for this is that agriculture has its own specific time, a particular rhythm, which cannot be controlled by machines. Factories make products in a very short period of time, often in less than a day. They can react to changes in demand or overall supply in the market very quickly.Farmers begin sowing, armed with the knowledge of the previous season’s demand. Even the most enlightened farmer, who keeps track of global trends, will still have to commit to a certain acreage at the point of sowing. If supply or demand trends change during the weeks needed for the crop to grow, there is nothing that the farmer can do about it. This is why supply and demand can never match in agriculture. They always confront each other with a seasonal lag.In such a situation, assured prices alone can ensure that farmers have a steady income. Otherwise, a sudden glut can cause farmers to go bankrupt. And we know this happens every year in places where farmers are unable to access the APMC mandis or get MSP. They are unable to pay the loans they took at the beginning of the season. Microfinance lenders and banks come banging at their doors. At times, the farmer is humiliated so much that he ends up killing himself.Only the state can intervene to protect farmers from the vagaries of market forces. That can only be done by government procurement at assured minimum prices. Private procurers and big agri-businesses can never do that. Except in the world of naïve textbook economics. In that world, if agricultural trade is opened up to everyone, farmers will have a wider range of buyers to choose from. This will help them demand more for their products and end up with better prices than the MSP system can.In this economic fairy tale, agri-businesses will compete against each other to improve efficiencies of transport, marketing and retail. This will help them reduce costs while paying more to farmers. In effect, everyone wins — the farmers get more, the corporates earn higher margins by reducing distribution costs and consumers pay less.In reality, the three new laws ensure that farmers will be powerless in front of big corporate agri-buyers. Purchase contracts will have to be agreed to before the sowing season. The farmer will have to ensure that the quality of the crop meets the contracted standards. The buyer will have the right to terminate the contract whenever he wants. If there’s a dispute, the farmer will not be able to go to any civil court. In effect, the farmer will be at the mercy of the corporate buyer.The complexity of crop procurement will ensure that a few big corporates, who can assimilate a part of the existing network of grain traders into its system, will quickly capture the market and become monopsonies. The corporates will dictate prices and farmers will have no fallback option, since there will be no MSP system to protect them. The same trading networks that give some price stability to small farmers, because of government procurement, will simply congeal and be absorbed into the procurement structure of big corporates. The vast sea of rural exploitative relations will be preserved, but the lifeboat of MSP will be taken away.If the Modi government had been serious about increasing farm income, it would have strengthened MSP-based procurement, instead of dismantling it. It would have set up an adequate number of APMC mandis — India needs five times the number we currently have — instead of disempowering them. It would have fixed the APMCs and tried to reduce the control of the arhtiyas. Instead, it is simply throwing the farmers to the mercy of market forces and big businesses. Global experience shows that this can only make things worse for farmers.
