13-05-2020||Patiala||Migrants make the long journey home||Babu Ram’s trip to the Patiala railway station on Wednesday turned out to be a pointless one.He and his relative Vijay Kumar had gone to the train station in the hopes of finding a way back home to Ambedkar Nagar in Uttar Pradesh. They found out later that they would have to wait longer---trains to Uttar Pradesh had already left.“We have been staying in Rajpura. Someone told us trains were going from Patiala so we decided to come here, but we found out that trains were going to Bihar. Now we will go back to Rajpura to wait for the next train. We have registered online,” they said.Not everybody is that patient. While governments across the country struggle to transport them back to their home states, migrants are growing increasingly restless. With dwindling finances and no means to earn an income, many are determined to make that journey home---some on bicycles and many others on foot----regardless of the cost.Om Prakash and Manu Singh are part of a group of 18 people who set out from Jaitu in Faridkot the day before, 100 rupees in hand. They plan to cycle Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh and stopped the day before in Sangrur, where a gurdwara fed them. They want to make it to Ambala by the end of the day.“We will stay in Ambala and then continue down the road on our bicycles tomorrow,” one of the migrants said.Salim and his friends are also headed to Ambala. They have Rs 500 per head for the entire journey---money their contractor gave them.We will go to Ambala to try to board a train," they said.
13-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Deadlock continues between labourers, Malerkotla mill authorities||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 13Two days after the stand-off between labourers and management of Arihant Spinning Mill at Malerkotla, tension continued to simmer on Wednesday as repeated meetings brokered by the administration failed to pacify labourers.A delegation of three different organisations has also exposed tales of alleged police brutality.“Male cops surrounded me inside the mill on Monday night and thrashed me with sticks. They also used abusive language,” alleged a migrant woman while showing her injuries to delegation members.The delegation included the members of Democratic Lawyer Association (DLA), Naujwan Bharat Sabha (NBS) and Zameen Prapati Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC).The members of delegation met the labourers on Wednesday and also live-streamed their interaction on Facebook and shared photos of injured labourers with media.Labourers claimed that they did not pelt officers with stones, but instead cops allegedly attacked them with sticks after they refused to end their protest.“Fifteen labourers have suffered serious injuries like fractures after cops attacked them with sticks. All injured were taken to a private hospital and were forcibly discharged on the directions of administration to hide the police brutality. We would start a protest if senior government authorities failed to take quick action against cops to provide justice to labourers,” said Mukesh Malaud, president of ZPSC while showing photos of injured labourers. The Malerkotla administration has denied any lathicharge and alleged that after senior officers went to meet labourers on Monday night after they started agitation, the latter allegedly started pelting then with stones, causing injuries to Malerkotla SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey , DSP Sumit Sood and another ASI Jaswinder Singh, posted as gunman with Malerkotla SP.Later, police also registered a FIR against 400 unidentified persons for curfew violations.“After labourers started pelting stones, cops used mild force and there was commotion as it grew dark. Labourers have suffered injuries in commotion. They are still unwilling to have proper discussion with us and we are trying to convince them to end their protest as mill management has been assuring to look into the demands sympathetically,” said the Malerkotla SDM.Labourers are alleging that mill authorities have deducted their salaries even as they worked fulltime during lockdown. They have also alleged that grocery items are being sold at higher rates in mill canteen. But mill authorities have denied all the allegations and said they had never received any complaint from labourers and are willing to discuss the problems of labourers, if they have any. Mill authorities alleged that a handful of workers have created unrest on Monday evening when they were denied wages for the period they were absent and did not come for work.
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 10 new coronavirus cases, state tally now 1,924||Punjab reported 10 new COVID-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 1,924.The new cases came from Ludhiana (5), Ropar (2), Kapurthala (1), Jalandhar (1) and Hoshiarpur (1).All of Ludhiana’s cases were contacts of already diagnosed cases.Ropar and Kapurthala both had pilgrims who recently returned from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded test positive. Ropar’s second case was a person that the state's COVID bulletin categorised as ILI---an acronym that stands for influenza-like illnesses, meaning that the person tested positive after he showed signs of flu-like symptoms.In Kapurthala, 14-year-old boy who returned from the pilgrimage tested positive, officials said.The bulletin categorises Jalandhar’s case as SARI---severe acute respiratory infection.The bulletin said Hoshiarpur reported one case that it categorised as a new case.However, a second case was reported from the district later in the evening, although this has yet to be added to the states tally---one of three pilgrims from Khuralgarh Sahib in Hoshiarpur’s Garhshankar tested positive.All three returned from Nanded two days ago and have been quarantined in the village dispensary.The development would make the district tally 93, but the official tally still stands at 92.Punjab's death tally stands at 32.Seven districts---Amritsar, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran, Ludhiana, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar and SBS Nagar---account for over 58 per cent of Punjab's 1,924 cases.
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM rules out extension for liquor vend contracts beyond March 31||While ruling out extension in the contract of liquor vends beyond March 31, 2020, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced that the state government would, in line with the Finance Department’s recommendation, provide adjustments to the licensees for losses incurred for the lockdown period, from March 23 to May 6, 2020.The Chief Minister has constituted a three-member committee of senior officers to assess the actual loss resulting from closure of liquor vends amid COVID-19.The committee comprises Principal Secretary Finance Anirudh Tiwari, Principal Secretary Power A. Venu Prasad, and Excise & Taxation Commissioner Vivek Pratap Singh.The Chief Minister was on Monday authorised by the Council of Ministers to approve suitable changes in the State Excise Policy as warranted due to the pandemic and the resultant curfew/lockdown.According to an official spokesperson, the Chief Minister has accepted the recommendation of the Excise Department, aligned to the advice of the Finance Department, to maintain the period of contract of liquor vends till 31st March 2021.Captain Amarinder has also approved the Finance Department’s recommendation to provide proportionate adjustment of MGQ for the losses incurred in the nine days of lockdown in March.Further, in line with the Finance Department’s recommendation, the revenues, both license fee and MGR, for the period of loss from 1st April to 6th May 2020, may also be adjusted/ re-determined accordingly by the Excise Department.It may be pointed out that licensees of 2019-20 could not complete the year as on 31st March 2020 as their vends were closed for nine days due to the imposition of curfew and lockdown from 23rd March 2020 onwards.Further, the liquor vends for the year 2020-21 which were due to open on 1st April 2020, in pursuance of the State Excise Policy 2020-21, could not be opened.The Chief Minister has also set up a Group of Ministers (GOM) to consider the Finance Department’s proposal, along with adjustment if any, to be given to licensees in case of future lockdown/s (complete or partial during FY2020-21, and any other grievances and difficulties, as may be experienced or raised by the licensees.The GoM, comprising the Finance Minister, the Education Minister and the Housing & Urban Development Minister, has also been mandated by the Chief Minister to consider the issue of levying a special COVID-19 Cess on sale of liquor, as has been done by certain other states in the wake of losses incurred due to the prolonged lockdown.On the issue of home delivery of liquor, Captain Amarinder has decided that the provisions of the existing Excise Policy would continue to be applicable, but, citing the Supreme Court’s observations in this regard, has left the option with the licensees.The Supreme Court, it may be recalled, had suggested home delivery/indirect sale of liquor, in its order in a Public Interest Litigation of 8th May 2020, to facilitate social distancing during the period of lockdown.Noting that as a result of the lockdown, the Excise Department could not complete allotment of liquor vends for the year 2020-21, the Chief Minister directed the Department to take further action, including allotment of remaining vends, in accordance with the State Excise Policy 2020-21. Of a total of 756 groups, 500 were renewed as per Policy of 2019-20 and the remaining 256 groups were restructured into 186 groups, of which 89 groups were allotted as per the Policy of 2020-21.The remaining 97 groups are yet to be allotted.It may be recalled that State’s Excise Policy for the year 2020-21 was approved by the Council of Ministers (CoM) on January 31, 2020. Thereafter, the department had taken substantial action to implement the Policy. However, implementation was stopped due to the pandemic Covid-19 and resultant curfew and lockdown w.e.f. March 23, 2020, imposed first by the State Government on March 23 and thereafter by Union Ministry of Home Affairs on March 24, 2020, under the relevant provisions of CrPC and Disaster Management Act, 2005.Pointing out that, post the lockdown, the State Government had time and again requested the Government of India to allow the Excise & Taxation Department to open liquor vends as it involved loss of State Excise revenue.It is only w.e.f. May 4, 2020, that Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed opening of liquor vends as per the guidelines issued in the vide letter of May 1,2020.After these guidelines of the MHA, the Department examined their implementation in keeping with the State Excise Policy 2020-21. The department also prepared a memorandum for the consideration of CoM, which was sent to the Finance Department for their advice and the same was received on May 11, 2020.The matter was thereafter considered in the CoM on May 11, 2020, wherein the Chief Minister was authorised to approve suitable changes in the State Excise Policy as warranted due to the pandemic Covid-19 and resultant curfew and lockdown.
13-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu joins TikTok, shares 3 clips: 'Master of all trades'||After launching his YouTube channel ‘jittega Punjab’, former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu officially joined the music-dance app TikTok on Wednesday.Under the user name, 'navjotsinghsidhuofficial', Sidhu shared three TikTok clips.The cricket turned politician's bio reads: "Masters of All Trades, jack of none, All-in-One."Destination TikTok ##Sidhu Arrives ##jittegapunjab ##navjotsinghsidhuWithin a day Sidhu has over 800 followers.##navjotsinghsidhuofficial Destination TikTok - Manzil-e-Maqsood ##jittegapunjabEarlier, he had announced the launch of a Punjab centric twitter handle @JittegaPunjabNS.A Hero returns ##jittegapunjab ##navjotsinghsidhu ##tiktok
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||More Congress leaders seek probe into revenue losses in Punjab Excise Department||Amid attempts of rapprochement between the warring ministers and Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh, more Congress leaders on Wednesday joined the chorus demanding Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to probe the revenue losses in the Excise Department in the last three years.In a tweet, Punjab cabinet minister Sukhjinder Randhawa demanded an enquiry into the revenue losses in the excise department.I agree with @RajaBrar_INC and appeal honourable Chief Minister Punjab @capt_amarinder to initiate enquiry So that someone has to be held responsible for the revenue loss for last 3 yrs of Excise department https://t.co/NhHMum7laO  Randhawa, who is the Minister of Jail and Department Of Cooperation in the Punjab government, said he agreed with Gidderbaha MLA Raja Warring, who had asked for an enquiry into Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh—who had the charge of the Excise and Taxation department untill recently. Warring had also said that the Excise Department had suffered a revenue loss of over Rs 600 crore in recent years.Randhawa is among the ministers who had recently staged a walkout against the Chief Secretary for his alleged misbehaviour while discussing the excise policy. Amritsar MLA Raj Kumar Verka and Urmir MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian, both Cabinet Ministers, have also demanded a probe.Also read: Punjab chief secy Karan Avtar divested of excise and taxation dept chargeDear @capt_amarinder ji,It is my humble request sir, to kindly also initiate enquiry against Chief Secretary Shri Karan Avtar Singh on revenue loss of over Rs600CrI request you to kindly remove him from his post of Chief Secretary so that he is unable to influence the enquiry  The ministers, along with the Warring, have opened a front against the Chief Secretary over the alleged conflict of interest as his son allegedly has a stake in the liquor business.The portfolio of the Excise and Taxation Department has been with the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh ever since the formation of the Congress Government.The ministers were upset over the continuation of the Chief Secretary despite them telling the chief minister that they would not attend any meeting in which he was present.Earlier, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa had demanded a probe into the revenue losses of the excise department. Bajwa had also stated the department came directly under the Punjab Chief Minister.Also read: Amarinder approves Punjab Excise Policy; contractors say ready to open liquor vends from todayAs the excise dept comes under your purview, a fair inquest must be initiated. We promised clean and transparent governance. I urge you to carry on the promises we made as a party to the people of Punjab ensuring the same @capt_amarinder 7/7
13-05-2020||---||Amarinder approves Punjab Excise Policy; contractors say ready to open liquor vends from today||Chandigarh, May 13Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has approved the Excise Policy, 2020-21.The decision follows the cabinet on Monday authorising the Chief Minister to decide on the tweaked amendments in the policy.It is learnt that the policy was approved on Tuesday evening, before Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh was divested of the additional charge of excise and taxation, after being part of a row over conflict of interest over his son’s stake in liquor business.Apart from allowing 36 business days lost due to the curfew, the contractors have been allowed compensation for nine days due to the imposition of the lockdown on March 22.Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said the option of allowing home delivery had been left to the contractors. In case of Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib, where all liquor vends are open, the vend operators have opted for no door-to-door delivery.With the policy approved, liquor contractors said they were ready to open liquor vends from today itself.Of the 5,800 liquor vends, those in Mohali and parts of Ropar were opened on May 7, while contractors who either opted for a renewal of licence or had taken fresh contracts in other districts had chosen to stay away.
13-05-2020||Aman Sood||Sidhu Moosewala case: Suspended Patiala SHO sent back to parent department||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 13Almost a week after the Patiala police suspended Inspector Gurpreet Bhinder, he has been sent back to his parent department and relieved from the District Police.Bhinder, who was posted as SHO, Julka police station, was suspended “with immediate effect” for allegedly appointing head constable Gagandeep Singh as gunman for now suspended DSP Daljit Virk in an “unauthorised manner”.A formal letter by the Additional DGP (admin) states that Bhinder, who was temporarily attached with the district cadre, has been shifted back to his parent cadre. The PAP officer had managed to get temporarily attached with Patiala district despite the DGP’s orders that prohibited PAP officers from being posted in any district.“A departmental probe has been ordered against Gurpreet Bhinder to be conducted by an IPS officer in Patiala and already a notice has been issued to him as to why three months of salary should not be deducted from the suspended SHO for providing a police station head constable to someone illegally,” said SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu. “We received orders from the headquarters last evening and Bhinder has been relieved and asked to join back his parent cadre,” said Sidhu.In violation of the Punjab Police Act, 2008, and the orders of the DGP, PAP-cadre officers still continue to be posted as SHOs. In 2012, the then DGP had “discouraged postings from one cadre to another”. "Using political clout, these officers continue to bag plum postings and later indulge in obliging politicians and others," said a cop. The action against Bhinder comes after controversial Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala was booked by the Barnala police in a criminal case against him and five police personnel, after a video showing the singer shooting at a private firing range owned by a cop went viral on social media.The cases were registered on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, who also ordered immediate suspension of DSP (Headquarters) Sangrur, Daljit Virk, pending inquiry, on charges of delinquency in duty. Meanwhile, two national-level shooters — Karam Singh Lehal and Jang Sher — have also been named in the FIR against Moosewala.
13-05-2020||Washington||FBI arrests man for killing Punjabi youth in US||The FBI along with the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department has arrested a man for allegedly killing a 27-year-old Indian national seven years ago, an official said on Tuesday.Manpreet Ghuman Singh, a native of Punjab's Majri Kishnewally village in Fatehgarh Sahib town, was working at a gas station in South Lake Tahoe in California when he was shot dead by an unknown assailant on August 6, 2013.After years of investigation, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the police on Tuesday arrested 34-year-old Sean Donohoe on charges of killing Manpreet.Donohoe, who lives in Las Vegas, was a resident of South Lake Tahoe city in California at the time of the incident.In a statement, the South Lake Tahoe Police Department said that on August 6, 2013, an unknown man wearing a face mask walked into the US Gasoline Station at 2470 Lake Tahoe Blvd, shot and killed the clerk, Manpreet Singh of South Lake Tahoe, California.The killer then strolled out the front door and fled. The case eventually went cold with no leads, the police said.Thereafter the case was assigned to the El Dorado County Cold Case Task Force, which is a collaboration between the El Dorado County District Attorney's Office, the El Dorado County Sheriff's Office, South Lake Tahoe Police Department, California Department of Justice, Bureau of Forensic Science (BFS) and the FBI.In July 2017, the El Dorado District Attorney's Office posted a video about the homicide in hopes that new leads would be generated.A witness watched the video and contacted investigators in the summer of 2019. The witness told investigators that Donohoe was responsible for the killing, leading to his arrest. — PTI
13-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||3,000 rooms to house NRIs reaching state||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 12The Amritsar Hotel and Restaurants' Association (AHARA) has managed to arrange more than 3,000 rooms all over Punjab to quarantine non-resident Punjabis, who are expected to start landing from different countries at international airports in Mohali and Amritsar from Wednesday onwards.APS Chatha, president of AHARA, said despite the lockdown, the association managed to arrange over 3,000 rooms for quarantine. About 9,000 persons would arrive in the next few days. These people are residents of different parts of Punjab.AHARA opened these rooms on the request of the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board (PHTPB). Occupants will pay for the rooms.Of these, over 600 rooms will be available in 40 hotels of Amritsar. These hotels will be of all categories, including luxury, classified and non-classified.However, all payments would be settled directly by guests to hotels. Performance on parameters such as hygiene would be the total responsibility of hotels.AHARA has been able to procure hotels in Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Mohalli, Zirakpur, Patiala, Bathinda, Sangrur and Mansa among other places.This opening will infuse a fresh lease of life to the industry in this difficult time to earn some revenue to pay off salaries and electricity bills.
13-05-2020||---||GNDU announces revised submission dates of examination forms||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 12Guru Nanak Dev University has announced the revised submission dates of examination forms. Students can submit online forms of May/June examinations and fee on http://punjabcollegeadmissions.org/.Graduation students of semester 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 and postgraduation students (regular and private) of semester 2 and 4 can visit the website.Dr Manoj Kumar, professor in charge, said candidates of annual examinations (additional/ special chance/ improvement) will submit their examination forms by post with demand draft of the fee. The revised schedule for submitting the examination forms and fees has been approved.According to the schedule, dates for fee slip generation after filling the examination form are with late fee of Rs500 till May 13 to 20; with late fee of Rs1,000 till May 21 to 29; with late fee of Rs2,000 till May 30 to June 10 and with Rs1,000/- per day 10 days before the commencement of exams, along with the approval of the Registrar.He said dates for depositing fees in bank for private students are with late fee of Rs500 is May 25; with late fee of Rs1,000 is June 1; with late fee of Rs2,000 is June 15 and Rs1,000 per day 10 days before the commencement of exams, along with the approval of Registrar.He said dates for depositing fees in bank for colleges are with late fee of Rs500 is May 29; with late fee of Rs1,000 is June 8; with late fee of Rs2,000 is June 22 and with Rs1,000 per day 10 days before the commencement of exams with the approval of the Registrar.
13-05-2020||Aman Sood||Netizens hail cops’ response to distress calls on social media||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 12In March, a pregnant woman in pain approached the police through Facebook, asking to be shifted to hospital. Immediately, a police team was sent to her home and she was admitted to hospital.Helping handThis is not a one-off incident. During the Covid-19 lockdown, the police have saved lives of seven persons in distress.In another case, a relative of an elderly man, who suffered a heart attack, reached out to the police for help. A team led by the SHO concerned swung into action and admitted him to hospital just in time.Ever since the lockdown was imposed on March 23, the police have been reaching out to citizens in distress. The IT cell of the police keeps track of its Facebook and Twitter accounts round the clock for any complaint.Ghanaur DSP Manpreet Singh said a senior officer from Bihar requested the Patiala police via social media to help migrants stranded in his area without food. “My team not only arranged food for the 13 migrants, but also ensured that they would continue to receive ration till the lockdown is in force,” he added.Besides, the IT cell has been posting short films and quirky posts to make people understand the gravity of the situation. As a result, the police’s popularity on social media has been soaring.From March 23 to May 5, the police have posted 178 videos and messages, which have received lakhs of “likes” and which have been shared several times. The police put this number at more than 60 lakh.“The power of social media is phenomenal. It is a good medium to reach out to people in distress. I am proud that 324 complaints received on Facebook and Twitter were solved within 30 minutes of being posted, and seven lives were saved,” SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said.
13-05-2020||---||Mill workers’ protest turns violent; SDM, DSP injured||Sangrur, May 12Tension arose in the industrial area of Malerkotla town late last night after some migrants working at Arihant Spinning Mill held a protest outside the premises and threw stones at civil and police officers, who went to pacify them.Malerkotla SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey, DSP Sumit Sood and ASI Jaswinder Singh sustained injuries.Police book 400 unidentified persons for violating curfew The workers alleged that the mill management had reduced their salary and they were forced to pay extra for essential commodities at the factory canteen.The protest was still on and around 500 workers were present at the unit carrying stones, rods and sticks. A large number of police personnel were deployed at the spot to keep the situation under control. The police have registered an FIR against 400 unidentified persons for curfew violation.A protester alleged, “We are working for 12-16 hours, but still we are not being paid in full. Besides, the grocery items are being sold at higher rates at the mill’s canteen. But officers get the same items at fair price.”Neeraj Jain, director of the mill, refuted the allegations and claimed that no salary cut had been introduced.“We have paid salaries to all employees as per their working hours. We have never received any complaint about overcharging at the canteen. Still if they have any problems, we can sort these out after talks,” said Jain.Malerkotla SDM Panthey said since there was no union or any representative of the workers, they were finding it difficult to resolve the matter.“Around 500 labourers present inside the mill are unwilling to discuss their demands. Last night, three officers, including me, suffered injuries after the protesters pelted us with stones,” said the SDM.
13-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Health Dept on high alert as 20K NRIs set to return home||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12The Punjab Government is hoping that there is no fresh wave of Covid when 20,000 NRIs and other Indians stranded abroad start returning to the state. Other than the Health Department, which is on high alert, it is the Digital Punjab team which is working round the clock to ensure that there is containment of all foreign returnees.About 20,000 Punjabis are expected to return in the coming days, leaving everyone worried as the first wave of the pandemic was brought to the state by foreign returnees in March.However, the Digital Punjab team of the state’s Governance Reforms Department is certain that this time, it is well prepared to handle any adverse situation as all NRIs wanting to come back are being registered on an IT platform, developed specially for the purpose.“Almost 8,500 have already been registered on the platform, which also has an online system of hotel booking for quarantine. With each situation that we face, we have managed to develop IT services using artificial intelligence, big data, cloud computing and GPS tracking. We are developing and evolving new IT services for effective governance during the course of pandemic,” Ravi Bhagat, Special Secretary, Governance Reforms told The Tribune.Interestingly, a few months ago, when the Governance Reforms Department started hiring IT professionals and social scientists, having a vast experience in MNCs, it raised hackles in the corridors of power.Come March 22, when the outbreak of Covid forced a lockdown, it was this team that helped Punjab successfully introduce several IT-based solutions for effective governance.“We had started working on the IT services in February when the outbreak in China had peaked. Within 10 days, we developed the Corona Virus Alert (COVA) app, though it took us a few more days to upgrade it. As we progressed into the pandemic, we evolved and set up other new applications based on the citizens’ needs,” Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Governance Reforms, said.COVA was developed much before Aarogya Setu app was launched by the government and now has 19 lakh users (of a total 2 crore mobile users in Punjab), who get information about contact tracing of infected persons, analytics and dashboard.
13-05-2020||Khanna||12 hurt as bus overturns||About a dozen passengers were injured when a bus taking migrants from Jammu to UP overturned near Libra village on Tuesday. The injured were rushed to the local civil hospital. The incident took place when the bus driver allegedly dozed off. The bus was carrying about 40 passengers. DSP city Rajan Parminder Singh said the passengers would be sent on another bus. — OC
13-05-2020||---||It’s conflict over liquor trade: SAD||Chandigarh May 12SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the people must know the real issue behind the confrontation between the state Chief Secretary and ministers with Congress leaders accusing the senior officer of being “arrogant.”He demanded registration of an FIR either against the Chief Secretary or against the ministers on the allegations of conflict of interest in the “liquor loot”. “Instead of making a laughing stock of the high constitutional institutions, the time has come for taking a legal view on allegations of liquor loot,” the former Deputy CM said.Sukhbir said, “...the debate in the country is about home delivery of food and essential goods, while Punjab ministers are debating home delivery of liquor.”He said the Congress leaders were trying to “legalise” home delivery of liquor. He said it was surprising that the state had not held a single Cabinet meet on fulfilling the needs of farmers, labourers, shopkeepers and employees.No concern for poor: BJP leaderChandigarh: BJP leader Vineet Joshi on Tuesday slammed ministers for ignoring the plight of the poor and daily wagers in the state. In a press release, he said instead of raising the issue of the poor and the needy, the ministers locked horns with a senior government official over the liquor business. TNS
13-05-2020||Harshraj Singh||UP-bound migrants taken for a ride||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 12About 30 migrant workers, who boarded a private bus from here for their home in Uttar Pradesh on Monday evening, were brought back to the local bus stand the next morning as the driver did not have permission to ply to UP.The workers said the bus operator had charged Rs3,300 from each of them. They said the driver took an about-turn before Ambala.“The bus driver and the conductor told us to return to our homes. We told them our landlord will not allow us to stay, but they were not ready to listen to us. Besides, they did not return the bus fare,” said Raghunath, one of the workers.Sitting outside the bus stand hungry, another worker said he wanted to return home as he didn’t have money to buy ration.Bus driver Talwinder Singh claimed he had the permission to take the migrants to Uttar Pradesh. “En route, I received the information that the UP Police stopped a bus at Muzafarnagar. So, I thought it wouldn’t be a good idea to proceed further. Hence, I took an about-turn.”He also claimed the bus operator received a fresh nod on Tuesday to take migrants home.When Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal was asked whether or not the administration had granted permission to the bus operator, he said: “The UP Government has not allowed buses from other state to enter UP.”Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Iqbal Singh Sandhu reiterated that the administration did not give permission to send any bus to UP. “No permission can be granted till the UP Government allows it,” he added.Sources say permission was granted to four buses to ply, but it was withdrawn later. On May 10, the bus operator was instructed not to send any bus to UP till further orders.Amarjit Singh Tikka, a member of a Congress panel which has been formed to ensure smooth movement of workers, demanded a probe.
13-05-2020|| 
||Minister : Use Rs 638 cr grant to upgrade health infra||Chandigarh, May 12 Union Minister of Food Processing Industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal today urged the Punjab Government to use the additional grant of Rs638 crore allocated by the Centre to help the needy.  In a statement,  Harsimrat thanked the Centre and Finance Minister  Nirmala Sitharaman for releasing Rs 638 crore under the revenue deficit grant to the state.  She said the allocation should be used to ramp up health infrastructure, besides giving relief to the common man. Punjab has so far received Rs5,653 crore under various Centrally funded schemes, including special funds for combating Covid.  Harsimrat  said now with the state receiving these funds, there shouldn’t be any excuse.  “The government should get to work and stop diverting the attention of the people.”   Earlier, Rs247 crore was received by the Punjab Government under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund from the Centre.
13-05-2020||---||Mafias thriving in Punjab: Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, May 12Expressing concern over the government functioning, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president Bhagwant Mann today said: “The Congress government is running like a ‘mohalla’ cricket team with no ‘captain’. The one who holds the bat holds sway over the rest of the team, finally slipping away surreptitiously with the bat when finds himself cornered. It cannot be said for sure who among the ministers and bureaucrats holds the bat.”In a statement, Mann alleged like the Badals, under Capt Amarinder Singh government, all kinds of mafias were indulging in “open loot” of the people and state’s resources. He said being the principal Opposition party, AAP had been raising its voice against different mafias thriving in the state.
13-05-2020||
||15K more leave Punjab on Shramik trains||Moga, May 12 As many as 13 Shramik special trains with 15,000 migrant workers were moved from various locations under the Ferozepur Railway Division on Tuesday. Divisional Railway Manager Rajesh Aggarwal said a total of 63 trains had moved out of Punjab in the past 10 days, carrying a total of 75,000 migrant workers to their home states. On Tuesday, five trains moved from Jalandhar city for Gorakhpur, including two trains for Gonda and Betia and six from Ludhiana to Sitamadhi, Partapgarh, Rai Barelly, Hardoi, Unnav and Amethi. Two trains from Amritsar also went to Mau and Champa districts. So far, 15 Shramik special trains went to Bihar, 41 Uttar Pradesh, four Jharkhand, two Madhya Pradesh and one Chattisgarh, the DRM said. He claimed that the Railways had given 85 per cent subsidy on fare, while the state governments were making 15 per cent payment without charging anything from the migrant workers. He said that only the registered passengers were allowed to board trains after identification by the state government and after proper medical fitness as per the instructions with regard to Covid-19 guidelines.
13-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Three narco-gang members arrested||Tarn Taran, May 12The police have busted a major narco-gangster module with the arrest of three persons, allegedly linked to the Attari drug haul.Six illegal weapons were seized from the accused. A case under Sections 27 of the NDPS Act; 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act; and 188, 269, 270, 506 of the Indian Penal Code and 51B of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against them at Bhikiwind police station.Weapons recoveredWeapons recovered from the accused include a 12 bore double barrel rifle, three .32 bore pistols, a 12 bore pistol and a .315 bore pistol, along with wo rounds of .315 bore and two rounds of .32 bore cartridges.SP Jagjit Singh Walia said those arrested had been identified as Gurpreet Singh and Sarabjit Singh, both of Bhikiwind, and Sukhdev Singh of Jeoneke village (Harike). He said the weapons recovered from them included a 12 bore double barrel rifle, three .32 bore pistols, a 12 bore pistol and a .315 bore pistol, along with two rounds of .315 bore and two rounds of .32 bore cartridges.The SP said during interrogation, Gurpreet revealed that he was in contact with Shubham, a Batala-based gangster and prime accused in the 2018 armed robbery of Rs 7 crore from a jewellery shop in Amritsar. Shubham was arrested in 2019 and is currently lodged in Central Jail, Amritsar. Gurpreet had supplied weapons to his associates in Tarn Taran and Ferozepur areas, he said.Three more accomplices of the gang, all residents of Ferozepur, have also been identified. They were found to be actively involved in supply of weapons to miscreants in the Harike, Patti and Bhikiwind areas of Tarn Taran district.The SP said Surya of Katora (Arifke, Ferozepur) had been identified as another key aide of Shubham, who was involved in the illegal weapons supply, in coordination with Gurpreet Singh.Investigation revealed that Gurpreet was in direct contact with Kuldip Singh alias Babbu of Havelian (Sarai Amanat Khan, Tarn Taran), the brother of Ranjit Rana, prime accused in the Attari drug haul case.
13-05-2020||Archit Watts
||Norms go for a toss as sewa kendras resume operations||Tribune News Service Muktsar, May 12 Sewa kendras reopened on Monday after a gap of more than a month. However, social distancing norms were not followed here. A visit to the sewa kendra situated at the local grain market revealed that people were neither maintaining any distance nor wearing face mask. Further, nobody was deployed there to ask them to follow the guidelines. Pawan Kumar, a local resident, said, “I had come to the sewa kendra for getting my Aadhaar card updated, but people were not maintaining social distance. I thus thought it was better to return home and come some other day.” MK Aravind Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Muktsar, said, “Eight out of the 15 sewa kendras in the district were made functional today. I have directed the staff to ensure nobody enters the centre without wearing a face mask. Social distancing norms are to be followed.” He said 153 services would be provided at these centres.
13-05-2020||---||Milk plant director ends life, kin cry foul||Batala, May 12Even as mystery shrouds the death of Sarwan Singh, director, Gurdaspur milk plant, his family has accused officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department of driving him to the extreme step.SSP Opinderjit Singh said: “I can comment only after I receive a report from my officials who have been probing the case. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Ghanian-Ke-Bangar police station.” Sources claimed that some senior officials of the Gurdaspur Food and Civil Supplies Department entered into an altercation with Sarwan and his son Tarunpreet Singh on the outskirts of the city last night following a road rage. The officials later filed an FIR against Sarwan for damaging their car. Later, he committed suicide and his family members claimed that he took the extreme step because he felt humiliated. The SSP neither confirmed nor denied the recovery of a suicide note. Sarwan was a resident of Qadian Rajputan village.
13-05-2020||---||4 infected hospital employees test negative in 24 hrs||Ropar, May 12A day after 13 employees of Civil Hospital were declared Covid-19 positive on Sunday, at least four of them, including a Senior Medical Officer (SMO), have tested negative as the authorities sent their samples again to the laboratories at the PGI, Chandigarh, and Government Medical College, Patiala.Tests being repeatedTests of all hospital staffers, who were declared positive by IMTECH on Sunday, are being repeated to rule out any doubts.Their first samples were tested at the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh.Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said testing of employees again after they had tested positive was a goof-up on the part of local health authorities. A repeat test of a Covid positive patient could only be conducted a week after receiving the first report, she said, adding that the samples have to be sent to the same laboratory where the first sample was tested. Local health officials breached the protocol on both counts, she said.It was on Sunday that the Health Department got information that 46 persons, including three doctors, six laboratory attendants and 18 pilgrims from Hazoor Sahib, tested positive for Covid in reports from IMTECH. Following this, all of them were quarantined.Interestingly, the samples of four persons identified as the SMO, a dental surgeon, a laboratory technician and PA to the Civil Surgeon were collected again the same day. The samples of the SMO were sent to GMC, Patiala, while others were sent to the PGI, Chandigarh. The report was sent to Ropar yesterday.Demanding a probe into the contradictory reports by different laboratories, AAP general secretary Dinesh Chadha said there was need to retest all patients.Claiming that there could be various reasons for samples testing negative second time, the DC said the local health authorities had violated the standard operating procedure and she had already informed about this to the seniors.Now, the test of all hospital staffers who were declared positive by IMTECH on Sunday were being repeated at the same laboratory to rule out any doubts, she added.
13-05-2020||Amritsar||Prisoner flees Covid facility in Amritsar||A jail inmate, who tested positive for Covid-19 and was under observation at an isolation ward, fled from Government Medical College and Hospital here on Monday night. He was identified as Partap Singh. Ironically, his final reports came out negative. Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa blamed the police for being negligent. “He is a suspected patient. He will be a threat to others when he will search for a hideout,” he said. Sub-inspector Baljinder Singh, and Assistant Sub-inspectors Sukhwinder Singh and Shashpal Singh have been suspended for negligence. They have been booked. Sources say Partap managed to unlock the handcuffs, jumped out of a window and fled.  Senior Superintendent of Police (Rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal said, “As the prisoner was under observation, guards deployed outside the isolation ward were not allowed to go inside. He took advantage of it.”  Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said the report of two JMICs was negative, whereas that of other officials was awaited.  — TNS
13-05-2020||Praful Chander Nagpal
||Two weeks on, returnees’ samples yet to be collected||Fazilka, May 12 Almost 92 labourers, who were quarantined after return from Jaisalmer on April 28, have been waiting for conduct of Covid tests, so that they can go home. Karan Singh (29), Pammi Kaur and their two-year-old child, all residents of Haleemwala village of Jalalabad subdivision, were quarantined in Government Senior Secondary School for Boys, Fazilka, 14 days ago, but their Covid tests have not been done so far. They are facing several hardships as Pammi Kaur is in family way.  The family was employed as labourers in Rajasthan. After the announcement of lockdown, they decided to return. They were kept at a gurdwara in Sriganganagar district for two weeks before reaching Fazilka district on April 28.“We are daily given assurances that the test will be conducted, and then we will be allowed to go home”, rued Karan Singh who claimed he was hale and hearty. Among the 92 persons who had returned from Jaisalmer, 35 have been quarantined in DC DAV Senior Secondary School, Fazilka; 31 in DAV Centenary Public School; and 26 in Government Senior Secondary School for Boys, Fazilka. “We have completed the mandatory two-week quarantine, but unfortunately the tests have not been conducted so far. We have no Covid symptoms, but we shall definitely fall ill due to mosquito bites if we keep on staying in the quarantine centre for a few more days,” said Dheeraj Kumar, a labourer from Muradwala Dal Singh village. He along with Ajay Kumar has been quarantined in DAV Centenary Public School. “The test should have been conducted immediately after admitting us to the quarantine centre,” said Ajay. “We have not gone to our houses for the past about two months,” he said.  A senior official said subdivisional officials had not provided funds. Fazilka Civil Surgeon Dr Harchand Singh said  laboratories were overburdened. But tests were done in DC DAV School today.
13-05-2020||
||HC lawyers hold talks on streamlining work||Chandigarh, May 12 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today opened its chambers to the advocates for discussions on further streamlining the functioning of the justice delivery mechanism during lockdown. Available information suggests the lawyers were called to attend the meeting of the administrative committee convened for the purpose. Among other things, the lawyers were told that the issues and the suggestions pertaining to the court functioning were being examined in the HC’s eagerness to further improve the working. The HC also ordered that in case of a PIL or civil writ petitions, the official respondents were required to submit their responses on the issues raised in the petition within two working days. Thereafter, the status would be communicated to the advocate through the web portal as well as SMS on the mobile phone number.
13-05-2020||Faridkot||Allow distribution of books, DCs told||The School Education Department has demanded the DCs to allow distribution of books. Unlike private schools, which have been allowed to open with certain restrictions, students of government schools are sans any study material as they enter into the new academic session, read a letter addressed to the DCs. “We are exploring the option of providing books through schools, which will carry out class-wise distribution of books,” said a department official. — OC
13-05-2020||Abohar||2,000 return via Abohar||After facilitating the return of 81 pilgrims from Nanded and 2,582 labourers from Jaisalmer till April 28, the state recently sponsored the return of more than 2,000 labourers from different districts of Rajasthan.  Abohar DSP Rahul Bhardwaj also distributed ration, provided by the Ekta Manch, an NGO, among families from Kallarkhera village. Besides this, masks, sanitisers and soaps were also distributed.  Reportedly, about 100 labourers were denied permission to cross the interstate check-post in Sadhuwali village along the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway on Sunday.  They had sought entry into Punjab via online applications, but were told to go back and wait for approval. The returnees were screened near the interstate border and arrangements were made to quarantine them. — OC
13-05-2020||---||14 RPF personnel among 37 test +ve||Chandigarh, May 12With 37 fresh cases today, the state count of Covid-19 patients has reached 1,914. A 39-year-old man in Amritsar succumbed to the deadly virus. According to a media bulletin, Ludhiana district topped the chart with 16 cases, followed by Jalandhar 9, Fatehgarh Sahib 8, and one case each at Fazilka, Patiala, Amritsar and Kapurthala.In Ludhiana, Delhi-based battalion of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) was quarantined at Meritorious School after 16 personnel tested positive. Fourteen personnel had tested positive on Monday night, while two had tested positive on Saturday. Of the total 79 personnel in the battalion, 16 have tested positive and 63 are in quarantine. All had come from Delhi to Ludhiana to ensure smooth flow of trains as migrants in a huge number are being sent home.Nine new patients, including a five-month-old child, were reported from Jalandhar. Eight of the patients belong to New Gobind Nagar and are contacts of a Covid positive woman while one is from Rasta Mohalla. The tally in Jalandhar has reached 197 now. In Kapurthala, one case was reported. The patient had arrived from UP on Monday night.With 296 positive cases so far, Amritsar district reported another death. The patient, Mithun Swami (39), a a resident of the Bagh Ramanand area, was on ventilator support for the last two days at Government Medical College, Amritsar. Meanwhile, at least 25 positive cases were also discharged after complete recovery.As per the Health Department, so far samples of 43,999 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 39,060 samples were found negative and reports of 3,025 is awaited.
13-05-2020||---||Unease as ministers await Capt decision on CS post||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12Even as Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh was divested of the additional charge of the Excise and Taxation Commissioner, there was unease among Cabinet ministers as the former not only attended his office today but also chaired a meeting on Covid-19.As ministers await CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s decision on the issue, senior minister Tript Bajwa is learnt to have approached his colleague Charanjit Channi for rapprochement with the Chief Secretary.Bajwa denied having met Channi, who is learnt to have said the matter could only be discussed by the Cabinet. Sources did not rule out carrot-and-stick policy to “rein” in other warring ministers.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, who is leading the charge against the Chief Secretary, is learnt to have told his Cabinet colleagues it was a matter of dignity and he might resign if the situation persisted.Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said: “It is up to the Chief Minister to give justice to his political colleagues. We are awaiting justice.”Clearing the air over recording of statement by Badal and Channi against the Chief Secretary, a senior government functionary said the CM had taken note of the complaint and was looking into the matter.Though the Chief Secretary has not spelt out his next move, he is learnt to have indicated he will continue as long as the CM desires. Sources suggest the CM is not keen on removing the Chief Secretary at this juncture as he is slated to retire in August.
13-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||House helps reduced to begging||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 12Having lost her job as a housemaid to Covid-19 pandemic, Sarabjit Kaur (38) is forced to beg for food in a residential colony near the industrial area where she once worked.“The little savings we had had dried up at the start of the second phase of lockdown. My husband is sick and I have three children to feed,” says Sarabjit.Sukhwant, her neighbour, is going through a similar ordeal. “We manage two square meals a day by walking 6-8 km daily seeking help. My husband is a labourer and is out of job.We have lost all our savings. Our children sometimes go to sleep on empty stomach.”Shashi Kumari, a native of Bihar, says: “I got some help from households where I worked but it wasn’t enough. Now, I get up early and call up NGOs for help.”Amanjot Singh, who runs NGO ‘Ardaas — Sarbat Da Bhala’, says most of the destitute are not even approached by the administration and those who do get help can’t sustain on government ration for more than a week.“With a surge in Covid-19 cases, NGOs are unable to reach out to the poor. We are not only short of funds but are scared of venturing out. We continue to get calls not just from poor but also from middle-class families for food,” says Amanjot.Assuring all help to the vulnerable, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma says: “So far, we have distributed wheat and pulses among 55 per cent beneficiaries in the district under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. Over 1.50 lakh food packages have been issued by the state government.”
13-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||On return, NRIs have to pay for mandatory quarantine||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 12All NRIs who will be coming to the city have to pay for their mandatory quarantine, for staying in hotels of their choice. This was stated by the district administration here today.As many as 26 hotels and two institutional quarantine centres have been dedicated for the NRIs and travellers coming from other states through flights to the district in the days to come.NRIs will be expected to pay quarantine charges. The NIT centre is only for those returning from within the country. NRIs will be kept at hotels and paid quarantine centres. All arrangements have been made for the same. If poor migrants or workers come to the city, arrangements for them will be made then. We don't have any NRI returnees’ list so far. — Anupam Kler, Deputy Director, Local Bodies, & Nodal Officer for NRIs staying at hotelsWith prices for the NRI stay pegged between Rs 1,000 (or DAVIET quarantine) and Rs 7,500 for plush hotel quarantine, some of the NRIs raised concerns over the decision.The district administration has stated that 3,500 persons stranded in various parts of the country are expected to reach the city in the days to come. The National Institute of Technology (NIT) has been declared as a quarantine centre by the administration for them. As per directions of the state government, travellers coming from outside have to undergo mandatory quarantine even in case of asymptomatic conditions.Officials said all NRIs coming to the district would be screened at Meritorious School and if any are found asymptomatic, they would be quarantined and would be sent to the hospital if they were found to be symptomatic. They said throat swab test of NRIs would be held at the school. From there, they will be shifted to the hotel, chosen by them as quarantine centre.While the number of NRIs is not known yet, 400 to 500 rooms in various hotels of the district have been kept for them.Starting at Rs 1,000 (for DAVIET) per day expenses, an NRI would have to shell out minimum Rs 14,000 for the 14-day quarantine period.For those going for the most expensive hotels (Rs 7,500), the 14-day expense would come to over Rs 1 lakh.While on the one hand this might give a boost to the hotel industry, which is languishing amid the lockdown, on the other some raise concerns that the decision will affect poor or migrants coming from abroad.Jasbir Singh Gill, member, NRI Sabha, said: “People from countries such as the US, Canada and the UK don’t want to return to India. However, the government seems to have disregarded concerns of poor migrants who will be coming from middle eastern countries. A lot of them have failed to get their salaries and can’t afford to pay the quarantine charges. The return of these people, both from India and abroad, is a crucial juncture for the cash-strapped government. However, hotels for affluent NRIs is a welcome step. Arrangements should be made beforehand for those who might not be able to pay for their stay.”Anupam Kler, Deputy Director, Local Bodies, and Nodal Officer for NRIs staying at hotels, said: “The NRIs will be expected to pay quarantine charges. The NIT centre is only for those returning from within the country. NRIs will be kept at hotels and paid quarantines. All arrangements have been made for the same. If poor migrants or workers come to the city, arrangements for them will be made then. We don’t have any NRI returnees list so far.”
13-05-2020||---||Hockey legend Balbir Singh (Sr) suffers cardiac arrest, condition critical||Chandigarh, May 12Triple Olympian and hockey legend Balbir Singh (Senior), who is 95 years old, suffered a cardiac arrest this morning. He is stated to be in a critical state at a private hospital in Mohali though there was some improvement in his condition. He was admitted to the hospital on May 8.In a statement on the social media, his grandson said: “He was admitted on Friday in a very serious ‘multi-organ affected’ state. His condition has improved slightly, but is still critical. Doctors will continuously assess his condition over the next 24-48 hours before issuing any further statement. He continues to be on a ventilator.”He was part of the Indian teams that won the gold at the 1948 London Olympics in 1948, Helsinki in 1952 and Melbourne in 1956. His record of most individual goals scored in an Olympic men’s hockey final remains unbeaten. Balbir had set this record when he scored five goals in India’s 6-1 win over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Games. He also remained the head coach of the Indian team for the 1975 men’s World Cup, which India won, and the 1971 men’s World Cup, where India bagged a bronze medal. In July 2019, Balbir was admitted to the PGI following breathing problems.Till the filing of this report, his condition was stated to be critical.
13-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Private schools seek safety guidelines before reopening||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12To ensure students’ safety, private schools in Chandigarh want the government to issue health and safety guidelines before they are allowed to reopen amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The schools management are looking forward to reopen, but not in the absence of proper guidelines by the government. “We will surely take protective measures for the safety of students, but the government should form certain guidelines so that we don’t face any kind of trouble later. The government must clarify on adopting safety measure. We have already faced a setback regarding the submission of fee,” said HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools’ Association.“Safety measures are not only restricted to spraying sodium hypochlorite solution or wearing masks/gloves. This is not enough and to make it clear, we want the government to frame guidelines,” said Sanjay Thareja, Director, The Gurukul, Panchkula.On March 10, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued guidance to help protect children and schools from Covid-19 transmission. “Education can encourage students to become advocates for preventing diseases at home and in school and community by talking to others about how to prevent the spread of viruses. Maintaining safe school operations or reopening schools after a closure, requires many considerations, but if done well, can promote public health,” stated the release.UNICEF has also urged schools – whether operating or helping students through remote learning – to provide pupils with holistic support.“I agree that the government should come forward to frame guidelines for the schools. We have to survive amid Covid-19. Schools will obviously play their part and will ensure safety of students to the extent possible, but we have to be very careful and precise in dealing with the problem. The government’s guidelines will help us and also parents to ensure the safety of children,” said Ranjan Sethi, Director, The British School, Sector 44.
13-05-2020||---||Panjab University to reopen for staff on a rotational basis today||Chandigarh, May 12The office of the Director Higher Education has allowed Panjab University (PU) to partially function from tomorrow.Prof Karamjeet Singh, PU Registrar, said offices at the PU and offices of the Chairpersons of the teaching departments will start functioning from tomorrow.The office will remain open from 10.30 am to 4.30 pm (lunch break from 1pm to 1.30 pm) on the pattern of the UT Administration till further orders. It was decided that while Class A officers will report on duty on all working days, the remaining office staff (33%) will report on a rotational basis.The controlling officer/chairperson will ensure seating arrangement, social distancing and other precautions issued by the Centre. The staff members residing in containment zones have been exempted from the duty.Wearing masks has been made mandatory and only the Panjab University staff members will be allowed entry as there will be no public dealing.The circular further stated: “No public dealing shall be allowed and thermal scanning (one counter each at the Administration Block, Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall, Vice-Chancellor’s office and University School of Open Learning building) near entrances will be done under the supervision of security staff.”Meeting heldA meeting under the Chairmanship of Prof RK Singla, Dean of University Instruction, was held today to discuss various issues concerning reopening of the university. Those who attended the meeting expressed grief over the sudden demise of Prof Shankar Ji Jha, Former DUI, a learned Sanskrit scholar.
13-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab divests Chief Secretary of Excise & Taxation Dept charge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12In a damage-control exercise, the Punjab Government tonight divested Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh of the charge of Excise and Taxation Commissioner.This comes a day after the Council of Ministers vowed not to attend any meeting where the Chief Secretary was present over his alleged misbehaviour with them.Interestingly, the orders have been issued by the Chief Secretary himself. The charge of the department has been given to A Venu Prasad, who will continue to hold charge of Power, Mines and Geology and Water Resources departments.As Prasad is presently on leave till May 20, Anirudh Tewari, Principal Secretary, Finance, will be in charge of the Taxation Department till then.This paves the way for announcement of liquor policy. Earlier, PPCC president Sunil Jakhar and MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring had levelled conflict of interest charge against the Chief Secretary.
