13-04-2020||Karam Prakash||Disinfectant tunnels don’t kill coronavirus, rather cause harm: Punjab health dept||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 13The state health department on Monday ordered to discontinue all the disinfectant tunnels set up in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The tunnels — which were set up across the state — have been found to be ineffective.Different departments, including the police, had set up these tunnels just to sanitise staff by making them pass through the chamber. State health department has said “it (tunnel) doesn’t kill any virus rather it creates health issues for people who pass through it”.The health department sodium hypochlorite solution — used in these tunnels — would be harmful to eyes and skin.The health department, in an advisory to all the civil surgeons and deputy commissioners on Monday, said these disinfectant tunnels would create a false sense of security and people might skip handwash and other measures after walking through these.Health experts said these disinfectant tunnels, which have 0.5 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution, wouldn’t kill any virus because only 1 per cent hypochlorite solution could kill the coronavirus.They said that sodium hypochlorite was used just for environmental sanitisation.It will create problems in eyes and skin when sprayed on humans, say experts.A senior health official said, “These tunnels had been set up without involving health experts. Not even a single tunnel was set up by health department. Notably, migrant labourers in UP were also sprayed with same disinfectant which is being used in these tunnels.”Patiala civil surgeon Harish Malhotra said they had received the orders from the health department to discontinue these tunnels. “It has been advised to stop using these tunnels because it will harm mucous membrane,” he added.Patiala police get disinfectant tunnelMeanwhile, Patiala police today inaugurated a disinfectant tunnel — at police lines, seemingly ignorant about its harmful effects.In Sangrur, a few days ago the Deputy Commissioner had also started a disinfectant tunnel which sprayed sodium hypochlorite solution.Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said that they would follow the orders in this regard.
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police arrest 3 for provocative posts defending Nihang attack on cops||In a swift action, the Punjab Police on Monday arrested three men for provocative social media messages, promoting religious hatred in the wake of the brutal Patiala attack on police personnel by a group of Nihangs.Bhupinder Singh, Davinder Singh and Kuljeet Singh were found inciting disharmony and communal unrest with their hate messages on the social media, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.Separate FIRs have been registered against all three under Section 115, 153-A, 188, 269, 270, 271 & 505(2) of Indian Penal Code 1860, Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Section 54 of the National Disaster Management Act 2005.These men, said the DGP, had been indulging in hate propaganda through the social media posts.Bhupinder Singh had posted his inflammatory interview to Apna Sanjha Punjab Facebook TV channel, in which he had defended the Nihang action, but had later removed it, said Gupta.The DGP said the police was also examining the legal options for taking action against the Facebook channel.Bhullar and Davinder had also posted inflammatory and vicious statements on Facebook, lauding the Nihang action and provoking the Nihangs to come forward to launch more such attacks, said Gupta.Warning of prompt and strict action against anyone found indulging in such hate propaganda and inciting violence against the police or any other section of the society, the DGP said nobody would be allowed to spread hatred or disturb the law and order in the state at any cost.The entire police force was working day and night to enforce the curfew and also provide relief to the needy in these trying circumstances, triggered by the spread of COVID-19, he pointed out.The police would come down heavily on any violation of the curfew restrictions or any attempt to create trouble in the state, he warned, adding that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had also issued strict instructions to the Punjab Police in this regard.“We will not tolerate such acts against our police personnel,” the chief minister had declared yesterday after the Patiala assault.It may be mentioned that the police had earlier arrested one Sudhir Suri of Amritsar and Akash Deep of Patiala for their communal and inflammatory statements and posts.
13-04-2020||---||Amarinder speaks to ASI whose hand was severed in Patiala attack||Chandigarh, April 12Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday spoke to ASI Harjeet Singh, whose hand was severed in an attack in Patiala on Sunday, to inquire about his well-being, and extend his and the government’s full support.Also read: Punjab cop’s severed hand re-implanted after 8-hr surgery at PGIThe Chief Minister expressed happiness at the successful plastic surgery conducted on Harjeet by doctors at PGI, Chandigarh, and expressed the confidence that he would emerge out of his unfortunate incident healthy and cured. He said the entire state was proud of him, and urged him to convey to him, through the senior police officers at the hospital, in case of any requirement. The Chief Minister wished Harjeet a speedy recovery.Motivating the ASI, Amarinder recalled a similar experience of an associate, who had also lost a hand and had to undergo a similar surgery to re-implant it. The carpenter was now fully cured, and hale and hearty, he told Harjeet.The Chief Minister, who had yesterday itself directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure the best possible medical facilities for Harjeet, told the ASI that all his needs would be taken care of, and no expense would be spared to bring him out of this crisis. The entire state was standing by him, he assured the ASI.Amarinder also promised the ASI of the strictest action against those involved in the brutal and unprovoked attack on him. The entire police force was currently engaged in the difficult and momentous task of enforcing the curfew and providing relief to the needy, while putting their own lives on the line, said the Chief Minister, adding that any such assaults on the force would not be tolerated.DGP Dinkar Gupta said that PGI Director Jagat Ram met the ASI this morning and later told the former that a team of doctors led by Prof. Ramesh Sharma, Head of Plastic Surgery Department, examined Harjeet. They found the patient doing well but cautioned against too many visitors, and said only his wife was currently allowed to meet him once a day.Gupta further disclosed that all the 11 persons arrested in connection with the assault had been remanded to 11 days of police custody today.
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder leads Baisakhi prayers with own ‘Ardas’ , thanks people for staying in||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday thanked the people of the state for responding to his appeal for ‘Ardas’ at 11 am from their homes, and celebrating the auspicious festival of Baisakhi from their homes in the larger interest of all.The chief minister, who led the Baisakhi prayers with his own Ardas at his home, hoped that the collective prayers of the people would keep Punjab safe and ensure its victory over the deadly coronavirus.Capt Amarinder had yesterday called upon the people not to venture out of their homes to celebrate Baisakhi with the traditional fervour and gaiety, but to stay at home, for their own safety and that of their children as well as the state and the nation.Lauding the cooperation of the people in this difficult time, the chief minister said it was the need of the hour for all to behave responsibly and ensure that the pandemic does not escalate out of control.He thanked the people for extending their full support to his government for the past three weeks in maintaining social distance and adhering to the restrictions imposed as a result of the lockdown.The inherent Punjabi resilience had once again come to the fore in this critical hour, he added.“Unfortunately, we have had to extend the curfew for another two weeks, till May 1, but given the critical situation, there was no option,” said the chief minister, hopeful that the state, which had largely been able to control the pandemic till now, would be able to stabilise the situation further.He reiterated his assurance to the people that the government would further streamline the supply chain and ensure that not a single person in the state, including the migrant labourers, go hungry.Arrangements were also in place for the smooth wheat harvesting and procurement operation set to commence on April 15, he added.Further measures would be taken, said the chief minister, to ensure smooth and gradual exit of the state from the lockdown/curfew so that some kind of normalcy could be enabled, in the interest of the economy and industry.
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Low-key Baisakhi celebrations in Punjab amid Covid-19 lockdown||Baisakhi festivities in the streets and rush of devotees in gurdwaras were missing across Punjab on Monday as people largely celebrated the festival indoors amid a curfew in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Baisakhi is one of Punjab’s biggest festivals and it marks the foundation day of the ‘Khalsa Panth’ (Sikh order) by Guru Gobind Singh. It also marks the start of harvest season.The Golden Temple in Amritsar, one of Sikhism’s holiest shrines, saw very few devotees turn up to offer prayers.Normally, nearly two lakh devotees visit the Golden Temple on the occasion of Baisakhi.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which manages gurdwaras in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, has also deployed task force staff to discourage people from assembling.SGPC Chief Secretary Roop Singh said the committee has never stopped anyone from coming to the Golden Temple but one should not violate the government orders.Barricades have been put up at all roads leading to the Golden Temple to prevent overcrowding, a police official said.A similar scene was witnessed at the Takht Kesgarh Sahib in the holy city of Anandpur Sahib, where the Khalsa Panth was founded in 1699.Managements of several other gurdwaras across Punjab and state capital Chandigarh politely refused to let devotees inside. They appealed to them to offer prayers at homes and listen to ‘Gurbani’ by tuning in to their YouTube channels.“In the morning, ‘sangat’ (devotees) came to pay obeisance but we requested them to offer prayers at their homes and also asked them to listen to ‘kirtan’ on our YouTube channel.“We have shared a link of the video of ‘kirtan’ with devotees on our WhatsApp group,” said an official of Gurdwara Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib in Chandigarh’s Sector 34.He said normally, 60,000 to 70,000 devotees visit the shrine on Baisakhi every year.“It is for the first time that we could not enter the gurdwara,” a disappointed devotee said.The management of a gurdwara in Ludhiana said it will reach out to those on the frontlines of the fight against coronavirus on the occasion of Baisakhi.“We will distribute ‘langar’ among frontline workers, including policemen and medical staff,” a gurdwara official said.Earlier, the Akal Takht (the highest temporal seat of Sikhs) had asked members of the Sikh community to offer prayers at home on Baisakhi and directed Sikh organisations not to organise religious gatherings on the festival in the view of the COVID-19 outbreak.On Sunday, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had also appealed to people not to step out of their homes on the occasion of Baisakhi. — PTI
13-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur villagers resent entry of migrant labourers for harvesting of wheat||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 13The entry of migrants at Nagra village has caused panic and residents came out of their houses demanding strict action against the  villagers who had brought migrants for the harvesting of wheat.“My husband Jeet Singh has been quarantined in the local village school for the past three days after he came from Madhya Pardesh after working there on a combine harvester for a month. We are not allowing any outsider in our village, but some farmers have brought migrants and they could spread infection in our village,” said Paramjit Kaur.Kala Singh, husband of village panchayat member Jasvir Kaur, said though migrants entered their village on Sunday evening, locals have been demanding action against the farmers who had brought the migrants, but there have been no action. “We are not allowing our relatives to come to our village to prevent the spread of Covid-19, but some farmers are bringing migrants to the village, which is unacceptable,” said Singh.After the news about the entry of migrants spread in the village, majority of residents came out of their houses and demanded quick action against such people.“We will not allow migrants to work in our fields. If any farmer wants to harvest his wheat, he could take the services of labourers of our village,” said Gurinder Singh, another resident.When contacted, Gharachon police post incharge Rajwant Kumar said they were investigating the matter."After getting information about violation of the curfew, we have registered a case against unidentified persons," he said.
13-04-2020||Ashok Kaura ||122 Bhutanese students studying at LPU Phagwara leave for Thimphu in a special plane||Phagwara, April 13As many as 133 students of Bhutan--122 studying at Lovely Professional University and 11 of other institutions--who were examined by a team of the Health Department led by Dr DP Singh, left for Bhutan in a special plane sent by the Bhutan Government to Amritsar on Monday morning.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said special LPU buses dropped these students at the Amritsar airport. Blood samples of 27 contacts of LPU student Neeti Chauhan were tested and sent to lab on Sunday night. Chauhan, a student of Bachelor of Physiotherapy, hadtested positive recently.  Six students of Bhutan were admitted to the Civil Hospital after they became unwell on Sunday night.Nodal Officer Dr Naresh Kundra told this correspondent that these students were discharged on Sunday night.Meanwhile, medical teams are busy examining the remaining people on the LPU campus which was sealed.Sealing of the LPU campus continued on Monday.DC Deepti Uppal, SSP Satinder Singh and CMO Dr Jasmeet Bawa are monitoring the situation. The SSP has instructed the police officers to be strict with the violators of curfew.Uppal has appealed to the people to realise the sensitiveness of the situation and follow self restrictions by staying in their houses.
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab reports six cases; tally now stands at 176||Punjab has reported six coronavirus cases over the past 24 hours, taking the number of cases in the state to 176.Jalandhar and Pathankot each reported two cases, while SAS Nagar and Ludhiana each reported one.Besides, one patient is critical and two are on oxygen support in the state.Ludhiana’s Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) has tested positive for coronavirus and is currently on ventilator. What is worrying authorities more is that ACP (N) Anil Kumar Kohli was on duty at Ludhiana’s sabzi mandi, where people come in large numbers, in the last week of March.Kohli began to show symptoms of fever and cough in the beginning of April, and was admitted to SPS Hospital on April 8.His first swabs sent four days ago tested negative, but samples sent on Sunday came back positive, authorities said. This takes the number of positive cases in Ludhiana district to 11.The officer’s test report sent health authorities scrambling to isolate people who came in contact with him over the past few days.People who visited him in the hospital have also had their swab samples tested, officials said.“Thirteen close contact of the ACP, including his staff and security, have been quarantined and his wife and son have been sent into isolation and samples have been collected. We are further exploring the contacts of the ACP to know the source of contract. It is too early to say that he got infected from sabzi mandi. We are tracing all the possible contacts and trying to find the source,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.SPS Hospital’s Medical Superintendent Dr Rajiv Kundra said that officer was admitted to the hospital with a high fever, cough and breathing difficulties.“His condition worsened on Saturday and was put on ventilator. He is still on ventilator,” said Dr Kundra.Meanwhile, both cases from Pathankot and one from SAS Nagar were contacts of those already diagnosed with the infection.Jalandhar reported two more cases--- taking the number of cases in the district to 24. While a 25-year-old resident of Lal Bazaar who tested positive is related to an already diagnosed patient in the city’s Mitha Bazar, a 40-year-old resident of Raja Garden appears to be a new case.Some 17 of the total Jalandhar’s 24 coronavirus cases have no contact history.A person working at Lovely Professional University in Kapurthala’s Phagwara was brought dead to the civil hospital, officials said---a development that comes a day after a student from the institution tested positive.Nodal officer Dr. TP Singh said they had sent samples from the patient for testing.“The patient was admitted to a private hospital today from where he was brought to the civil hospital,” he said.Punjab has recorded 12 deaths from coronavirus.The bulletin said 3,858 swabs of the 4480 sent for testing came back negative. Authorities are awaiting results for 446 suspected cases.The state has 139 active cases, with one person who is critical and on ventilator support.Meanwhile, Pathankot reported six more positive cases on Monday evening, taking the district total to 22. These new cases have yet to be added to the official list.Tanker union of LPG plant, oil depots in Bathinda go on strikeThe Tanker Union of the LPG plants and oil depots in Bathinda went on a strike on Monday.Bittu Pardhan, president, Tanker Union said: “One week ago, we had given a letter to the depot manager in which we demanded that as tankers are also coming from Jalandhar, Nawashehar and Sangrur, where cases of COVID-19 have been reported, we should maintain social-distancing and take precautions.”Bittu said they had also demanded insurance from the company as they were working during an emergency.He alleged that on Monday, tankers from Bathinda, Jalandhar, Nawashehar and Sangrur came in and no insurance was provided by the company. He also demanded that the administration should take strict action against the depot manager for not taking any action on their letter and putting their lives in danger.12 contacts of COVID patient tested coronavirus negative in MuktsarAfter an 18-year-old-boy, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, tested coronavirus positive in Muktsar district on April 8,  health department officials managed to trace 25 of his contacts, including one in Haryana. Twelve of them have tested negative and the reports of 12 others are awaited.The samples of the remaining 12 people were taken on Sunday and they have been admitted to the isolation ward of a COVID hospital here.Meanwhile, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who used to go to the local mosque, where a COVID patient was staying, has been tested coronavirus negative.A 50-year-old woman from Khudian Gulab Singh village, having symptoms of COVID-19, was tested coronavirus negative yesterday.Baisakhi celebrations at Takht Damdama Sahib will be a low key affair this year due to the COVID-19 outbreak. An 'Akhand path' would be held on Monday.However, the thousands of devotees, who throng the Takth to pay obeisance on Baisakhi at Talwandi Sabo, are missing this year.
13-04-2020||Muktsar||Mukatsar SSP honours sanitation workers||Actor dons a new roleGurdaspur: Actor Arjun Partap Singh, member of the Gurdaspur Zila Parishad, is on a mission to serve the poor. Son of MLA Fateh Jang Bajwa, Arjun has set up a social organisation, "Satbachan", which distributes ration, milk and medicines among the needy. He has an army of volunteers who visit every nook and corner of the town to identify those in distress. "Carve your name on hearts, not tombstones. This is the reason 'Satbachan' was born. The pandemic has taken over our lives and many people are on the verge of starving. We should do everything we can to bail them out," said Arjun.Their message: Stay indoorsAbohar: The district police have recruited volunteers to help them enforce the curfew. The young volunteers, wearing white T-shirts, will patrol rural areas on two-wheelers and educate people about the significance of staying indoors amid Covid crisis. The idea is the brainchild of Abohar DSP Rahul Bhardwaj, who in consultation with SSP Harjit Singh, selected 17 volunteers. They have been trained by Khuyiansarwer SHO Sunil Kumar. Their T-shirts carry special message to motivate people to stay indoors.Aid for Covid warriorsFatehgarh Sahib: Khalsa Aid donated 90 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and other safety gear for the frontline workers battling the pandemic. Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill, SDM Dr Sanjiv Kumar and Assistant Commissioner Jaspreet Singh received these kits. The foundation has earlier helped during floods in the state. Thanking the group, MLA Kuljit Nagra and the DC said the NGO was a source of inspiration for others.
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Take firm steps to tackle pandemic’||
13-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Disinfectant tunnels harmful: NGO||No aid from Centre yet: FMBathinda: Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Sunday said the state had not received any monetary assistance from the Central Government to fight Covid-19. “The amount state has received is the GST compensation, revenue loss grant and outstanding disaster relief fund grant," he said, adding that Centre still owed four months' GST arrears to the state. He said, "Nevertheless, it is not the time for politics. We are working to tackle the situation at our own level, after considering the compulsion of the Union Government.” TNSParminder offers help to govtSangrur: Former Finance Minister Parminder Dhindsa on Sunday wrote to CM Capt Amarinder Singh and offered his services to help the state government in managing the financial affairs in times of Covid outbreak. He contributed his salary towards the CM’s relief fund to fight the virus. “Being the former FM, I have ample experience about finance. I am ready to help if the government wants,” the Lehra MLA said. He requested the CM to cut salaries of all MLAs to arrange money for fighting Covid. TNSCops greeted with flower petalsAbohar: Social activists showered flower petals on the police as the latter took out a flag march here on Sunday. SP Manjit Singh and DSPs Rahul Bhardwaj and Sandeep Singh led the flag march. During brief halts, the officers informed people that curfew had been extended till May 1 and that the District Magistrate had revised guidelines on the movement of vendors, opening of banks and other establishments. OCBadal thanks corona warriorsMuktsar: Former CM Parkash Singh Badal on Sunday thanked all doctors, paramedical staff and sanitation workers for rendering their services in battle against the Covid pandemic. He also sought a special increment for them from the state government. In a video clip, he said, “I thank all doctors, paramedical staff and sanitation workers who are our frontline warriors in the battle against the pandemic. I appeal to the state government to immediately provide them personal protective equipment and give them a pay hike.” TNS
13-04-2020||Sangrur||Farmers store wheat at home||Many farmers of the district have begun harvesting their wheat. They’re busy making arrangements to temporarily store the crop, as the government will start purchasing the crop from April 15.“I noticed that grains had started falling from plants, which is why I started harvesting immediately, othereise I would have lost a huge part of my crop. I have stored the crop at my home. The Punjab government must start the purchase of wheat immediately,” said Surjit Singh, a BKU Sidhupur leader from district’s Fatehgarh Bhadson area. Farmers had also begun to search for machines following the administration’s decision, allowing harvesting with combines from April 11, some farmers alleged.“I have accommodated all my luggage in one room to make space for storing wheat. It’s tough for a family of eight members to make do with two rooms, but we will adjust to save our crop,” said Kulwant singh, a farmer from Bhawanigarh.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Jaswinder Pal Singh Grewal said this year too they expected a bumper wheat crop. “There is no need to panic, as farmers will have enough time to harvest their wheat after April 15. However, they might face storage issues,” said the CAO.“Since I do not have space, I have delayed harvesting,” said Satwinder Singh, a farmer from Chhajli village. — TNS
13-04-2020||Bathinda||103 samples test negative in Bathinda||A suspected patient, who died at the isolation ward of Advanced Cancer Institute here on Thursady, has tested negative for Covid-19.Meanwhile, a total of 103 samples have so far been collected in the district and all these have tested negative.Civil Surgeon Amrik Singh Sandhu said, “We have been maintaining constant vigil and testing is being done as per the protocol. So far, no positive case has been reported in the district.” — TNS
13-04-2020||---||Stranded in Amritsar, migrants spend nights on pavements||Amritsar, April 12Hundreds of people, including migrant labourers and tourists from various parts of UP, MP, Bihar, West Bengal and Punjab, who had come here on a tour, have now been stranded in the wake of curfew restrictions.They go to the Golden Temple to have their meals. But since they have no roof over their heads, they spend their nights on pavements of shops in Guru Bazar.SGPC officials said they feared that the persons, who were found sleeping on the premises of the Golden Temple plaza during night, were dragged out of the premises by the police. The officials opined that instead of evacuating them from the premises, they could have been accommodated in Raen Basera.The officials said the tourists rued that they were unable to return to their homes, as the transportation system had been suspended. The visitors said despite several attempts, no government official had paid heed to their pleas and instead they were beaten up by the police.Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said the matter to accommodate the visitors had been taken up with Deputy Commissioner Shiv Dular Singh.An SGPC official, requesting anonymity, said the visitors couldn’t be accomodated in sarais (inns), as they had been handed over to the Amritsar administration and the Health Department to quarantine Covid patients and accommodate medics.Sri Ram from Indore said: “I had come to Amritsar in search of a job. I was hired as a labourer at Jallianwala Bagh. However, my services were terminated after the renovation and restoration work at the site was suspended. I, along with my other colleagues, who hailed from UP and Bihar, have got stranded here. We get tea and food from ‘guru ghar’, but have no place to spend the night,” he said.Amarjit Singh from Calcutta said: “I am stranded here since March 23. I used to reside in a guest house near the Golden Temple, but since I had no money, the owner refused to accommodate me. The government should at least set up relief camps. Even public toilets have been locked. Therefore, we have no option but to answer the nature’s call in the open,” he said.
13-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||No ration, locals attack councillor||A group of people today allegedly beat and injured Congress Councillor Sunder Lal from ward number 5 of Sirhind Municipal Council and his brother Rajeshwar Parshad for not giving them free ration sent by the state government for distribution.  The police lodged an FIR against Munish Kumar, Jassi, Mona, Saroj, Chinda and Varinder Singh under relevant sections of the IPC on the complaint Sunder Lal. So far, no arrest has been made. In the FIR, the councillor alleged that he had been serving people of his ward since the curfew was imposed. However, some people had been knowingly creating problems.  He said the accused fought with him for not providing them with ration. He even showed them their names in the list and told them that he hadn’t received the consignment so far, but to no avail. Subsequently, the accused thrashed him. “The accused even slapped my niece and injured my brother who had come to save me,” said the complainant. — OC
13-04-2020||Jalandhar||Wedding  guests under scanner as brides mother dies of Covid-19||While 13 members of the family have already been moved to the isolation ward at the civil hospital today, the health officials are facing an uphill task of tracing their relatives. — TNS
13-04-2020||Patiala||Gardener’s case puzzles health officials||Even 48 hours after a 35-year-old gardener tested positive for Covid-19, the Health Department has not been able to detect the source of his infection. The gardener had no travel history and had not come into contact with any Covid patient, sources said. Though the department traced and tested his six high-risk contacts, none tested positive.  The sources said the department had also sought information about the gardener’s recent movement from the PCS officer at whose residence he was putting up in a servant quarter. The sources said it was likely that the gardener was hiding some information from the department. Interestingly, the gardener was tested only after his brother, who works as a cook at the residence of a doctor-couple, exhibited symptoms of Covid. Ironically, the brother’s test came negative.  Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said they were working on the patient’s contacts to trace the primary source of infection. — TNS
13-04-2020||---||Ex-Army, police officers for strict action against Nihangs in Patiala||Chandigarh, April 12Condemning the brutal attack on an ASI by a group of Nihangs in Patiala, former Army and police officers have called for stringent action and freedom to cops to retaliate in such cases.Lt Gen JS Dhillon, who has served as COC of 15 Corp, besides being adviser to the then J&K Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah, said he was shocked at the incident and felt bad that the accused managed to flee the spot and were caught later on. “I think the police should be insulated from prosecution in such cases. They should have opened fire to defend themselves. Unfortunately, due to the fear of inquiries and prosecution, cops cannot take action to defend themselves. The police are working under most trying circumstances. The use of force, at least to protect themselves, should be allowed.”Former DGP Suresh Arora said the incident happened at a time when the police were fighting a different battle. “Attacks on the police and health officials, who are working under immense pressure, should be dealt with special laws under these circumstances. I hope the violators get convicted,” he said.He praised the bravery of the injured cop, ASI Harjeet Singh. “We saw the video of the incident. The ASI showed immense courage,” he said.SS Virk, who headed the state police during the militancy days, praised the police action, but said they should have acted swiftly. “Such unruly behavior by Nihangs has happened in the past too. The cops showed restraint. But they should have avoided hitting sticks on the car and rather cordoned off the vehicle and made them surrender,” he said.Former DGP MPS Aulakh said it was an attack on the entire police force. “The cops should have opened fire in self-defence. They, however, did well by maintaining calm and arresting them without hurting the Sikh sentiments,” he said.SGPC, Badal condemn incidentAmritsar: The SGPC has condemned the attack on the police by Nihangs. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said he would take up the matter with Budha Dal head Baba Balbir Singh. Meanwhile, former CM Parkash Singh Badal, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema have also flayed the attack. TNS
13-04-2020||---||Volunteer who distributed langar tests postitive||Faridkot, April 12A day after an NGO volunteer, who distributed langar among jhuggi and slum-dwellers here, tested positive for Covid, the Health Department on Sunday started searching for people who received langar from him.The 33-year-old NGO volunteer is the third positive case in Faridkot. He had been serving cooked food to migrant labourers and jhuggi dwellers here for a week.Health officials on Sunday put 22 jhuggi dwellers under isolation at a rehabilitation centre here.The big task for the department is to identify jhuggi and slum-dwellers and migrant labourers, who received langar from the NGO volunteer.As wheat procurement will begin in three days and migrant labourers will be in high demand, the department is apprehensive of an outbreak. “So far, 22 jhuggi dwellers have kept in the Faridkot rehabilitation centre. The department is searching for others,” a senior officer in the department said.The department has asked about 20 of those who had cooked food to remain under home quarantine. We have collected samples of 30 persons, the authorities said.The administration and the Health Department have declared a street, Mistrian Wali Gali, as a containment zone.
13-04-2020||Praful Chander Nagpal||It’s joint effort in Fazilka dist||Fazilka, April 12Some ConcernsShortage of masks and sanitisers in hospitalsSurrounded by Pakistan on three sides, the strategically located Fazilka district has not witnessed a single Covid-19 case so far. All this has been due to the administration, police and locals working in tandemAlthough 23 Covid suspects were tested, their reports have come negative.Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Singh said only four persons were admitted to the isolation ward. Their reports are awaited.The health authorities said it was due to the efforts of locals, administration and police that the situation had remained under control.Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said special efforts were being made to ensure social distancing during the procurement season starting from April 15.SSP Harjit Singh said 15 important link roads had been sealed. “As many as 1,400 police personnel have been deployed in the district to check violations and maintain law and order,” he said.To deliver food at people’s doorstep, the police have launched a novel app. The administration has also roped in social activists to control crowds outside banks and other places. Three open jails have also been set up in Fazilka, Abohar and Jalalabad where violators are kept.
13-04-2020||---||Health Dept identifies 17 hotspots in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 12In fight against Covid-19 outbreak, the state health authorities have identified 17 hotspots of the highly infectious disease in the state. The areas where two or more than two confirmed cases are found have been placed in this category. These hotspots are being seen as having the potential of community outbreak.A total of 108 cases have been reported from these 17 hotspots. As per the department, Mohali district tops the chart with six such spots. It is followed by SBS Nagar, Amritsar and Jalandhar districts with two each. Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Mansa, Pathankot, Ropar have one such spot.In Mohali district, Jawaharpur village tops the chart with 32 cases, followed by Phase 3-A, Phase 5, Phase 9, Sector 69 and 91. In SBS Nagar, Pathlawa and Sujjon villages, where 12 and six cases were reported, respectively, were marked hotspots. In Jalandhar, Nijatam Nagar locality and Virk Patts village have been identified. In Amritsar, Diamond Estate Colony and Udham Singh Nagar are the hotspots.Similarly, Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur, Amarpura Ludhiana, Budhlada Mansa, Sujanpur Pathankot, and Chatwalli in Ropar have been marked as hotspots.The state government said the testing with RT-PCR and Rapid kits would be done extensively at these hotspots.Apart from this, 12 fresh cases were reported today. The total number of cases in the state has reached 170.So far samples of 4,281 suspected cases have been sent for testing. Of these, 3,590 were found negative and the report of 521 was awaited.Among the fresh cases, seven were reported from Jalandhar, three SAS Nagar and one each from Faridkot and Kapurthala. In cases from Jalandhar, five are contacts of positive cases that have been already traced and one is from Tablighi Jamaat. Mohali and Faridkot cases also got infection from already traced positive cases. However, the patient reported from Kapurthala doesn’t have any travel history.
13-04-2020||In view of the Covid lockdown||Guru Teg Bahadur's Parkash Purb festivities remain low key||As a symbolic gesture, the akhand path commenced at Guru’s birthplace Gurdwara Guru Ka Mehal in Amritsar.The nagar kirtan had already been cancelled; traditional fireworks in the evening, too, were cancelled.Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC president, said: “The SGPC has deferred the year-long programmes leading to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur falling next year.”
13-04-2020||Phagwara||Screening drive at LPU||After a student of Lovely Professional University (LPU) tested positive for Covid-19 yesterday, the administration has launched a large-scale drive to trace her contacts.Claiminh that the police had sealed the campus, DC Deepti Uppal said medical examination of 3,200 persons, including 1,700 students, would be conducted.Covid specialist Dr Sukhwinderpal Singh and Nodal Officer Dr Naresh Kundra, who were also part of the team, were examining the students and staff. Around 700 persons were examined till late last night and tracing of the contacts is on. — OC
13-04-2020||Mansa||Violators attack cops in Mansa||Irked over being directed by the police to return to their houses amid curfew, 35-40 villagers attacked the police in Mansa’s Thoothiawali village on Saturday.They were booked under the IPC, and Disaster Management Act, 2005. Most of them were nabbed.SSP Narinder Bhargav said: “On Saturday, Gurtej Singh, incharge of Thoothiawali police post, along with a team of police, was patrolling the area when they spotted Darshan Singh and 14 others roaming on the streets. Gurtej warned the violators and told them to return to their houses.”The SSP said after the police revisited the area, they found the same persons, along with 30-35 more persons, were standing with sticks and weapons. They attacked the policemen, injuring many officials. — TNS
13-04-2020||---||Cops manage distribution of food, create central pools||Chandigarh, April 12To ensure more efficient and effective supply of food and essentials to the needy in a coordinated manner during the lockdown, the Punjab Police have created centralised food pools across districts for optimum allocation and distribution.The pool system encompasses village police officers (VPOs), NGOs, donors, volunteers besides religious organisations and social welfare groups. “It is working in tandem with the civil administration after getting inputs from field officers who regularly map demand and supply areas,” said DGP Dinkar Gupta.WhatsApp groups have been created by VPOs to liaise with the donors to avoid any duplication in distribution of foodstuff, he said.On an average, each group has 60-70 persons of the area to streamline the process of delivering food (dry ration and cooked food), medicines, sanitary pads, sanitisers, masks and soaps.The village or ward-wise requirement is assessed a day in advance, which is then consolidated at the DSP level. “The distribution of ration received from donors is done by NGOs, along with VPOs concerned, who also ensure adherence of social distancing norms,” the DGP added.In Amritsar, a zone level team, headed by an ACP-rank officer, will compile the stock as well as the demand from various areas, depending on the public feedback. Similarly in Mansa, initially 38 NGOs had started distribution of cooked meals and ration. Now, it has now been streamlined through VPOs.Under the ‘SBSN Punjab Police + NGOs Helping Hand’ project, the Nawanshahr police have brought donors and volunteers on a common platform to serve the distressed. “The data of needy and poorest persons has been acquired through passport verification officers, which is taken into account while distribution,” he said.In Ludhiana, all 125 NGOs have been brought together on one WhatsApp group. They prepare langar, based on the requirement, and it is then distributed with police help. The essentials are collected through SHOs and volunteers from 400 different pockets of Ludhiana where the poor are residing.
13-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||e-tokens to ensure  staggered arrival||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12APP-POWEREDOne pass will be valid for one trolley, which can carry 50 tonnes of produceDevinder Singh, a farmer of Libra village near Khanna, is a worried man. Harvesting is just a few days away and he has little clue on how he can take his yield to the mandi for sale in view of the lockdown.“My financial standing depends on the sale of my produce, grown over 25 acres. Combine harvesters are ready to work on farms. The arhtiya, to whom I have been selling my produce for decades, has assured me that the system is in place for issuing tokens for sale in the mandis, but I am jittery as the time to harvest the crop nears,” he told The Tribune.Harbans Singh Rosha, president of the arhtiya association in Khanna, said commissions agents had collaborated with market committee officials to ensure quick loading of produce once it reached the mandis, its immediate sorting and cleaning before it is lifted.“All farmers will be paid the day they come to the mandi,” he claimed.About 17 lakh farmers and 27,000 arhtiyas will get e-tokens issued from e-PMB app developed by the Punjab Mandi Board. The number of e-tokens to be issued will be calculated each day, keeping in mind a 72-hour margin from the day the first set of produce reaches the mandis.It is only after the 30 ft by 30 ft space created for a 50 tonne pile of grain is cleared, other trolleys laden with grains will be issued e-tokens. It is for this reason that the procurement process has been spread out to 45 days.Ravi Bhagat, MD, Punjab Mandi Board, said: “Commission agents will submit a phone number of farmers on e-PMB app, which will send messages to farmers. The farmer will have to click on the link in the message and the e-token or pass will be validated. One pass will be valid for one trolley, which can carry 50 tonnes of produce. A farmer can generate as many passes required for his quantity of produce to be sold.”
13-04-2020||---||To avoid rush in mandis, govt sets up 3,691 centres||Chandigarh, April 12The state government will begin procurement at its 3,691 purchase centres in 22 districts from April 15 till May 31. The procurement period can be extended till June 15, if required.The centres include 153 main yards, 280 sub yards, 1,434 purchase centres, besides 1,824 yards of rice mills created for this season. The state expects nearly 137 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat to arrive in the mandis, of which 135 LMT would be purchased by government agencies, while 2 LMT is likely to be bought by private traders at the MSP of Rs1,925 per quintal against Rs1,840 last year.Taking stock of the preparedness, Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Viswajeet Khanna said 17,500 combine harvesters would be operating for harvesting the crop.Against the total requirement of 4.82 lakh gunny bales, 3.05 lakh have already been made available. Arrangements for 47,000 tarpaulins against the demand of 52,570 and 29,261 mesh nets against 32,805 have already been made. Similarly, wooden crates for storing the bagged wheat are also being arranged.To avoid crowding, maintain social distance and ensure smooth procurement, Khanna said a detailed action plan had been chalked out. The arrival of produce would be staggered by issuing coupons fixed with holograms to the farmers through arhtiyas. With each coupon, a farmer will be entitled to bring one trolley of about 50-70 quintals of wheat.A farmer shall be entitled to take multiple coupons each day or in different days depending on the space in the purchase centre. About 27 lakh such coupons would be issued by market committees to arhtiyas.Besides, wearing of masks and use of sanitisers will be ensured in mandis.
13-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Budhlada sealed, door-to-door survey on||Tribune News ServiceMansa, April 12‘No Need To Panic’Health teams are going door to door to make people aware of Covid. There is no need to panic, but people must take precautions.Gurpal Singh Chahal, Deputy Commissioner Budhlada town in Mansa district has become a hotspot for Covid in the region as 11 cases has been detected so far. Almost half of the cases are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz, which took place in New Delhi last month.Ten persons from Chhattisgarh had visited a mosque in Budhlada after attending the Delhi congregation. Of them, five tested positive for the deadly virus. With six local persons, who came in contact with them, also testing positive, the town’s tally has reached 11.The health authorities in the district have been conducting tests of close contacts of Covid patients. The district administration has sealed the entry points to Budhlada and deployed the police to stop the movement of people in and out of the town to contain the spread of the virus.Deputy Commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal said, “Health teams are going door to door to make people aware of Covid and enquiring about the health of their family members. There is no need to panic, but people need to take precautions.”Mansa Civil Surgeon Dr Lal Chand said, “The condition of the 11 Covid patients is normal. All are under treatment in the Civil Hospital, Mansa. They were tested on April 2 and 5. They will be tested again after 15 days.”Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Dr Narinder Bhargav said, “Budhlada has become the Covid hotspot, hence the entire town has been sealed. The state machinery — be it the police or the Health Department or the civil administration — is busy tracing contacts of Covid patients and examining them.”The entire town has been made a containment zone; only medical teams are allowed to move. Residents are receiving essential items on their doorstep.Meanwhile, the administration has been motivating people under home quarantine by organising counselling sessions for them. “The exercise has been started in the police control room. I have asked psychologists, psychiatrists and police officials to counsel such persons to boost their confidence which will give them the courage to fight Covid, the SSP said.Budhlada SDM Aaditya Dachalwal said, “Health teams have started tracing and conducting tests of persons who were in contact of positive patients. In all, 46 tests were conducted on Saturday and 20 on Sunday.”Even those testing negative have been advised to remain under home quarantine for 14 days.
13-04-2020||Vishav Bharti & Arun Sharma||As families shun the dead, social activists rise to occasion||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Ropar April 12Amid Covid-19 outbreak when people are scared of cremating the infected bodies of even their dear ones, a number of individuals, villages and volunteer oragnisations have come forward to perform the last rites.Last week when Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, former Hazoori Ragi of Darbar Sahib, passed away, residents at Verka village in Amritsar opposed his cremation in their area. Similar reports came from other places as well. In one case, even the family of a retired senior municipal official, who died due to coronavirus, refused to perform or even attend his last rites.Pained at these developments, several panchayats, individuals and social organisations have announced to cremate the infected bodies, while following the protocol and keeping in mind the faith of the deceased.Two organisations — Punjab Students Union and Naujwan Bharat Sabha – claim to have even procured PPE kits and given training to their activists to cremate the bodies.Karamjit Singh Manuke, an activist based in Moga, says it is unfortunate the way the dead are being treated even by their own family members. “We belong to the legacy of Bhai Kanhaiya. It is against our culture to treat the dead disrespectfully,” he says.Both associations have sent informed the state authorities that they would send volunteers wherever required to cremating the bodies.Meanwhile, panchayat members of Ghanauali village passed a resolution that they would allow the cremation of any deceased in Ropar district at their cremation ground.Sarpanch Kamaljit Kaur says all members of panchayat have unanimously decided to stand with the victims and their families facing discrimination in this hour of need.Her father-in-law Gurinder Singh Gogi, a former SGPC member, has also written to the Ropar DC that he would make all arrangements to bring the body of any such deceased from the hospital to cremation ground of Ghanauli village.In a similar gesture, a journalist from Ropar recently volunteered to perform the last rites of a Covid-19 deceased.Ready for job, says Ludhiana elderlyLudhiana: A senior citizen from the city has offered his services to the district administration for performing the last rites of Covid-19 patients. Mewa Singh, a retired government official, says, “The fear of contracting the infection has weakened the relationships. In some cases, even the children are refusing to perform the last rites of their parents.” He has urged the DC and the Civil Surgeon that his services may be enlisted for the cases where the family refuses to perform the last rites of the Covid-infected deceased. tns
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Remain indoors this Baisakhi, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday appealed to the people of the state not to step out of their homes on Baisakhi and follow the ongoing lockdown to combat the outbreak. He also asked them to pray in their homes at 11 am on Monday for the state’s victory over the deadly COVID-19 “enemy”.In a message on the eve of the festival, the CM said Baisakhi would be “different” this year as the celebrations would lack traditional fervour because people would not be able to venture out of their homes and gather in large congregations. “Let us pray to Waheguru (almighty) to keep us and our Punjab in Charhdi Kala, to keep us safe and happy always,” urged the CM, pointing out that even Akal Takht and the SGPC had appealed to the people not to congregate to celebrate Baisakhi this time. —PTI
13-04-2020||---||Asked to show passes, Nihangs  chop off ASI’s hand in Sanaur||Tribune News ServiceSanaur (Patiala), April 12An ASI’s hand was chopped off and four other policemen were injured today when a group of Nihangs attacked them on being asked to show curfew passes. The incident occurred at a vegetable market in Sanaur in Patiala district.CM condemns attackCapt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CM, condemned the attack and warned that anyone violating the curfew would be strictly dealt with. “The police personnel are risking their lives to save the people of Punjab and any attack on them won’t be tolerated, he warned.Eleven persons, including five attackers, were arrested hours later after an exchange of fire at a gurdwara where the attackers fled. One of the arrested men suffered a gunshot wound, the police said. A “mandi” official was also hurt. A video clip of the incident went viral on the social media. ASI Harjeet Singh, whose hand was severed with a sword, was rushed to Rajindra Hospital and then referred to the PGIMER in Chandigarh, where the wrist was reattached after an eight-hour surgery.The attack on policemen needs to be condemned in the strongest of terms. Such criminals & anarchists should be brought to justice at the earliest. They deserve exemplary punishment.— Hardeep Singh Puri, Union MinisterWith a lockdown in place to contain the spread of Covid-19, barricades had been put up outside the wholesale market and entry restricted to those with curfew passes. The Nihangs arrived in an SUV and were signalled to stop by “mandi” officials, the police said. “They were asked to show passes. But they rammed the vehicle against the gate and the barricades,” Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said.The group then attacked police personnel and fled to the Nihang Dera Complex in Balbera village which houses Gurdwara Khichri Sahib. Once inside, the five accused Nihangs along with six others threatened to blow up the premises with petrol bombs and gas cylinders.The operation followed after hours of stand-off and many rounds of appeal by the police to the Nihangs to surrender, but they refused to do so, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said, adding dera head Balwinder Singh was the main perpetrator.The police persuaded the sarpanch and some villagers to speak to the Nihangs to surrender, but to no avail.A police team led by Patiala IG Jatinder Aulakh and SSP Sidhu along with a team of the Special Operations Group, led by ADGP Rakesh Chandra, then entered the premises to flush out the attackers. A few shots were fired by the accused before they were nabbed after a brief combat. SSP Sidhu was injured. “While carrying out the operation, it was ensured that the maryada of the gurdwara was not affected,” said the DGP.A huge cache of weapons, including kirpans, two petrol bombs, LPG cylinders, five bags of poppy husk and other drugs and Rs 39 lakh in cash, were seized from the complex.The three other injured cops included Inspector Bikkar Singh, ASI Raj Singh and ASI Raghbir Singh. Mandi Board official AR Yadwinder Singh was also hurt.Two cases have been filed against the accused — the first over the Sabzi Mandi incident for attempt to murder, rioting and attack on public servant under the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the second against 11 persons, including a woman, under the Disaster Management Act, Explosives Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Arms Act.Those arrested include Bant Singh Kala, Jagmeet Singh, Balwinder Singh (Nihang head), Gurdeep Singh, Nanna, Jangir Singh, Maninder Singh, Jaswant Singh, Darshan Singh, Nirbhav Singh and Sukhpreet Kaur.(Inputs from PTI)
