14-04-2020||Vishav Bharti||Punjab might already be in stage-3 coronavirus spread||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14With a large number sporadic cases reported in the past two weeks, the state seems to have already entered stage three of coronavirus (community spread) breakout. Despite curfew, almost every day saw cases in which source of infection couldn’t be traced.In terms of transmission of the disease the World Health Organisation has defined coronavirus spread in four stages. The first stage is when cases only with travel history are reported and their sources are traced and there is no local spread. In stage two, infected people spread the virus to close friends or family. At this stage, every person who came in contact with the infected can be traced and isolated. And the stage three is community transmission, breakout happens in community but the source for the virus cannot be traced. The stage four arrives when a large numbers of infections and a growing number of deaths with no end in sight.Going by the media bulletins released since April 1 by the state government, around 25 such cases were reported which had neither any travel history nor the source of their infection could be located. The state has been placing these cases either in category of ‘new cases’ or quite recently have started calling them Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patients. Even in the field, the district health officials are trying to hide such cases. In Nijatam Nagar in Jalandhar district, a 72-year-old woman was tested positive on March 26. District health officials claimed that has had an Italian relative who visited her and she got infection from him. However, her son categorically refuted the health department’s claim. After her son Ravi Chhabra tested positive on April 8, the health department again made claims in public about his Italian connection and said his Italian relative stayed with the family 25 days back. However, Chhabra refuted claims again but health department never retracted statement. The real carriers of infection were never traced.The biggest shock was the Ludhiana’s Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) who tested positive and the source of his infection couldn’t be traced. He was on duty at sabzi mandi for the entire last week of March where people in large number come. Same was with gardener working at Deputy Commissioner’s residence in Patiala who tested positive recently and his source on infection also remains untraced.Similar cases have been reported from Pathankot, SAS Nagar and various other districts. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Punjab has not clearly entered the stage three. “We are still between second and third stage. But the situation is completely under our control at present,” he said. (With inputs from Aparna Banerji in Jalandhar)
14-04-2020||---||PAU issues harvesting guidelines amid Covid-19 outbreak||Ludhiana, April 14With harvesting machines being exempted from lockdown during the Covid-19 outbreak, the state is ready for the annual wheat harvest. Giving information in this regard, Dr Manjit Singh, Head, Department of Farm Machinery and Power Engineering, PAU, said in order to ensure a safe harvest season, PAU experts have issued the following guidelines for cleaning and sanitisation of the farmers/manpower and machines being operated. Farmers should practice routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces of agricultural machines/tools like harvesting sickle, controls of tractors and combine like steering, throttle lever, gear shifting leavers, seat and mirror, feeding hoppers of threshers, machine hitch point, sprayer lance etc. through two stages process.Stage 1: Cleaning of machinery with detergent, water and sodium hypochlorite (1%) (3-step process):Prepare a solution using detergent with water and apply on the required surfaces by using any available sprayer like portable knapsack sprayer preferably battery operated or whichever is available having fine spray/mist. (For large areas like machinery sheds, high capacity Aero blast or Orchard Sprayer may be more appropriate). Apply clean water on the surface. Wait for 10 minutes to dry.Again clean the area by using sodium hypochlorite (1%) solution or bleach solution in recommended dose.Electric parts of tractor, combine should be covered with polythene during this stage.Stage 2: Disinfecting the most frequently used surfaceThe most frequently touched surfaces like steering wheel, throttle lever, gear shifting levers and mirror, feeding hoppers of threshers etc. should be wiped with alcohol-based rub/spirit rub.  According to Dr Singh, farmers should follow the Do’s and Don’ts recommended by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India.“Proper protection clothes like gloves and mask should be mandatory throughout the field operation. The water bottles kept for use during field operations should be kept in a bag and should not be shared with anyone,” he said. Minimum number of healthy persons should be seated on the tractor or combine and at a maximum possible distance, he added. Farmers/workers should regularly wash their hands with soap or detergent/disinfectant and avoid frequent touching of eyes, noses and mouth during work. Another very important precaution is that farmers/workers should not spit in the public.
14-04-2020||Patiala||Corona survivor receives guard of honour on discharge from hospital in Patiala||A 31-year-old corona survivor received a guard of honour from the Deputy Commissioner, Civil Surgeon and medical staff at the Government Rajindra Hospital, here on Tuesday.The survivor—who had been the first positive case of the district—was discharged from the isolation ward, on Tuesday evening.Congratulating the survivor, Kumar Amit wished him good health and better life ahead.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra, district epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh, and Corona Nodal officer Dr Yuvraj Narang were also present to cheer the survivor.Meanwhile, the survivor thanked the junior residents, nurses and medical staff for the support and care during the tough time.He said, “I am thankful to each and every doctor and other medical staff for their support and care. I could win the battle against the coronavirus with the help of doctors and nurses.”Narrating his isolation days, the 31-year-old said he had been scared initially, however, after consultation with doctors and staff, he gained self-confidence.He said that junior residents, who were on duty, would answer all his queries to satisfy him and assured that “he would survive the battle.”“The junior doctors (JR) used to answer every question of mine and clear my doubts,” said the corona survivor.Talking about his daily routine, he said he would watch Punjabi comedy movies to beat the stress of being lonely in the isolation ward.“Whenever I would be in stress, I watched Punjabi comedy movies. It helped me a lot,” the 31-year-old said.Meanwhile, he wanted to request people that there was no need to be scared from corona survivors.He said, “There is no need to be scared of corona survivor. They are completely normal people. They should never be ill-treated.”
14-04-2020||---||Punjab to stay under curfew till May 3: CM at all-party meet on Covid-19||Chandigarh, April 14Citing the gravity of the situation, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced that the state would follow complete curfew/lockdown till May 3, in line with the extension in the national lockdown, even as he assured all the political parties in the state of aggressive measures, including large-scale testing, in continuing war against the COVID pandemic.Even as he appreciated the support extended by them to his government, the Chief Minister urged all political parties in the state to unitedly tight the battle against COVID-19, rising above political considerations. He said the state government would actively consider all their suggestions to ensure an effective and holistic response to the current crisis.At an all-party VC meet to discuss the critical issue of COVID-19, the Chief Minister said the entire country, and in fact the world, was going through bad times, with Punjab no exception. The lockdown so far had helped curb the spread, and the state’s count of cases was currently among the lowest in the country, he said.  Pointing out that medical experts were suggesting that 5 weeks of lockdown could really improve the situation, he promised all-out efforts to succeed in the battle against the pandemic.In response to various suggestions made during the meeting, the Chief Minister said he had taken note of all, especially the concerns relating to the workers, and would take steps to address the same. Acceding to his government’s request, the Centre had already allowed commencement of operations in industries that could accommodate migrant labourers, and four had already started operating in Bathinda, with Ludhiana also gearing up to begin working, he said. The task force set up to formulate the exit strategy for the state would make its recommendations within 10 days on the way forward, he pointed out.The Chief Minister told the meeting that the state government was continuously scaling up the testing to check the spread of the pandemic, with all three medical colleges in the state were now equipped to conduct the tests with a capacity of 1,200 a day. This was in addition to the tests being conducted by PGI, Chandigarh, while the Ludhiana DMC and CMC were awaiting approval to commence testing. On a suggestion from Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal, the Chief Minister directed the Health Department to consider getting approval for testing at the SGPC-run hospitals, in order to scale up the tests further.On their part, leaders of all the parties extended their unequivocal support to the government. “We are with you,” they categorically told the Chief Minister.There was consensus among all parties on the need to take strict action against, even takeover of, private hospitals not supporting the government in these critical times. On the issue of most private hospitals and OPDs being closed, Amarinder said they had already been issued a stern warning and action would be taken against those not heeding it. In many cases, he said, the infrastructure of private hospitals was being used by the government in the pandemic battle. Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said equipment of such hospitals had been hired on CGHS rates.In response to a question, the Chief Minister said three hospitals in Pathankot had been notified as COVID hospitals and necessary equipment was being provided to all.The various party leaders appreciated the prompt action taken by the police against the perpetrators of the Patiala attack and wanted quick and exemplary punishment. BJP’s Ashwani Sharma hailed the state government’s handling of the issue as a morale booster for the police force and other frontline workers.Amid concerns expressed by most party leaders that distribution of food was not being done properly on the ground, Food Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu termed it a misconception, pointing out that 1.41 crore card holders had been given their rations.In response to a concern expressed by Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal, ACS (Development) Vishwajit Khanna said there was no limit on the produce that a farmer could bring to the Mandis, with passes to be issued as per their respective yields. He also assured Sukhbir that masks and sanitisers had been provided to the Mandi Board and ‘arhtiyas’ and procuring agencies would be further supplementing the same.Aam Aadmi  Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann wanted deferment of all payment/repayment on loans of private banks and no wage cutting by companies. He suggested more publicity for the COVA app, which he said was extremely useful in the fight against the Coronavirus.
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: 10-member committee to look into gradual easing of lockdown, says Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said his government had set up a 10-member committee that would look into gradual withdrawal of lockdown imposed to halt the spread of coronavirus.Capt Amarinder, who addressed the press through a video link on Tuesday evening after he held an all-party meeting---also through such a video conference---said the committee would submit its report in 10 days.He said another committee was looking into a post-COVID rehabilitation plan.“The relaxation would be given keeping in mind Prime Minister’s guidelines. Today four mills have started in Bathinda. Others will follow,” Amarinder said.He added later: “Our priority would be the labour-intensive industry”.Capt Amarinder spoke about his government’s strategy to contain the spread of coronavirus. He said his government was prepared for four stages of containment, depending on the spread of the virus.The chief minister quoted a supposed-report from PGIMER claiming a five-week lockdown could bring the contagion to zero.“If lockdown is done correctly, it can affect 87 per cent population. That is why we have adopted five weeks lockdown and another week to watch to see how it goes,” he said.The Punjab Government would ramp up testing in the spots identified as hotspots in the state, he said.“Not all 17 districts are not hotspots---just the places identified as hotspots in five districts are,” he said.His government had asked the central government for more testing kits and more funds to deal with the health crisis, he said.  “We have got 1000 rapid paid test kits at the moment. We have asked for more kits from Centre,” the chief minister said. “We have asked for Rs 5,679 crore from Centre on various fronts to fight the COVID-19”.He said the state had 16,000 Personal Protection Equipment kits, but preferred to give it to medical staff at the frontlines of the battle against the pandemic.Amarinder said his government would gradually open up shops---including liquor vends---as parameters for checking improved.He said he was satisfied with the way people were responding to the curbs. He also admitted that the state did not expect the curve to flatten by May 3.“But that does not mean the lockdown will continue. We have safeguards,” he said.Punjab had imposed a lockdown and later curfew restrictions on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a nationwide lockdown. On April 11, Punjab extended its curfew until May 1, which the government has now extended to May 3.Punjab Health Ministry's latest bulletin shows the state has reported 184 cases so far with 13 deaths. The state reported eight new infections on Monday, the report showed.
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Reconsider orders on full wages to workers: Capt Amarinder in letter to PM||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has urged the Centre to reconsider its directives asking industry and commercial establishments to continue paying full wages to their workers during the COVID-19 lockdown period, as it may push them to bankruptcy.He has urged the Centre to look for innovative solutions to “protect the interests of the worker without causing irreparable damage to the industry/commercial establishments.”The Chief Minister has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking reconsideration of the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The relevant part of the order reads: “that all the employers, be it in the Industry or in the shops and commercial establishments, shall make payment of wages to their workers, at their workplace, on the due date, without any deduction, for the period their establishment is under closure during the lockdown.”This part of the order, said the Chief Minister, needs reconsideration “as this will have huge financial implications for the industry as well as shops and commercial establishments in the State and may push them to bankruptcy as the income of most of these units has completely stopped due to lockdown.”On the other hand, Captain Amarinder said, the workers, especially the low-paid ones, could be deprived of their income for no fault of theirs.The Chief Minister termed it as imperative that the Centre should reexamine the matter and explore some innovative solutions “whereby the interests of the workers can be protected without impairing the financial health of commercial and industrial units beyond repair.”Pointing out that the state government had written separately to the Union Labour Ministry on the issue, Captain Amarinder urged the Prime Minister to advise them to take early action in this regard.
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab coronavirus 'super-spreader' asks everyone to follow lockdown norms||Maintaining social distancing and following lockdown norms are necessary protocols to contain the coronavirus pandemic, says a virus-infected patient of Punjab who is now feeling remorse to get a tag of "super-spreader".He believes had he taken measures to keep the virus at bay, the virus might not have affected his eight family members and 29 other members of his extended family.He is 43-year-old Malkit Singh, the first patient of Jawaharpur village near Dera Bassi town in Mohali district, some 20 km from here.He is the village 'panch' or an elected panchayat member and undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute at Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here.He was diagnosed with coronavirus positive on April 4."All my other family members were diagnosed after I was diagnosed coronavirus positive," Singh told IANS over the phone from the hospital.Regretting that his only mistake was mingling too frequently with his fellow villagers, he said; "Since I am the village 'panch,' it was my duty to take preventive steps and also lend a helping hand to the poor by organising community kitchens in the village itself".He said his house was located close to a community centre where villagers and district officials frequently meet to chalk out steps to impose lockdown restrictions and the village sanitization."I was more actively involved in ensuring round-the-clock logistics support by motivating the villagers on preventing human movement, disinfection of public places and maintaining a supply of essential commodities."At that time, we ignored the government advisory of maintaining social distancing and the use of face masks," Singh, who owns a small-scale unit in the village to manufacture decoration articles used for banquet halls for the wedding ceremony, said.As per official figures, one more patient from Jawaharpur village tested positive on Tuesday, taking the total cases in the village to 38.None of the 38 patients has a travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic and tested positive only after testing.The latest patient is another immediate family member of already positive cases, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in a tweet.He said one sample of the village has gone for resampling.Health officials say all patients from Jawaharpur belong to close-knit and extended families of the prime patient.Mohali district, which lies on the periphery of the state capital Chandigarh, with a total of 56 positive cases, has become the epicentre of the virus in the state. Out of them, five have been cured and two died.Officials believe Singh contracted COVID-19 from his part-time employee, who returned to the village after visiting Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz in March.The panch's first cousin is the husband of the village's sarpanch, whose five members tested positive."It is wrong to blame my employees for the virus spread. It is true that some of my employees are Muslims and they visit the nearby mosque to offer prayers. All the Muslims in the village tested negative. I don't know from where and how I contracted the virus," he said."Our village is known for the brotherhood of all faiths," Singh, whose family members have been undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur near the village, added.Jawaharpur village is now a containment zone with a complete ban on movement of people along with three neighbouring villages."Extensive sampling has enabled us to identify more positive cases within the village and isolate them, hopefully containing the spread in the village with a population of 2,500 plus, as well as beyond," said Deputy Commissioner Dayalan. IANS
14-04-2020||Ludhiana||LIP MLA's security detail withdrawn after he says 'Nihangs' avenged wrongs by Punjab Police||Four gunmen on the security detail of LIP MLA Simarjit Bains were withdrawn on Tuesday after the MLA said that the 'Nihangs'—who had chopped off a Patiala cop's hand—did so to "avenge wrongs committed by the Punjab Police".Bains had said that there was "resentment" against the Punjab Police because they had recently beaten up people. He had said that the force needed to introspect why the "Nihangs were forced to pick up the kirpan."His security detail, consisting of four gunmen, was withdrawn by Ludhiana police. Ludhiana Commissioner of Police, Rakesh Agrawal, said all four gunmen expressed a desire to withdraw from Bain's security detail because they felt his comments "insulted" the Punjab police.
14-04-2020||---||Sports equipment gutted as fire breaks out at industrial unit in Patiala||Patiala, April 14A fire broke out at a sports industrial unit at Focal Point in Patiala on Tuesday. Fire officials who reached the spot said they received a call at 12.43 pm after which fire tenders were pressed into service. They said no one was hurt in the incident.The fire emanating out of the building was visible from afar. Residents nearby said they spotted the fire and informed the fire office.Sanjeev Anand, owner of Santosh Sports industries, said the unit was closed since April 22 due to curfew imposition. "Our security guard was here at the spot who spotted the fire in time. The fire broke out on the first floor, probably due to short-circuit. Our store is also on the first floor."He said the company deals in manufacture of sports equipment, including foam mattresses, which instantly catch fire. He said the estimate of loss can't be calculated as of now as the equipment was kept for weeks.The fire was extinguished. Fire officials said they are yet to ascertain the cause of the fire.
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||After Patiala clash, Twitter shows solidarity with 'Punjab Police Sadda Maan' campaign||A day after an Assistant Sub Inspectors (ASI) left hand was severed in a clash with Nihang Sikhs in Patiala, the Twitterati showed up in huge numbers to support the 'Punjab Police Sadda Maan' campaign launched by the Punjab Police.'Punjab Police Sadda Maan' soon became a top national trend just a day after the violent skirmish in Patiala.The sentiments augmented because of the civility shown by the police while taking on some Nihangs who had chopped off Harjeet Singh's hand after he asked them to produce the curfew mobility pass.The netizens shared videos, graphics and caricatures to show their solidarity with the force.Other than commoners, prominent politicians, including former Union Minister Manish Tewari and Education Minister of Punjab Vijay Inder Singla, expressed their support for Punjab Police.Tewari tweeted: "Indeed Punjab Police Saada Maan! Punjab is grateful to these valiant heroes for being at the forefront of a deadly fight! They continue to serve the people, tirelessly." Vijay Inder Singla also took to Twitter and wrote, "Sharing a special video, which was sent to me by someone. No two ways about the fact that Punjab Police have gone beyond the call of duty—exemplifying humanity in the COVID19 situation. I join the state, in thanking these courageous men and women! Punjab Police Saada Maan."Indeed #PunjabPoliceSaadaMaan! Punjab is grateful to these valiant heroes for being at the forefront of a deadly fight! They continue to serve the people, tirelessly! Bravo!@PunjabPoliceIndpic.twitter.com/KLnMYwBMYm  Meanwhile, Punjab Police too acknowledged the sentiment and shared an emotional video justifying its motto: "Shubh Karman Te Kabhu Na Taron".The video showed the police personnel on ground working round the clock to serve the people of the state amid the lockdown."Somedays, the internet truly springs up wonderful surprises! Grateful for this heartwarming video and 'Punjab Police Saada Maan' sentiment! Punjab Police stays committed to its motto 'Shubh Karman Te Kabhu Na Taron' and serving the people of Punjab at all times," the state police said in a tweet.It is worth mentioning that the police have been able to connect with the masses and establish a positive narrative through its consistent communication via social media.Somedays, the internet truly springs up wonderful surprises! Grateful for this heartwarming video and #PunjabPoliceSaadaMaan sentiment! Punjab Police stays committed to its motto ‘Shubh Karman Te Kabhu Na Taron’ & serving the people of Punjab at all times!pic.twitter.com/0YWdLcYs4y  Taking to Twitter, Bollywood star Sanjay Dutt wrote: "It's commendable how policemen of each and every state are doing such a phenomenal job in this situation of crisis. Just came across this video of @PunjabPoliceInd doing their duty. Hats off to them!" Bollywood actor and Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol tweeted: "I heartily salute the personnel of Punjab Police who are performing their duty and at the same time serving the society in this tough time of Covid-19."It's commendable how policemen of each and every state are doing such a phenomenal job in this situation of crisis. Just came across this video of @PunjabPoliceInd doing their duty. Hats off to them! @DGPPunjabPolice @CMOPb #IndiaFightsCorona #PunjabPoliceSaadaMaan pic.twitter.com/d3I6zhXN38  मैं पंजाब पुलिस के सभी जवानों को दिल से सलाम करता हूं जो इस करोना वायरस नामक महामारी के समय में भी अपनी ड्यूटी के साथ-साथ समाज की भी सेवा कर रहे हैं।@DGPPunjabPolice @ppbtl @PPGSP3 @pp_pathankot #PunjabPoliceSaadaMaan pic.twitter.com/zY4P3Z1r0z  Earlier in the day, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh spoke to the ASI of Punjab Police whose left hand was severed in the clash in Patiala.The hand of ASI Harjeet Singh has been successfully re-implanted in an eight-hour-long surgery at the PGI Hospital in Chandigarh on Sunday."Spoke to ASI Harjeet Singh, who is recovering after his operation, to enquire about his health," the Chief Minister said in a tweet."The composure and bravery with which he spoke today are truly worthy of admiration. Wishing him a speedy recovery," he added.Spoke to Pawandeep Kaur, Staff Nurse in Civil Hospital, Moga and enquired of her well being and the well being of all Doctors, Nurses & Paramedics working in the hospital. My best wishes to all our frontline warriors fighting #Covid19. pic.twitter.com/wHOoMZIey5  The PGI said that it was a very complex and challenging surgery, which was successfully done.Eleven people, including a woman, were arrested for the crime after several hours of stand-off and many rounds of talks between the police and the Nihang Dera head Baba Balwinder Singh. IANS
14-04-2020||---||Case registered against Ferozepur private school for flouting CM order on fee||Chandigarh, April 14Following a probe, the Punjab Education department has got an FIR registered against a private school in Zira in Ferozepur district for charging school fee and money for books during the coronavirus lockdown.An FIR has been registered against the school authorities.The action has been taken after Zira MLA Kulbir Zira complained that orders of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Education Minister Vijay Inder singla, regarding seeking school fee and charging for school books, were being flouted.
14-04-2020||New York||Sikhism embodies ideals of service, equality, dignity: New Jersey Governor in Baisakhi wishes||Sikhism embodies the ideals of service, equality, dignity and these values are especially important as the world faces the COVID19 pandemic, New Jersey Governor said in his message to the Sikh community on the occasion of Baisakhi.Baisakhi, which was celebrated on April 13, commemorates the creation of the Khalsa, a collective body of Sikhs.“Happy #Vaisakhi to the Sikh community! Sikhism embodies the ideals of service, equality, and dignity—values that are especially important today. With one of the largest concentrations of Sikhs in the nation, there’s no better place to recognise this holiday than the Garden State,” Phil Murphy tweeted on Monday.Happy #Vaisakhi to the Sikh community! Sikhism embodies the ideals of service, equality, and dignity—values that are especially important today. With one of the largest concentrations of Sikhs in the nation, there's no better place to recognize this holiday than the Garden State. pic.twitter.com/IxWQtyvZ5a  New Jersey is home to about 100,000 Sikh Americans, one of the largest populations in the country.New Jersey is the second most impacted state in the US, after New York, from the coronavirus pandemic. The state has 64,584 confirmed COVID19 cases and more than 2440 people have died so far. —PTI
14-04-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: Punjab's eight new cases takes state tally to 184||Punjab on Tuesday reported eight coronavirus cases, taking the state's case tally to 184.Pathankot, Mohali, Gurdaspur, and Jalandhar reported cases.Pathankot reported four cases, all contacts of already diagnosed patients. Gurdaspar reported its first case on Tuesday. A state health bulletin said later in the day that the person suffers from severe acute respiratory distress (SARI)---a phenomenon that occuress in the more serious cases of the deadly contagion. Mohali reported two more cases, taking the district's tally to 56---the district with the most number of cases.One of Tuesday's two cases is a  56-year-old woman from Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi----the village that the state's authrities have marked as a cluster.The woman's family members had previously tested positive. She is believed to have tested positive in the second test. This makes the the total number of coronavirus cases in the village  to 38.  The other case is a 36-year-old woman from Mundi Kharar.She worked as a domestic help of a 78-year-old woman who had died of coronavirus at the civil hospital in Kharar on April 7. The deceased woman's husband had also tested positive.Both of Tuesday's cases have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.None of Jawaharpur's 38 patients have a travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic, and were diagnosed only after testing. Some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village but had left before anyone could get information about them.Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said that teams had been deputed for the villages to take the samples of the women's family members and other contacts.Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, said that the district administration was undertaking extensively tracing contacts and sampling, which is leading to the identification of more cases."This would lead to their isolation in time and help in combating the coronavirus. The containment protocol is being strictly followed in the village," he added.In Kapurthala, 18 of 24 students at Lovely Professional University tested negative on Tuesday, officials said. Police are awaiting test results of seven people in the university, which includes that of a person working at the institutions mess who died on Monday. He is believed to have had jaundice.Jalandhar also reported one case, also a patient with actute respiratory distress. This takes the district tally to 25. The health bulletin also shows that Punjab's death tally currently stands at 13.Meanwhile, Sangrur district reported its third positive case on Tuesday. One person tested positive in Malerkotla, officials said.A Patiala city resident with no travel history tested positive on Tuesday, officials said. This makes it the third coronavirus case in the district.Neither the Sangrur nor Patiala case have been added to the state's official tally yet.
14-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar professor spends his time teaching Lahore University students online||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 13Prof (Retd) Balvinder Singh, who is a former head of Guru Nanak Dev University’s Guru Ram Das School of Planning, has been teaching students of the University of Management and Technology, Lahore, online in his free time during the ongoing lockdown period.He is also associated with the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS). Besides, he has been sharing his knowledge and experience with fourth-year agriculture students of the University of Management and Technology of Lahore, Pakistan, through Zoom Cloud (meeting) technology on the request invitation of Prof Ayesha Mehmood Malik and Prof Najma Kabir from the Architecture and Planning Department of the university.Apart from reviewing research papers in the capacity as an editorial board member of different international journals, he is preoccupied in writing research papers as well.He has written a book, ‘Splendid Art works in Historic Sikh Shrines of India and Pakistan: Conservation Perspective’, and a research paper entitled, ‘Conservation of Architectural Heritage: Enabling Laws’ in the SPACE Journal of School of planning and Architecture, New Delhi.He starts his day with yoga asanas. After that, he watches live kirtan. During the lockdown, he gets time to spend with his family members, includes his wife and son. He also assists them in household chores.Prof (Retd) Balvinder is also in touch with his daughter, who is an assistant professor in the PGIMER, Chandigarh, and her family members.He is making all-out efforts to create awareness and asking his known ones not to fear. He is constantly in touch with his acquaintances in various government departments, friends and relatives.“I salute health workers, police personnel and sanitation workers who are in the frontline of this war against Covid. Waheguru bless my country from this threat,” he said.
14-04-2020||---||Covid dampens Baisakhi spirit||Amritsar, April 13The festival of Baisakhi not only has a religious meaning but also deep-routed cultural importance attached to it.It was on this day in 1699 that the tenth Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh, had established Khalsa. Though the event shaped the subsequent history of the region, the festival started being celebrated much before that day. For Punjabi peasants, it has always been a occasion for grand celebrations.However this year, due to the Covid crisis, the festive mood was dampened as the state has banned large gathering and has been advocating social distancing.Gurbachan Singh of Chabba village said: “Before the advent of paddy in the state, wheat was the major crop. The religious significance of the festival and the occasion being the time for farmers to harvest grains of the entire year made it an occasion for grand celebrations.” He said he was missing the razzmatazz associated with the festival. An elderly, Sukhchain Singh, said: “Around 50 years ago, Baisakhi marked the culmination of harvesting season and farmers would celebrate the festival after finishing all their works. Now with a change in cropping patterns, be it seed varieties or other factors, the harvesting begins after the festival.” He added that the festival still holds same significance for the rural population.Many farmers said earlier in these days, kadaddi matches and other rural sports on Baisakhi were much awaited annual events. “The decision taken by the government to impose curfew is in the interest of the people and we must abide by it,” said Kuljit Singh, another farmer, adding that his family cooked kheer at their home to celebrate the day.
14-04-2020||A Correspondent||Punjab Minister meets senior health officials||Mohali, April 13To contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district, especially in Jawaharpur village near Dera Bassi, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu presided over a meeting of senior health officials here today. ‘Find reason for outbreak in village’Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu asked the officials to strategise further contact tracing of the positive patients and find out the reason behind the outbreak in the village. The Health Minister asked the expert team to keep giving its suggestions and discuss about ways to prevent and control the disease more effectively and efficiently.On the request of Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, a team of four experts from the Government Medical College, Patiala, also took part in the meeting held at the Civil Surgeon’s office here.In the meeting, a government spokesperson said while addressing the health officials, Balbir Singh Sidhu said he was worried about the steep rise in Covid cases in Jawaharpur village, which needed to be checked at the earliest. While appreciating the untiring efforts of the District Health Department to tackle the unprecedented situation, Sidhu said public health experts of the Government Medical College, Patiala, were called so that they could share their opinion and suggestions to plan the next course of action to keep the pandemic under check.The minister asked the officials to strategise further contact tracing of the positive patients and find out the reason behind the outbreak in the village. The Health Minister asked the expert team to keep giving its suggestions and discuss about ways to prevent and control the disease more effectively and efficiently.District Epidemiologist Dr Harmandeep Kaur was also present in the meeting.
14-04-2020||Patiala||Nihangs’ foreign funding, drug link under lens; police get remand||The Punjab Police are probing the financial links of 11 Nihangs, arrested following the Sunday attack on police at Sanaur mandi here, with reports of foreign funding and criminal past of at least one of the accused coming to the fore.Edit: Criminal and anti-socialIn-depth inquiry onWe are probing the case from all angles. Their stay at the village, huge cash with no means and illegal weapons, all need in-depth probe. — Dinkar Gupta, Punjab DGPDissociating themselves from the accused, various Nihang activists have demanded “action as per law against them for nefarious activities” and probe into their alleged drug links. While 10 were remanded in police custody till April 24, the 11th who suffered a bullet injury would be produced in court later.“We have around 10 days to question them about their alleged illegal links and financial assets,” said Patiala SSP Mandeep Sidhu. Police sources said two of the accused were being probed for their links to a US-based woman, Rani, who sought political asylum in the country and later continued to send money to the accused. “Three years ago, accused Balwinder Singh had used the same money channel to buy Mahindra Getaway used in the Sunday incident,” they said. The police were also probing their possible drug links as a huge quantity of contraband was recovered from their premises.DGP Dinkar Gupta said foreign links and funding of the accused would be probed to ascertain their possible criminal involvement.Weapons, guns, used cartridges, two petrol bombs, LPG cylinders, poppy husk, other drugs in commercial quantity and Rs 39 lakh were seized from the accused at a gurdwara, hours after the attack on the police.
14-04-2020||Ludhiana||Punjab ACP (Ludhiana North) tests +ve, on ventilator||The Assistant Commissioner of Police (Ludhiana North) has tested positive for Covid-19 and is presently on ventilator.He apparently got infected while on duty at Sabzi Mandi a few days ago. His first sample had tested negative four days ago. But the repeat sample taken yesterday came out positive today. With this, the total number of cases in Ludhiana district has gone up to 11. Many Health Department officials, who came in contact with the ACP over the past few days, are now coming forward to get themselves tested.“Thirteen close contacts of the ACP, including staff and security men, have been quarantined. His wife and son have been sent into isolation and their samples collected. We are exploring his contacts to know infection source. It is too early to say he got infected at the Sabzi Mandi,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. — TNS
14-04-2020||---||Cops attacked in Kotkapura, one arrested||Faridkot, April 13The police have registered a case for attempt to murder against two employees of Indian Railways after they allegedly attacked a police party at a ‘naka’ in Kotkapura.The accused have been identified as Satpal and Kanwarpal Singh Gill.While one of the accused has been arrested, the police are on the lookout to nab the other accused, who had allegedly opened fire on the police party.Complainant ASI Kewal Singh said the accused, who were in an inebriated state, attacked the police party after the latter reprimanded them for violating the curfew orders.The police alleged that the accused attacked them and pelted stones at some locals also when they tried to intervene.The police personnel escaped unhurt, however, a resident received injuries on his head while he was trying to save the policemen.
14-04-2020||---||‘Book Bains for defending attack on cops’||Chandigarh, April 13Taking strong exception to MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains for “defending” Nihang attack on a police team in Patiala, Cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Aruna Choudhary on Monday demanded registration of an FIR against him for inciting communal disharmony.The police, meanwhile, on Monday arrested three persons for provocative social media messages, promoting religious hatred, in the wake of the brutal Patiala attack on police personnel by a group of Nihangs.The accused were identified as Bhupinder Singh of Model Town, Hoshiarpur, Davinder Singh of Civil Lines, Batala and Kuljeet Singh Bhullar of Malout, said DGP Dinkar Gupta. Separate FIRs have been registered against all three.The DGP said the accused were indulging in hate propaganda through social media posts and defended the Nihangs who attacked the cops.The DGP said they were examining legal options for taking action against Facebook.
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Army veteran passes away||The former Director General of Rashtriya Rifles, the army’s counter-terrorism force in Jammu and Kashmir, Lt General KP Dhal Samanta lost his life to cancer at 70 on Monday.He participated in Operation Blue Star and the fight against terrorism in Punjab. He went on to command an artillery regiment at Siachen Glacier.After retirement, he served as an administrative member of the Armed Forces Tribunal in Kolkata. — TNS
14-04-2020||Fazilka||Protest over distribution of ration in Fazilka||CPI activists today held a protest outside the District Administrative Complex, alleging unfair distribution of ration in the rural areas.CPI’s district unit secretary Hans Raj Golden said reports of discrimination against the poor had come to the fore as ration was being given to Congress workers.Sarv Bharat Naujawan Sabha state chief Parmjit Singh Dhaban, secretary Harbhajan Chhapriwala, block samiti member Subeg Singh Jhangar Bhaini, MGNREGA Rozgar Prapt Mazdoor Union district convener Narinder Singh Dhaban and Punjab Kisan Sabha president Krishan Dharmuwala sat on a dharna.Golden said complaints of discrimination poured in from a number of villages.Tehsildar Pawan Kumar and Naib Tehsildar Vijay Behal assured the activists that there would be equal distribution of ration. — OC
14-04-2020||On Monday morning||Social distancing goes for a toss in Muktsar||Local residents queued up outside banks without wearing face masksAn 18-year-old local boy was tested Covid positive and health officials are yet to trace people who came in his contact. TNS
14-04-2020||As many as 241 Bhutanese students||241 Bhutanese students fly back home||At the Mohali airport, 108 students boarded the flight, while 133 took off from Amritsar in planes sent by the Bhutan Government“The evacuation plan was executed as per the standard operating procedures,” an airport official said
14-04-2020||Patiala||Waive property tax: AAP to Punjab govt||The Aam Aadami Party (AAP) on Monday demanded that the state government should waive property tax to compensate for the losses suffered by businessmen and traders in view of the Covid-19 lockown.Neena Mittal, president of the party’s trade and industry wing, said the government should offer a support package to small and medium traders, and industrialists. Therefore the property tax should be waived. — TNS
14-04-2020||Amritsar||Sidhu in public sans face mask||DSP Avneet Kaur distributes sanitary padsBathinda: International shooter Avneet Kaur Sidhu, who serves the state as a DSP, distributed sanitary pads to women on their doorstep in slum areas of Dhobiana Basti here on Monday. “The Bathinda police, along with the support of an NGO Smile and Adarsh Welfare Society, have taken the initiative. Amid the curfew, it is important for women to maintain hygiene and take care of their essentials,” she said, adding the target was to distribute maximum sanitary pads to women belonging to BPL families and slum clusters. TNSTorrent Group donates Rs 2 croreChandigarh: The Torrent Group, which has presence in pharmaceutical, power and gas distribution sectors, has contributed Rs 2 crore towards the Chief Minister Covid Relief Fund. According to the group, the contribution will help strengthen the government’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic and help in mitigating its impact on humans. TNSRSS affiliate condemns attack on copsNew Delhi: RSS-affiliated Rashtriya Sikh Sangat president Gurcharan Singh Gill on Monday denounced the attack on the police by a group of Nihangs in Patiala and demanded a probe to find out whether or not the attack was part of a deep-rooted conspiracy. “First, they breached curfew restrictions and then indulged in violence,” he said. TNSRs 1.50 cr heroin seizedSangrur: The STF against drugs in Sangrur has arrested four relatives and confiscated 300 gm of heroin worth Rs1.50 crore and Rs5 lakh drug money from them on Sunday evening. The accused have been identified as Kaka Singh, Krishna Devi, Piaro and Tony. TNS
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Capt: Virus spread under control||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday thanked the people of the state for responding to his appeal for ardas at 11 am and celebrating Baisakhi at their homes in the larger interest of all.The Chief Minister said it was the need of the hour for all to behave responsibly and ensure that the pandemic does not escalate out of control. He thanked the people for extending their full support to his government for the past three weeks in maintaining social distance and adhering to the restrictions imposed as a result of the lockdown. “Unfortunately, we had to extend the curfew till May 1, but given the critical situation, there was no option,” he said, expressing hope that the state, which had largely been able to control the pandemic till now, would be able to stabilise the situation. — TNS
14-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Amid lockdown, HC eases norms for e-filing petitions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13In a reprieve of sorts to the litigants, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today did away with the practice of immediate filing of vakalatnamas and hardcopies of the petitions to facilitate the hearing of urgent cases through videoconferencing during the lockdown. Self-attestation of affidavits by the counsels appearing for the parties was also permitted.The directions, just about a week after The Tribune underscored the problems faced by the lawyers and the litigants over filing of hardcopies and vakalatnamas, came as the High Court decided to continue to function in “restricted” mode in view of the Covid outbreak. Even the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh were directed to function “restrictively”.The High Court functionaries were also allowed to work from home with the condition of making themselves available as and when required. The orders would come in force after the court reopens following the Baisakhi break on April 15 and would remain in force till May 1 at least.The administrative committee made it clear that the counsel or the party would be permitted to file petition on the High Court website with complete scanned copy of the paper book-petition, along with vakalatnama or power of attorney.An undertaking would be taken from the counsel to file the paper book complete in all respects, including the requisite documents, affidavits, and duly signed vakalatnama or power of attorney in original within a week after the withdrawal of the lockdown.“The court fee may be allowed to be paid online and the affidavit may be attested by the counsel holding the power of attorney and appearing in the case without requiring it to be attested from oath commissioner/notary public,” the High Court order read.REPRIEVE TO LITIGANTS
14-04-2020||GS Paul||11K houses in Amritsar under administration scanner||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 13The biggest challenge for the district administration and health teams is to trace the contacts of two men who do not have a travel history but still got infected with Covid-19. One of them has died. The administration fears community transmission if their contacts are not traced soon.So, the administration’s focus is on two areas — Chatiwind Gate in Sultanwind area and Krishna Nagar — from where the two cases were reported.Of the two patients, one —identified as Jaswinder Singh (65) — died on April 6. A resident of Chatiwind Gate, he was a retired Superintending Engineer in the Amritsar Municipal Corporation.The other patient, identified as Balbir Singh (67), is under treatment at Government Medical College here. He runs an embroidery shop in Krishna Nagar here.So far, Amritsar has reported 11 cases and two deaths.The district administration and the MC on Sunday started the screening drive from Sultanwind area and Krishna Nagar. The plan is to cover all 12 lakh residents of the city.DC Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon said, “Jaswinder’s primary contacts, included his wife and daughter, have already been examined. Their reports came out negative. His secondary contacts are being traced. Similarly, Balbir Singh’s contacts too are being traced. This is the reason that we started the screening drive from their areas.”About 11,000 houses in Sultanwind and Krishna Nagar have been identified. Around 50,000 persons are on the radar; they will be examined within three days.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said 10 fire tenders and 43 hand-spraying machines have been pressed into service.
14-04-2020||---||Women football makers hit rough patch||Jalandhar, April 13Shobha who had been stitching football for the last 20 years is now sitting idle. She used to make footballs for a sports unit, however, after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the nation, she hasn’t been getting more orders.Her husband, who used to run a kiosk, has gone into depression in the absence of work. Shobha has decided to stitch the remaining footballs with a hope that she would soon receive a call for more orders. She is among the thousands of women of Ram Nagar, Basti Nau, Kabir Nagar, New Rattan Nagar and other slum areas of Jalandhar who worked for Jalandhar sports goods industry. They used to earn a meagre amount of Rs40 to 50 per football, but even that is lost now.Talking to The Tribune, Shobha, a native of UP, said: “Paise ki bahut dikkat hai, gharwala bimar hai isi chinta mein (There is a shortage of money and my husband has gone into depression because of the situation we are in). Nobody is allowing us to open kiosk. I don’t know what future holds for us. I have heard that the lockdown has got extended. I wonder how will we make ends meet now?”Laxmi Devi, who used to stitch shoes in a factory, said she used to earn Rs7,000 per month by stitching shoes in a factory. Her husband, who was a daily wager, had not been working for more than a month after his leg was broken. “So far, I had been sustaining my family. I even started doing domestic chores in other people houses, but my services were terminated,” she said.
14-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Restricted access keeps Gurdaspur secure||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 13Immediate response is the reason why Gurdaspur has not reported even a single Covid case, say health officials. Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq convened a meeting of the Health and Police Departments in the first week of the month.Officials ramped up efforts to ensure social distancing norms were followed. Loud speakers were fitted atop government vehicles and regular appeals were made to the public to comply with the rules.Despite all this, people in droves turned up at ration shops, where it was difficult for the police to enter. But soon things were under control. The Gurdaspur and Batala Police Lines were designated as “special jails” for lodging offenders.In the neighbouring city of Pathankot, there was a sudden spike in the number of cases. First, there were seven cases. Following the surge, the health officials went into an containment overdrive. However, a day later, nine more persons tested positive, bringing the tally to 16. The development left the Gurdaspur administration jittery.Orders were issued to bar the entry of people coming from Pathankot into the town. The inter-district border was sealed. With Dinanagar being the main city between Pathankot and Gurdaspur, heavy police force was deployed there. Other routes, including the ones culminating in the city from villages, were also sealed.As many as 15 check-posts sprung up the day Pathankot’s tally touched 16. Swarandeep Singh took charge of these nakas and ensured all entry and exit routes were closed.“Orders were issued that any official showing complacency would be sent to the Police Lines as punishment,” he said. “I do not know what the future has in store but so far we are safe,” said the Deputy Commissioner said.Some concerns
14-04-2020||Aman Sood||Despite curfew restrictions, illicit sale of liquor continues in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 13Despite curfew restrictions in place, liquor is being sold illegally in various parts of the state. Buyers are paying double or triple the market price to get the booze on their doorstep.Navdeep Bhinder, Additional Commissioner (Excise)‘Have sought partial opening of vends’It is wrong if contractors are selling liquor during the lockdown. This means financial loss to the state government. We have moved a proposal to allow partial opening of vends.In Patiala, a liquor vend on the Rajpura road is selling liquor openly and the police are yet to act.“If someone wants a carton, we can deliver it on the doorstep. I am suffering huge losses,” said a contractor.There are reports that contractors having allegiance to the Congress are doing a good business.“A bottle of Teacher’s (Highland Cream), which costs Rs1,000, is being sold for Rs2,300 in Patiala, while it is available for Rs2,200 in Mohali and Rs2,100 in Ludhiana,” the contractor said.It is learnt that in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Ludhiana, Sangrur, Mohali and Patiala, liquor is easily available for those willing to pay extra.Additional Commissioner (Excise) Navdeep Bhinder said it was wrong if the contractors were selling liquor during the lockdown. This meant financial loss to the government. “We have moved a proposal to allow partial opening of the vends,” Bhinder said.Joint Commissioner LK Jain told The Tribune liquor vends would remain shut till further orders and accepted that “no stock was checked by their staff” assumingly that liquor was not being sold.“We will take up complaints of liquor being sold illegally at the top level,” he said.Chief Minister’s media adviser Raveen Thukral said: “The police have been issued instructions to take strict action against anyone found indulging in such an illegal activity. As of now, we are working on the curfew conditions to be imposed after April 14 and waiting for the Centre’s decision on allowing factories to work with safety protocols.”
14-04-2020||---||Some relief as Punjab sees dip in new cases||Chandigarh, April 13With six new cases reported over the past 24 hours, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has reached 177. Of them, one patient is critical and two are on oxygen support.Among the new cases, two each were reported from Jalandhar and Pathankot, and one each from SAS Nagar and Ludhiana.The one case in Ludhiana is of Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) Anil Kumar Kohli. He is on a ventilator. More worrying is that he was on duty at a vegetable market in the last week of March.In the first week of April, he fell ill and suffered from cough. On April 8, his condition deteriorated and he was admitted to a private hospital. Four days ago, his sample came out to be Covid-negative. But he was tested against on Sunday and, this time, the samples tested positive.With this, Ludhiana district’s tally has reached 11.“ACP’s 13 close contacts, including members of his staff and security, have been quarantined. His wife and son have been put under isolation. Their samples have been collected. It is too early to say that he got infected from the vegetable market. We are tracing his possible contacts and trying to find out the source of virus,” Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said.The private hospital’s medical superintendent, Dr Rajiv Kundra, said the ACP’s condition worsened on Saturday and he was put on a ventilator. When asked whether or not his condition was improving, he said he could not comment on it right now.Meanwhile, the two new cases from Pathankot and one from SAS Nagar are contacts of the already traced patients.In Jalandhar district, the two new cases have taken the total to 24. Of the two new patients, one is a 25-year-old resident of Lal Bazaar; his relative has already tested positive for Covid-19. The other is a 40-year-old resident of Raja Garden.Of the 24 patients, 17 have no contact history.After a student of Lovely Professional University (LPU), Phagwara, tested positive on Saturday, a man working on the campus was brought dead at the Civil Hospital on Monday.Jalandhar nodal officer Dr TP Singh said, “The patient was admitted to a private hospital on Monday. From there, he was brought to the Civil Hospital. He is a suspected Covid case and his sample has been taken.”
14-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar brings 24 areas under containment plan||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 13A massive containment plan has been introduced in the district, which witnessed 24 positive cases and two deaths (one suspected) so far. As many as 4,868 persons have been quarantined and 530 sampled. Twenty-four areas have been brought under the containment plan.In view of the rise in cases, the administration has turned the Punjab Institute of Medical Science (PIMS), a meritorious school and an engineering institute into isolation centes in case the Civil Hospital’s emergency runs out of beds.Three congested market areas, two villages and a university near the city have already reported cases of Covid. Doaba’s new hotspots include Mitha Bazaar, Lal Bazar, Nijatam Nagar, Narayan Nagar, Maqsudan, Kotla Heran (Shahkot) and Kartarpur. The staff of various private hospitals have also been put under complete or partial quarantine.One of the patients who tested positive today is a media professional. While the Civil Hospital has a 315-bed isolation centre, a 1,420-bed back-up has also been arranged across the PIMS (400 beds), meritorious school (500 beds), National Institute of Technology (NIT) (500 beds) and an IMA-arranged isolation unit at Billi Chuharami village (20 beds).Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Varinder Sharma said, “We have a 1,735-bed back-up to fight any eventuality. As many as 24 areas are under our containment plan and isolated places like meritorious school, NIT and PIMS have been shortlisted for isolation zones. Four patients have recovered so far.”
14-04-2020||Karam Prakash||Disinfectant tunnels harmful: Punjab Health department||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 13The Health Department today ordered dismantling of all disinfectant tunnels. The tunnels, which were set up recently at several places across the state, have been found to be ineffective.Different departments, including the police, had set up these tunnels to sanitise their staff members. The Health Department has said that “it (tunnel) doesn’t kill any virus, rather it leads to health issues among people passing through it”.The department said sodium hypochlorite solution, used in these tunnels, was harmful for eyes and skin.In an advisory to all civil surgeons and deputy commissioners on Monday, the department said these disinfectant tunnels would create a false sense of security and people might skip hand wash and other measures after passing through it.Health experts said these tunnels, which have 0.5 sodium hypochlorite solution, wouldn’t kill any virus as at least 1 per cent hypochlorite solution was required for the purpose.A senior health official said, “The tunnels had been set up without consulting health experts. Not even a single tunnel was set up by the department. A lot of hue and cry was raised when migrant labourers in UP were sprayed the same disinfectant.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said they had received the orders from the department to discontinue all these tunnels. He said, “The chemical used in the tunnels will harm mucous membranes in humans.”It affects skin, eyes
14-04-2020||Vishav Bharti||30,000 Punjab health workers on frontline sans insurance||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13The foot soldiers in the battle against coronavirus in Punjab are being paid low wages ranging from Rs 100 to Rs 500 per day. None of the contractual health employees has been provided insurance cover.Kulbir Dhillon, Chairman, co-ordination committee paramedical and health employeesCover must for high-risk groupThe government must immediately provide insurance cover to every individual who is putting his life at risk.Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, who are at the bottom of public healthcare hierarchy and are tasked to identify symptomatic cases in villages, are paid Rs 2,000-3,000 monthly. This includes an honorarium of Rs 1,500 for maintenance of monthly register of various cases as well as incentive for enrolling pregnant women and vaccinating newborn for various programmes.They are treated as voluntary health workers and are not even paid minimum wages. There are around 27,000 ASHA workers in the state. In the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak, the ASHA workers were assigned with the task to visit all houses of NRIs and suspected cases in villages and report back to the health authorities.Jaswinder Kaur Moga district general Secretary of Asha Worker and Facilitator Union of Punjab, said though it was not the time to raise demands, but to work for society. “But if the government at least extend an insurance cover to us, it will help us to work with confidence,” she said.Apart from them, multipurpose health workers are also playing an important role. They are part of the rapid response team, which is instrumental in implementing lockdown in villages and screening of patients. There are around 2,500 contractual female multipurpose health workers, who are paid Rs 12,000 per month.Besides, there are a large number of contractual staff nurses, ANMs, pharmacists and lab technicians who work on meagre wages. Many nurses are on duty in isolation wards. A number of outsourced employees are also paid low wages. Health Minister Balbir Sidhu could not be contacted.
14-04-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Awareness up, 90% waste segregation target achieved in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13Heightened awareness about sanitation amid the fear of Covid-19 pandemic has helped the Local Government Department achieve a daunting task of convincing the residents to segregate dry and wet garbage.Since lockdown, the door-to-door collection of segregated dry and wet garbage has jumped from 67 per cent to 90 per cent. From densely populated to the posh areas in urban local bodies, mainly in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and other large cities, more and more people are cooperating with the sanitation workers. At some places, residents are even honouring the frontline soldiers in the battle against coronavirus.Nearly 4,100 metric tonnes of garbage is being collected from more than 21 lakh households in the state daily.Brahm Mohindra, Local Government Minister, said, “Earlier, convincing people to segregate the waste was a daunting task. Now, aggressive campaign on social media and otherwise regarding the significance of hygiene in view of the pandemic has resulted in visible change in the way people handle their waste and in their attitude towards sanitation workers.”To push the campaign, a grant of nearly Rs 350 crore is expected to be released to the ULBs by next week.The sanitation workers, mostly contractual, have been entrusted with the critical job of collecting the garage from households of over 8,000 quarantined persons and treating it as biomedical waste for disposal.Sanjay Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, told the Tribune that a 31,000-strong work force of sanitation workers is at the frontline in the battle against the pandemic. “They are also involved in other activities such as ensuring door-to-door delivery of food and essential services and enforcing social distances,” he said.“Initially, we undertook an extensive door-to-door campaign to spread awareness on Covid. We have achieved 100 per cent door-to-door collection. The responsibility of cleaning public places is also on their shoulders”, he pointed out.Apart from announcing an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for the sanitation workers, the retirement age has been increased for the workers who were to retire on March 31. The department has started night sweeping in 17 ULBs.
