15-09-2020||Vibha Sharma||Not consulted before 3 agri-ordinances: BJP ally Akali Dal; govt says states were in the loop||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 15The Lok Sabha on Tuesday cleared the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, amid strong objections from Opposition MPs who termed the BJP-led Centre’s move “anti-farmer and pro-hoarders, pro-big traders and pro-corporates”, and a surprising claim by ally Akali Dal that it was “not consulted” before the three contentious agri-Ordinances which it is now replacing with legislations.Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal’s assertion during the discussion was laughed off by AAP’s Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann. Registering his party’s “strong opposition” to what he called “open licence to stockholders and black marketers”, Mann said: “I am surprised he (Badal) is objecting to the Ordinances while his party is enjoying the powers of the ministry in the Centre. They (Akalis) should have sacrificed the ministry if they were so against the Ordinances, which they initially called ‘kamaal ka faisla’ and also invited Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to speak in favour of.” Sukhbir Badal’s wife Harsimrat Kaur is Food Processing Industries Minister in the Narendra Modi Cabinet. Badal, who sought to establish the credentials of the Akali Dal as a party representing farmers, said when the government brought the three Ordinances in June “his party’s representative in the Union Cabinet expressed reservations”. “The government said the Ordinances were for benefit of farmers. In that case, these Ordinances should not have been brought in this way…they should have been brought after discussions.  As a farmers’ party, we have always spoken for the community,” he said, also invoking the contributions of his father Parkash Singh Badal as a farmers’ leader to press his claim. “Before bringing the Ordinances, parties and groups representing farmers should have been consulted. We were not asked before the Ordinances were brought in the Cabinet. Our representative in Cabinet said existing fears must be cleared. In the past two months I have talked to many farmers and arthtiyas and listened to their fears and suspicions regarding the Ordinances.”Badal added that the three Ordinances will affect farmers in Punjab and Haryana where ‘mandi system’ exists. “I don’t know about others but our fears have not been addressed,” he said, urging the government, of which Akali Dal is a part, to reconsider. “We are not under any pressure, this is our belief that these fears should be addressed first,” he asserted. In his reply, Minister of State Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Raosaheb Patil Danve said the legislation will help farmers progress, encourage those associated with the supply-chain and minimise processing and storage losses. “It will help in making of Atmanirbhar Bharat and ease of doing business,” he said. The minister also said changes in the Act conformed with recommendations of the high-level committee of which States like Punjab and Haryana was a part. “Members are saying States were not consulted. Let me inform that before bringing the Ordinances a high-power committee of Chief Ministers was formed. The committee included States like Punjab, Odisha, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh.  The CMs, after taking into consideration all issues decided such a bill should be brought,” he said, adding that Punjab was represented by the Agriculture Minister in the Amarinder Singh government.Earlier, several Opposition MPs, including Congress’ Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh insisted that the Bill will benefit big corporates and traders. “It is another attempt at coercive federalism to benefit to MNCs so that they can enter food trade,” they said. “The Ordinances are all connected, which is why farmers are protesting in Punjab and Haryana. The Punjab government and political parties have passed a resolution against Ordinances,” Amar Singh said registering strong opposition to the legislation.
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||90 more Covid deaths push toll to 2,514 in Punjab||The COVID-19 death toll rose to 2,514 with 90 more fatalities in Punjab while the infection tally climbed to 84,482 with 2,481 fresh coronavirus cases reported in the state on Tuesday, according to a medical bulletin.Nineteen fatalities were reported from Ludhiana, 12 from Jalandhar, 10 from Amritsar, eight each from Gurdaspur and Kapurthala, six from Hoshiarpur and five from Ferozepur, it said.Four deaths each were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala, three from Muktsar, two each from SBS Nagar, Pathankot and Rupnagar, and one each from Barnala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Sangrur and Tarn Taran, as per the bulletin.Among places which reported new cases were Ludhiana (409), Jalandhar (261), Amritsar (214), Patiala (204), Gurdaspur (197), Pathankot (189), Mohali (188), Hoshiarpur (154) and Bathinda (120).There are 21,154 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,815 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection.So far, 60,814 people have been cured of the contagion.Eighty-eight critical patients are on ventilator support while 481 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 14,39,583 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
15-09-2020||Attari||COVID-19: 350 stranded Indians return from Pakistan via Attari||As many as 350 Indians, who were stranded in Pakistan due to the coronavirus lockdown, returned home on Tuesday through the land transit route of Attari border here, officials in the Punjab government said.They belonged to Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and West Bengal, the officials said.Some of the returnees had coronavirus negative reports issued by the health department of Pakistan.Those who did not have negative reports were screened for COVID-19 at Attari here, the officials said. PTI
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers block roads, say MPs supporting farm Bills to be barred from villages||The state’s agitating farmers on Tuesday warned that any Punjab MP who supports the farm Bills in parliament will not be allowed to enter the villages as they blocked roads at many places as part of their state-wide protest. The protesting farmers squatted on highways and other key roads for two hours at several places across the state against the three Bills calling them “anti-farmer”. Commuters faced inconvenience because of road blockades while the authorities diverted traffic.    The Centre introduced the Bills on food and agriculture reform in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The proposed legislations seek to provide barrier-free trade for farmers’ produce outside notified farm mandis, and empower farmers to enter into farming agreements with private players prior to production for sale of agri-produce.Intensifying their agitation, the farmers said they were forced to take to streets because of the apathetic attitude of the central government over their demand for the withdrawal of the Bills.Different farmers’ outfits had given a call for road blocks in Punjab to protest against the bills.    “MPs who support these farm Bills in parliament will not be allowed to enter villages and we will teach him a lesson,” warned Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal.    Calling the Bills “worse than coronavirus”, he said they would negatively affect farmers, arthiyas (commission agents) and farm labourers, if implemented.Lakhowal, who was holding an agitation along with other farmers at Neelon bridge in Ludhiana, said they needed the support of each MP as the central government was “hell bent” on bringing the Bills which are against the interest of the farming community.    Lakhowal said his outfit, along with 11 other farmers’ organisations blocked roads, mainly national highways, at 25 places in the state.    “We will go to any extent to force the government to roll back the Bills,” he said, adding that a group of farmers would also hold a protest in Delhi.Meanwhile, in Moga, a few of the agitating farmers wore black robes while some of them tied a noose around their necks.Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) held protests in Badal village in Muktsar and in Patiala while in Phagwara, they blocked National Highway 1 for two hours between Phagwara-Hoshiarpur sugar mill crossing and Phagwara-Nakodar road crossing.As a result, traffic between Jalandhar-Phagwara-Ludhiana, Phagwara-Nakodar and Phagwara-Nawanshahr-Chandigarh was blocked, causing inconvenience to commuters.Farmers also held a rally at a lock grain market in Phagwara.Led by BKU (Doaba) president Manjit Singh Rai, farmers raised slogans against the government and demanded the withdrawal of the Bills. The protest was also joined by commission agents and mandi workers.     In Hoshiarpur, farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee staged a protest dharna and blocked vehicular traffic at Bhangla on Jalandhar-Pathankot G T Road.Meanwhile, Tanda Police on Tuesday registered a case against members of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee for blocking the road at Beas river bridge, village Rara, on Tanda-Sri Hargobindpur road.The Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill were introduced in parliament on Monday.    Farmers have expressed apprehension that these would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system and they would be at the “mercy” of big corporates.The Congress-led government in Punjab described the Bills as a “blatant attack” on the federal structure. On August 28, the Punjab Assembly had passed a resolution, rejecting the farm Bills. — PTI
15-09-2020||---||Sukhbir criticises Centre’s decision to leave Punjabi out of J-K language Bill||Vibha SharmaTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 15A day after Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal on Tuesday raised the issue of not including Punjabi, even “deleting”, out of list of official languages of Jammu and Kashmir. “It used to be an official language of J&K. Farooq Abdullah will confirm,” Badal said pointing to senior National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, who was sitting in Lok Sabha."He also speaks excellent Punjabi," Badal said in his brief statement in the language. Supporting him, Abdullah said Punjabi is spoken by many in J&K, and urged the government to also consider adding Pahari and Gujari as official languages of the union territory.  Tiwari said on Monday though many of its dialects were spoken in adjacent Jammu and Kashmir the government “deliberately” kept Punjabi out as the official language in the union territory Discrimination against Punjabi should be stopped in Jammu and Kashmir and the language included as the official language, Tewari said.The Union Cabinet recently approved a Bill under which Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, apart from the existing Urdu and English, will be the official languages in Jammu and Kashmir. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, will be introduced in the upcoming Monsoon Session of Parliament.While the government said it was the long-pending demand of the region to include Dogri, Hindi and Kashmiri as official languages, the BJP-led Centre’s move took many by surprise and triggered demands for the inclusion of more languages in the proposed legislation.
15-09-2020||Balwant Garg||Faridkot court accepts SIT's demand to make accused Inspector approver in Behbal Kalan police firing case||Tribune News Service Faridkot, September 15The District and Sessions Court of Faridkot on Tuesday allowed special investigation team's demand to seek pardon for Inspector Pardeep Singh, a prime accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case. On September 10,  IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap had appeared in person in the court and claimed making Pardeep an approver would strengthen the prosecution's case against the main culprits.Resham Singh, brother of one of the persons killed in the police firing, and Charanjit Singh Sharma, former SSP and one of the prime accused in the case, were opposing the SIT’s move to make accused Pardeep an approver.The SIT had claimed in the court that allowing an accused to turn approver in a criminal case was a decision to be taken by the investigation agency, prosecution and the court so as to strengthen the  case. Neither Resham Singh nor the other accused had the right to raise any objection, it added.The duty magistrate had on September 3 recorded Pardeep's statement, a day after the SIT moved the court seeking pardon for him.Sources said in his18-page statement in the court, Pardeep Singh had named a DGP-rank officer and a senior Akali leader as accused who allegedly played instrumental role in the police firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, in the aftermath of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.The SIT had claimed that Pardeep Singh would be a very important accused-turn-approver witness to help the prosecution unravel all sequence of events relating to the incidents and also the accused who were the main conspirators and executors of the crime at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura.Opposing the SIT, Resham Singh had claimed Pardeep had played a major role in the police firing, so he could not be granted pardon.The counsel for Charanjit Singh Sharma had said the proper procedure was not followed in recording the statement of Pardeep Singh in the court as the court had yet to take a decision on making him an approver.IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who is leading the SIT probing the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases, said they had moved an application under Section 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the Behbal Kalan firing case, which had been accepted by the Faridkot court.
15-09-2020||Amritsar||Missing ‘saroop’ agitation: Turbans tossed in clash between SGPC task force, Sikh bodies||Turbans were tossed and several persons received minor injuries at the Golden Temple complex when the SGPC task force and agitating Sikh activists engaged in an altercation on Tuesday.Following this, numerous passages leading to the shrine and the SGPC-run inns were obstructed since early morning.Contesting the SGPC’s leniency in dealing with the 328 missing saroops of the Guru Granth Sahib, the activists of Satkar Committees and other Sikh bodies observed a sit-in throughout the night outside the main entrance gate of the SGPC headquarters, known as Teja Singh Samundri Hall. Talks with SGPC officials failed to yield any conclusion on Monday and they resolved to continue the peaceful agitation.It is learnt that the situation took an ugly turn early morning when some Sikh activists and Nihang organisations who were to join the agitation outside Teja Singh Samundri Hall were intercepted by the SGPC task force.An eyewitness said that there was a verbal duel between the two sides over gaining entry to the agitation site but soon it was free for all between them for a few minutes before the situation was normalised with the intervention of the police. However, persons belonging to either side suffered minor injuries.SGPC management ordered the temporary barricading on several passages with the deployment of its task force and police to prevent any untoward incident.The religious wing of Lok Insaaf Party led by its state in-charge Jagjot Singh Khalsa too joined the agitation but was intercepted few meters ahead of the agitation site. They sat opposite to Gur Ram Das Sarai to stage their contest separately.Much to the inconvenience of the devotees, the three sides that lead to the Golden Temple--from Guru Ram Dass Langar Hall, Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai Sahib and main Jodha Ghar--were temporarily blocked with high-rise tin sheets.Those who stayed put in the inns too faced difficulty in movement.A devotee from Hoshiarpur Amarjit Singh said that he had come to pay obeisance at the Shrine early morning and his family stayed back in the inn.“As I was prepared to go back to the room, the task force obstructed my way for at least one hour. Like me, several others were not allowed to gain entry to the shrine through sarai route”, he said.Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee head Balbir Singh Muchhal said that SGPC was playing an identical role of ‘Masand Narain’ who too had attempted to close the doors of Gurdwara Nankana Sahib to prevent devotees’ entry.In one voice, the protestors demanded the SGPC to disclose the whereabouts of 328 saroops that were allegedly misappropriated under its command, initiate criminal proceedings not only against the erring officials pointed out by the probe panel, but also make the entire report public as they feared that many influential officials and political leaders who were involved in this scam enjoyed immunity.On the other hand, SGPC management refrained from commenting over the development.
15-09-2020||Satya Prakash||SC grants protection from arrest to Punjab ex-DGP Saini in Multani murder case||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 15The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted interim protection from arrest to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case."This case is of 1991. After 30 years what is the hurry to arrest him...We will grant you time to file a reply," a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, adding he would not be arrested till further orders.The top court, however, asked Saini to cooperate with Punjab Police in the investigation.Saini had challenged the Punjab and Haryana High Court's September 7 order dismissing his anticipatory bail plea in the Multani kidnapping and murder case.The court issued notice to the Punjab government on Saini's petition seeking anticipatory bail in the case, asking it to respond in three weeks. It gave one week thereafter to Saini to file his rejoinder.The case is likely to come up for further hearing after four weeks.Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack.Saini’s troubles started in May this year when he was booked at a police station in Mohali along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. The murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.On behalf of Saini, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi submitted that it was a serious matter of a decorated police officer being hounded."This is a very serious matter, he is a decorated officer...an outstanding officer...a dedicated and hardworking officer who had suffered bullet injuries," Rohatgi told the court."I (Saini) was the then SSP, when I was targeted by terrorists,"  Rohatgi said, adding "Multani was a PO (proclaimed offender) in a case."He said the state government was after Saini because he had filed two chargesheets in which Punjab CM Capt Amarinder was an accused. "This is why they are after me," he submitted.Narrating the sequence of events since 1991, Rohatgi said the FIR had been registered against Saini in a mala fide manner.On behalf of Punjab, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra sought to counter Rohatgi's arguments, saying the high court had noted that Saini used to intimidate others. The high court had also noted that a person had succumbed to his injuries after he was imhumanly treated by Saini, Luthra submitted."Even after retirement, the accused still has the audacity and power to have some files in his control. How can this be allowed?" Luthra said.After registration of FIR, statements of approvers had been recorded and witnesses in the police station had for the first time stated that the picture of Multani released to have escaped from the prison was not Multani’s at all, Luthra said.Saini is also facing trial in a Special CBI Court in Delhi along with three others for alleged kidnapping of automobile businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver Mukhtiyar Singh. While Vinod and Mukhtiyar were picked up by the police from the parking lot of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 15, 1994, Ashok was allegedly kidnapped from Ludhiana the same day.The case was registered against Saini and others by the CBI on the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 24, 1994. It was transferred to Delhi by the Supreme Court in 2004 after Vinod’s mother Amar Kaur expressed apprehension that Saini being a senior IPS officer might influence witnesses. The CBI has sought cancellation of exemption from personal appearance given to him in the case.
15-09-2020||Vijay Mohan||Punjab tops country in over-exploitation of groundwater||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15The over-exploitation of groundwater resources is the highest in Punjab among all other states in the country. The extraction of groundwater is increasing in the agrarian state, government data has revealed.In Punjab, 79 per cent of the assessment units showed the annual groundwater extraction to be more than the assessed annual extractable groundwater resources, according to information placed by the Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation in the ongoing session of the Rajya Sabha. This figure was 76 per cent last year.Punjab is followed by Delhi with 65 per cent and Rajasthan with 63 per cent. In Haryana, 61 per cent of the assessment units were being over-exploited. While over-exploitation of groundwater is the highest in this region, there are many states and union territories where there is no over-exploitation.Irrigation accounts for over 96 per cent of groundwater use in Punjab. A major reason for over-exploitation of groundwater is the largescale cultivation of paddy in Punjab, which is water-intensive and the dependence on groundwater over canal or river water in many parts of the state.Monsoon is an important factor in recharge of groundwater. The rains in Punjab this season have been 10 per cent below the long period average so far. From June 1 to September 14, the state received 391.3 mm against the normal of 437.2 mm, according to the India Meteorological Department.The Ministry of Jal Shakti has constituted a committee under the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) for fresh assessment of dynamic groundwater resources in the country for 2020 in collaboration with the states and UTs. Earlier, such assessments were done in 2013 and 2017.According to a CGWB official, the wheat and paddy cropping pattern in Punjab has led to manifold increase in demand for water. About 90 per cent of the state’s area is underlain by quaternary alluvial deposits that are important sources of abundant and dependable groundwater supplies which are being exploited.Though there is no proposal to restrict the use of groundwater in the agriculture sector, central and state authorities are regulating the groundwater use by industries and mining projects. As per the ministry’s assessment, the annual groundwater extraction for all uses is 249 billion cubic metres, out of which 89 per cent is utilised for irrigation and the remaining 11 per cent for industrial and domestic use.
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police bust pro-Khalistan terror module; 2 arrested||Punjab Police on Tuesday busted a pro-Khalistan terrorist module, with the arrest of two persons allegedly operating in connivance with five criminals, including a KZF operative currently languishing in Amritsar jail."The Pakistan-backed module was busted on the basis of inputs about the nefarious designs of certain pro-Khalistan elements trying to disturb peace and harmony in the state by launching terror attacks," said DGP Dinkar Gupta.Gupta said following the inputs, the Punjab Police had launched a drive to ensure thorough frisking and checking of all those entering the state from various parts of the country, leading to the arrest of Harjeet Singh and Shamsher Singh, both residents of village Mianpur, District Tarn Taran.Six sophisticated weapons (one 9mm pistol, four .32 calibre pistols and one .32 revolver), 8 live rounds of ammunition, several mobile phones and an internet dongle were seized from the duo, who were nabbed at the check post near Hotel Jashan on Rajpura-Sirhind road by a police party comprising ASI Gurdarshan Singh, Head Constable Jora Singh and Punjab Home Guard Pritpal Singh.A case FIR no. 116 dated 15.09.2020 under sections 212, 216, 120 B IPC, 25/ 54/ 59 Arms Act, 1959 r/w sections 13, 16, 18, 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act, 2019 has been registered at PS SadarDuring preliminary investigation, police said the accused revealed that they received 4 weapons from Burhanpur, Madhya Pradesh, and 2 were received from Safidon, Dist Jind, Haryana, according to the DGP. Gupta disclosed that the duo is also wanted in an attempt to murder and Arms Act case registered in Police Station Sarai Amanat Khan, District Tarn Taran.Initial investigations have further revealed that the two men were "planning a major terror attack in Punjab in connivance with five criminals", namely Shubhdeep Singh @ Shubh r/o Cheecha, district Amritsar, now lodged in Amritsar Jail; Amritpal Singh Baath r/o Mianpur, District Tarn Taran, wanted in as many as 12 different cases of murder, attempt to murder, Arms Act in Tarn Taran and Amritsar Rural districts; Randeep Singh @ Romi r/o Chheharta, Amritsar, wanted in drug cases in Amritsar, along with Goldy and Ashu, both from District Karnal, Haryana.
15-09-2020||Abohar||Villagers hold protest over police ‘inaction’||Hundreds of men and women today staged a dharna outside the police station in Khuyiansarwer village demanding action on the complaint of Santosh Kumar. Santosh Kumar of Haripura village, a Dalit, alleged that an influential farmer had abducted his wife and two children sometime back. When he protested and approached the family of the culprit, the latter’s henchmen allegedly detained him, and tortured him.  Complainant Santosh has named six persons, but the police have not arrested any of them so far, as the latter have political connections.  SHO said action would be taken against whoever was found guilty. — OC
15-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Two migrants drown in reservoir||Fazilka, September 14Two migrant labourers have reportedly drowned while they were washing clothes near a reservoir in Bkainwala village here. The deceased have been identified as Santosh and Raju, residents of UP’s Bahraich district.
15-09-2020||Saurabh Malik
||Principle of equity under Art 14 can’t perpetuate illegality: High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 14 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that principle of equity and fair play enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution could not be raised in a negative manner to perpetuate an illegality.  The ruling came in a case where a forest guard, initially appointed on compassionate grounds, was promoted on the premise that certain other employees possessing lower qualifications were adjusted on a post higher than his.  Taking up the matter, the Bench also put the state of Punjab and other respondents on notice for enabling them to explain “the sordid state-of-affairs”. The case will now come up for hearing in October third week. The matter was brought to the HC’s notice after Narinderpreet Singh was demoted to forest guard’s post. Aggrieved, he had challenged order dated August 21 passed by Punjab Principal Chief Conservator of Forests withdrawing the benefit of compassionate appointment granted to him on the deputy ranger’s post.  The Bench was told that the petitioner was offered forest guard’s post on compassionate basis vide office order dated June 26, 1999. After a lapse of more than two decades, the petitioner was adjusted on deputy ranger’ post.  Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa asserted such a reasoning would be erroneous. “The principle of equity and fair play enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution is a positive concept. Such plea cannot be raised in a negative manner so as to perpetuate an illegality,” he asserted.
15-09-2020||---||Punjab tally crosses 82K mark||Chandigarh, September 14Covid-19 cases continued to spike unabated with 2,424 fresh cases and 70 deaths today, which took the state’s total count to 82,113. The number of casualties has reached 2,424. At present, 20,690 cases are active in the state while 58,999 have recovered.In district wise break-up of fresh cases, SAS Nagar reported maximum 408 cases, followed by Patiala 387, Ludhiana 307, Amritsar 281, Jalandhar 261, Ropar 100, Pathankot 98, Bathinda 89 and Hoshiarpur88 cases.Ferozepur topped the toll chart with 14 deaths, followed by Ludhiana (11), Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Patiala (six each), Gurdaspur, Jalandhar and Kapurthala (five each), Fatehgarh Sahib (three), SAS Nagar and Sangrur (two each) while Bathinda, Faridkot, Moga, Muktsar and SBS Nagar (one each).MC ex-chief succumbsBathinda:Municipal Council former president Bhupinder Singh Bhullar (65) died due to Covid-19 at a private hospital here on Monday. He was critical for the last six days and was undergoing treatment at Nivaran Hospital. He had served as president of Bathinda MC in 1998-2003. In the second death, Gagandeep (35), a boxer, also died of Covid-19.Liquor baron Doda +veAbohar: Liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda, who had on Saturday surrendered before the court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) in connection with the two fraud cases has tested Covid positive. Besides, 26 others have also tested positive in the district. The court ordered the accused should be kept in the sub-jail in Fazilka in judicial custody till September 28.
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Planning Department to give SDG Action Awards on Sept 25||The state Planning Department with the support of United Nations Development Programme’s (UNDP) Sustainable Development Goals Coordination Centre (SDGCC) today announced that the SDG Action Awards will be held on September 25.      There will be five award categoiries — SDG Action Award for economic sustainability, for social upliftment and welfare, for environment sustainability, for ‘Leaving no one behind’ spirit, SDG Action Award for promoting integration, convergence, joint action and holistic solutions approach. — TNS
15-09-2020||Sameer Singh 
||Private ambulances ‘fleecing’ Covid patients||Tribune News Service Bathinda, September 14 A Covid-positive man from Bhucho Mandi had to cough up Rs 15,000 just to reach hospital. After the condition of Gurnam Singh (name changed), a Covid-19 patient from Bhucho Mandi in Bathinda, deteriorated, he was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. But his family members were left distraught after one of the private ambulance service providers stationed inside the government hospital asked for Rs 15,000 as travel charges to carry the patient from Bathinda to Faridkot (approximately 80 km), whereas as per rates of government-run ambulance, the travel charges for the same distance is merely Rs 1,600 (Rs 10 per km).  Since Gurnam’s condition was critical, his family members were coerced to shell out Rs 15,000 albeit taking credit of Rs 10,000 from a relative. Citing sanitisation of vehicle and vulnerability to the virus transmission, many private ambulance service providers have been minting money at the expense of Covid-19 patients. Taking a serious note of the issue, Supreme Court has recently directed all the states to fix reasonable charges for providing ambulance services to Covid patients.  Surprisingly, as against a rate of Rs 10 per km being charged by government-run ambulance service, many private ambulance service providers are charging anywhere between Rs 150 and Rs 180 per km. On a reality check conducted by this correspondent, private ambulance service providers at the Civil Hospital and those operating in the city demanded Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 to ferry a Covid patient to Faridkot.  On being asked as to why they are charging exorbitantly, a majority of them said they had to wear PPE kits (from own pockets), their ambulances had oxygen cylinders and they fully sanitise the vehicle.  Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “The matter is not in my knowledge. I will get it checked and take necessary action accordingly. I will talk to the Civil Surgeon.”
15-09-2020||---||It’s political vendetta: Manoranjan  Kalia||Jalandhar, September 14Days after SAD leader Pawan Tinu was booked for staging protest at the Adampur bus stand over the post-matric scholarship scam, BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia today criticised the lodging of an FIR against BJP state president Ashwani Sharma.Former state BJP chief Manoranjan Kalia termed the act as a classic case of “political” as well as “police vendetta”. Kalia said: “The pictures of Congress MLAs, MPs, ministers and party office-bearers are often published in newspapers, wherein they can be seen violating the Covid rules and regulations. However, the police haven’t taken any action against such defaulters.”
15-09-2020||---||Step up indigenous production of medical oxygen: Amarinder||Chandigarh, September 14With Covid cases and fatality in the state rising, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday directed the Health Department to step up indigenous manufacturing of medical oxygen to supplement the current supplies in order to ensure that there was no shortage of this critical commodity to tackle any future crisis.The state, which has been procuring all its medical oxygen from neighbouring areas, has now decided to go in for local manufacturing to meet any shortfall that could arise with spiking Covid cases. Till now, Punjab was procuring all its medical oxygen supplies from other states, including Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana.In line with this decision, the Health Department has so far issued licence to one industrial oxygen supplier in the state to manufacture medical oxygen, while six packaging units have been allowed to package oxygen for medical use. With this, the state now has internal capacity to manufacture 800 medical oxygen cylinders and packaging of 2,000 units per day and the government hopes that with the supplies already being procured from other states, this would help cope with any further escalation in demand in the coming weeks.The state government has also appointed a nodal officer to monitor the supply and demand of medical oxygen amid spiralling cases and the Chief Minister has asked the Health Department to ensure that indigenous production and packaging was further scaled up to meet any eventuality.During a virtual meeting to assess the situation arising out of the pandemic, the CM directed the department to ensure that there was no shortage of oxygen for treatment of Covid patients.The Chief Minister was informed that the state currently had adequate supplies of oxygen to meet the demand triggered by an increasing number of cases. He was further told that of the 6,653 Covid patients admitted at the government medical colleges (GMCs) in the state, 5,269 had recovered and been discharged, with 550 still under treatment.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan apprised the meeting that Punjab was following the 10-day discharge policy as per ICMR guidelines.
15-09-2020||Pathankot||Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma booked for flouting Covid norms||State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma and four of his party colleagues were booked under the relevant sections of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, after it surfaced that they had flouted the social distancing norm at a meeting held on Sunday.Others who have been booked include Vicky Ram, Sudesh Sharma, Sanjay Sharma and Sunil Kumar, all local satraps.The BJP leadership was quick to blame the police, and claimed that the latter was acting under the influence of Congress leaders. In response to this, Congress released pictures on social media showing Cabinet Minister Aruna Chaudhury adhering to the rules in a meeting held last week.The FIR mentions that the accused are “absconding”, while the fact is that they are at their respective residences.SSP Gulneet Khurana said: “Ours is a professional force, and we never succumb to any pressure.”Former district Congress Committee president Sanjeev Bains said: “The BJP leaders are now trying to create a controversy where none exists. The Congress always adheres to the norms whenever it holds any gathering. It’s a classic case of the pot calling the kettle black.”— TNS
15-09-2020||---||Walk-in interview fails to attract specialist doctors||Chandigarh, September 14A walk-in interview organised by the government to recruit specialist doctors for Covid-19 has got a lukewarm response with only 15 candidates opting for the post of medicine specialist against 40 advertised.As the deadline passed on Monday, a large number of vacancies remained, prompting the health department to allow 20 doctors to join later.To deal with the exigency, the government had started a special drive on July 3 to recruit specialist doctors through a walk-in interview.The government advertised 140 posts of six clinical specialities, including internal medicine, pulmonary medicine, gynaecology, anaesthesia, general surgery and paediatrics. Against these, only 50 doctors joined till Thursday, while 20 specialists sought extension in their joining period.Government hospitals are in acute shortage of medicine specialists due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. The post, however, got the poorest response.Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health, said the government would try to fill the vacancies. “Some doctors have sought permission to extend their joining period. We have granted it under the rules.”A number of doctors have been infected with the virus, with a senior government doctor in Amritsar even succumbing to the disease last month.
15-09-2020||New Delhi||Supreme Court to hear Sumedh Saini’s bail plea today||The Supreme Court will on Tuesday take up an anticipatory bail plea filed by former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, an accused in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani kidnapping and murder case.Saini’s petition is listed for hearing before a three-judge Bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan, Justice R Subhas Reddy and Justice MR Shah.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi is likely to appear for Saini who had moved the SC last week to avoid his imminent arrest. Police have been conducting raids on various hideouts to nab him.Saini has challenged the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s September 7 order dismissing his anticipatory bail plea in the case.The Punjab Police have also filed a caveat to pre-empt Saini from getting any ex parte relief from the top court. If he doesn’t get relief from the top court, he will have to surrender.Multani was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen dead. Saini was injured in the attack. Saini’s troubles started in May when he was booked at a Mohali police station along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. Murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.Saini is also facing trial in a Special CBI court in Delhi along with three others for alleged abduction of automobile businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver Mukhtiyar Singh. — TNS
15-09-2020||---||Tech varsities, board told to conduct exit exams by Oct 15||Bathinda, September 14Punjab’s Technical Education Department has directed two technical universities and the Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training to conduct exams of exit classes by October 15.The Directorate of Technical Education and Industrial Training, Punjab has shot a letter to the IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, and Secretary, Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training, regarding the examination of exit classes in technical universities and engineering or polytechnic colleges in the state.In the letter, Joint Director Gurpreet Singh Thind has asked universities and the board to complete the examination process of all exit classes on their campuses as well in the colleges affiliated to them tentatively by October 15. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has been requested to allow them to conduct the exams.The universities/board will decide on their own about the mode of conduct of the examination. While conducting these exams, all necessary precautions like sanitisation, temperature monitoring of all students and staff, and social distancing will be strictly adhered to, as per instructions/SoPs issued by the health department of state or union government.The universities have also been asked to ensure that the students are informed through all possible means about the date sheet well in time. Moreover, universities or board will also ensure timely declaration of results.It is also stated that UGC wide letter dated July 6, 2020, issued guidelines to conduct the final exams by September 30, 2020. Further, Supreme Court while disposing of the bunch of writ petitions dated August 28, 2020, has also upheld the decision of UGC to conduct exit class examinations before September 30.
15-09-2020||Bathinda||CUP bags 12th rank among central varsities||The Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, (CUPB) has been ranked at 12th position among all central universities in the country.  Outlook India-Icare Survey 2020 had also recently placed CUPB on the 73rd position among the top Indian universities in the overall category.  Prof Raghavendra P Tiwari, Vice-Chancellor, CUPB, said Outlook India had evaluated educational institutions on five parameters: academic and research excellence, industry interface and placement, infrastructure and facilities, governance and admissions and diversity and outreach. In all these parameters put together, CUPB secured 512.72 out of 1,000 points. Professor Tiwari said, “Our university has also secured place in the list of top 100 universities of India in NIRF 2020 rankings as well. All this signifies that CUPB is marching ahead towards excellence in the field of education and research, but we should strive to perform better for higher ranks in national and international levels.” — TNS
15-09-2020||
||Mid-day meal staff to get maternity leave benefits||Chandigarh, September 14 Providing a major relief to mid-day meal (MDM) workers and other staff, the Punjab Government has given its nod to extend them maternity leave benefits, in accordance with the Maternity Benefit Act.  A government spokesperson said mid-day meal was a purely government-funded scheme and all women employees under this scheme were eligible to avail the benefits of maternity leave.  The Education Department had also been taking new initiatives to uplift the standard of education and provide all basic amenities to the students on the school premises. More than 6,000 government schools had been turned into smart schools and apart from modern learning techniques, other infrastructure had also been upgraded. Amidst the outbreak of Covid-19, the government school teachers were regularly taking online classes of students with the help of the internet, he added.
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nabha jailbreak accused Neeta Deol moves High Court, ‘fears’ fake encounter||Claiming to have been implicated in multiple criminal cases by the Punjab Police following “vendetta nurtured by certain individuals and high-ups”, Kulpreet Singh aka Neeta Deol has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court expressing apprehensions of “elimination in a fake encounter or staged managed incident”. Deol was an accused in Nabha jailbreak case.In his petition against the state of Punjab and other respondents through counsel R. Kartikeya for protection of life and liberty from attempts made by the “jail authorities and other police officials to eliminate” him. Kartikeya submitted on the petitioner’s behalf that DSP Jaskirat Singh of the organised crime control unit of the Punjab Police visited the Nabha jail. The petitioner was then asked to appear in Deputy Superintendent of Jail Inderjeet Kahlon’s office and was threatened to be implicated in criminal cases.Earlier stories:The same day, a team of Punjab Police officials accompanied by Kahlon proceeded towards his barrack and recklessly assaulted the petitioner. Despite request, he was deprived of basic medical aid, Kartikeya submitted. Another officer visited the barrack the same night and suggested projecting the entire incident as an attempt made by the petitioner to kill himself and to register an FIR alleging attempt to suicide, the counsel said. — TNS
15-09-2020||---||Punjab farmers unite to oppose ordinances||Barnala, September 14Ten farm organisations of Punjab organised a ‘Lalkar Rally’ at the Barnala grain market against the farm ordinances and the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The protest was held under the aegis of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.The organisations included the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Ekta (Dakaunda), Punjab Kisan Union, Kirti Kisan Union, All-India Kisan Sabha, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, and others.Cong MLA leads rally in Fatehgarh Sahib Addressing the rally, leaders of various organisations alleged the Central Government had issued three anti-farm ordinances, namely The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, on June 5.“These anti-farm ordinances have been issued during the Covid pandemic when people were compelled to confine themselves to their homes as the government imposed a lockdown. Under such conditions, the rulers of the country took it as an opportunity to sell various public sector undertakings and hand over the agricultural sector — the backbone of the Indian economy — to corporate houses,” said Buta Singh Burjgill, president, BKU (Ekta), Dakaunda.Ruldu Singh from the Punjab Kisan Union alleged various governments had not kept their promises made with farmers since Independence.The speakers demanded immediate withdrawal of the ordinances and also announced intensifying their agitation after the September 16 meeting of 10 organisations, to be held at Ishru Bhawan, Ludhiana.Meanwhile, farmers under the banner of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee held protests at the new grain market in Patiala.Addressing the gathering, farmer leader Darshan Pal said the government had not left any option for them other than taking to streets and protesting against the ordinances.A massive rally of farmers, organised under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, blocked a bridge over the Beas, halting the traffic between Amritsar and Jalandhar.Meanwhile, addressing meetings at Latala, Chhapar, Dhulkot and Jartauli villages in Ludhiana, activists of various units of the All-India Kisan Sabha, Khet Mazdoor Union and Centre of Indian Trade Unions, led by Baldev Singh Latala and Sikandar Jartauli, alleged the Centre had been taking hasty decisions which were affecting all sections of society, including farmers, labourers and traders.
15-09-2020||---||Chief Minister-led panel to meet Governor on farm ordinances||Chandigarh, September 14Categorically rejecting the Centre’s claim that Punjab was taken on board before the promulgation of “anti-farmer” ordinances presented in Parliament today, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today urged the Prime Minister not to go ahead with the move.He also announced that he would lead an 11-member delegation of his party on Wednesday to submit a memorandum to the Governor against the ordinances.Besides the Chief Minister, the delegation will include Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar along with some ministers and MLAs of the party.The Chief Minister also wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him not to pursue the ordinances and also to make MSP a statutory right of the farmers. He urged the Prime Minister not to disappoint the people and farmers of Punjab and consider their request not to go ahead with the ordinances, which were not in the interest of the farmers.Meanwhile, asserting that his government had been consistently opposing the so-called reforms brought in by the ordinances, the Chief Minister said in a statement that at no point did Punjab endorse any such move, contrary to what was being projected by the Central Government. The ordinances were not discussed even once at the sole meeting of the high-powered committee held after Punjab was made a member, he added.Reacting to the statement made in Parliament today by Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Raosaheb Patil Danve that the high-powered committee on agriculture had decided on the ordinances after due consideration by all member states, Capt Amarinder termed the remark irresponsible since Punjab never supported any such move, nor was it consulted before the promulgation of the ordinances.Meanwhile, Patiala MP and former Union Minister Preneet Kaur said she could not attend Parliament today since she was under quarantine after she came in contact with some Covid-positive persons. The Patiala MP said she would be attending Parliament where she would oppose the farm ordinances.
15-09-2020||Ferozepur||Unions: Won’t allow monoply of corporates||Farmers of various outfits led by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Morcha today staged a dharna at ‘Bengali Bridge’ near the Harike headworks, blocking the highway for hours.More than 4,000 farmers, including women, blocked the Ferozepur-Amritsar highway due to which traffic came to a standstill and commuters had to bear the brunt.The leaders said the ordinances were an attempt to hand over farming to the corporate sector. “The Union Government will procure only the required quantity of wheat and rice under the Food Security Act on MSP and the rest will be left to private companies. The land of farmers will go to the corporates and the poor will become their slaves,” he added. The protest, which started around 10 am, continued till the filing of the story. — OC
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farm ordinances: Inside Parliament, MPs up ante against Centre||Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo today held a protest against the three ordinances on farming reforms outside the Rajya Sabha.Holding banners that read, “Protect the farmers of India. Revoke the anti-farmer ordinances,” both MPs said farm unions across the country were protesting against the ordinances promulgated by the Union Government.Bajwa said, “The government’s intention was not to strengthen the rights of the farmers, but to remove the MSP system.” The MP said the ordinances were an attempt to enact the reforms suggested by the Shanta Kumar Committee, which were rejected by farmers across India in 2015. — TNS
15-09-2020||---||Enforce ban on gatherings, says High Court||Chandigarh, September 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the state and its authorities to implement ‘Unlock 4.0’ guidelines issued by the Department of Home Affairs and Justice in relation to the ban on gatherings.The direction by the Bench of Justices S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan came after senior advocate Puneet Bail referred to the guidelines on the unlock measures, to be implemented between September 1 and 30.The guidelines, among other things, make it clear that Section 144 of the CrPC was to be invoked and orders be issued to prohibit all social, political, religious gatherings, protests and demonstrations throughout the state. For monitoring the progress of implementation of the court’s directions, the matter was directed to be listed again on Tuesday before the regular Bench.The Bench was hearing an application filed in an ongoing petition by Mohit Kapoor against the State of Punjab and other respondents. It was filed in light of widespread protests by farmers on the opening date of Parliament’s session.
15-09-2020||Sangrur||Missing ‘saroops’: Make inquiry report public, Dhindsa group tells Longowal||A congregation organised by SAD (Democratic) leaders and other organisations posed tough questions to SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal at his residence about the missing ‘saroops’ and his alleged inaction. Longowal tried to pacify them with his detailed replies. However, the absence of the ‘Panj Pyaras’ from the meeting kicked off another controversy as both sides blamed each other.Since SAD (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh has tested Covid-positive, he did not attend the meeting. Other party leaders, members of social organisations and area residents first converged on Gurdwara Mastuana Sahib. After the ‘ardas’, they went to Longowal town of the district to meet the SGPC chief at his residence.Sewa Singh Sekhwan, a party leader, said during the meeting, they asked the SGPC chief the whereabouts of the missing ‘saroops’, why the probe panel report had not been made public and why criminal cases were not filed against persons responsible for the disappearance of ‘saroops’.Meanwhile, Longowal denied all allegations and said he remained present at his house to reply to all questions. — TNS
15-09-2020||Amritsar||Meeting between SGPC, Sikh bodies remains inconclusive||A meeting between representatives of the SGPC and the protesting Sikh bodies did not reach any conclusion today.SGPC officials claimed that the “unreasonably adamant attitude” of the protesting bodies was responsible for the chaotic situation. From SGPC’s side, senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, personal secretary to president Mahinder Singh Ahli and additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakona were present in the meeting.Mehta said: “We took the first step of initiating talks with them. We almost agreed on the nine demands they had raised, subject to the condition that they lift the dharna instantly. But they did not agree to it. Their dharna is hindering the movement of devotees visiting the gurdwara and their aim is to defame the SGPC,” he said.On the other hand, Harpreet Singh Makhu and Sukhjeet Singh Khosa from the Satkar Committee said SGPC officials were trying to justify their negligence and failure. On the whereabouts of ‘saroops’, they said the details were being collected. “Similarly, our other demands were also not met. So, we have decided to continue the dharna,” Makhu said. Meanwhile, the situation got tense on the Golden Temple complex as hundreds of activists of the Satkar Committee and other Sikh organisations held an indefinite sit-in outside the main entrance of the SGPC headquarters. — TNS
15-09-2020||---||To include sportsmen quota, PPSC set to advertise posts again||Patiala, September 14Thousands of civil services applicants waiting for their exam date will have to apply afresh as the state government has decided to introduce the sportsmen quota in the posts, to be filled by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC). Following the recent decision of the Cabinet to provide recruitment to sportspersons in the state, the government has asked the PPSC to withdraw the earlier vacancy circular and “ask for fresh applications”, thus delaying the recruitment.In a recent letter to the PPSC, a copy of which is with The Tribune, it has been stated by the Personnel Department that Recruitment of Sportsmen Rules, 1988, would be applicable to all upcoming exams. “In all cases where posts were advertised but the examination has not been conducted, a re-advertisement will be issued and all applicants will have to apply again. However, those who have already paid the fees need not pay it again,” it says.Sources said the decision was likely to delay the examination as the PPSC would have to re-advertise the posts and give sufficient time to all new applicants, including sportsmen, to apply. The Punjab Government had notified the new rules for sportsmen in July 2020, a month after the posts were put up for being filled by the PPSC.According to the PPSC website, the last date for filling the online application form was June, 20, 2020, while the Preliminary Combined Examination-2020 was tentatively scheduled for September. “However, the exact date for the preliminary examination is to be intimated later depending upon the public health safety situation,” it said. PPSC Secretary (Examination) Jasleen Kaur Sandhu said the chairman had received the letter. “The government has sought our comments only and the chairman is looking into the matter,” she said.
15-09-2020||---||Most Congress MPs attend Lok Sabha on Day 1||New Delhi, September 14Most MPs from Punjab attended Lok Sabha proceedings today with Amritsar’s Gurjit Aujla and Khadoor Saheb’s Jasbir Singh Gill seated in visitors’ galleries as their house chamber seats were unavailable.Also present was Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari who made two interventions on the first day. Tewari opposed the revocation of Question Hour by the government. Participating in the Zero Hour, he demanded the inclusion of Punjabi among official languages of J&K alongside Urdu, Hindi and Dogri.Tewari said several people who settled in J&K post Partition spoke Punjabi and Maharaja Ranjit Singh in 1822 personally oversaw the coronation of Maharaja Ghulab Singh. Also present was Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu, the newly appointed Congress whip in the Lok Sabha, who sat in the Rajya Sabha for some part along with party chief whip K Suresh. Jalandhar MP Santokh Choudhary and Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh were also there as was AAP MP Bhagwant Mann of Sangrur.
15-09-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||‘Balwant Singh Multani case has reopened wounds’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14It has been 29 years, but the helplessness and fear have lingered on. I remember having undergone torture for 17 days when I was kept in illegal confinement as a 16-year-old. The reopening of the Multani case has reopened my wounds and those of my sisters. But at the same time, it has given us hope to once again fight for and seek justice for our brother, Gurmeet Singh, says Ranjit Singh of Pucca Bagh in Ropar.Ranjit Singh (45) recounts the events that led to the alleged fake encounter of his elder brother on May 4, 1991, allegedly at the behest of the then Chandigarh SSP, Sumedh Singh Saini. It is the fall of the former top cop that has now given him the confidence to seek justice for his slain brother.Talking to The Tribune, Ranjit said his brother Gurmeet Singh got involved in student politics when he entered college in Ropar in 1988. “He was associated with the All-India Sikh Students Federation and came in the limelight after he organised an ‘akhand path’ in the memory of certain other youths who were killed in police encounters. Since he was the vice-president of the federation, he came under the police radar. It was after one of his friends was killed that Gurmeet became active in protests against the police. He was picked up by the Patiala Police and booked.“On his release he decided to stay away from the family so that we would not be troubled by the police. My father had passed away and I lived with my mother and two sisters,” he said.Ranjit said it was a month after their mother passed away that he heard the news of Gurmeet having been killed in a “staged encounter” at a dairy in Sector 45, Chandigarh. “We learnt that Gurmeet was called to the dairy to meet the then SSP of Chandigarh, Sumedh Singh Saini, by an Akali leader. When he reached there along with his friend Baldev Singh of Bhaku Majra village, the police party led by Saini came there and instead of arresting them shot them dead. Later, it was declared as an encounter with armed militants,” he said.He added that the family’s ordeal did not end there. In fact, the real trouble started thereon. “Saini was a law unto himself. My uncle, Sadhu Singh, who used to live in a gurdwara, came to take care of the family and started approaching the higher-ups in the police for seeking justice. Our cries for justice did not move the then top police officers, but they informed Saini and thus began the torture and illegal confinement of me and my sisters. My uncle was threatened by Saini and his confidants that if we pursue Gurmeet’s case, I too would be eliminated. My uncle decided against pursuing the case,” Ranjit Singh said.He said they lived in perpetual fear. “But now that law seems to be catching up with him, we have approached the Chief Minister and the Director-General of Police, requesting that our case too be taken up for reinvestigation and the guilty be punished. We have sent them letters and are hopeful that justice will be done,” he said. Senior officers in the Punjab Police said they were yet to examine the case.
15-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Fazilka admn to sell sand online||Fazilka, September 14In a bid to curb illegal sale of sand in Fazilka district, the administration has decided to sell sand online. The price for sale has been fixed at Rs 9 per cubic feet from the government legal quarries.The consumer will have to bear the transportation expenses. According to an estimate, a consumer will have to shell out between Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 for 200 cubic feet of sand and freight.Executive Engineer, Mining, Pawan Kapoor said there was no quarry in Fazilka district. The consumer shall apply online on government website to buy sand and it would be preferably provided from two legal quarries from neighbouring Ferozepur district, he added.Fazilka Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said according to new guidelines if illegal sand-laden vehicle or machinery was seized hefty penalty of up to Rs 2 to 4 lakh would be imposed on the offenders.Deputy Commissioner directed officials of sale tax, income tax, transport department, Punjab Pollution Control Board to take strict action against those found stealing sand. He also directed the officials concerned to cancel the driving license and registration certificate of the offenders and their vehicles.Meanwhile, the police have arrested Angrej Singh, a resident of Kheowala Bodla, and booked Sandeep Singh and unidentified persons today under Section 379 of the IPC and 21 Mining and Mineral Act for illegal excavation and sale of sand in the market.
15-09-2020||Patiala||Booze scam: 77 Patiala cops transferred||Nearly three months after a number of illicit liquor units were sealed in Ghanaur and Rajpura, the district police today transferred 77 cops in various ranks from the two subdivisions.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the transfers aimed at bringing transparency and efficiency into the police functioning. The SSP said: “The overstay of some personnel at one post had been causing hindrance in the discharge of their duties.” Senior officers, however, claim that many cops were hand in glove with smugglers and were allowing them to manufacture and sell illicit liquor.
15-09-2020||Kharar||Acid attack threat: Kharar police yet to trace 3 suspects||The police are yet to trace three suspects who broke the windowpane of a car and also threw acid inside it at Green Enclave here.The incident took place around 11 pm on Saturday. The suspects had earlier threatened to throw acid on a girl. They damaged her family’s car parked outside the house.Inderjeet, father of the girl, said one Rohit had earlier threatened his daughter and other family members. He started harassing and chasing her. The family had earlier filed a complaint with the police, but they reached a compromise.The suspects still did not mend their ways and damaged their car. One of the eyewitnesses said three persons damaged the car. They were also caught on CCTV cameras. The police are investigating the matter. — TNS
