16-05-2020||Islamabad||Pakistan's first Sikh woman journalist among top 100 influential Sikhs under 30||Pakistan's first Sikh woman journalist has been named among 100 most influential Sikh personalities under 30 years of age in the world by a UK-based global Sikh organisation.Manmeet Kaur, 25, has been selected for the award by ‘The Sikh Group', a global organisation recognising people of Sikh faith from around the world, the Express Tribune reported.She will receive her award next year at a ceremony in Britain.A resident of Peshawar, Kaur is also a social activist, who has received awards in Pakistan for highlighting issues faced by minorities and women.She has expressed happiness that her name was included in the category of influential Sikh personalities around the world.“Those who work hard will reap the rewards and it is a great honour for my family to visit the UK and represent Pakistan,” she was quoted as saying. PTI
16-05-2020||Vibha Sharma||Experts in Punjab, Haryana sceptical over FM’s agri-reforms||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 16Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman yesterday announced an elaborate Covid stimulus for farmers and the agriculture sector, including a NABARD-anchored fund to set up modern cold chains and storage centres and measures to usher in barrier-free agricultural trade in the country.However, while some hailed them as “pro-farmer”, the measures failed to cut ice with many agriculture experts from the two major food-grain producing states — Punjab and Haryana.The “futuristic” measures had nothing for the distressed sector and farmers and labourers dependent on it as of now, they said. Besides, they also expressed apprehension, viewing them as an indication of the apprehended possibility by wheat and rice farmers in the states, minimising procurement under the MSP. “What we saw yesterday were just credit facilities. I don’t think the net effect of the announcements is going to be very positive for Punjab and Haryana. Infrastructure is good for the economy but today it is the matter of life and livelihood for crores of small farmers and labourers, dependant on the sector. While I need medicine today you are telling me that you will make a cold storage, keep my medicine and give it to me later,” said Lakhwinder Singh, Director of the Centre of Development Economics and Innovation Studies, Punjabi University.Agricultural policy expert Devinder Sharma believes the reforms government is suggesting are essentially aimed to ‘dilute/dismantle’ existing system of APMC, MSP regimes.While finer details are not available, Sharma gives the example of Bihar which revoked the APMC Act in 2006 to encourage private investment in agri-markets and find a better price discovery for farmers. “Fourteen years later, traders are bringing wheat/paddy to be sold in Haryana/Punjab ‘mandis’ where they at least get MSP,” he says.“The marketing system and infrastructure are both well established in Punjab and Haryana. It is here that the FM’s announcements will have impact. Already Punjab has amended the marketing act to allow for setting up private mandis and also allow entry of private players in the existing mandis. These developments appear to be hinting towards limiting procurement and doing away with the responsibility of MSP,” he adds.Notably, a recent recommendation by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Price (CACP) to the Centre generated widespread debate regarding review of the open-ended procurement policy. The CACP in its Price Policy for Rabi crops, the marketing season 2020-21, said: “The open-ended procurement policy for rice and wheat has led to mounting food stocks and adversely affected crop diversification. These excess stocks create storage problems and also high storage and financing costs leading to high food subsidy burden. The Commission recommends that open-ended procurement policy should be reviewed.”Meanwhile, appreciating the FM’s efforts CACP chairman Ashok Gulati said farmers and consumers, including in Punjab and Haryana, will gain from them. The FM has given the farmers a choice. It is a step in the right direction. It will help build more quality infrastructure and help farmers to be forward looking,” he said.
16-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||IKGPTU to conduct online exams for 1 lakh students from July 1||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 16IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) has announced that it would conduct online examinations for its more than 1 lakh students for the ongoing semester. The university is already working to find the best model for successful online examination process.Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKGPTU, said the mock test would be conducted within next few days. He said the first phase of the initiative was completed successfully.Professor Sharma said it was decided to work out for online functioning of examination process, starting from paper setting to online conduct of examination.The mode of conduct of examinations – whether to be conducted in institutes or, as per need of the situation, from the present location of students – will be finalised after taking into account the details of available IT infrastructure in institutes as well as with the students at present location, said the VC.Talking about the schedule of examinations, Professor Sharma said university examination for final semester of all courses would start from July 1 and for all other semesters, the date shall be announced 15 days before the start of examinations.Controller of Examination Dr Paramjit Singh, meanwhile, informed that the question paper pattern would be of multiple choices only.Duration of examination will be as per the subject scheme, 120 minutes for subjects having 60 marks weightage and students shall have to attempt 60 MCQs in 120 minutes, said Dr Paramjit Singh.Similarly, pharmacy schemes having 80 marks shall be of 80 questions to be attempted in 120 minutes, he added.Each question with four options shall appear on screen of candidate without displaying the next question. The student will be required to attempt the question in the time frame as he/she desires, subject to maximum of duration allotted for attempting the respective question paper.On clicking the ‘Save and Next’ button, the next question will appear. There will be no option for going back to review any question.Dr Paramjit Singh said practical exams would start from June 15 and end on June 30.The institutions shall conduct the practical examinations and viva-voce through online or digital modes, like Skype, video conferencing or other meeting apps, he said.
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown to continue in Punjab from May 18, no curfew||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said lockdown will continue in the state with relaxations, although his government will lift curfew restrictionsAmarinder Singh said in his weekly Facebook live that his government will continue to keep the state in lockdown from May 18 regardless of the central government’s decision.In answer to a query, he said that it was necessary to continue with lockdown to slow the spread of coronavirus.“I do not know what Centre is going to announce on May 18, but I will open up most of the cities while keeping the restrictions in areas witnessing more number of COVID cases,” he said.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said he would draw up a detailed plan to opening up businesses and industries in the state on May 18. “My effort would be kick start the state’s economy by opening up maximum number of business establishments that have been hit by the lockdown,” Amarinder Singh said.He said he was not on favour of zones---green, red and yellow---instead preferring a broader division of the state into containment and non-containment zones.“We want to divide the state into confinement and non confinement zones. Those areas which are affected will be sealed while non-areas will have maximum activities open up from May 18,” he said up in the state on May 18.Educational institutions in the state however will remain shut until there was “more clarity on COVID 19”.The development comes on a day when Punjab reported 14 new cases, taking the state’s COVID-19 tally to 1,946. The state has recorded 32 deaths  so far from the infection.
16-05-2020||---||3 cars burned in Amritsar’s Gole Bagh area, anonymous persons claim responsibility||Amritsar, May 16Three cars were allegedly burned in the Gole Bagh area near Durgiana Temple here by some unknown persons in the wee hours on Saturday.Anonymous persons have claimed the responsibility for the incident in a handout written in Punjabi and pasted on a wall of a park.Police have started a probe while forensic teams also reached the spot.A fire brigade official said the department received the information about the burning of cars around 4 am.He said efforts were made to douse the fire, but the cars were already damaged by the time the fire brigade team reached the spot. He said they could not ascertain how the cars caught fire.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Jagmohan Singh said the matter was under investigations and nothing could be said at the moment.He said forensic team was pressed to service to know how the cars burnt.About the handout pasted on a wall of a park, the officer said it was being looked into.The police have reportedly stumbled upon the CCTV footage of the incident, but DCP said it was being analysed.In the handout, the anonymous persons claimed that the COVID-19 pandemic has proved all the religious preachers wrong.Some objectionable remarks were also made against a Jalandhar-based sect in the handout and it was mentioned that more vehicles would be burned after May 18 if the supporters of the sect did not flee from the sect’s ashram.
16-05-2020||---||Punjab CM orders police to crack down on liquor smuggling, bootlegging, illicit distillation||Chandigarh, May 16Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Saturday, directed the Police Department to crack down on all kinds of liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor to protect the cash-strapped state from incurring any revenue losses due to such activities.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered an immediate action against the DSPs of Sub-Divisions and the SHOs in whose areas such activity is seen taking place, and strict proceedings against any government officer/official found negligent or supporting any illegal activity, in any manner, relating to distillation/smuggling/distribution of liquor etc.On the directives of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, DGP Dinkar Gupta has issued the necessary directives to all CPs and SSPs in the state to identify liquor smugglers/suppliers/bootleggers, district-wise and police station-wise, by May 23.The officers have also been asked to take all possible legal action against all such persons, including under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management and Epidemics Act.The DGP said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had made it clear that due to acute economic and financial stress all over India, arising out of the curfew/lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, the state government needed to mobilise all possible revenue.Thus, the state cannot afford any revenue loss on account of smuggling of liquor from outside the state, or on the account of the illicit distillation of liquor or bootlegging, the DGP added.In pursuance of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s orders, the CPs and the SSPs have been asked to put the SHOs of all police stations, especially the bordering police stations, on notice, and direct them to ensure that no smuggling of liquor into Punjab takes place.The DGP also warned that in case of failure to do so, the concerned SHO would be shifted out and necessary departmental action would be taken against him as well as the defaulters.Any government officer/official found supporting any illegal activity relating to distillation/smuggling/distribution of liquor etc would be proceeded against very strongly, as directed by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the DGP added.The DGP has directed the CPs and the SSPs to have a video-conferencing meeting with the DSPs of Sub-divisions and the SHOs to make it absolutely clear that if any illegal liquor factory was found operational in his area of jurisdiction, as in Khanna and Rajpura recently, he would be liable to be shifted out and legal/departmental action initiated against him. He would also become ineligible for the post of SHO and public dealing postings in the future, he added.All CPs and the SSPs have further been asked to monitor inter-state smuggling of liquor on a daily basis. All CPs and the IGP/DIG Ranges would send a monthly report, along with a DO letter, on the achievements of the districts falling in their jurisdiction in this regard, to ADGP Law & Order by the fifth of every month, without fail, said the DGP.All CPs and the SSPs had also been directed to remain in touch with the Excise Department officers as well as the contractors for feedback, and to ensure sustained and focused efforts against drug smugglers/suppliers/distillers etc. Any failure in this regard would be viewed very seriously, warned the DGP.
16-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Labourers protest delay in salary, overtime payments at Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 16Irked over not getting their salary and overtime payment, migrant labourers, led by the Zameen Prapati Sangharash Committee (ZPSC), on Friday, protested in front of the main gate of their company, near Ghabdan, on the Sangrur-Bhawanigarh road. “The company authorities have not paid the salaries of labourers for the month of March and April. The payment of overtime has also not been released,” alleged Gurmukh Singh, a leader of the ZPSC.The labourers started the protest march from Balial road, Bhawanigarh, and concluded at the main gate of the company, followed by a dharna. “After the company authorities accepted the demands for the release of payment of the salary and overtime, we lifted the protest. But we will protest again if the company authorities tried to delay the payment,” said Mukesh Malaud, president, ZPSC.Bhawanigarh SDM Ankur Mahindroo said their officers had been trying to accelerate the process for the early release of salaries and fulfilment of the demands of the workers.
16-05-2020||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana police commissioner himself chases car for 10 km after it rams into police vehicle and speeds off||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 16Ludhiana Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal on Saturday himself chased a car which rammed into a police vehicle at Bharat Nagar Chowk here and sped off.The Commissioner, who was on patrol duty nearby, chased it for 10 km before intercepting it at Ladhowal. Later, police reportedly fired at the car and an occupant is said to have been injured. The police are yet to reveal the identity of the occupant. According to information, a Honda Jazz rammed into the police vehicle and when the police tried to stop it, the occupant sped off.The Commissioner who was patrolling nearby gave it the chase. The car broke several police nakas and was intercepted at Ladhowal where cops also fired shots at it.One occupant reportedly suffered an injury.Police are tight-lipped about the incident or the identification of the occupant.
16-05-2020||Bathinda||Migrant workers stage protest at AIIMS in Bathinda, pelt stones at police||Migrant workers at Bathinda's AIIMS clashed with police as they demanded to be sent back to their home states during the lockdown.Angry protesters accused construction companies of procrastination, and pelted stones at police forces deployed in the area, prompting law enforcement to resort to "mild" baton charging, police sources said.    Workers claimed their companies had given them a date for return, but were now demanding Rs 3,000 per head to cover travel expenses. Migrant worker Adbul Karim, a native of West Bengal, said: “We went on strike and stopped the work, as today was the date when the company had promised us to send us back, so we staged a protest demanding that we wanted to go back to our native place”.Roop Chand, a migrant worker from Haryana, said they had not been paid for four months now. "There's no money. Everything is expensive here," he said.Most workers here from West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.Bathida SSP Nanak Singh denied any incidents of stone pelting despite videos of the alleged incident doing the rounds. Sing said the district administration was trying to ensure the migrants return. Loss of livelihoods and dwindling finances because of the nationwide lockdown called to slow the spread of coronavirus has sent migrants scurrying back home, many of them risking their lives in the process.
16-05-2020||---||Patiala Government Medical College withdraws notice asking doctors to pay annual fee||Patiala, May 16The Government Medical College (GMC) of Patiala has withdrawn its earlier notice to resident doctors asking them to deposit their annual fees in one time within two weeks.In the new letter, GMC principal Dr Harjinder Singh said there was a clerical mistake in the previous letter and, therefore, the said order would remain suspended until further orders.GMC principal said: “It was a clerical mistake. I have already sought an explanation from the concerned person. Doctors don’t have to worry.”
16-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||2-year-old girl beats coronavirus, discharged from Patiala hospital; Punjab CM Amarinder shares clip||A two-and-a-half-year-old girl defeated coronavirus and was discharged from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh shared a clip of the heartfelt incident on the micro-blogging website. The 28-second clip shows the girl—Arshiya—receiving flowers. "Happy to share a short video of a young #Covid19 patient Arshiya, aged 2.5 years, at the time of her discharge from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Heartening to see affirmation of their trust in our doctors & healthcare staff. I am sure it will motivate all of us!," read his tweet.  Happy to share a short video of a young #Covid19 patient Arshiya, aged 2.5 years, at the time of her discharge from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Heartening to see affirmation of their trust in our doctors & healthcare staff. I am sure it will motivate all of us! pic.twitter.com/7HfMNkLcz8  Reactions:God bless you little babyInsha'Allah whole India will defeat Covid19 like this way.Yes sir these very motivation of all over in rajindra hospital patialaEvery body will be fine with waheguru kirpagreat
16-05-2020||Amritsar||SIT formed to probe cremation row of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa||
16-05-2020||Our Correspondent||81 discharged in Tarn Taran amid protest by doctors||Tarn Taran, May 15Angry over locking of 2 medical officersThe medical officers said it was not the first incident when doctors were locked in the ward as four medical officers were also detained by patients on May 7The Health Department and the local administration had to face an embarrassing situation at the time of discharging Covid-19 patients as medical officers of the local Civil Hospital held a protest boycotting the function here on Friday.A total of 81 Covid-19 patients whose reports came negative were discharged from the local Civil Hospital and Guru Nanak Dev Super Speciality Hospital. SDM Rajnish Arora said 74 from the Civil Hospital and seven from Guru Nanak Dev hospital were discharged and the remaining 76 would be discharged till May 18. Tarn Taran MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri and Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill presented gifts to the patients at the time of their being discharged from the hospitals.The protesting medical officers (doctors) were holding a protest against the locking of their two medical officers in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital on Thursday in which the Covid-19 patients were kept.They protesters said that they had been sent to the ward to collect samples of 68 Covid-19 patients. There were 103 patients in the ward and other patients too tried to pressurize them to collect their samples too. Dr Satinder Singh and Dr Vipul were locked in the ward while their other associate (medical officer) Dr Sarabjit Singh managed to come out of the ward. The doctors cried for help but the doors were bolted from outside. They alleged all this happened in the presence of SDM Rajnish Arora, Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar, SMO Inder Mohan Gupta, other officials and police force, but none came to their rescue.SDM Rajnish Arora said it was not under his preview while Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar said it was a trivial matter as they wanted to open the door but could not do so as they feared that Covid-19 patients would come out. The medical officers said it was not the first incident when doctors were locked in the ward as four medical officers were also detained by patients on May 7.
16-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||This cop gives lessons in maths||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 15Inspired by former President APJ Abdul Kalam and believing that young ignited minds are builders of a better tomorrow, this upright cop never takes a day off from his duty.Balancing his professional life and social responsibility, Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, IG, Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU), has been teaching mathematics online to the students of matriculation.“The lockdown has adversely affected the studies of those students who were preparing for examinations. They need proper guidance and motivation during these challenging times,” said the IG.Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, who is also an avid reader, says he believes in learning, performing and reforming. He said he had been getting good response from the students and now requests were pouring in that he should also start teaching chemistry.On any difficulty in teaching these subjects, he said, “I just have to go through the topic once so that I can clear individual queries.”Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh is also member of several special investigating teams handling crucial cases that hit the headlines in the past. He is also a member of a primer Punjab police wing, OCCU, constituted by the state government to reign in notorious criminal gangs. He along with his team managed to neutralise many gangsters, who are now behind bars and facing trials.“I along with my team works day and night to neutralise criminal gangs operating from Punjab’s soil. Though we have succeeded to an extent, many more things are yet to be done. There is no laxity on this front,” he added.Kunwar is associated with several NGOs in the city and providing essentials to the needy. He added that there is no doubt that Covid-19 pandemic has not only thrown a challenge before the human community, but also before the police department.
16-05-2020||---||Punjab to provide free foodgrain to 14 lakh persons||Chandigarh: Punjab will provide free foodgrain to 14 lakh persons, including stranded migrants, for two months. In a communication received from the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution this evening, the state has been asked to provide 5 kg foodgrain and 1 kg pulses per month to every stranded migrant, not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) or the state’s public distribution scheme (PDS), during May and June.This allocation for the migrants is in addition to the foodgrain quota given to the state for 1.41 crore beneficiaries registered under the state PDS. Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said: “A meeting will be held tomorrow to chalk out a strategy for the distribution of foodgrain.”The state had earlier identified 26 lakh persons, including stranded migrants and non-smart cardholders for the distribution of free foodgrain for three months. These persons are not covered under Central or state welfare schemes like MGNREGA, NFSA and Jan Dhan.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had recently directed the Food and Civil Supplies Department to hike the ration quota for migrants and non-smart cardholders.
16-05-2020||New Delhi||Amritsar among 30 MCs with highest Covid load||The Amritsar Municipal Corporation in Punjab, along with Brihanmumbai, Delhi, Greater Chennai, Kolkata and Ahmadabad civic bodies, ranks among 30 municipal zones of India contributing 79 per cent of the national Covid burden of 81,970 cases.The Amritsar MC is the only municipal area from the region to feature among the highest disease-contributing segments.The single-day rise in case count today stood at 3,967 with the case doubling rate slowing down further to 12.9 days. Deaths over 24 hours declined to 100 as against 134 yesterday. — TNS
16-05-2020||---||Former US Vice President for relocating Afghanistan Sikhs, Hindus||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 15US presidential candidate and former Vice President Joe Biden has expressed concern over the targeting of Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan, especially after the attack on Gurdwara Har Rai Sahib, and suggested they will be given refugee status in the United States if he was elected President.“If I am elected President, my administration will renew our commitment to refugees….I will raise the annual global refugee admissions cap to 1,25,000,” he said in a statement issued on a day when a US panel, frequently in the cross hairs of the Ministry of External Affairs for its observations on Kashmir and Islamophobia in the Indian media, also made common cause on the Sikh issue.The influential Sam Brownback, head of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), described the attacks on the Sikhs in Afghanistan as a “terrible tragedy” for a “wonderful, peaceful religious group” that has been virtually decimated in Afghanistan.Brownback, a Donald Trump ally, was more guarded on the issue of resettling the Sikh of Afghanistan and said he had heard talks about re-settling them in US, Canada, India or Pakistan.
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||No losses incurred, says Punjab Excise Department||The Excise Department on Friday said it did not incur any losses in 2019-20, except those resulting from the lockdown, which were yet to be assessed.In a reply to statements by leaders that the department had suffered a loss of Rs 600 crore in 2019-20, the officials, after a meeting with the Chief Minister, said no such losses had been incurred. The officials claimed revenue receipts had shown a marked increase since the Congress government took over the state’s reigns in March 2017. From Rs 4,405.72 crore in FY 2016-17, the actual revenue received by the state exchequer shot up to Rs 5,135.68 crore in FY 2017-18, a 16 per cent increase in one year. There was a slight dip in the Excise Department revenues in FY 2018-19 on account of quota and price reduction, as well as hike in VAT, which went up to 14 per cent along with some changes in the GST, department officials said. — TNS
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Asymptomatic patients can go home early: Punjab Govt||The state government has decided to discharge the Covid-19 patients if they are asymptomatic (no fever, breathlessness) for more than three days.As per the revised discharge policy issued by Director Health Services, the mild/very mild/ symptomatic/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic cases can be discharged from isolation health facility without testing provided they are asymptomatic (no fever, breathlessness) for more than three days. Patient with moderate symptoms are symptom-free and maintain oxygen saturation of more than 95% for four days without oxygen support after 10 days of onset of symptoms. They have been further advised home isolation for seven days.As per the policy, persons returning from other states should be screened. Asymptomatic persons may be sent for home quarantine for 14 days. Symptomatic persons should be taken to isolation centres and tested for Covid. — TNS
16-05-2020||---||SIT to investigate Patiala distillery||Patiala, May 15The Patiala police have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to inquire into the illegal distillery-cum-bottling plant at Ghanaur, Patiala.Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “We have formed a team comprising SP (City) Varun Sharma, SP (Investigation) Harmeet Singh Hundal and DSP Ghanaur Manpreet Singh to probe the matter.”AAP FOR HC PROBEAAP has demanded that a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court should investigate the matterHe said he had received representations submitted by both AAP and SAD leaders.Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema alleged, “The ruling party is running the liquor and drug mafia in Punjab.”He showed photographs of accused Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh with a Congress leader, saying, “These pictures prove that illegal liquor traders have political connections.”The Aam Aadmi Party has demanded that a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court should probe the matter.SAD leader Surjit Singh Rakhra also raised questions over the law and order after meeting the SSP and said, “The state government is directly involved in the illegal trade."When contacted, the Congress leader said, “As far as I can recall, the photograph was taken at the Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh, where many party workers had come and clicked pictures. It doesn’t matter if he is in the party. The law is same for all.”
16-05-2020||---||Recovery rate up, 500 discharged in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 15In all, 13 fresh cases were reported in the state on Friday. The total count has reached 1,932.The count was 1,935 on Thursday. However, the state excluded 34 cases of RPF personnel, who were found positive in Ludhiana, from the state count. They have been added in the central pool due to which the number has declined as compared to yesterday.As per the media bulletin released today, six cases were reported from Faridkot, three from Fazilka and one each from Ludhiana, Bathinda, Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib.Apart from that, the state witnessed a jump in the number of patients who were discharged after getting treatment.On Friday, 508 patients were discharged from various quarantine centres.Thus, the total number of patients who have recovered from the disease has reached 731.Meanwhile, earlier in the day, the district administration decided to discharge 15 more patients who were tested positive in their second test, but were asymptomatic for the past three days.Later, when health officials opposed the move, they were not discharged.
16-05-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||He was force behind Badal’s meteoric rise||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 15Gurdas Singh Badal, known as Dass Ji, who breathed his last in the wee hours of Friday, was perhaps the only person with whom the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and his elder brother, Parkash Singh Badal, shared his heart.Father of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Dass Ji’s writ used to run in the state, especially in the Malwa region, before the families turned estranged due to differences between Manpreet and his cousin Sukhbir Badal. People close to both siblings reveal they were the epitome of brotherly love, which remained unaffected by the events in their lives.Harcharan Bains, Adviser to ex-CM Parkash Singh Badal, said there was no doubt that Dass Ji was a pillar around which Badal sahib’s psychological and emotional life revolved. “Even when the political differences arose in the family, hardly any week went by without both meeting each other, mostly at Dass Ji’s home. He was a man singularly free of any bitterness and one who never allowed politics to disfigure the innocence of relations.”Local scribes recall in 2012 when Manpreet formed his own party and his father Dass Ji had to contest elections, that too against his elder brother Parkash Singh Badal from Lambi, it was known to all that he rarely went out for campaigning.Known as the man who devised election strategy of Parkash Singh Badal in almost four of his five terms as the Chief Minister of Punjab and handled his home constituency Lambi for several decades, Gurdas was the force behind the rise of his elder brother from a village sarpanch to the state’s Chief Minister. He also remained an MLA from 1967 to 1969, besides representing the Fazilka parliamentary constituency in 1971.Fond of playing cards in his free time, he is said to have confided to his friends that the division of his family was the biggest remorse of his life. “The sons have walked on different paths, but there can never be any emotional wedge between Parkash and me,” he told this writer in an interview in 2012.Bakhtaur Dhillon, a senior journalist and a distant relative of the Badal family, said Gurdas was the one who took important decisions and decided appointments before the next generation took over.Vijay Pal Brar, another journalist and aide of Dass Ji, said he was in touch with him for over three decades, but never saw him getting angry. “I remember he would never give direct answers to journalists or supporters at meetings, but would hint at facts. He had a remarkable eye for future leaders and it would not be any exaggeration to say most of the Akali leaders in the Malwa belt owe their success to Dass Ji, who not only spotted them, but also guided them.”
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Insurance cover for frontline staff||File murder case: Scribe’s kinJalandhar: The family of journalist Sunpreet Singh Mangat (35), who was found dead on the roadside near Rahon on May 10, has demanded registration of a murder case as it claims that injuries on the body could not have been caused in a road accident. TNS
16-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||15 return from Dubai, had to borrow money||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 15“Kukkran de khudde ch rehnde si, hun ghar parte ne” (They lived in dingy rooms. Now, they have finally returned home),” says a much-relieved Baldev Singh as his son Arvinder landed in Jalandhar after several arduous months in Dubai.Brothers Gurwinder Singh (33) and Harjinder Singh (30), who served as valets in Dubai, looked confused when asked which hotel they would like to stay for quarantine on reaching Jalandhar. They didn't have money pay for the hotel stay.‘Not paid since March’We haven’t been paid since March. The company sent us without the customary money for flight. The flight back home cost us 700 Dirhams, which we borrowed from fellow Punjabis. — Gurwinder Singh, Shahkot residentMany of the 15 workers, who returned from Dubai yesterday, didn’t have the 700 Dirhams to pay for their flight back, leave alone money to stay at a hotel. Jobless and hungry, they begged and borrowed for the flight back home.Gurwinder Singh, a Shahkot resident, says, “Compared to the musty bunk in the room, it’s like heaven here. Open skies, three-square meals, milk and tea, when we ask for it. We are taken care of and feel lucky to have made it home. There are hundreds stuck in Dubai awaiting their turn for the flight. Many of them aren’t even being given food.”Homecoming has meant freedom for the 15 of the total 27 people who landed in Jalandhar on Thursday. Without salaries, they are the dispensable workforce of the Middle East.Baldev Singh, father of Arvinder Singh, from Uggi village, said, “It’s awful there. My son worked as a valet. It’s been six months since he received his salary. He was putting up in a shabby hall. My two more sons are in Dubai. One has to stay back due to visa obligations.”
16-05-2020||---||Centre’s farm package nothing but ‘jumlas’: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, May 15Trashing the announcements made by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for the agriculture sector as nothing but a pack of “jumlas”, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said the so-called economic package offered no immediate relief to the distressed farmers, who were battling the stress of handling two major crops one after the other in extremely tough conditions.‘Farmers need aid’As one of the most affected states, Punjab needed support for its farmers during wheat harvesting and procurement. But the Centre failed to deliver. In spite of repeated pleas, the Centre did not provide incentive to farmers for staggered procurement. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief ministerWith three tranches of the much-awaited economic package announced so far turning out to be a major disappointment for the targeted sections of society, it was clear that the Centre had failed to come to the rescue of the people who were struggling with the unprecedented Covid-19 crisis, he said.“The farmers need urgent help, and not so-called reform measures that have been long in the making and were not needed to be pushed through in haste at this critical juncture,” said Captain Amarinder, expressing concern over the lack of anything substantial in the announcements for the farmers.The Chief Minister said as one of the most affected states, agriculturally, Punjab needed support for the farmers during wheat harvesting and procurement, which the Centre failed to deliver. “Despite repeated pleas, the Centre did not provide incentive bonus to farmers for staggered procurement,” he added.
16-05-2020||Harshraj Singh||Famished, fatigued, migrants walk home as most miss train||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 15Unable to catch the train to his native village in Uttar Pradesh, 20-year-old Jai Parkash, along with a group of migrants, decided to walk home yesterday.Parkash said he received a message that a bus would drop him at the Ludhiana railway station. He kept waiting, but the bus never came and he missed the train on May 7.‘Hard times’After I missed the Shramik train on May 11, I applied online a day later. If I am unable to get the train this time, my family and I will walk back home. — Birju, Migrant labourerHe said he had no food or source of livelihood. “Leaving the city was the only option,” he added.Hundreds of migrants held protests in different parts of the city earlier this week, asking the government to make arrangements to send them to UP and Bihar at the earliest. They said they were not getting ration.‘No ration’There are many migrants who have complained they are not getting ration. They do not want to starve. So they have decided to go home. — Vijay Narain, Workers’ union leaderAround 7.30 lakh migrants have registered online to go back home. More than 51,000 have left for their native places by trains from Ludhiana. Those who could not go by trains, walked and bicycled. Some were lucky to get private buses or commercial vehicles during the nationwide lockdown.The district administration claimed that ration was being distributed among the needy.Also, social and religious organisations are distributing cooked food among the poor.Members of the employees’ unions, including Textile Hosiery Kamgaar Union Punjab, Molder and Steel Workers Union and Karkhana Mazdoor Union, claimed the migrants were not getting ration.Vijay Narain, president of the Molder and Steel Worker Union, said, “There are many migrants who complained that they were not getting ration. They do not want to starve and die. So they decided to go home.”Sixty-year-old Ghanshyam, a labourer, said, “I have decided to go back to Uttar Pradesh as I don’t have any work here. Moreover, there is no food.”Another labourer, Birju, who has a two-year-old child, said, “After I missed the Shramik train on May 11, I applied online a day later. If I am unable to get the train this time, my family and I will walk back home.”Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “We have made proper arrangements for the migrants’ travel. Ration is being distributed among the needy. We have distributed over 3.5 lakh dry ration packets. Besides, cooked food is given to around 1.5 to 2 lakh people daily by various organisations.”
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 1,500 cr to cooperative banks||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), Punjab regional office, has sanctioned Rs1,500 crore under special liquidity facility (SLF) to state cooperative banks. Of this, Rs1,000 crore has been sanctioned to Punjab State Cooperative Bank and Rs 500 crore to Punjab Gramin Bank.JPS Bindra, chief general manager, NABARD, Punjab regional office, said the fund was a front-loaded liquidity support provided to these banks. — TNS
16-05-2020||---||Liquor vends reopen in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 15Liquor vends reopened across Punjab after a gap of 54 days today. Succumbing to the pressure of the state government, liquor contractors decided to reopen the vends even as talks with the government over financial relaxations continued till late in the evening.Unlike in other parts of country, there were no serpentine queues or rush to get the liquor stock in a state known for its high consumption of booze. While some liquor vends had restarted operations on May 13, a vast majority had chosen not to open till their demands were met. A majority of the 5,800 liquor vends opened today as contractors agreed to the government’s assurance of “taking a sympathetic view” by holding a series of meetings with them. While the Punjab Government has already agreed to the demand for adjustment of licence fee for 36 days (April 1 to May 6), and promised contractors that losses incurred in the past nine days of March would be compensated on an actual basis, the contractors are demanding a reduction in the minimum guaranteed quota (MGQ) for sale and minimum guaranteed revenue (MGR), since they assume that sales would be low, especially of country-made or Punjab-made liquor.The contractors told the ministers that with marriages being postponed and bars, hotels and restaurants shut, the sale of IMFL would also be badly hit. Many also feel that beer quota will have to be reduced as half the summer season (when beer sales are at the peak) is over.
16-05-2020||Fazilka||Man booked for duping cops||The Jalalabad police have booked one Hari Chand, a resident of Pandita Wali Jhugian village of Jalalabad subdivision, for allegedly cheating police officers. This comes after the Haryana Police had arrested the accused on Thursday on the same charge.Jalalabad DSP Jaspal Singh said the accused had taken Rs5,000 from an SHO a few days ago on the pretext of providing him with information regarding drug smugglers.The DSP said the accused had tried to mislead him also, but he never gave in to his demand. — OC
