16-11-2020||New Delhi||Farmer protests in Punjab: Railways cancelled 3,090 goods trains leading to loss of Rs 1,670 crore||The Railways has suffered a loss of Rs 1,670 crore in freight earnings alone due to the farmers agitation in Punjab that have continued for over 50 days now, resulting in the cancellation of 1,986 passenger services and 3,090 goods trains to the region, sources said on Monday.Train services remained suspended in the state with the Railways rejecting a proposal of the protesters to resume only goods trains. The national transporter suffers an estimated daily loss of Rs 36 crore in freight earnings due to the suspension of services, sources said.From October 1 to November 15, the Railways’ freight loading suffered losses due to cancellations of trains and many trains carrying essentials for Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir being stranded just outside Punjab.As many as 520 rakes of coal could not be delivered to the five power plants in Punjab, leading to a loss of Rs 550 crore to the Railways, they said.Other cancelled goods trains include 110 rakes of steel (leading to an estimated loss of Rs 120 crore), 170 rakes of cement (loss of Rs 100 crore), 90 rakes of clinker (loss of Rs 35 crore), 1,150 rakes of foodgrains (loss of Rs 550 crore), 270 rakes of fertiliser (loss of Rs 140 crore) and 110 rakes containing petroleum, oil and lubricants (loss of Rs 40 crore), they said.Around 600 containers with various kinds of goods meant for the region have also been cancelled which have led to a loss of around Rs 120 crore and the suspension of 70 more goods rakes caused loss of Rs 15 crore.“While 3,090 goods trains have been cancelled so far, the losses are around Rs 1,670 crore on freight loading alone. We have also cancelled, short-terminated and diverted 1,986 passenger trains so far,” a source in the Railway Ministry said.Goods trains have not entered Punjab for one-and-a-half months now, except for two days in late October, leading to a shortage of essential goods, including fertiliser needed for wheat sowing and coal supplies for thermal plants.The agitating peasant leaders say they have vacated the tracks, but some protesters continued to occupy a few stations.The Railways has maintained that for resumption of services, it needs 100 per cent guarantee from the state government that no trains will be disrupted and both passenger and freight trains be allowed to operate.The farmers, however, have said that while they will allow goods trains, they will take no guarantee for passenger trains.The farmers are protesting three farm sector laws enacted by the Central government recently.Train services in the state have remained suspended since September 24 when farmer organisations organised protests on tracks and station premises against the farm laws.The three farm laws—the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- were enacted recently.Farmers’ bodies protesting against the laws have expressed apprehension that these would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporate entities. They demand that the laws be withdrawn.               The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income. PTI
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||23 deaths, 445 fresh virus cases in Punjab||Twenty-three more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Monday as 445 new cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 1,42,082, according to a medical bulletin.So far, 4,480 people have succumbed to the infection in the state. There are 5,601 active cases in the state as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 570 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection on Monday, taking the number of cured persons to 1,32,001, the bulletin said.Eighteen critical patients are on ventilator while 156 are on oxygen support, it said.So far, 28,78,477 samples have been collected for testing the state, it added. — PTI
16-11-2020||---||One more fatality due to Covid in Mohali||Mohali, November 16One more fatality was witnessed due to Covid in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the total number of deaths to 255.Meanwhile, 104 fresh Covid positive cases have come to the fore during the past 24 hours taking the total number of cases to 13,678 in the district. As many as 57 patients were cured and discharged from the hospitals till Monday evening.Out of the total 104 new cases, 86 came from Mohali urban, 11 from Dhakoli, six from Gharuan, one from Kharar.As of now, there are 13,678 positive cases out of which 12,377 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 1,046 active cases with 255 deaths in the district.Covid test RT PCR  were conducted on the employees of the district information and public relations office at the district administrative complex at the Covid sample centre set up at Khel Bhawan, Sector 78. Reports of all the employees came out negative.
16-11-2020||New Delhi||Sonu Sood named state icon of Punjab||Actor Sonu Sood has been appointed as state icon of Punjab by the Election Commission of India (ECI).“I am overwhelmed and extremely grateful for this honour. Having been born in Punjab, this appointment means so much to me, emotionally. I am happy to have made my state proud of me and I am motivated to keep working hard,” Sonu expressed his happiness.The decision of honouring Sonu Sood with the title comes after he earned laurels for his humanitarian work during the lockdown. Sonu has been helping migrant workers reach their hometowns amid the coronavirus pandemic.He also helped people by giving them face masks, food, mobile phones and more.A few days ago, Sonu announced that he is all set to come up with his autobiography titled ‘I am No Messiah’.On the film front, Sonu will next be seen in the Akshay Kumar-starrer in “Prithviraj”. IANS
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Police postings: Khanna gets new SSP||The Punjab Government on Monday posted Gursharandeep Singh, PPS, as the new SSP of Khanna.He replaces Harpreet Singh, who is posted as AIG crime with Punjab Bureau of Investigation, Chandigarh.In other orders, AIG Welfare Sukhwant Singh Gill has been given additional charge of Commandant 82nd Battalion, PAP, Chandigarh. Also, SP Balraj Singh is posted as Commandant Ladha Kothi, Sangrur.
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||After gap of nearly eight months, colleges and universities reopen in Punjab||Colleges and universities in Punjab reopened on Monday after being shut for nearly eight months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said.The decision to open these educational institutions in areas outside COVID-19 containment zones was taken by the state government earlier this month.Institutions have been directed to strictly observe COVID-19 standard operating procedures (SOPs) framed by their respective administrative departments in consultation with the state health department and the Union Health Ministry.Earlier an official spokesperson had said that “all higher education, medical education and research and technical education institutions, including all universities and colleges in areas outside containment zones in the state would be allowed to re-open from November 16”.The educational institutions in the state were closed from March 24 due to the coronavirus outbreak.In the first phase of reopening, only final-year students of departments such as science, medicine, engineering and technology where hands-on training is an essential part of the curriculum will be called for attending classes, followed by students of other courses, according to the SOPs.In hostels, not more than one student will be accommodated per room to begin with and educational institutes have kept separate gates for entry and exit of students and staff.Thermal screening, hand sanitising, wearing of masks, social distancing in classrooms, with not more than 50 per cent of total strength of students being called to attend classes, are part of the SOPs.Even though attendance was thin on the first day, majority of students across the state said they were happy to attend regular classes.“Online classes have helped us during these months, but these cannot match regular classes where we meet our teachers face-to-face in a campus environment. There are distractions and limitations while studying at home,” said a student outside a government college in Bathinda. PTI
16-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Congress leader Manish Tewari tests positive for COVID-19||Congress leader Manish Tewari tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday.Tewari, the Member of Parliament for Anandpur Sahib, said in a tweet that he got himself tested on Monday morning after running a fever the previous night. He also said he showed no other symptoms.  Tewari’s tweet read: “I have tested positive for COVID -19 today afternoon. I got up with mild fever around 2 AM last night. Got myself tested first thing in the morning. Two parallel tests. No other symptoms so far. All those who have been in contact with me over the past few days are advised caution”.The development comes a day after another Congress leader, Ahmed Patel, had to be admitted to an Intensive Care Unit of Gurugram’s Mendanta Hospital in the national capital days after he tested positive for coronavirus.
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Rains lash Haryana and Punjab, temperatures dip||Many places in Haryana and Punjab received rains, causing a dip in the mercury on Monday, the Meteorological Department said.A few places, including Chandigarh, received showers on Monday morning as well.Among other places which received rains on Sunday are Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Panchkula, Ambala, Sonipat, Gurgaon, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Jind and Hisar.Isolated places in Haryana were also lashed by a hailstorm.The minimum temperature in the two states dropped by a few notches after the rains, Met department officials said. PTI
16-11-2020||Sangrur||Youth shot in Sangrur||Booked for hurting sentimentsSangrur: A man was booked after body parts of cows were recovered from a well on the Raikot road near Malerkotla. Pawanjit, DSP, said they had registered a case under Section 295-A against Amajad Ali, who had a cowshed near the well. “We have registered a case and started an investigation. Though there are many bags in the well, we can comment only after proper medical examination,” he said. TNSTikTok star murderedSangrur: A TikTok star was allegedly murdered with sharp-edged weapons on Saturday. The police have registered a case. As per information, Sukhwinder Singh's body was found a kilometre away from his Bhathuan village. During preliminary investigation, it came to light that he was murdered with sharp-edged weapons. "We have started investigations after the registration of case against unidentified persons," said DSP Tejinder Singh. TNSBathinda man ends lifeBathinda: A 45-year-old man allegedly committed suicide at Teona village in the district on Saturday. Identified as Jeet Singh, he was a farm labourer. His brother said: “Jeet suspected his wife of having illicit relations with other men of the village. Jeet became quite upset and committed suicide by hanging from a tree in the vicinity of our house.” After initial investigation, the police have sent the body to the government hospital for post-mortem. TNS
16-11-2020||Patiala||Cracker ban goes up in smoke in Punjab||Despite a ban on traditional crackers, Punjab witnessed a drastic increase in the air pollution levels on Diwali, with the air quality of the state being in “very poor” category as compared to the “poor” category, registered in 2019.Editorial Bang eclipses ban: Smog chokes north India after Diwali fireworksA layer of haze and smog was visible in many cities and villages, as the two-hour window for bursting crackers went up for a toss. Crackers were burst till wee hours in most cities. According to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), the air quality index (AQI) for Punjab in 2019 was recorded at 293 (poor) which reached an alarming 328 (very poor) on Saturday night.The data collected from 7 am from November 14 till 6 am on November 15 showed that Amritsar and Ludhiana recorded the worst air quality with the levels of pollutants reaching 386 and 376, respectively. The home town of the Chief Minister, that also houses PPCB headquarter, also had the AQI of 334. Jalandhar saw AQI of 328 while Khanna was a little better at 281.The industrial town of Mandi Gobindgarh, where residents flouted the ban on crackers, saw the air quality index reaching 262, a dip from last year’s 311.Punjab witnessed a sharp increase in the levels of PM10 — tiny particulate matter of diameter 10 or less than 10 microns that can enter deep into the lungs and cause major damage to children, elderly and patients. As per data, the PM10 reading crossed 118 ug/m3 levels this Diwali. Last year, it stood at 90 ug/m3 on Diwali.The levels of the most dangerous particles, called PM2.5, was 90 micrograms per cubic metre as compared to 43 in 2019, which is considered hazardous to breathe. Particulate matter smaller than 2.5 microns (or about a ten-thousandth of an inch) is particularly dangerous to health. Such particles are small enough to travel deep into the respiratory system, potentially impairing lung function.To be considered safe, PM2.5 concentration less than 60 micrograms per cubic metre is considered safe. Experts suggest that the failure of the administration to put a check on non-green crackers and the violation of the time span fixed for bursting crackers can be established from the facts that the PM10 levels in four districts crossed the 500-mark, which can be life threatening if exposed for long. The AQI (PM10) was recorded at 500 in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala while it was 423 in Mandi Gobindgarh where the cracker ban turned to be ineffective.“The high value of the AQI could be due to the atmospheric conditions (low temperature) prevailing during the season, resulting in reduced dispersion of the pollutants,” claimed PPCB member-secretary Karunesh Garg.
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab ramps up facilities as infections surge again||As Punjab witnesses a resurgence of Covid-19 cases, the state Health Department is gearing up for a second peak in the infection curve. The state is now gearing up to increase its level-2 (critical with oxygen beds) and level-3 (very critical with ICU and ventilators) facilitates.Jalandhar and Mohali are seeing a massive upsurge while the number of cases in Ludhiana, Amritsar and Patiala continues to be high. For the past week, over 500 new cases are being detected each day, with 547 being reported today. The number of deaths, though lesser than in September, is high in comparison to the number of active patients.A new mathematical curve, predicted by a leading non-profit organisation, said 21,000 new cases could be added in the state between November 9 and December 10. Officials in the Health department said so far, they had been following these predictions to ramp up their facilities and plan healthcare accordingly. However, this time, they believe the cases could be much higher than what was being predicted using mathematical calculations.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid, said the pandemic spread had shown that the number of cases in the second wave were far more than in the first wave, and also more severe. “We are accordingly formulating our healthcare strategy. The daily testing had peaked at 30,000 at the height of the first wave, which is now around 22,000 per day. The positivity rate in the first wave peaked at nine per cent. It is still at three per cent. Nevertheless, we are increasing contact-tracing and also adding more beds to level-2 ( from 5,200 to 7,000 beds) and level-3 ( from 750 to 1,000) facilities,” he said. — TNS
16-11-2020||Moga||Rain brings cheer to wheat growers||Light rains and thundershowers at most places in the state on Sunday brought cheer to farmers, especially wheat growers who had sown their crop without burning paddy straw. It is also beneficial for those who are preparing to sow wheat and other rabi crops.Relief from pollutionMuktsar: The rain brought a relief from air pollution in the district. Stubble burning incidents and bursting of crackers on Saturday night had increased the air pollution. TNSMoreover, air pollution levels are also likely to fall after the state witnessed thousands of incidents of burning the paddy straw during the current harvesting season.Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, plant protection officer, Moga, said the widespread rain was expected to boost wheat crop sowing this season. An expected drop in the minimum temperature during November would help the temperature-sensitive wheat crop, which needed cold conditions to thrive.Dr Brar said farmers who had already sown wheat crop a few weeks ago without burning the paddy straw was likely to benefit a lot.Dr Balwinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Moga, said, “The rain will not only help in reducing the pressure on the groundwater but also help in retaining soil moisture. It will help reduce the cost inputs. Even where farmers are going for late wheat sowing, the rain will be of immense help to them.”Bathinda: Rain lashed parts of Bathinda and Mansa districts on Sunday. As per Meteorology Department officials, rain was of mild to moderate degree that lasted for about 20 to 25 minutes in some parts of the region.Meanwhile, residents in Bathinda rued that even mild rain that lasted for half an hour resulted in accumulation of rainwater on city roads. They however, got much needed relief from the air pollution caused by burning of paddy stubble lately. — TNS
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid relief for trust properties’ allottees||In a Covid-19 pandemic-related relief to hundreds of allotttees of residential and commercial properties that come under improvement trusts, the Local Government Department has decided to waive non-construction charges for six months, from April 1 to September 30.This is in addition to granting of six-month additional permissible period of construction in case of all residential plots and other properties allotted by the trusts through draw of lots or auction.In an order issued Secretary (Local Government) Ajoy Kumar Sinha, under The Punjab Town Improvement (Utilisation and Allotment of Plots) Rules 1983, instalments on all auctioned properties due between April1, 2020 and September 30, 2020, can be paid along with balance instalments as equated instalments at the scheme rate of interest. No interest shall be charged on the installments due between the above mentioned six month period.In June, the department announced to waive the entire interest on non-construction dues, provided the principal amount was paid in one go. The one-time measure had been announced to recover lakhs of rupees pending on account of non-construction fee. In many cases, allottees have defaulted in the payment of instalments, enhancement, and any other dues towards the cost of their properties.Sources said under the amended rules, a three-year moratorium had been allowed as a one-time measure for plot owners who had not yet done any construction. The three-year waiver would be subject to payment of extension fee at a rate of 5 per cent of the sale price per year beyond the period of 15 years from the date of allotment. — TNS
16-11-2020||GS Paul||SGPC turns 100, still stuck in tangles||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 15The SGPC today completed 100 years of its existence. To commemorate the occasion, an “akhand path” was initiated at the Akal Takht. Besides religious, administrative issues loom large over the Sikh body. At present, the Shiromani Akali Dal, with a majority of members, holds dominance over it.Unending disputesIts unending disputes include the Nanakshahi Calendar row, and the appointment and rights of Jathedars of the Akal Takht.Recently, the SGPC drew flak over 328 missing Guru Granth Sahib “saroops” that were allegedly misappropriated by staff and officials of its publication branch.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said efforts were being made to trace the missing “saroops”. “We have taken prompt action and removed the officials or staff members. The existing SGPC executive, including me, submitted an apology voluntarily to the Akal Takht and faced punishment,” he said.Constituted on November 15, 1920, the SGPC was born out of Gurdwara Reform Movement against the mahant and priests to liberate prominent gurdwaras, including the Golden Temple, from their control.The last SGPC polls were held on September 18, 2011. Lately, the appointment of Justice SS Saron (retd) as the Chief Commissioner, Gurdwara elections, has paved the way for holding fresh SGPC polls.
16-11-2020||---||Brisk sales add sparkle to dealers’ business||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 15Cracker dealers are in an upbeat mood this Diwali as they said all their fears of having dull business were put to rest after witnessing a huge rush of buyers in the market in the last three days. Though they maintained that green crackers were sold maximum as these were mostly demanded by buyers, at the same time they believed that apart from “government stamp” on green crackers, there was hardly any difference between the green or normal crackers as far as pollution levels were concerned.Pradeep Kumar, president, Ludhiana Fire Cracker Dealers’ Association, said the sales remained more than expected in this part of the region.“All were concerned because of Covid spread and there was a fear among cracker dealers over rumours of putting a ban on burning fire crackers as a few states had already announced the same. But we are thankful that no such announcement was made and crackers were purchased as per our expectations,” he said.Commenting on the sale of green crackers, Kumar said maximum buyers asked for green crackers this time. “Those crackers had a ‘government stamp’, but as far as difference from normal crackers was concerned, there was hardly any difference as pollution levels were witnessed at the same levels,” he said. Crackers start arriving in the city in March and these are stocked in godowns by dealers. These are brought from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu — the place where crackers are manufactured.“Be it birthdays, marriages, or any important occasion crackers are burnt sold throughout the year,” maintained Rajesh Kumar, a cracker dealer.
16-11-2020||Fazilka||Farmer dies during stir in Fazilka,  enraged protesters block highway||A farmer died during a dharna at the Mahmu Joiyan toll plaza on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway on Friday late evening. Farmers claimed Baldev Raj, 60, suffered a heart attack and died. Hehad been protesting the farm laws at the toll plaza since October 1.The enraged farmers placed the body on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway and started an indefinite protest from 2 pm on Sunday. The blockade caused inconvenience to commuters as the traffic had to be diverted through the villages.Gurwinder Singh, senior vice-president, BKU (Ugrahan), Fazilka, said Baldev’s family members and the farmers had demanded Rs 10 lakh as compensation and the waiver of loan amounting to Rs 8 lakh obtained from three different banks, besides a job to the next of kin. Jalalabad DSP Palwinder Singh said the administration had agreed to pay Rs 5 lakh as compensation and a contract-based job to the next of kin of the deceased, but the farmers rejected the offer.The farmers warned that they would not cremate the body and would continue to block the highway till their demands were not accepted completely. — OC
16-11-2020||---||Agriculture laws resonate in Akal Takht message on ‘Bandi Chhor Divas’||Amritsar, November 15The agrarian crisis, caused by the newly enacted farm laws, was raised from the podium of Akal Takht during the “Bandi Chhor Divas” (Diwali) on November 14.Meanwhile, the Golden Temple complex was illuminated with LED lights and thousands of devotees flocked to the temple. The traditional fireworks display was a spectacular event. As the tradition goes, the Nihang Singh organisations presented the stunts on horses at Ranjit Avenue ground today.“Bandi Chhor Divas” (prisoner release day) is celebrated to mark the historical release of the sixth Sikh guru, Guru Hargobind, from the Mughal prison along with 52 kings in the early 17th century.In his customary “sandesh” (message), Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said “black laws” were being enforced upon the common citizens and its opposition would be dealt with sternly by the governments(both Centre and state).“Around three centuries ago, Baba Banda Singh Bahadur had granted land ownership rights to farmers, but in present times, the same peasant class is fighting for their inherited rights. The entire Khalsa Panth should shield farmers, labourers and every deprived section of society to justify the Sikh philosophy in its true letter and spirit,” he said.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal condemned the Centre for imposing the ‘black laws’. He said it was against the Guru’s principle of “kirt”.Meanwhile, the ‘parallel’ acting Jathedar of Akal Takht, Dhyan Singh Mand, and his supporters were not allowed to enter the Golden Temple. Jarnail Singh Sakhira, an organiser, said the police didn’t allow them in, so the ‘message’ was read outside the shrine.
16-11-2020||---||Debt-ridden farmer, wife end lives in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 15Reeling under mounting debt, a farmer of Lohakhera, along with his wife, committed suicide on Friday night. Area residents have demanded financial aid for the farmer’s family.Longowal Station House Officer (SHO) Jarnail Singh said deceased Jagmale Singh (49) was under a debt of around Rs 18 lakh. To repay the debt, he had decided to sell his one acre land of the total three acres.“Jagmale consumed poison on Friday night. As his wife Manjit Kaur (43) got to know about the deteriorating health of her husband, she also consumed poison. Both were taken to the Civil Hospital, but were declared brought dead. Afterthe postmortem examination, we handed over the bodies to their family members,” said the SHO.“The deceased couple had a son and a daughter. The Punjab Government should waive the debt as reliefto the family,” said Kartar Singh, a village resident.
16-11-2020||---||Farmers take out marches in villages||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15After the first round of talks with the Centre remained “inconclusive”, farmers’ unions in Punjab are in no mood to relent and are continuing with their protestsA majority of unions had given a call for celebrating Diwali as “Roshniyan layi sangharsh”. As a result, marches were held across the rural landscape of the state, with farmers taking out a procession last night.In the dharnas being held elsewhere, farmers lit torches and pledged to continue the struggle till the three farm laws enacted by the Centre were withdrawn. ‘Jalebi langars’ were held and the savoury sweet was also distributed at various places. The unions are gearing up for their protest in Delhi on November 26-27 and already they are asking their members to gear up to move to Delhi.
16-11-2020||Abohar||Cotton worth Rs 5 cr gutted  in Abohar unit||Hundreds of cotton bales, stacked in an open plinth, were gutted in fire, believed to have been sparked by a cracker that fell in a private yard on Saturday night.Preliminary inquiry indicated that smoke was found emanating from a cotton yard at Bansal Industries, located on the old Fazilka road. Staff immediately informed factory owner Naresh Pal Bansal who called the fire brigade. The first vehicle reportedly arrived within 15 minutes. As the fire was spreading fast, another fire tender was called from Fazilka, about 32 km from here. It is leant that about 2,500 bales of ginned and processed cotton and 1,600 quintal of unprocessed cotton produce was damaged. The loss is estimated to be Rs 5 crore.Most of the stack belonged to Cotton Corporation of India that started purchase in Abohar market last month. The fire tenders were able to control fire after six hours. — OC
16-11-2020||Parvesh Sharma||In Sangrur village, 92% sowing done without burning stubble||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 15At a time when Sangrur district is in headlines for maximum stubble burning cases in the state, farmers of Bhadalwad village have set an example by sowing crops on 92 per cent area of the farms without burning stubble.“I have been sowing various crops since 2005 without burning stubble. When I started, a majority of farmers of my village were not willing to do the same. After seeing the increase in the per acre production of my crops, this season 92 per cent area has seen sown without burning stubble,” said Harwinder Singh, a progressive farmer of the village.Harwinder Singh, who has also won many awards for promoting organic farming, has also been helping other farmers in shunning stubble burning. Some other farmers of the village said initially they were reluctant, but after seeing the success of Harwinder, they also started following his advice and government’s directions in this regard.“I have not burnt stubble on my field for the past five years. My per acre production of various crops has increased and I can prove it with data. Teams of the PAU, Ludhiana, and Agriculture Department have been offering all help,” said Gurjinder Singh, another farmer of the village.Sangrur Chief Agriculture officer (CAO) Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal said Bhadalwad village had done a commendable job by sowing 92 per cent of the area without burning stubble on their fields. “Apart from this village, our special teams are visiting almost all villages in the district. We are hopeful that many more villages will follow our advice as farmers are responding well to our visits,” said the CAO.
16-11-2020||Faridkot||40 candidates  for 336 NRI quota medical seats in Punjab||All 24 medical and dental colleges in the state are set to face a problem in filling the NRI quota seats in the MBBS and BDS courses with only a few NEET-qualified candidates applying this time.Baba Farid University of Health Sciences will announce the admission list for 160 MBBS and 176 BDS NRI quota seats on November 19. However, only 40 candidates have applied for the 336 seats.Of the total 40 NRI applicants, some have scored as low as 150 marks out of 720 marks in the NEET.About 19 of the 40 NRI candidates have scored less than 300 marks in NEET.For a Punjab resident with 500 marks in the NEET, getting admission to a government medical college is a pipedream, but an NRI candidate with 200 marks has a high chance of making it. An NRI candidate has to pay $1.10 lakh as tuition fee for an MBBS seat. — TNS
16-11-2020||Batala||Negotiating Batala’s ‘death bend’||Spellcheck lesson for admnPatiala: Though many ETT-TET pass teachers are unemployed, they got an opportunity to teach the district administration when they caught the latter on the wrong foot. The teachers recently held a protest following which the administration gave them an assurance letter of a meeting with the higher-ups. The letter reportedly had many grammatical errors. Deep Banarsi, a teacher, said, “The drafting of the letter raises serious questions on the competency of the officer concerned.” However, the Naib Tehsildar said, “The letter was written by an Assistant Sub-Inspector. I just signed it in haste.”Free internet for Dhuri wardSangrur: Hundreds of residents of Ward no. 2 of Dhuri town in the district will have round-the-clock free access to the internet as a former municipal councillor has installed modems across the ward and started a Wi-Fi service. “I have installed 25 modems to provide free internet to residents. I have started the facility because there are many poor families in my ward and their children are facing problems in completing their online studies,” said Pushpinder Sharma, former municipal councillor.‘Third eye’ on criminalsFatehgarh Sahib: MPs Amar Singh and Shamsher Singh Dullo have donated Rs 14 lakh from the MPLAD fund to install CCTV cameras at prominent places in Fatehgarh Sahib under the Safe City Project. The cameras will not only help in controlling anti-social elements but will also enable smooth flow of traffic and in maintaining law and order. The crime incidents and offences occurring at any place will be immediately recorded at the Integrated Control Centre which was jointly inaugurated by DC Amrit Kaur Gill and SSP Amneet Kondal.‘Urja Purush’ breathes his lastFazilka: Octogenarian Dr Bhupinder Singh of Fazilka, a recipient of the ‘Urja Purush Award’, passed away after a brief illness recently. A former head of department of mechanical engineering at IIT-Roorkee, he was awarded by the Uttarakhand Government for his tremendous contribution in promoting solar energy. He also set up a solar workshop in Fazilka to acquaint the youths with the benefits of solar energy.Honour for social activistAbohar: Social activist and celebrity fashion designer Parul Bhatia was recently honoured with the prestigious Business Rankers Women Achievers’ Award-2020 for her contribution in improving the economic condition of women. Parul has been the brand ambassador of the cleanliness mission in Sriganganagar. She has played an important role in promoting the art works of women craftsmen of Srikaranpur, a border segment, and Kalian village, to foreign countries.
16-11-2020||Ludhiana||MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains plans march over river waters||Lok Insaf Party (LIP) president and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains would launch a “Punjab Adhikar Yatra” from Harike Pattan to secure the river waters of Punjab.Addressing mediapersons here today, he said the yatra would cover a distance of 700 km, passing through 11 districts, and culminate at Chandigarh after three days and four nights.A petition signed by 21 lakh Punjabis would be handed over to the ‘petition committee’ of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha demanding legislative protection of the river waters of the state, he added. — OC
