16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 18 more coronavirus deaths, 336 new cases||Eighteen more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Punjab, raising the death toll to 5,135 on Wednesday, while 336 fresh cases brought the infection count to 1,61,383 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.Five new fatalities linked to the novel coronavirus were reported from Amritsar; three each from Ferozepur and Ludhiana; two from Kapurthala and one each from Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mansa, Patiala and Sangrur, the bulletin said.Click here for the latest developments on Covid-19 epidemicPunjab has 6,241 active COVID-19 cases, it said.Among the fresh COVID-19 cases in the state, Jalandhar reported 67, Ludhiana 54 and Amritsar 44.A total of 573 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the recovery count to 1,50,007, according to the bulletin.Fourteen critical novel coronavirus patients are on ventilator support while 112 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 35,83,661 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
16-12-2020||---||MHA accords Y-category security to Sunny Deol after he backs new farm laws||New Delhi, Dec 16Actor-turned politician and BJP Lok Sabha member from Gurdaspur in Punjab Sunny Deol has been accorded Y-category security by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) after he spoke out in support of the government’s farm laws against which farmers have been massively protesting on the highways near the national capital.The Y-category security cover means the MP will be protested by 11 personnel, including two commandos.Deol had earlier been questioned over his silence on the farmer protests. But last week, he posted a statement on Twitter, saying the matter was between the farmers and the government and some people were trying to stir the trouble.“I know that many people want to take advantage of the situation and are creating problems. They are not thinking of farmers. They may have their own agenda. I stand with my party and farmers and will always be with farmers,” Deol had tweeted.“Our government always thinks of the betterment of farmers and I am sure that the government will ensure the right outcome after holding talks with farmers,” he added.The farmers are protesting against the new agriculture laws, which they fear will end the safety net of Minimum Support Prices (MSP), or guaranteed minimum prices, and leave them open to exploitation by corporate.After Sunny Deol’s tweet, his father Dharmendra, a legendary actor who was also a BJP MP between 2004 and 2009, had posted: “I’m extremely in pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers.”
16-12-2020||---||Social gatherings restricted to 100 persons in Mohali||Mohali, December 16Along with the existing restrictions of night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in all the towns and the closure timing of hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces by 9.30 pm till December 31, the Mohali District Magistrate has imposed new restrictions.Social gatherings have been restricted to a maximum of 100 persons for any indoor event, and 250 persons in outdoor gatherings till December 31.Any violation of these guidelines shall be punishable under sections 51to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 besides legal action under section 188 of Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, 34 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today. As many as 111 patients have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. In a major relief, no Covid-related death was reported from the district today. Among the new cases reported today, 33 were from Mohali urban and one case was from Dera Bassi.The total positive cases in the district are 17,203, of which 14,858 have been cured. The active cases in the district are 2,027. With no death today, the toll stands at 318 in the district.
16-12-2020||Sonepat/Karnal||Unable to bear 'farmers' plight', 65-year-old 'sant' commits suicide at Singhu border||A 65-year-old 'sant' reportedly committed suicide by shooting himself dead at Singhu border on Wednesday evening.Deceased Baba Ram Singh of Singhra village in Nissing area of Karnal district had a large following.Read more: SC issues notice to Centre on petitions seeking removal of agitating farmers from Delhi roadsForming new committee no solution: Protesting farmer leaders on SC suggestionJaipur-Delhi highway remains partially blockedBaba Ram Singh was on the seat of Gurdwara Sahib Nanaksar, Singhra village. A handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by the deceased, says he was unable to bear the "pain of farmers". The note is being verified by police.An official of the Sonepat police said they had received a call that Sant Ram Singh (65), who hailed from Karnal, allegedly shot himself.The deceased was rushed to a hospital in Panipat where doctors declared him brought dead.The official said the exact spot where the incident took place is being verified and police are in the process of recording statements of the deceased's family members.SAD spokesperson and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa expressed grief over the incident and urged farmers to exercise restraint.दिल बहुत दुखी है आप को ये बताते हुए कि संत राम सिंह जी सिंगड़े वाले ने किसानों की व्यथा को देखते हुए आत्महत्या कर ली। इस आंदोलन ने पूरे देश की आत्मा झकझोर कर रख दी है। मेरी वाहेगुरु से अरदास है कि उनकी आत्मा को शांति मिलेआप सभी से संयम बनाकर रखने की विनती 🙏🏻 pic.twitter.com/DyYyGmWgGg  “A very sad news has been received that Sant Ram Singh, who dedicated his life to the service of humanity, committed suicide by shooting himself,” he said on his Twitter handle.According to Sirsa, the victim wrote in his suicide note that he was unable to to bear the "pain of the farmers".“It is a sin to suffer atrocity and witness it, which I cannot see,” Sirsa said the cleric wrote in his suicide note.Sirsa appealed to farmers to exercise restraint.“It is a very grave time. I request you as the chief sewadar of the DSGMC to exercise restraint because anybody can do mischief in the farmers' agitation. It is a very sad incident for all of us but we need to be restrained,” said Sirsa. Baba Ram Singh came at Nanaksar Gurdwara Singhra in 1990 from Nanaksar Gurdwara Jagraon in Punjab. He had also extended support of Rs 5 lakh to the farmers’ agitation this week at Singhu border. He had distributed 500 blankets yesterday to farmers at Singhu border, said Kamarjeet Virk, one of his followers.As per the followers closed to him, Baba Ram Singh went to Singhu border today to offer 'ardas' (prayer).Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled Sant Ram Singh’s death by suicide and said the atrocity of the BJP-led Centre had crossed all limits.“Sant Ram Singh of Karnal died by suicide looking at the condition of farmers. Many farmers have laid down their lives. The atrocities of the government know no bounds. The government should shed its ego and immediately repeal farm laws,” Gandhi said.करनाल के संत बाबा राम सिंह जी ने कुंडली बॉर्डर पर किसानों की दुर्दशा देखकर आत्महत्या कर ली। इस दुख की घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएँ और श्रद्धांजलि।कई किसान अपने जीवन की आहुति दे चुके हैं। मोदी सरकार की क्रूरता हर हद पार कर चुकी है। ज़िद छोड़ो और तुरंत कृषि विरोधी क़ानून वापस लो! pic.twitter.com/rolS2DWNr1  Body of Baba Ram Singh was taken to KCGMC, Karnal, where his followers refused to get his post-mortem done. His body was taken to Nanaksar Gurdwara Singhra, where thousands of followers had gathered. However, later the body was brought back to the hospital.As the post-mortem was being done, Baba Ram Singh's followers offered prayers.Tense situation prevailed on the gurdwara premises. The followers said “maharaj ji ne sahadat diti hai kisana vaste, Modi ji, hun te kisana de sun lo" (maharaj ji sacrificed his life for farmers; Modi ji, now listen to the farmers.)A large number of police personnel were also present outside the gurdwara.BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni termed Baba Ram Singh's death as a big loss for the society.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other state have been protesting near the Delhi borders for the past three weeks, demanding that the Centre's farm laws be repealed. — With PTI inputs
16-12-2020||New Delhi||Farmers' group from Punjab starts 'informal school' for local slum children||A group of farmers from Punjab's Anandpur Sahib has started an 'informal school' in a makeshift tent for local slum children at the Singhu border.Pioneered by writer Bir Singh and advocate Dinesh Chaddha, the temporary school that started on Monday is part of the multiple 'sewa' practices being offered at the protest site, where thousands of farmers have been demonstrating against three new farm laws for over two weeks now.With several rounds of talks with the government ending in stalemate, the protesters have found new ways to help each other and those living around the protest site, be it community kitchens, medical services, libraries, or this temporary school."Everything here is 'sewa'. We saw so many children from neighbouring slums roaming around for food, and thought why not also help them keep engaged in a constructive way," Satnam Singh, a volunteer, said.According to him, educated individuals among the farmers, who have bachelors or Phd degrees, have been teaching the children.About 60-70 children across age groups have been coming to them every day to read, write, draw and listen to stories, he added."The first day we had to encourage them to come and study here by giving them fruit juice and snacks, but over the last two days they have been coming on their own, and have brought their friends too," Satnam Singh said."The teachers ask them what class they are studying in and teach them according to the expected syllabi," he said, adding that they have arranged for a similar facility at the Tikri border protest site as well.As the local children speak Hindi, story books have been made available to them in the language.In the evenings, the tent is used to recreate a tradition—"Sanjhi Sath"—from back home—where the villagers gather to listen to their elders' advice.Here at eight in the evening, they discuss the orders of the day."Not every farmer here gets an opportunity to speak on the stage, so this gives them a platform to share their concerns which we forward to the leaders of the protest," Satnam Singh said.Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. — PTI
16-12-2020|| }Chandigarh||Sukhbir playing petty politics, spreading poison in Punjab: Tarun Chugh||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Wednesday lambasted Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal for spreading poison and igniting communal passions in Punjab in the garb of fighting farmers' cause.Reacting to Badal's statement that the BJP had become a "tukade tukade" gang Chugh said the way Sukhbir, after parting ways with the BJP, was trying to create a divisive and disruptive narrative was strongly reprehensible."All Punjabis should wake up to the nefarious designs of Sukhbir Badal and his party", he said. Chugh said the  BJP had always stood for Hindu-Sikh unity in Punjab and has tried to foster the brotherhood whenever there were strains of stress. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken special care to address the Sikh issues, be it providing succour to the 1984 riot victims, or opening of the Kartarpur Corridor, or lifting a ban on foreign donations made to the Golden Temple, and many more like that.Even during the times of militancy in Punjab, the BJP made sure that the Hindu-Sikh relations did not suffer and the spirit of Punjabiat was kept alive. Even at a time when silver spades were distributed for digging SYL and the copies of the nation's constitution were burnt, the BJP made sure that bad blood did not spread in the society.The BJP has always kept the Punjabi spirit of Hindu-Sikh unity alive even during the times when massacre of Hindus was taking place in a planned manner. The BJP stands for the Punjabiyat and will always stand for it."Now, when many singers are singing provocative and communally inciting songs why is Sukhbir Ji silent on them," he asked. On farmers' front, he said,, the BJP was committed to doing everything for their welfare. The three farm bills are meant to double their income by 2022 because farmers had been reeling under heavy debts and have been taking to suicides in a big way. Sukhbir Badal is trying to play cheap politics by painting the BJP like that.  Chugh clarified that the Modi government has accepted all the demands raised by farmer leaders during their talks with the Union ministers. The issues like the MSP, mandis and civil suits are all adequately resolved to the farmers' satisfaction. The Centre is still open to talks on various clauses in the bills. We hope that farmers would soon withdraw their protest.And farmers have any doubts they are welcome for more talks with the Centre. We reassure farmers that the BJP would always protect their interests and work for empowering them, he added.The BJP has been contesting elections since 1952. Even in 1992 when it contested without an alliance with any other party, it polled 16.7 per cent votes which made it win 23 Assembly seats. The BJP is a firmly rooted party in Punjab..The BJP's base is in fact expanding because farmers who have been in distress understand that the three bills would help improve their plight. Ever since the farmers' agitation has started more than 3000 persons from other political parties have joined the BJP.  We are expanding our bases steadily to contest from all the 117 Assembly seats and come victorious after the elections and form the government in Punjab.
16-12-2020||New Delhi||Technology powering farmers' protest at Delhi's Singhu border||It's been over two weeks since thousands of farmers arrived at Delhi's Singhu border to demand a repeal of the Centre's agri reforms. Over the days, Good Samaritans, gurdwara committees and NGOs have pooled technological resources to ensure the agitation isn't hampered by the lack of basic amenities.Gigantic machines that belt out 1,000-1,200 chapattis in an hour, washing machines and solar panels installed on tractor-trolleys for charging mobile phones -- technology is keeping the protesters camping at this highway-turned-township going.The chapatti-makers ensure timely meals for the protesters and that 'langar' is served smoothly till midnight."This chapatti-making machine is fully automatic, you just have to put the dough inside. It cuts the dough into circles and in no time you get the chapattis."We start the machine around 7 am and it runs till 12 am. We serve meals to over 5,000 people every day," Hardeep Singh from Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, which manages one of the 'langars' at the protest site, told PTI.Living away from the comfort of their homes, another issue faced by the farmers was washing clothes. Initially, some of them bathed and washed their clothes at the petrol pumps. But as the temperatures in the national capital dipped and the number of protesters swelled, some farmers and Good Samaritans arranged for washing machines.On one of his trips back home to Ludhiana in Punjab to wash his clothes, 30-year-old Prince Sandhu decided to bring two washing machines with him so that he and his fellow protesters didn't have to worry about the chore.Soon after, someone donated another washing machine and the 'laundry Sewa' has been going on in full swing ever since."Nearly 250 people come here every day to wash their clothes. Many do it on their own. We help out the elderly who don't know how to operate washing machines," said Sandhu, who joined the protest on November 27."I wake up at 6 am and help people wash their clothes till 8 pm," he said.Not far from the laundry spot is Pushpinder Singh's phone charging station. Singh, 36, said he knew protesters would face problems in charging their mobile phones and hence decided to install two 100 watt solar panels atop his tractor trolley before he set out from home in Haryana's Karnal. "Mobile phones are our only source of knowing what is happening around us. I knew charging them would be a problem. So I bought these two solar panels for Rs 2,400 each before I got here. Not only are they helping us in charging mobile phones but also with lighting," he said."Now I see many others have also installed solar panels, which is good," he added.Earlier, international NGO Khalsa Aid made headlines for installing foot massagers and geysers for the protesters at Singhu border.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Delhi's neighbouring Punjab and Haryana, have stayed put at the national capital's border points since late November to protest against the new farm laws.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure income, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. PTI
16-12-2020||Sonepat||Farmers dies at Singhu border, toll rises to 4||One more farmer died at the Singhu border near New Delhi on Wednesday, making it the third consecutive day to witness a death during the ongoing farmers' protest, taking the toll to four.The deceased has been identified as 62-year-old Pal Singh of Saholi village in the Patiala district of Punjab.He was taken to general hospital where doctors declared him dead.
16-12-2020||Vibha Sharma/Vijay Mohan||Cold wave grips northwest India; likely to continue for 4 days||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi/Chandigarh, December 16Cold wave and dense fog swept the plains of northwest India as temperatures continue to drop over the region with many parts of Delhi, Haryana and Punjab recording the season’s lowest temperatures so far.At 2 degree Celsius, Amritsar was the coldest followed by Ganganagar (2.4) and Narnaul (3.4).Tuesday was the coldest in several cities, including Delhi, where several parts recorded minimum temperature as low as 4.8 degree Celsius.The IMD data on minimum temperature shows Delhi, Hisar, Narnaul, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar and Bareilly leading the pack with maximum deviations from the normal minimum temperatures at this time of the year.Meanwhile, the IMD says cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next four days.It has also predicted severe cold wave conditions in isolated pockets of the region on December 18 and 19. “Due to the absence of any active Western Disturbance, below normal rain and snow is likely over Western Himalayan Region,” states the forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the December 17 to 23 period.It has, however, forecast below normal rainfall over the Western Himalayan region for December 24 to 30 period.From December 1 to 16, Punjab has received 55 per cent surplus rain, while Himachal recorded 65 per cent excess rain.According to the IMD data, the hill state of Himachal received 23.9 mm rain against the normal of 14.5 mm for the December 1-16 period. The upper reaches of the state also received snow.Punjab received 6.2 mm rain against the normal of 4 mm, marking a surplus of 55 per cent, revealed the IMD data.Rains, however, were deficient in Haryana by 21 per cent, with the state recording 1.8 mm against the normal of 2.3 mm for the corresponding period.Western Disturbance over north-west India and its induced cyclonic circulation along with moisture feeding from the Arabian Sea have been attributed to the widespread rains and snow in many parts of the region earlier this month.
16-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Youth dies as bike hits stray cattle||A youth was killed and another critically injured after their motorcycle bumped into a tree after hitting a stray cattle at Mahadian village here.Rahul died on the spot, while his friend Harman was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, in critical condition.ASI Jatinder Pal Singh said both were students of Class 12 and hailed from Hamayunpur area of Sirhind.Meanwhile, in another incident, a youth identified as Rajni Kant, a resident of Himachal Pradesh, died after his motorcycle fell off an overbridge at the GT Road, Sirhind, near Nabipur village last night.ASI Harbans Singh said Rajni Kant was on his way from Ludhiana to Rajpura and when he reached near Nabipur, he could not notice the boundary of the overbridge and died on the spot after falling off. — OC
16-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Harike wetland to be developed as eco-tourism spot: Minister||Ferozepur, December 15Winter havenIt is a winter haven for migratory birds which arrive here from Siberia, Europe and other parts of Central Asia.Harike will be developed as hub of eco-tourism to attract tourists and bird watchers from all parts of the globe, said Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Forest and Wildlife Minister, during his visit to the sanctuary on Tuesday.The minister took stock of various developmental works which have been initiated at this “Ramsar site” with funding from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The minister said that various projects, including nature interpretation centre, cafeteria, walking ramp, several watch towers and bird hides, have been set up.He said that the watch towers and bird hides have been created so that the tourists could watch these beautiful and rare species of birds without disturbing them. “After the Covid pandemic, Harike has been opened for tourists,” said Dharamsot. “More than 55,000 birds of 55 species have arrived this year in Harike. The number is likely to swell by the end of the year,” said the minister.Arrivals may go upMore than 55,000 birds of 55 species have arrived this year in Harike. The number is likely to swell by the end of the year. — Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Forest MinisterThe Cabinet Minister was accompanied by Harminder Singh Gill, MLA (Patti), Chief Wildlife Warden RK Mishra, CCF (Wildlife) Basant Raj Kumar, Conservator of Forest (PPA) Manish Kumar and Nalin Yadav DFO (Wildlife) Ferozepur and others officials.
16-12-2020||---||Drones used to smuggle arms, drugs from Pak; two arrested||Chandigarh, December 15Close on the heels of recovery of ice drug from the Jammu border, the Punjab Police today said another attempt was being made by Pakistan agencies to smuggle drugs into the region through a terrorist network.Accused was in touch with jail inmatesA search in the prison led to the recovery of a smartphone from Lakhbir’s associate Surjit Masih, a drug peddlerSimranjit Singh, another inmate, persuaded Lakhbir to purchase a drone for cross-border smugglingDGP Dinkar Gupta said in a press statement that the Amritsar (rural) police had arrested two members of a module using drones for cross-border smuggling of narcotics and weapons through an international network, including Pakistan-based smugglers with links to Khalistani operatives.The accused have been identified as Lakhbir Singh, alias Lakha, and Bachittar Singh. Gupta said a quadcopter drone with a full supporter stand and a SkyDroid T10 2.4GHz 10CH FHSS transmitter, along with a mini-receiver and camera support, had been seized. A .32 bore revolver, a Scorpio, live cartridges and drugs have also been confiscated.Gupta said Lakhbir Singh of Chak Mishri Khan village was nabbed from near Gurdwara Tahla Sahib, PS Chattiwind, Amritsar (rural), on Monday. He said the accused had procured a quadcopter drone from Delhi four months ago and the equipment was currently with his associate Bachittar Singh at Guru Amardas Avenue, Amritsar.Investigations revealed Lakhbir was in contact with four major drug smugglers of Ajnala, who are lodged in the Amritsar jail. A search in the prison led to the recovery of a smartphone from Lakhbir’s associate Surjit Masih, a drug peddler. The DGP said investigations so far showed Lakhbir had established an extensive network with foreign smugglers and was in touch with Chishti, a notorious Pakistan-based smuggler.Simranjit Singh, an Amritsar jail inmate, persuaded Lakhbir to purchase a drone for cross-border smuggling of narcotics and weapons. Simranjit has also been named in the case, said Gupta.
16-12-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Cops to again look into ‘terror’ angle in Balwinder’s murder||Tarn Taran, December 15Even as a police team would be dispatched to Delhi for bringing two gangsters — Sukhdeep Singh Bura and Gurjit Singh Bhaa — on production warrant from the Delhi Police, the Punjab Police are “reconsidering” the terrorist angle behind the killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee comrade Balwinder Singh.Family that fought Punjab militancyAlong with his wife, brother and wife, comrade Balwinder was awarded the Shaurya Chakra for fighting terrorism during militancy in PunjabComrade Balwinder was shot by two persons at his residence-cum-school on October 16. Bura and Bhaa, who were arrested by a special cell of the Delhi Police along with three Kashmiri residents, had claimed that they had shot him dead.Earlier, the police had claimed that the incident was an outcome of the personal enmity of his son and that he was killed by the gangsters.Comrade Balwinder along with his wife Jagdish Kaur, brother Ranjit Singh and his wife Balraj Kaur were awarded the Shaurya Chakra for bravely fighting terrorism during militancy in Punjab. The family of the slain leader, especially his wife, had been calling the murder a handiwork of the militants. The police had claimed that the family’s personal enmity, especially of Arashdeep Singh, with the gangsters was the cause of the murder.“We have not ruled out the radical angle in the murder of comrade Balwinder. Bura and Bhaa, who gunned down Balwinder, were not aware about the reason behind his killing,” said Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale.Bura and Bhaa were arrested by the special cell of the Delhi Police, while prime suspect Sukhmeet Pal Singh Bhikhariwal was arrested in Dubai.Nimbale said: “We must corroborate the findings of the Delhi Police with our investigations before reaching any conclusion. The facts will be cleared with the interrogation of Bura and Bhaa in the presence of Bhikhariwal. We have also written to the DGP to bring Bhikhariwal from Dubai.”Eleven suspects, including Sukhraj Singh Sukha and Ravinder Singh Gyann, who had hatched the conspiracy to kill Balwinder at the behest of Bhikhariwal, had been arrested. Nimbale said Bura and Bhaa were asked to execute the task.
16-12-2020||---||Wife, cousin held for man’s murder||Sangrur, December 15With the arrest of the wife of deceased Amandeep Singh, who was murdered during the intervening night of December 10 and 11 in Lehra, and Amandeep’s cousin brother, the Lehra police claimed to have cracked the murder case. Sangrur SP Harpreet Sandhu said that after the murder, accused Ramandeep Kaur, wife of the deceased, had got a murder case registered against Amandeep’s uncle and some other persons.“But during investigation, it came to light that Ramandeep Kaur had illicit relations with Ramandeep Singh, cousin of the deceased. Ramandeep and Amandeep had some financial dispute. During the night of the murder, the accused took Amandeep to Shiva colony “to settle the issue” and murdered him” said Sandhu.
16-12-2020||---||Punjab submits affidavit on tainted policemen||Chandigarh, December 15Less than two months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court was told that 1,326 police officers/officials were facing criminal cases, the Punjab Government on Tuesday submitted another affidavit giving further details of accused and convicts in uniform.The matter was placed before the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri. But it was referred to the Bench of Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal as it was originally hearing the case. The figure furnished before the High Court was, on the previous date of hearing, disputed by a policeman dismissed from service.His counsel has claimed that entire information earlier sought by the HC in the matter has not been forthcoming. In fact, several other police officers were facing criminal cases. Some of them were continuing in service even after their conviction.Policing the police, the HC had then called for details of accused and convicts in uniform. It has asked the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice, to file the affidavit setting out the details of FIRs registered against the serving police officers of all ranks in the state.
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Harsimrat slams Centre for scrapping winter session||Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today condemned the Centre for scrapping the winter session of the Parliament, stating the government was running away from its responsibility to resolve the grievances of farmers.She demanded that a special one-day session should be held at the earliest to repeal the farm laws, as per the wishes of the farming community.In a statement here, she said, “The Centre knows that it is wrong. It knows it has legislated on agriculture, which is a state subject, and farmers of all states have rejected the three laws. The Centre knows that it cannot face the people and that it is why it has invented the excuse of Covid to cancel the session.” — TNS
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Justice Muralidhar elevated as CJ of Orissa High Court||Transferred at “midnight” to the Punjab and Haryana High Court in February from the Delhi High Court in midst of the Delhi violence case hearing, Justice S Muralidhar was today elevated as the Chief Justice of the Orissa High Court.The senior-most Judge of the court, Justice Rajesh Bindal, was transferred to the Calcutta High Court.Currently the Acting Chief Justice of the Jammu & Kashmir High Court, Justice Bindal joins there as the first pusine Judge or the senior-most Judge after the Chief Justice. The transfers are yet to be notified.Justice Bindal may eventually takeover as the Chief Justice there. His name was considered as a viable option as Justice Bindal is senior to another Judge in the Calcutta High Court elevated way back in June 2006.Justice Hima Kohli of the Delhi High Court will take over as the new Chief Justice of the Telangana HC. — TNS
16-12-2020||---||Covid count dips, but Punjab fatalities worrisome: Govt||New Delhi, December 15The Centre today said Covid-19 deaths in Punjab were a matter of concern as the state continued to be among five reporting the highest number of average daily deaths.“Compared to its population, deaths in Punjab are a cause for concern. We have held meetings with senior state officers,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Health Secretary.The overall situation is satisfying with the country reporting the lowest cases per million and deaths per million worldwide last week and the highest recovery rate — 95.12 per cent — anywhere among major nations. The world’s average is 70 per cent.Daily new infections at home fell below 23,000 after five months, bringing the country to the situation as it existed in July.Read also: Vice Admiral Srikant dies of Covid-related complicationsHowever, Punjab’s weekly average for daily deaths has been high at 24 for the week starting December 9. It was 22 for the week starting November 18. Five states with the highest fatalities are Delhi (52 deaths in the week starting December 9); Maharashtra (70), Kerala (30), Bengal (47) and Punjab (24). Average daily new cases on a weekly basis are the highest in Kerala (4,624), Maharashtra (4,003); Rajasthan (1,432), Bengal (2,653) and Delhi (2,129).“Our comparison vis-a-vis the world is satisfying. Daily deaths are under 400 and daily new cases have fallen below 23,000. This situation prevailed in July. We are happy, but cautious. We can’t be lax as the situation can change unexpectedly,” said VK Paul, member, Health, NITI Aayog.Co-WIN to collect vax reaction dataThe government on Tuesday said a mechanism was being put in place for the management of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) as and when the Covid-19 vaccination starts. Each event will have to be reported on the digital delivery platform — Co-WIN.29K cold chain pointsThe Centre said logistics were in place for vaccine delivery for which the country will use 29K cold chain points, 45K ice-lined refrigerators & 41K deep freezers.
16-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||At protest sites, players practise for championships||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 15While on the one hand, veteran sportsmen in the state have launched their “award wapsi” campaign to lend support to the farmers’ protest, the contemporary brigade of sportsmen, on the other hand, has caught people’s attention with their makeshift gym at the Singhu border.In order to continue their training while adding fuel to the voice of peasants, national and international players are working out at the border to keep their form intact. Most players have to take part in championships in February next year.Makeshift gymExercise is part of our daily routine. So we decided to set up a gym here. When we don't practice, we work in the fields. Hence, we understand how much it takes to grow a crop. — Sonu, playerThe players include international power lifter Aman Hothi from Talwan village, Mangi Bagga, an international circle kabaddi player, and many others.Aman Hothi said, “I and my friends from Talwan have brought all the gym equipment. We can’t take the risk of missing out on our training. Hence, till the time the Centre does not agree on the farmers’ demands, we will exercise here only.”“Exercise is part of our daily routine. So we decided to set up a gym here. When we don’t practice, we work in the fields. Hence, we understand how much it takes to grow a crop. Apart from players, anyone who wants to exercise here is welcome,” added Sonu, a player from Shahkot.Toni (45), a former kabaddi player, who has been at the protest site from day one said, “My students wanted to come here, but I didn’t want them to miss out on their physical training. But now, the gym here has resolved my problem and my students are here with me.”Most players, after exercising for over two hours, prepare langar or clean the surroundings..
16-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Railways extends cancellation, diversion of trains till December 18||Ludhiana, December 15Attributing disruption of rail traffic in the region to the farmers’ agitation, the Northern Railway authorities have further extended the cancellation, partial cancellation and diversion of trains till December 18.Accordingly, the 05211/12 Dibrugarh-Amritsar-Dibrugarh Express special train (December 16 and 17) and 09613/14 Ajmer-Amritsar-Ajmer Express (December 16 and 17) will remain cancelled.Railways officials said the 08237/38 Korba-Amritsar-Korba-Chhattisgarh Express train (December 16 to 18); 02357/58 Kolkata-Amritsar-Kolkata Durgiana Express (December 16, 17); 05933/34 Dibrugarh-Amritsar-Dibrugarh Express (December 17, 18), 02407/08 Newjalpaiguri-Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Express (December 16 to 18) and 04651/52 Jaynagar-Amritsar-Jaynagar Humsafar Express (December 15, 16) will be short-terminated at and short-originated from Ambala Cantt. All these trains will remain partially cancelled between Ambala Cantt and Amritsar.Further, the 02715/16 Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express (December 16 to 18) will be short-terminated at and short-originated from New Delhi. The train will remain partially cancelled between New Delhi and Amritsar. The 02925/26 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Pashchim Express (December 16, 17) will short-terminate at and short-originate from Chandigarh. The train will remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh and Amritsar.In addition, the 04653/54 Newjalpaiguri-Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Express (December 16, 18) will short-terminate at and short-originate from Saharanpur. The train will remain partially cancelled between Saharanpur and Amritsar.Even though the Railways blames the farmers’ agitation for not being able to run the trains as per schedule, it is beyond comprehension as to why several trunk-route trains like the New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Swarn Shatabdi Express, New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi and New Delhi-Lohian Khas-New Delhi Sarbat Da Bhala Express trains, which had resumed operation after the unlock, are still not being operated while other trains on these routes have resumed operations.
16-12-2020||---||Capt hand in glove with Centre: AAP||Chandigarh, December 15Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann levelled serious allegations on Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, calling him a “puppet in the hands of the Modi government”.Mann said Captain had bartered the interest of Punjab to protect the members of his family involved in serious cases of money laundering. He challenged Captain that if he had the guts, he should tell the Modi government to address the concerns of the country’s ‘annadata’ by rolling back the farm laws.In a statement issued from the party headquarters, Mann said, “As the Chief Minister of Punjab, Captain Amarinder should tell the people of the state, especially the farmers, what decisive steps he has taken for the farmers in the four years of governance and during the ongoing farmers’ movement.”He asked the Chief Minister, “Why don’t you utter a word against the Prime Minister?”The AAP MP alleged that if the Chief Minister of Delhi could meet the agitating farmers and speak in support of their demands, besides providing them all kinds of facilities at the dharna sites, why Captain Amarinder was not moving out of his farmhouse and speaking in favour of the farmers fighting for their bread and butter at the Delhi borders.
16-12-2020||
||BJP raking up SYL issue to divide farmers, says Jakhar||Chandigarh, December 15 The Punjab Congress today took on the Haryana BJP for raking up the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue at a time when farmers of the both the states were jointly protesting against the three farm laws.   “It is typical of the BJP to indulge in the divide and rule policy to create a wedge between Punjab and Haryana farmers at a time when they are fighting together against the farm laws. The BJP is apparently trying to browbeat Punjab with such intimidating tactics,” said state party chief Sunil Jakhar.  “Earlier, they imposed economic sanctions and stopped trains to Punjab to sabotage the farmers’ stir and now, they are trying to rake up an issue that is highly sensitive and emotive for the Punjabis,” he said. Referring to the meeting of Haryana BJP MPs with Central ministers over the SYL issue, he said it was a highly provocative and insidious act on part of the BJP leadership in Haryana. He pointed out that the SYL issue was currently pending in the Supreme Court. Jakhar said instead of resorting to such mean and divisive tactics to create a divide between farmers of Punjab and Haryana, who had shown exemplary camaraderie and solidarity with each other, BJP leaders should prevail upon the government to withdraw the ‘black’ laws in the interest of not only the farmers, but the entire country. He reiterated that no matter what diversionary and divisive tactics the BJP may resort to, the Centre would have to repeal these laws that “threatened” the agricultural economy in the country. “The sooner you do it, the better it will be for everyone,” he told the BJP government at the Centre.
16-12-2020||Archit Watts||Stickers supporting movement new fad among youth||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 15Amid the ongoing protests, stickers and key-chains with slogans supporting the farmers are trending among the youth. Cars bearing the stickers with slogans such as ‘Proud to be a farmer’, ‘I love kheti’, ‘No farmer, no food’ and ‘We support farmers’protest’, among others, have become a common sight.Advocate Gursimranjit Singh Dhaliwal, who recently went to support the protest at the Delhi border, said, “I am a farmer. It is my duty to support and promote farming in this hour of crisis. The Centre has become so adamant, forcing us to protest in every possible manner. Any vehicle bearing a sticker in support of the farmers’ agitation is also a way of lodging a protest.”Similarly, Harender Pal Singh, who owns a fuel station at Rupana village here, said, “Before leaving for Delhi on Saturday, I especially asked my son to paste a sticker on our car to support the protest. We saw a number of cars bearing similar stickers on the way to Delhi. Some people were even distributing stickers free of cost on the highway.”A local trader said, “A number of youngsters are coming daily to buy stickers in support of the farmers’ protest. We have designed some keychains as well.”
16-12-2020||---||45-yr-old farm labourer dies at Singhu border||Faridkot, December 15A 45-year-old farm labourer of Binder Kalan village in Moga district died of a cardiac arrest during the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border. The village panchayat and family members have asked the state government to compensate the family of the deceased.Three days after joining the protest at the border, Makhan Khan, a labourer from Binder Kalan village, died on Monday morning. Mohan Singh, sarpanch of the village, urged the state government to extend financial help to the family of the deceased.The deceased is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. Jagraj Khan, younger brother of the deceased, said the family had decided not to cremate Makhan Khan till the state government announced a compensation for the family. He was the sole bread earner in the family, Jagraj said.
16-12-2020||---||BJP real ‘tukde tukde’ gang: SAD||Bathinda, December 15Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the BJP was the real ‘tukde tukde’ gang in the country.“The BJP has smashed national unity to pieces. It’s shamelessly inciting Hindus against Muslims and now desperate to set peace-loving Punjabi Hindus against their Sikh brethren, especially farmers. It is pushing patriotic Punjab into communal flames,” he said.Dangerous conspiracyThe BJP has been resorting to dangerous conspiracies to sabotage the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony just for petty political goals. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD presidentBlaming the BJP of trying to replace the bonds of blood with bloodshed, Sukhbir said if one agreed with the NDA government, he was a ‘desh bhakt’ (patriotic), but if not, he was an anti-national or from the ‘tukde tukde’ gang.“The BJP has been resorting to dangerous conspiracies to sabotage the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony just for petty political goals. The BJP leadership must realise that the party has become the most powerful divisive force today. It has been resorting to dividing the country and its people by spreading hatred in the name of religion,” Sukhbir said.Referring to the ongoing farmers’ movement, he said the whole country, except the BJP, acknowledged the debt all owed to patriotic farmers and soldiers. “The BJP is provoking the people to deny that debt. It believes only in emotionally exploiting the farmers’ sacrifices but remains so ungrateful to them that it is painting them as anti-national. Today, it is the farmers. Nobody knows what the BJP might say even about soldiers tomorrow if it suits the party,” he said.Sukhbir was in the city to boost the morale of party cadre ahead of the Municipal Corporation polls in Bathinda. He addressed the workers at Handi Resort in Bathinda where former councillor and Congress leader Bant Singh Sidhu and others joined the SAD. Addressing mediapersons, Sukhbir said the screening committee of the party would finalise the names of the candidates for the MC polls.
16-12-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||As cold takes toll on elderly, young farmers keep pot boiling||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15Farmers are ready for a long haul irrespective of the worsening weather conditions. As key leaders of the farmers’ protest on the borders of Delhi fall prey to the cold winds, their second-in-commands have taken over, leading the protest with the same zeal.The leaders, who till now were working in the shadow of their more prominent colleagues, are vociferous in their demand for the revocation of the laws.Aware of BJP tacticsWe are monitoring which way the propaganda machinery of the BJP goes. We are cautious that except the farm laws, no other narrative is to be allowed from the stage. — Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, KKUDr Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union and Jagmohan Singh Patiala of the BKU (Dakaunda) were among the prominent leaders of the ‘morchas’ outside Delhi, who have now fallen ill. Also, many other farm leaders have age and lifestyle-related ailments. It is for this reason that younger leaders like Gurmeet Singh from the Krantikari Kisan Union, Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala of the Kirti Kisan Union and Jangveer Singh of the Doaba Kisan Committee came forward and sat on a day-long fast yesterday.Talking to The Tribune, Deepsinghwala said the younger leaders were as resolute in demanding the repeal of the farm laws as the elderly. “We are monitoring which way the propaganda machinery of the BJP goes. We are extremely cautious that except the farm laws, no other narrative is allowed to propagate from the joint stage of all farm unions,” he said, adding that instructions had been issued to their cadres to practise religious beliefs and prayers only in their tents or individual resting places.Jangveer Singh echoes similar sentiments. Having led many stirs in Punjab in favour of sugarcane farmers, he says he knows how corporates operate and dominate farmers. “It is for this reason that we are adamant that a stir be launched against the corporate houses who are the intended beneficiaries of the new laws,” he says.The young farm leaders are also meeting the youth and advising them to maintain the seriousness of the struggle, rather than using their time for fun.
16-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||At protest venues, art drives activism, and vice versa||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 15With farmers’ protests has resurfaced the age-old connection between art and activism. ‘Nukkad nataks’ at the protest venues in Delhi are not only boosting the farmers’ morale but also keeping them amused in difficult times.On Sunday night, ‘Samay Wali Dang’, directed by famous playwright Sahib Singh, was performed at the Tikri border. Singh, along with his team, is camping at the protest venue with farmers. Director of Adakar Manch, Mohali, Singh’s plays are known to raise issues and concerns of today.Meanwhile, ‘Je Hun Vi Na Bole’, directed by Anita Shabdeesh, was staged at the three-day Gursharan Singh Naat Utsav in Chandigarh to support farmers. From the ‘No farmer, no food’ stickers on vehicles to playing music in cars and at protest sites, artistic expression in its many forms has been the primary way for youth and citizens to make their voice heard. Farmers have also installed huge projection screens and are screening plays for the protesters in Delhi.Several Punjabi songs have gone viral during the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. Many prominent singers who have supported the farmers are planning to come out with more songs to keep the spirits high. Gurpreet, a famous artist from Bathinda, has made many paintings on the farmers’ issue. On Friday, he put up his work on the shutter of a beer and wine shop at the Singhu border. His work of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur and a humorous painting depicting Diljit Dosanjh and Kangana Ranaut attracted many viewers and some of his works were also sold in no time at the protest site.Theatre shares a long relationship with India, dating back to 5,000 years. Even after Independence, Indian street theatre evolved as a means to voice concerns of the common man. It had immediately struck a chord with the masses. Street plays are short and the exchange is close, direct and intimate. To be more effective, these are usually loud and larger than life. To draw crowds from all walks of life, focus is on humour as well.
16-12-2020||---||BKU begins indefinite stir at SDM office in Sangrur||Sangrur, December 15To press for the acceptance of demands of the family of Gurmale Kaur, who died on December 8 at the Kalajhar toll plaza during a protest against the Central farm laws, BKU (Ugrahan) members have started an indefinite protest in front of Bhawanigarh SDM office.“Our protest will continue till the acceptance of our demands, including Rs 10 lakh financial aid, complete debt waiver and a government job to a family member of the deceased. Her body has been lying at the Rajindra hospital, Patiala, and the cremation will take place only after our demands are met,” said Harjinder Gharachon, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader.
16-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||Unions frown upon religious symbolism||Tribune News ServiceTikri, December 15After keeping politicians at bay, farm union leaders have now said they won’t allow their protest to become a religious platform.With members of various religious organisations turning up in support of the farmers, union leaders today decided not to let anyone indulge in religious symbolism.In one such move, Balbir Singh Rajewal, while conveying the decision of 32 farm bodies, asked Nihangs camping near barricades to move to some other place. “There is no war at present. Whenever there will be one, we will call you. It is a peaceful struggle,” he said, while asking the Nihangs not to practise martial arts at the protest site. Nihang leader Deep Singh Khalsa said they had come to support farmers. “The leaders because of their selfish interests want us to go back,” he alleged.Rajewal’s statement was also criticised on social media. He later said his motive was not to hurt anybody’s sentiments.The unions have decided that each organisation would deploy 50 volunteers to keep an eye on anyone trying to hijack their struggle. “We had three options. Either to allow this struggle to become a sarva dharma sammelan, one dharma sammelan or let it be farmers’ sammelan. We obviously chose the last option,” said Raminder Singh Patiala, state committee member of the Kirti Kisan Union.A farmer leader, preferring anonymity, said even their own leaders had been asked refrain from using religious text in their speeches.Similarly, youngsters have been asked to not use abusive language against BJP leaders and stop playing midnight DJs and vulgar songs. “It has been our tradition to protect dignity of women. How can we allow playing of derogatory songs?” said Patiala.
16-12-2020||Sonepat||72-year-old dies at Singhu||A 72-year-old farmer, camping at the Singhu border for 11 days, died on Tuesday after he complained of pain in the chest. The deceased has been identified as Gurmeet Singh of Kandala village in Mohali district (Punjab).Jagbeer Johal, also from Kandala village, said: “Gurmeet Singh was fine in the morning. He went for a walk and had breakfast. Around 12.30 pm, he complained of pain in his chest and sought help. As we tried to help him, he fell and died at the spot.”Ravi Kumar, SHO, Kundli police station, said the body was handed over to victim’s family after the postmortem. “Prima facie, the cause of death seems to be heart attack. The exact cause will be ascertained in the autopsy,” he added.Gurmeet’s death was third at the Singhu border. — TNS
16-12-2020||Rohtak||Refused leave, Moga woman quits job to join protest||For 35-year-old Sarbjeet Kaur (35) of Moga (Punjab), the decision to leave her job and join farmers protesting at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border was an instant one.Working as a Senior Life Planning Officer (SLPO), she had requested for leave so that she could make a contribution to, what she called, “the fight for our future generation”. Her employer’s response was curt: “Not more than two days.”She didn’t bat an eyelid and put in her papers.Tuesday was her fifth day at the Tikri border. Sarbjeet has the company of her husband, their three children and father-in-law. They raise slogans, listen to speeches attentively and distribute langar.They came here after locking up their home and requesting their relatives to take care of their fields.“I worked as an SLPO with a private company for four years. My employer refused to sanction me leave for more than two days, forcing me to resign. It is important to secure the future of our next generation. Job is a trifle thing in the context of this fight,” she told The Tribune.She and her family are determined to stay put till the three farm laws are not repealed. “Our tractor-trailer is our home and we can stay in it for months,” she says.Her husband, Paramjeet Singh, chips in. “It is not easy to stay here with children in this bone-chilling cold. Having said that, we are determined to get the three laws repealed. Children have brought their books with them so that their studies are not disrupted,” he says.Like Sarabjeet, several other protesters are camping at Tikri with their families. Among them are Nirmal Singh from Mansa and Sukhvinder Kaur from Sangrur. Nirmal is camping with his parents, while Sukhvinder has the company of her husband. They left their children at a relative’s home.
16-12-2020||---||Wife, cousin held for man’s murder||Sangrur, December 15With the arrest of the wife of deceased Amandeep Singh, who was murdered during the intervening night of December 10 and 11 in Lehra, and Amandeep’s cousin brother, the Lehra police claimed to have cracked the murder case. Sangrur SP Harpreet Sandhu said that after the murder, accused Ramandeep Kaur, wife of the deceased, had got a murder case registered against Amandeep’s uncle and some other persons.“But during investigation, it came to light that Ramandeep Kaur had illicit relations with Ramandeep Singh, cousin of the deceased. Ramandeep and Amandeep had some financial dispute. During the night of the murder, the accused took Amandeep to Shiva colony “to settle the issue” and murdered him” said Sandhu.
16-12-2020||---||Punjab submits affidavit on tainted policemen||Chandigarh, December 15Less than two months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court was told that 1,326 police officers/officials were facing criminal cases, the Punjab Government on Tuesday submitted another affidavit giving further details of accused and convicts in uniform.The matter was placed before the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri. But it was referred to the Bench of Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal as it was originally hearing the case. The figure furnished before the High Court was, on the previous date of hearing, disputed by a policeman dismissed from service.His counsel has claimed that entire information earlier sought by the HC in the matter has not been forthcoming. In fact, several other police officers were facing criminal cases. Some of them were continuing in service even after their conviction.Policing the police, the HC had then called for details of accused and convicts in uniform. It has asked the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice, to file the affidavit setting out the details of FIRs registered against the serving police officers of all ranks in the state.
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Harsimrat slams Centre for scrapping winter session||Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today condemned the Centre for scrapping the winter session of the Parliament, stating the government was running away from its responsibility to resolve the grievances of farmers.She demanded that a special one-day session should be held at the earliest to repeal the farm laws, as per the wishes of the farming community.In a statement here, she said, “The Centre knows that it is wrong. It knows it has legislated on agriculture, which is a state subject, and farmers of all states have rejected the three laws. The Centre knows that it cannot face the people and that it is why it has invented the excuse of Covid to cancel the session.” — TNS
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Justice Muralidhar elevated as CJ of Orissa High Court||Transferred at “midnight” to the Punjab and Haryana High Court in February from the Delhi High Court in midst of the Delhi violence case hearing, Justice S Muralidhar was today elevated as the Chief Justice of the Orissa High Court.The senior-most Judge of the court, Justice Rajesh Bindal, was transferred to the Calcutta High Court.Currently the Acting Chief Justice of the Jammu & Kashmir High Court, Justice Bindal joins there as the first pusine Judge or the senior-most Judge after the Chief Justice. The transfers are yet to be notified.Justice Bindal may eventually takeover as the Chief Justice there. His name was considered as a viable option as Justice Bindal is senior to another Judge in the Calcutta High Court elevated way back in June 2006.Justice Hima Kohli of the Delhi High Court will take over as the new Chief Justice of the Telangana HC. — TNS
16-12-2020||---||Covid count dips, but Punjab fatalities worrisome: Govt||New Delhi, December 15The Centre today said Covid-19 deaths in Punjab were a matter of concern as the state continued to be among five reporting the highest number of average daily deaths.“Compared to its population, deaths in Punjab are a cause for concern. We have held meetings with senior state officers,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Health Secretary.The overall situation is satisfying with the country reporting the lowest cases per million and deaths per million worldwide last week and the highest recovery rate — 95.12 per cent — anywhere among major nations. The world’s average is 70 per cent.Daily new infections at home fell below 23,000 after five months, bringing the country to the situation as it existed in July.Read also: Vice Admiral Srikant dies of Covid-related complicationsHowever, Punjab’s weekly average for daily deaths has been high at 24 for the week starting December 9. It was 22 for the week starting November 18. Five states with the highest fatalities are Delhi (52 deaths in the week starting December 9); Maharashtra (70), Kerala (30), Bengal (47) and Punjab (24). Average daily new cases on a weekly basis are the highest in Kerala (4,624), Maharashtra (4,003); Rajasthan (1,432), Bengal (2,653) and Delhi (2,129).“Our comparison vis-a-vis the world is satisfying. Daily deaths are under 400 and daily new cases have fallen below 23,000. This situation prevailed in July. We are happy, but cautious. We can’t be lax as the situation can change unexpectedly,” said VK Paul, member, Health, NITI Aayog.Co-WIN to collect vax reaction dataThe government on Tuesday said a mechanism was being put in place for the management of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) as and when the Covid-19 vaccination starts. Each event will have to be reported on the digital delivery platform — Co-WIN.29K cold chain pointsThe Centre said logistics were in place for vaccine delivery for which the country will use 29K cold chain points, 45K ice-lined refrigerators & 41K deep freezers.
16-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||At protest sites, players practise for championships||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 15While on the one hand, veteran sportsmen in the state have launched their “award wapsi” campaign to lend support to the farmers’ protest, the contemporary brigade of sportsmen, on the other hand, has caught people’s attention with their makeshift gym at the Singhu border.In order to continue their training while adding fuel to the voice of peasants, national and international players are working out at the border to keep their form intact. Most players have to take part in championships in February next year.Makeshift gymExercise is part of our daily routine. So we decided to set up a gym here. When we don't practice, we work in the fields. Hence, we understand how much it takes to grow a crop. — Sonu, playerThe players include international power lifter Aman Hothi from Talwan village, Mangi Bagga, an international circle kabaddi player, and many others.Aman Hothi said, “I and my friends from Talwan have brought all the gym equipment. We can’t take the risk of missing out on our training. Hence, till the time the Centre does not agree on the farmers’ demands, we will exercise here only.”“Exercise is part of our daily routine. So we decided to set up a gym here. When we don’t practice, we work in the fields. Hence, we understand how much it takes to grow a crop. Apart from players, anyone who wants to exercise here is welcome,” added Sonu, a player from Shahkot.Toni (45), a former kabaddi player, who has been at the protest site from day one said, “My students wanted to come here, but I didn’t want them to miss out on their physical training. But now, the gym here has resolved my problem and my students are here with me.”Most players, after exercising for over two hours, prepare langar or clean the surroundings..
16-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Railways extends cancellation, diversion of trains till December 18||Ludhiana, December 15Attributing disruption of rail traffic in the region to the farmers’ agitation, the Northern Railway authorities have further extended the cancellation, partial cancellation and diversion of trains till December 18.Accordingly, the 05211/12 Dibrugarh-Amritsar-Dibrugarh Express special train (December 16 and 17) and 09613/14 Ajmer-Amritsar-Ajmer Express (December 16 and 17) will remain cancelled.Railways officials said the 08237/38 Korba-Amritsar-Korba-Chhattisgarh Express train (December 16 to 18); 02357/58 Kolkata-Amritsar-Kolkata Durgiana Express (December 16, 17); 05933/34 Dibrugarh-Amritsar-Dibrugarh Express (December 17, 18), 02407/08 Newjalpaiguri-Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Express (December 16 to 18) and 04651/52 Jaynagar-Amritsar-Jaynagar Humsafar Express (December 15, 16) will be short-terminated at and short-originated from Ambala Cantt. All these trains will remain partially cancelled between Ambala Cantt and Amritsar.Further, the 02715/16 Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express (December 16 to 18) will be short-terminated at and short-originated from New Delhi. The train will remain partially cancelled between New Delhi and Amritsar. The 02925/26 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Pashchim Express (December 16, 17) will short-terminate at and short-originate from Chandigarh. The train will remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh and Amritsar.In addition, the 04653/54 Newjalpaiguri-Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Express (December 16, 18) will short-terminate at and short-originate from Saharanpur. The train will remain partially cancelled between Saharanpur and Amritsar.Even though the Railways blames the farmers’ agitation for not being able to run the trains as per schedule, it is beyond comprehension as to why several trunk-route trains like the New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Swarn Shatabdi Express, New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi and New Delhi-Lohian Khas-New Delhi Sarbat Da Bhala Express trains, which had resumed operation after the unlock, are still not being operated while other trains on these routes have resumed operations.
16-12-2020||---||Capt hand in glove with Centre: AAP||Chandigarh, December 15Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann levelled serious allegations on Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, calling him a “puppet in the hands of the Modi government”.Mann said Captain had bartered the interest of Punjab to protect the members of his family involved in serious cases of money laundering. He challenged Captain that if he had the guts, he should tell the Modi government to address the concerns of the country’s ‘annadata’ by rolling back the farm laws.In a statement issued from the party headquarters, Mann said, “As the Chief Minister of Punjab, Captain Amarinder should tell the people of the state, especially the farmers, what decisive steps he has taken for the farmers in the four years of governance and during the ongoing farmers’ movement.”He asked the Chief Minister, “Why don’t you utter a word against the Prime Minister?”The AAP MP alleged that if the Chief Minister of Delhi could meet the agitating farmers and speak in support of their demands, besides providing them all kinds of facilities at the dharna sites, why Captain Amarinder was not moving out of his farmhouse and speaking in favour of the farmers fighting for their bread and butter at the Delhi borders.
16-12-2020||
||BJP raking up SYL issue to divide farmers, says Jakhar||Chandigarh, December 15 The Punjab Congress today took on the Haryana BJP for raking up the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue at a time when farmers of the both the states were jointly protesting against the three farm laws.   “It is typical of the BJP to indulge in the divide and rule policy to create a wedge between Punjab and Haryana farmers at a time when they are fighting together against the farm laws. The BJP is apparently trying to browbeat Punjab with such intimidating tactics,” said state party chief Sunil Jakhar.  “Earlier, they imposed economic sanctions and stopped trains to Punjab to sabotage the farmers’ stir and now, they are trying to rake up an issue that is highly sensitive and emotive for the Punjabis,” he said. Referring to the meeting of Haryana BJP MPs with Central ministers over the SYL issue, he said it was a highly provocative and insidious act on part of the BJP leadership in Haryana. He pointed out that the SYL issue was currently pending in the Supreme Court. Jakhar said instead of resorting to such mean and divisive tactics to create a divide between farmers of Punjab and Haryana, who had shown exemplary camaraderie and solidarity with each other, BJP leaders should prevail upon the government to withdraw the ‘black’ laws in the interest of not only the farmers, but the entire country. He reiterated that no matter what diversionary and divisive tactics the BJP may resort to, the Centre would have to repeal these laws that “threatened” the agricultural economy in the country. “The sooner you do it, the better it will be for everyone,” he told the BJP government at the Centre.
16-12-2020||Archit Watts||Stickers supporting movement new fad among youth||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 15Amid the ongoing protests, stickers and key-chains with slogans supporting the farmers are trending among the youth. Cars bearing the stickers with slogans such as ‘Proud to be a farmer’, ‘I love kheti’, ‘No farmer, no food’ and ‘We support farmers’protest’, among others, have become a common sight.Advocate Gursimranjit Singh Dhaliwal, who recently went to support the protest at the Delhi border, said, “I am a farmer. It is my duty to support and promote farming in this hour of crisis. The Centre has become so adamant, forcing us to protest in every possible manner. Any vehicle bearing a sticker in support of the farmers’ agitation is also a way of lodging a protest.”Similarly, Harender Pal Singh, who owns a fuel station at Rupana village here, said, “Before leaving for Delhi on Saturday, I especially asked my son to paste a sticker on our car to support the protest. We saw a number of cars bearing similar stickers on the way to Delhi. Some people were even distributing stickers free of cost on the highway.”A local trader said, “A number of youngsters are coming daily to buy stickers in support of the farmers’ protest. We have designed some keychains as well.”
16-12-2020||---||45-yr-old farm labourer dies at Singhu border||Faridkot, December 15A 45-year-old farm labourer of Binder Kalan village in Moga district died of a cardiac arrest during the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border. The village panchayat and family members have asked the state government to compensate the family of the deceased.Three days after joining the protest at the border, Makhan Khan, a labourer from Binder Kalan village, died on Monday morning. Mohan Singh, sarpanch of the village, urged the state government to extend financial help to the family of the deceased.The deceased is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. Jagraj Khan, younger brother of the deceased, said the family had decided not to cremate Makhan Khan till the state government announced a compensation for the family. He was the sole bread earner in the family, Jagraj said.
16-12-2020||---||BJP real ‘tukde tukde’ gang: SAD||Bathinda, December 15Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the BJP was the real ‘tukde tukde’ gang in the country.“The BJP has smashed national unity to pieces. It’s shamelessly inciting Hindus against Muslims and now desperate to set peace-loving Punjabi Hindus against their Sikh brethren, especially farmers. It is pushing patriotic Punjab into communal flames,” he said.Dangerous conspiracyThe BJP has been resorting to dangerous conspiracies to sabotage the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony just for petty political goals. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD presidentBlaming the BJP of trying to replace the bonds of blood with bloodshed, Sukhbir said if one agreed with the NDA government, he was a ‘desh bhakt’ (patriotic), but if not, he was an anti-national or from the ‘tukde tukde’ gang.“The BJP has been resorting to dangerous conspiracies to sabotage the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony just for petty political goals. The BJP leadership must realise that the party has become the most powerful divisive force today. It has been resorting to dividing the country and its people by spreading hatred in the name of religion,” Sukhbir said.Referring to the ongoing farmers’ movement, he said the whole country, except the BJP, acknowledged the debt all owed to patriotic farmers and soldiers. “The BJP is provoking the people to deny that debt. It believes only in emotionally exploiting the farmers’ sacrifices but remains so ungrateful to them that it is painting them as anti-national. Today, it is the farmers. Nobody knows what the BJP might say even about soldiers tomorrow if it suits the party,” he said.Sukhbir was in the city to boost the morale of party cadre ahead of the Municipal Corporation polls in Bathinda. He addressed the workers at Handi Resort in Bathinda where former councillor and Congress leader Bant Singh Sidhu and others joined the SAD. Addressing mediapersons, Sukhbir said the screening committee of the party would finalise the names of the candidates for the MC polls.
16-12-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||As cold takes toll on elderly, young farmers keep pot boiling||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15Farmers are ready for a long haul irrespective of the worsening weather conditions. As key leaders of the farmers’ protest on the borders of Delhi fall prey to the cold winds, their second-in-commands have taken over, leading the protest with the same zeal.The leaders, who till now were working in the shadow of their more prominent colleagues, are vociferous in their demand for the revocation of the laws.Aware of BJP tacticsWe are monitoring which way the propaganda machinery of the BJP goes. We are cautious that except the farm laws, no other narrative is to be allowed from the stage. — Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, KKUDr Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union and Jagmohan Singh Patiala of the BKU (Dakaunda) were among the prominent leaders of the ‘morchas’ outside Delhi, who have now fallen ill. Also, many other farm leaders have age and lifestyle-related ailments. It is for this reason that younger leaders like Gurmeet Singh from the Krantikari Kisan Union, Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala of the Kirti Kisan Union and Jangveer Singh of the Doaba Kisan Committee came forward and sat on a day-long fast yesterday.Talking to The Tribune, Deepsinghwala said the younger leaders were as resolute in demanding the repeal of the farm laws as the elderly. “We are monitoring which way the propaganda machinery of the BJP goes. We are extremely cautious that except the farm laws, no other narrative is allowed to propagate from the joint stage of all farm unions,” he said, adding that instructions had been issued to their cadres to practise religious beliefs and prayers only in their tents or individual resting places.Jangveer Singh echoes similar sentiments. Having led many stirs in Punjab in favour of sugarcane farmers, he says he knows how corporates operate and dominate farmers. “It is for this reason that we are adamant that a stir be launched against the corporate houses who are the intended beneficiaries of the new laws,” he says.The young farm leaders are also meeting the youth and advising them to maintain the seriousness of the struggle, rather than using their time for fun.
16-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||At protest venues, art drives activism, and vice versa||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 15With farmers’ protests has resurfaced the age-old connection between art and activism. ‘Nukkad nataks’ at the protest venues in Delhi are not only boosting the farmers’ morale but also keeping them amused in difficult times.On Sunday night, ‘Samay Wali Dang’, directed by famous playwright Sahib Singh, was performed at the Tikri border. Singh, along with his team, is camping at the protest venue with farmers. Director of Adakar Manch, Mohali, Singh’s plays are known to raise issues and concerns of today.Meanwhile, ‘Je Hun Vi Na Bole’, directed by Anita Shabdeesh, was staged at the three-day Gursharan Singh Naat Utsav in Chandigarh to support farmers. From the ‘No farmer, no food’ stickers on vehicles to playing music in cars and at protest sites, artistic expression in its many forms has been the primary way for youth and citizens to make their voice heard. Farmers have also installed huge projection screens and are screening plays for the protesters in Delhi.Several Punjabi songs have gone viral during the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. Many prominent singers who have supported the farmers are planning to come out with more songs to keep the spirits high. Gurpreet, a famous artist from Bathinda, has made many paintings on the farmers’ issue. On Friday, he put up his work on the shutter of a beer and wine shop at the Singhu border. His work of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur and a humorous painting depicting Diljit Dosanjh and Kangana Ranaut attracted many viewers and some of his works were also sold in no time at the protest site.Theatre shares a long relationship with India, dating back to 5,000 years. Even after Independence, Indian street theatre evolved as a means to voice concerns of the common man. It had immediately struck a chord with the masses. Street plays are short and the exchange is close, direct and intimate. To be more effective, these are usually loud and larger than life. To draw crowds from all walks of life, focus is on humour as well.
16-12-2020||---||BKU begins indefinite stir at SDM office in Sangrur||Sangrur, December 15To press for the acceptance of demands of the family of Gurmale Kaur, who died on December 8 at the Kalajhar toll plaza during a protest against the Central farm laws, BKU (Ugrahan) members have started an indefinite protest in front of Bhawanigarh SDM office.“Our protest will continue till the acceptance of our demands, including Rs 10 lakh financial aid, complete debt waiver and a government job to a family member of the deceased. Her body has been lying at the Rajindra hospital, Patiala, and the cremation will take place only after our demands are met,” said Harjinder Gharachon, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader.
16-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||Unions frown upon religious symbolism||Tribune News ServiceTikri, December 15After keeping politicians at bay, farm union leaders have now said they won’t allow their protest to become a religious platform.With members of various religious organisations turning up in support of the farmers, union leaders today decided not to let anyone indulge in religious symbolism.In one such move, Balbir Singh Rajewal, while conveying the decision of 32 farm bodies, asked Nihangs camping near barricades to move to some other place. “There is no war at present. Whenever there will be one, we will call you. It is a peaceful struggle,” he said, while asking the Nihangs not to practise martial arts at the protest site. Nihang leader Deep Singh Khalsa said they had come to support farmers. “The leaders because of their selfish interests want us to go back,” he alleged.Rajewal’s statement was also criticised on social media. He later said his motive was not to hurt anybody’s sentiments.The unions have decided that each organisation would deploy 50 volunteers to keep an eye on anyone trying to hijack their struggle. “We had three options. Either to allow this struggle to become a sarva dharma sammelan, one dharma sammelan or let it be farmers’ sammelan. We obviously chose the last option,” said Raminder Singh Patiala, state committee member of the Kirti Kisan Union.A farmer leader, preferring anonymity, said even their own leaders had been asked refrain from using religious text in their speeches.Similarly, youngsters have been asked to not use abusive language against BJP leaders and stop playing midnight DJs and vulgar songs. “It has been our tradition to protect dignity of women. How can we allow playing of derogatory songs?” said Patiala.
16-12-2020||Sonepat||72-year-old dies at Singhu||A 72-year-old farmer, camping at the Singhu border for 11 days, died on Tuesday after he complained of pain in the chest. The deceased has been identified as Gurmeet Singh of Kandala village in Mohali district (Punjab).Jagbeer Johal, also from Kandala village, said: “Gurmeet Singh was fine in the morning. He went for a walk and had breakfast. Around 12.30 pm, he complained of pain in his chest and sought help. As we tried to help him, he fell and died at the spot.”Ravi Kumar, SHO, Kundli police station, said the body was handed over to victim’s family after the postmortem. “Prima facie, the cause of death seems to be heart attack. The exact cause will be ascertained in the autopsy,” he added.Gurmeet’s death was third at the Singhu border. — TNS
16-12-2020||Rohtak||Refused leave, Moga woman quits job to join protest||For 35-year-old Sarbjeet Kaur (35) of Moga (Punjab), the decision to leave her job and join farmers protesting at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border was an instant one.Working as a Senior Life Planning Officer (SLPO), she had requested for leave so that she could make a contribution to, what she called, “the fight for our future generation”. Her employer’s response was curt: “Not more than two days.”She didn’t bat an eyelid and put in her papers.Tuesday was her fifth day at the Tikri border. Sarbjeet has the company of her husband, their three children and father-in-law. They raise slogans, listen to speeches attentively and distribute langar.They came here after locking up their home and requesting their relatives to take care of their fields.“I worked as an SLPO with a private company for four years. My employer refused to sanction me leave for more than two days, forcing me to resign. It is important to secure the future of our next generation. Job is a trifle thing in the context of this fight,” she told The Tribune.She and her family are determined to stay put till the three farm laws are not repealed. “Our tractor-trailer is our home and we can stay in it for months,” she says.Her husband, Paramjeet Singh, chips in. “It is not easy to stay here with children in this bone-chilling cold. Having said that, we are determined to get the three laws repealed. Children have brought their books with them so that their studies are not disrupted,” he says.Like Sarabjeet, several other protesters are camping at Tikri with their families. Among them are Nirmal Singh from Mansa and Sukhvinder Kaur from Sangrur. Nirmal is camping with his parents, while Sukhvinder has the company of her husband. They left their children at a relative’s home.
