17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two sanitation workers at PGI test positive for coronavirus||Two sanitation workers employed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, officials said. One was a 30-year-old resident of Nayagaon. District authorities have begun collecting swab samples of the patient’s contacts.The second is believed to be a resident of Dhanas. Both cases were detected through random testing conducted in the hospital.Eleven healthcare workers have been quarantined, officials said.Dr Ashok, spokesperson of PGIMER, said: “Both of the employees are asymptomatic as of now. We are going to investigate the source of infection. They were going to their homes after duty. They have been found positive in the random testing. We tested a few employees whose duty hours were done”.The development takes the total number of cases in Chandigarh to 22 and Mohali to 57.Meanwhile, a 30-year-old resident of sector 21 who had come in contact with contact with the city’s first coronavirus case---a student who returned from UK---was released from PGIMER on Friday. This takes the total number of active cases in the city is 11.
17-04-2020||Pathankot||Over 1,000 J-K workers go on hunger strike in Punjab, demand they be sent home||Nearly 1,200 workers from Jammu and Kashmir, who have completed their quarantine period of fourteen days in different camps in Punjab’s Pathankot district, are on a hunger strike for the last three days seeking that they be sent to their towns in the Union Territory.They were stranded in Pathankot after the government imposed a lockdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus.The workers had then been put in quarantine in seven different camps, mostly resorts and marriage banquets.After their quarantine period ended, they refused to take meals, seeking evacuation to their home towns, officials said here.“Though the Jammu and Kashmir Government has taken the decision for their return, but we have yet to receive any communiqué till date,” Pathankot additional deputy commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish, who is monitoring the arrangements, said.He said senior officials from Jammu and Kashmir had also met these people a few days back and if they are taken back to their hometowns, this would be a welcome move.The workers had arrived in Pathankot from mainly Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi, but were stopped at Punjab’s border with Jammu and Kashmir due to the lockdown in the country. PTI
17-04-2020||Our CorrespondentMohali||Singer Vadda Grewal held with 30-gm opium in Mohali||Punjabi singer Gurinder Singh, popularly known as Vadda Grewal, was arrested by the Mohali police on Friday for possessing 30 gm of opium.The singer, a resident of Sangrur, was admitted to a private hospital in Sohana on April 13 due to drug overdose.As per the hospital authorities, Grewal’s health was so critical that they had to put him on the ventilator for more than 24 hours. After that, his condition improved following which he was discharged today.Police officials conducted a raid at the hospital to check from where the accused has brought the drug amid curfew in the state.“The singer was undergoing treatment following drug overdose. We recovered 30-gm opium from his possession and registered a case in this regard,” said DSP Ramandeep.According to sources, the police had also rounded up two of singer’s accomplices for questioning.“During the preliminary investigation, it was found that the accused was staying at Sector 51, Chandigarh, with his friends for last few days and had also stayed in few hotels,” said Harjinder Singh, the investigating officer.A case has been registered against him under Sections 21, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act at the Sohana police station.The accused was produced in a local court today which sent him to judicial custody in Barnala jail.
17-04-2020||Patiala||Coronavirus: With 8 cases in three days, Patiala becomes new cause for worry||With four more positive coronavirus cases in a day, Patiala seems to be emerging as a hotspot for the COVID-19.The district reported four positive cases on Friday, taking the total tally to 11.In fact, the district reported eight new cases in the last three days.The four positive cases that were reported, included three family members, wife and two children, of the book trader and a woman in Rajpura town of the district.The Health Department informed that the lady does not have a travel history or any close contact with other positive cases.On Thursday, a book trader, who went to Zirakpur with a social worker, tested positive for COVID-19.Earlier, three family members of the social worker also tested positive.The spike in the number of positive cases in the district has become a cause of concern for the Health Department and the District Administration as two positive patients – book trader and social worker – came in contact with hundreds of people before they fell sick.Moreover, the Health Department said both the patients were in-cooperative as they were hiding their travel history.Patiala Civil Surgeon, Harish Malhotra, said that areas, where the positive patients were residing, were turned into containment zones to stem the spread of the coronavirus.He said that the department has traced the contacts of the book trader as early as possible.“Despite the spike in cases, the situation is still under control. We have identified contacts of the positive patients and quarantined them,” said Harish.
17-04-2020||Patiala||Coronavirus: Patiala trader who tested positive visited Zirakpur, met over 100 people||The book trader, who tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday night, had visited Zirakpur and continued with his business despite the lockdown, said the Health Department.The book trader runs a shop in a congested book's market and sold several books in the city during the lockdown.Now, those people — who dealt with him — are at risk of getting affected.In the absence of the source of the infection, Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit, on Friday evening, had to make a public appeal to people to come forward.He requested the customers, who purchased books from the trader, to come forward.DC pointed out that a class 8 student of a private school, St. Peters, had purchased the books, therefore, people should come forward as early as possible to make screening promptly — for the COVID-19.Sources informed that the Health Department is facing another Herculean task to trace the contacts of the book trader because he is said to have distributed books to over 100 people.Patiala Deputy Commissioner assured that any lax in issuing the pass will be dealt with accordingly.The virus is not home-generated:Meanwhile, the Health Department said the virus had been brought to the district from the outside because both, social worker and book trader, had made multiple visits out of the city during the lockdown.The Health Department added that it appeared that the virus was brought from outside because any local source of infection could not be traced. Notably, only these two and their family members have been tested positive.
17-04-2020||---||Amarinder Singh orders rapid coronavirus testing , says 'can't bring a Punjabi back'||Chandigarh, April 17Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered strict enforcement with regard to the compulsory wearing of masks in public and asked the police to take stringent action, including the imposition of challans, against violators.Chairing a video conference to review the COVID-19 situation in the state, the Chief Minister made it clear that no compromise would be allowed and every citizen would have to mandatorily wear a mask when stepping out of home, in order to check the spread of the deadly pandemic. He directed the police to challan those found moving around without masks (home-made or otherwise) in public places, under the provisions of the Epidemic Act. He underlined the need for 100% adherence to the orders on compulsory wearing of masks in public.The Chief Minister also issued strict directives for the protection of all employees on the frontline of COVID-19 duty, including health, agriculture, police and revenue department staff, in the light of the death of a Kanungo.They should be provided PPT kits and other necessary protective gear, he said, while ordering strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the state’s expert medical committee for the protection of workers.ACS Vini Mahajan, who heads the Procurement Committee for COVID-19 related purchases, told the VC that there was no shortage now of such equipment in the state, and all employees/staff working on the battle frontlines would be taken care of. Giving details, she disclosed that of the 4.5 lakh PPE kits ordered, 26,500 had been received so far, with 30000 more expected to come between now and next week. In addition, there were sufficient stocks of masks, gloves etc, she added.The Chief Minister said there could be no compromise on the lives of the people and the government’s priority continues to be on saving and protecting the citizens of Punjab. “I can get a factory started again but cannot bring a Punjabi back to life,” he said. Captain Amarinder directed the Health Department to launch rapid testing in all the 24 containment zones of the state. Four Punjab districts (Jalandhar, Pathankot, Nawanshahr and SAS Nagar) have been declared hotspot districts as per the Union Health Ministry. The state had so far been conducting these tests in Jalandhar and SAS Nagar.Health Secretary Anurag Aggarwal said as part of the combat strategy, the department was putting all the 24 containment zones in the state on the COVA app, with no services to be allowed to operate in these areas. The number of ventilators in government medical colleges was being ramped from 102 to 220, he further said.Vini Mahajan informed the VC that the state had earlier received 1000 of the 1,01,000 lakh Rapid Diagnostic Kits (RDKs) ordered from ICMR, with another 10000 received on Friday. The 10,000 kits ordered from private vendors were expected to start coming from April 18. The number of rapid tests conducted in the state was increasing by the day, she said.Of the 527 rapid tests conducted with the 1000 kits received till yesterday, seven were found negative, said Vini, adding that all these tests were conducted in the Jalandhar and SAS Nagar districts. Samples of positive IgM cases were sent for RT-PCR testing for further confirmation, and one of the results from Mohali came out negative, while the others were awaited, she added.Vini said the state was geared up for the next 30 days, and preparing for a projected spike. The local private manufacturers were supporting the government with 'Make in Punjab’ initiatives that had led to several companies in the state getting approvals for PPE kits, masks etc so that the state had no shortage of essential medical equipment, she added.Currently, the state has 1900 Oxygen cylinders available for use, while 1200 more have been tied up from various agencies. It is proposed to procure 2000  more cylinders for which the requirement is being sent to NHM, said Vini.Expressing concern over incidents of family members not willing to cremate victims of the Coronavirus, the Chief Minister directed the Health Secretary to ensure that all guidelines for the management of the bodies of the deceased, and their cremation, are strictly complied with, in line with the protocols provided for COVID-19 safety.The Health Secretary informed the Chief Ministers that all guidelines were being strictly implemented, including covering the bodies in plastic and submerging them in bleaching powder/ solution.If the family does not come forward for the cremation, or there is no claimant after 48 hours of death, then the local administration has been mandated to take care of it, he said.In response to a query from the Chief Minister, Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh said the 20-member Expert Committee set up to formulate the state’s exit strategy had held two meetings and would submit its report in a week’s time. To meet the shortage of technicians in virology, GADVASU and Punjab Agri Universities were making their technical staff available, and the government was also going in for outsourcing, said the Chief Secretary.Health Minister Balbir Sidhu disclosed that normal OPDs had started functioning in most hospitals to take care of non-COVID patients.Dr Raj Bahadur, Orthopaedic Surgeon and Vice-Chancellor of the Baba Farid University of Health Science in Faridkot, informed the meeting that by Monday, another lab would start testing in Faridkot, to further scale up the state’s testing capacities.Capacities had already been increased at GMC Patiala & Amritsar and testing has also started at DMCH Ludhiana, while PGI Chandigarh has agreed to accept 60 samples daily from Punjab instead of the earlier 40.IMTECH Chandigarh, which is also set to start testing, will also take samples from Punjab, which has also formulated a Pool Testing Strategy. The state is also pushing for approval for testing at the Christian Medical College (CMC) Ludhiana, which is expected to come in next week.Earlier, the meeting was informed by Dr KK Talwar, the state government’s advisor on health issues, that under Operational Fateh, launched in the state a month and a half ago by the Health Department against the COVID-19 crisis, Tracing, Tracking and Testing (TTT) had been significantly ramped up in recent days.As part of the House to House search of symptomatic (fever/cough) by health workers, 15,000 people were being contacted every day, across the state. Also, the identification of New Clustering & Containment Activity was being done all over the state as per GoI guidelines.Around 1,000 cases of all Influenza-like illnesses (ILI) from records of hospital OPDs were being checked every day, along with 20 cases of severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI) hospital IPD.On the high mortality rate in the state, Dr Talwar told the Chief Minister that it was on account of the higher prevalence of comorbidities / High-Risk Factors in the state, as well as the higher footfall of international tourist/NRIs, among other factors.
17-04-2020||Patiala||Positive cases hide information, Patiala Health Department takes police help to trace past movements||Finding itself in a fix — over positive patients hiding their travel history during the lockdown — the health department is compelled to take help of the police to trace their past movements before they fell prey to COVOD-19. In one such incident, a social worker in Patiala — who was tested positive for the Coronavirus — initially, hid his movement to Zirakpur during strict curfew to help his friends a book-trader. But on the insistence of health department, former had to give- in and revealed his name and later was tested came positive for the Coronavirus.Patiala Health department said that they had been facing a huge problem because the patients were not revealing their movements, consequently, it was impossible to trace the source of infection.Patiala civil surgeon said: “We have asked Police to track phone location of the positive patients before they fall sick. This will help us trace all the contacts and isolate them — to stem the spread.”Non-cooperation by patients may lead exponential ascent in casesIn the meanwhile, experts say that if the infection goes untraced, the COVID-19 cases will continue to spiral upward. Health experts informed that the state has not entered the stage 3 – community spread – therefore there were possibilities of tracing the source of infection if the patients revealed their entire history before falling sick from the virus.
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Mobile clinics deployed for check up of Punjab Police personnel on frontline duty||To protect police personnel battling the COVID-19 crisis on the frontline, the Punjab Police have deployed mobile clinics for their medical examination, with 30,567 of the total 43,000 cops on the ground already given one round of a thorough check-up.The ‘Mobile Police Clinics’ are working in all the seven police ranges and police commissionerates of the state to medically examine the frontline police force, which has been working relentlessly for curfew enforcement and relief operations, across three shifts a day, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed on Friday.In some of the districts, help is being taken from the civil hospital doctors also to get the police personnel, especially on duty at the naka points, checked for symptoms of flu or other illnesses.All personnel will be checked repeatedly, every second day, to ensure that there is no health issue among them as a result of possible exposure to the coronavirus, said the DGP.Gupta said detailed instructions have already been issued by district SSPs to ensure that all police personnel, performing duties at the forefront in enforcing the lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus across the state, remain healthy and safe.While all police personnel on duty to enforce the lockdown have been provided with masks, gloves and hand sanitisers, those deployed at the hospital isolation wards or in the vicinity are provided with PPEs/biohazard suits, said the DGP. So far, he said, 2.5 lakh masks, 788 PPE kits and nearly 2.5 lakh hand sanitisers have been distributed to all the ranges and CPs to protect the police personnel.Given the vulnerability of the police force performing duties in the face of COVID-19 exposure, all mandatory precautions are being taken and medical help is being provided in the districts to the police personnel, besides meticulously following the guidelines issued by the Health Ministry from time to time, to keep the spread of COVID-19 virus under check, said Gupta.Tents and outdoor umbrellas have been installed along barricades to protect them from extreme hot temperatures, and to ensure sanitisation of barricades, chairs, and other items which are used by police force on front line duty, a special Japanese machine which covers 70 feet radius on both sides with 10 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution is being used by CP/Ludhiana and SSP/Patiala.Police personnel suffering from BP, diabetics and other medical problems were being provided with medicines and multi vitamins at the place of duty, according to the DGP.
17-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Newlywed couple among five people injured in road accident on Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur highway||Mahilpur (Hoshiarpur), April 17Five people, including a newlywed couple, were injured, when an SUV they were aboard was hit by a truck on Friday evening, when the wedding procession was going back to Gurdaspur after the function at Bhakhra Nangal.The accident took place on Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur state highway near police station Mahilpur when their SUV collided with a truck coming from the opposite side.The injured were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Mahilpur, from where the groom was referred to Hoshiarpur after his condition became critical.According to the information received, the truck driver—Gurcharan Singh—resident, Pandori Ganga Singh, has given his statement to Mahilpur police in this regard.He revealed that he left for Shahabad Markanda (Haryana) after loading potatoes in his truck from Hoshiarpur.When he reached Mahilpur, an Innova coming from the opposite direction, which was being driven by Harpreet Singh resident of Qadian(Gurdaspur), collided with his truck.In the accident, the newly married couple —Vinod Kumar, son of Baldev Ram, and bride Ritu, groom's mother Satya Devi and brother-in-law Gagandeep Singh, all resident of Qadian (Gurdaspur) were injured in the accident.Vinod Kumar suffered serious injuries in this road accident.Mahilpur police reached the accident site and took further action by taking both vehicles in possession.By the time of filing this news report, no FIR was lodged.
17-04-2020||Tribune Web Desk||'Skipping Sikh' grandpa has the best quarantine workout tips in coronavirus isolation; watch video||Chandigarh, April 17People have been finding various ways to stay fit and healthy amid the coronavirus lockdown. A 73-year-old man, who is also known as the 'Skipping Sikh', found a way an easy workout routine, which doesn't involve a lot of equipments. UK-based Rajinder Singh shared a video of himself skipping rope in the backyard of his home in Middlesex, UK and it went viral.The video was posted on his YouTube page with the caption: "Raj Singh the skipping Singh in isolation, aged 73 and wants everyone to get involved as he sets the skipping challenge! Get involved and lets fight Covid-19. God bless you all."The 22-second video shows Singh skipping the rope with utmost precision. With the UK in lockdown, this was his way of encouraging people to squeeze in some physical activity in their daily lives. The same video was shared on Twitter and the challenge started getting a lot of responses.
17-04-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus: LPU violates lockdown norms, show cause notice issued||The Department of Higher Education and Languages has issued a show-cause notice to Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, asking the university to explain why it did not “shut down completely” amidst the COVID-19 lockdown. The letter has been issued for the “violation of Lockdown instructions of Government of India under Epidemic Act and order section 144 of CrPC by Lovely Professional University.”The university has been asked to state the reason why the "No Objection Certificate” issued to the university not be withdrawn for "violating government orders and putting in danger the lives of about 3,200 people and many more.”The letter has come a day after Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh and BJP leader Vijay Sampla demanded action against the university for violating lockdown regulations. While the Lovely Professional University is one of the largest private universities of India – it has hosted the Prime Minister, former Indian President,  former President of Afghanistan and the Dalai Lama.The letter issued by the higher education department, said: “It has now come to light that despite all the instructions, ignoring the gravity of the situation and jeopardizing the life of about 3,200 people and thousands of others to which infection could spread, you did not shut down completely. Considering the highly infectious nature of the disease and despite the fact that there was sufficient time for you to send all students to their respective homes from 13 to 3/2020 to 22/3/2020, but for no reasons, you continued with the functioning of the university and the hostels and made no effort to send them to their homes.”It further states: “As it might be argued by you that the movement of students was not possible in light of a complete lockdown. There is no denying the fact that norms about maintaining social distancing were flouted as well as the administration was informed that university was completely shut and vacated, while that was not the case. It is amply clear that you did not pay any heed to instructions of the district administration dated 23/3/2020 and kept them in dark about the whole situation. When the whole world is battling this deadly virus and the only remedy is complete isolation, which has time and again been emphasized by the Prime Minister and Chief Minister, your administration threw all instructions to the winds and put hundreds of lives at risk.”The letter further states: “You are hereby asked to explain within seven days of receipt of this letter, as to why not "No Objection Certificate” issued to your university be withdrawn for violating Government orders and putting in danger the lives of about 3200 people and many more.”Secretary Higher Education, Rahul Bhandari, said: “The notice has been published by the higher education department. DC has reported that more than 3200 people are staying there. The district administration has told us that the university authorities, for reasons best known to them, didn’t inform the administration of the presence of 3200 staffs, students and faculty’s presence at the university.”LPU has students from various states, as well as international students, include those from African and Asian countries. A student of LPU had tested positive on April 11, and 40 university samples (including a cook who died of suspected COVID) tested negative on April 14. 259 Bhutanese students at LPU had also been sent back in chartered flight after the girl tested positive. The university had claimed that they were not in a position to send many of the students back, since, they had no options after the lockdown was implemented.
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Helpline for stress-related issues||
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar designs ‘WardBot’ to deliver food, medicines to COVID-19 patients||A team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar in Punjab’s Rupnagar district has come up with a design of an autonomous ‘WardBot’ which can deliver medicines and food to COVID-19 patients in isolation wards without human intervention.Researchers working on the project said its deployment in hospitals will help in minimising the risk of the frontline health staff getting infected with the deadly virus.Based on the smart line following, WardBot, fitted with sensors, can work on a known path and can carry food items and medicines for delivery at different beds to patients in a ward, Ekta Singla, Associate Professor and Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Ropar, said on Friday.Singla, who is heading the team of the researchers, said the ‘WardBot’ uses simple gesture sensors for a quarantined person to wave a bye to the bot, as an indication of receiving the material.Patients will get the intimation through bed-IDs being displayed on small LCD units, she said.The design of an autonomous WardBot is such that it can be instructed to receive and deliver food and medicines and necessary equipment from one room to the other from the remotely located control room, the researchers said.The control room can instruct multiple bots to accomplish tasks simultaneously on different floors, they said.WardBot also has a feature of self-sanitising on the return path and could be used for sanitising walls of the hospitals, said the researchers, adding it can also work under low-light conditions.WardBot can serve as a support structure to the healthcare sector at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic with a focus on minimising human interaction with the coronavirus patients, they said.“All team members are currently working from home. We plan to provide robust support to the frontline workers to combat well in the battle against this pandemic. We are also looking forward to industry collaborations to take this concept to virtual use,” Singla said.—PTI
17-04-2020||Our Correspondent||IAF helicopter makes emergency landing in Hoshiarpur village||Hoshiarpur, April 17An Apache helicopter of the Indian Air Force made an emergency landing at Budhawar village of Hajipur block in Hoshiarpur on Friday.The helicopter had taken off from the Pathankot army base and due to some technical glitch it had land in the Budhwar village fields.Both the pilots and the helicopter are safe and there was no damage to the village.Sarpanch Kuldeep Singh said the copter had landed in the village field without any damage.Police have reached the spot and information has been sent to the officials at the Pathankot base.
17-04-2020||Ludhiana||Coronavirus: Punjab reports 14 new cases, state tally stands over 200||Punjab reported 14 more coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the state's tally to 213. Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Ferozepur and Patiala reported new coronavirus cases, the state's evening health bulletin showed.  Ferozepur reported its first coronavirus case on Friday.Patiala reported five cases, four of whom were contacts of already diagnosed patients. One was a case whose source of infection remains unknown.In Jalandhar, four more people tested positive on Friday.Three of the four who testing positive were contacts of a 40-year-old person from Raja Garden who tested positive on April 13.The fourth person to test positive is a 25-year-old man who contracted it from an already diagnosed patient in Purani Sabzi Mandi.Jalandhar reported three more cases on Friday evening, although has yet to be counted in the official tally.  The three new cases includes two children.This takes the district tally to 38.Ludhiana reported four cases on Friday—three of them contacts of an assistant police commissioner who tested positive two days ago.  The ACP's wife, his gunman, a native of Ferozepur, and a sub-inspector posted as Basti Jodhewal SHO have been infected.The officer is currently admitted to SPS Hospital and is on a ventilator. The department is collecting samples of all the contacts of the ACP and nearly 51 samples have been collected so far. ADCP Sachin Gupta said that all the three are in isolation and their condition is stable. The ACP had got infected while on duty at Sabzi Mandi a few days ago.One of the four is a new case whose source of infection is unknown.Officials said Ludhiana’s District Medical Officer Jasbir Kaur also tested positive on Friday, although it is unclear if this has been added to the state tally either.Ludhiana also reported one death on Friday, although this is yet to be added to the state's official tally.A 58-year-old man who had to be put on ventilator on Thursday after he had breathing problems died of cardiac arrest on Friday afternoon, within hours of having tested positive, Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga said.The man, who becomes Ludhiana’s third fatality to the deadly coronavirus, was admitted at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. He was employed at the revenue department, and had remained at home since March 22. He had no travel history.The man’s death led to authorities isolating his immediate family—which includes three elderly people over 70 years—who health officials say are so far asymptomatic.Doctors say he began to feel unwell on April 10 and had to be admitted to DMCH on April 14. District health officials are now tracing his contacts to isolate and test them, Dr Bagga said.The fatality takes Ludhiana's death toll to three.However, the state's tally officially stands at 14.SDM, another resident test negative in MuktsarMuktsar SDM Veerpal Kaur tested negative for coronavirus on Friday. She had some symptoms of COVID-19—a fever, cold and cough. Her sample was taken on Wednesday. She had been home quarantined.Another resident, who had reportedly come into contact with a COVID-19 patient, tested negative.“The Faridkot laboratory has asked us to repeat the samples of six more persons, which were earlier sent on Sunday,” said a health department official.Presently, the district has one COVID-19 patient, an 18-year-old boy from Meerut in UP, who along with some others had come here on March 18 after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. He is admitted to the local COVID hospital.More tests come back negative in LPUIn Kapurthala’s Phagwara, 31 of 68 swabs collected at the Lovely Professional University samples tested negative, officials said. Authorities are still waiting for rest results for the rest.The development comes days after a student of the university tested positive for the infection, prompting district health authorities to seal off the university and conduct more tests.So far, nobody apart from that one female student has tested positive from LPU.Punjab government meanwhile issued a notice to the university asking for an explanation about why it did not send its students back home in the light of a growing global pandemic, why it chose to ignore lockdown restrictions.
17-04-2020||Patiala||Stuck due to curfew in Patiala, 3-year-old reunited with parents in Jammu||Acting swiftly, Social Security, Women and Child Development Department's district body Patiala Child Welfare Unit reunited the three-year-old child with his parents in Jammu with the assistance of a Child Welfare Unit of Jammu.Mayankvir Singh was stuck with his maternal grandparents in Patiala due to nationwide curfew and lockdown in the wake of the spread of coronavirus.Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit said Mayankvir of Kathua had come to meet his maternal grandparents at Urban Estate Phase-II, while his mother Puneet Kaur was staying at Kathua. Father Ajit Singh works in a bank in Gwalior. He said Mayankvir's maternal grandparents and mother had approached the office of the District Child Protection Unit Patiala and asked for help.Assistant Commissioner (General) Ismat Vijay Singh, in coordination with the Patiala Child Welfare Unit, established contact with Kathua Child Welfare Unit and provided the inter-state pass for sending the child to his parental home at Kathua.Subsequently, District Programme Officer Gulbahar Singh Toor and District Child Protection Officer Rupwant Kaur made the arrangements for sending him to Kathua.After Mayankvir's arrival at the Jammu border, he was examined by a medical team of the Jammu administration and handed over to his mother Puneet Kaur. She appreciated the endeavour of the district administration and Punjab government.
17-04-2020||---||Provide ration or let us go home, say angry migrants||Bathinda, April 16Migrant women are out on the streets here, demanding that either the district administration provides them with food or ration, or else they be allowed to go back to their native places.The migrant women, who had settled in the city to earn bread and butter for their families, said their services had been terminated and they had not got any help from any quarter amid the Covid crisis.The women from Ahata Niaz Mohammad near the Amrik Singh Road area today gathered near Nai Basti on the main GT road and said they had been standing there for ration since 8 am and it was afternoon then.They alleged that they had even paid a visit to the councillor of the area, complaining that they hadn't got their ration till date.Two women police personnel, who were deployed there, had a tough time in managing the crowd and in enforcing social distancing.Bimla Devi, a daily wager, said: “We have come to know that the administration and NGOs are providing free ration, but so far we have not received any help.”Devi said if the district administration couldn't provide help, then they should be allowed to work and earn their livelihood.Arjun, another migrant from Lucknow, who used to work in the hospitality industry here said: “Since the lockdown, we have been stuck here. With no money to manage two square meals a day and to pay my room's rent, I want to return home, but all transport services have been suspended. Given our situation, the government should provide us with some alternative.”Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said: “The migrants can't go back to their native places, as all inter-state borders have been sealed amid curfew. However, we are providing the needy with ration, and if someone is deprived of food, they can let the authorities know.”
17-04-2020||Muktsar||Objectionable post, Cong leader booked||Release dues of commission agents: SADRopar: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) spokesman and former Member of Parliament Prem Singh Chandumajra has demanded that the state government should disburse Rs200 crore immediately to commission agents and labourers pending since the last procurement season. Chandumajra, who visited grain markets in the district, said the state government had failed to make payments of nearly Rs135 crore to commission agents and Rs65 crore against labour charges since the last procurement season. TNSWarehousing corpn donates Rs 1 crChandigarh: The Punjab State Container and Warehousing Corporation has donated Rs1 crore to the CM Relief Fund to fight Covid pandemic. This is the first public sector undertaking to make a big contribution, claimed DD Arora, chairman of the corporation. He said the state government, who was facing financial constraints, should be supported by every Punjabi in this hour of need. TNSRation distribution unfair: ActivistsMuktsar: Social activists have alleged the administration is not distributing ration in a fair manner. Shammi Teria, president, Shiv Dham Welfare Society, accused the authorities of discrimination. Locals, too, allege the names of needy persons were noted down twice in some areas, but ration was yet to be distributed to them. MK Aravind Kumar, DC, said, “Some people are politicising the matter. I have checked the records of ration distribution and everything is in order.” TNS2 jails to be quarantine centresChandigarh: As a preventive measure, Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Thursday announced to make Barnala and Patti jails quarantine centres with immediate effect. According to Randhawa, 412 inmates lodged in the jails have already been shifted to other jails of the state. He said this preventive step had been taken to avoid any possible danger of Covid outbreak in the jails. TNS
17-04-2020||Moga||Rs 6-crore paddy scam unearthed in Moga district||A Rs 6-crore paddy scam has been unearthed in three rice mills in Moga district, police officials said here today.In its complaint, the Food and Civil Supplies Department stated that 1,00,241 bags of paddy belonging to Pungrain, a state-owned foodgrain procurement agency, had gone missing from these mills. The cost of the missing stock has been estimated at Rs 6 crore.Department officials claimed that the procurement agency gave enough time to the owners/partners of these rice mills to refill the stock, but they failed to do so. They were also given an opportunity to deposit money in lieu of the missing paddy, but to no avail.The owners/partners of these mills did not join the police probe despite repeated requests. Following which, a case under Sections 407, 420 and 120B of the IPC was registered against Krishan Kumar, his daughter-in-law Kaiffy Singla and two brothers Rajiv Kumar and Sanjiv Kumar. — TNS
17-04-2020||---||Patiala trader +ve, visited many towns||Patiala, April 16The district recorded its seventh positive case when a close contact of the social worker tested positive on Thursday evening.The social worker tested positive on Tuesday. The Health Department said the new patient along with the social worker had visited Zirakpur and other towns of the state for some business-related work during the lockdown.The department said the patient had been shifted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital late on Thursday night.His three family members — wife and two children — have also been shifted to the ward and their samples were taken.Sources informed the positive patient ran a book shop in a congested area in Patiala. Civil Surgeon said both had visited many parts of the state during the lockdown. He said, “They went to Zirakpur and Panchkula for business even during the lockdown.”Meanwhile, the civil surgeon requested the people not to violate curfew and follow the guidelines.
17-04-2020||---||In Gurdaspur village, cremation put off after protest||Gurdaspur, April 16The last rites of Sansar Singh of Bhaini Passwal village, who died due to Covid complications, were put on hold after locals objected to his body being cremated in the village. They argued that the ashes would leave a trail of coronavirus and might infect residents of several villages in the area.Deadlock as officialsfail to convince localsvillages in the areaThe SSP and ADC told them that it was a misconception, but the latter were not convincedDespite the area being declared a containment zone, people gathered at the cremation ground when the body was brought there. Senior officers, including DC Mohammad Ishfaq, SSP Swarandeep Singh and SDM Sakattar Singh Bal, reached the spot to persuade the protesters.The last rites were to be performed at 8 pm. Following the protest, the cremation was postponed.The SSP and ADC Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu appealed to the villagers to let the administration do its job. They told them that it was a misconception that ashes contained the virus, adding that the virus did not spread from those who had died. A statement by the public relations department, however, claimed that the cremation would be held in the village itself.The SSP, ADC and other officers were still negotiating with the villagers at the time of the filing of the report.
17-04-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab likely to extend curbs beyond May 3||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16As the state government is going for isolating hotspots and mass testing, it is likely to extend curfew beyond May 3. Restrictions will be lifted in a phased manner, as per the guidelines issued by the Centre.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has hinted that the state will wait till May 3 for instructions from the Centre, while officials deliberate on a situation that does not call for complete withdrawal of restrictions on May 3.Officials say that as the official machinery, farmers, labourers and arhtiyas are engaged in a mammoth exercise of harvesting and procurement of wheat — which will continue till June 15 — staggered restrictions in urban areas could continue till June.“Panchayats have lifted self-imposed curfew in villages in view of wheat procurement. Some industries in industrial zones and non-urban areas have been allowed to operate. The government may allow some more industries to start operations depending on the need,” a government functionary said.Sources say the state will be ready with an exit plan well before May 3. The Chief Minister has indicated that an expert committee report on staggered exit from the five-week lockdown was expected in 10 days.The Chief Minister has already indicated that there is no option, but to continue with stringent restrictions, given the threat of the pandemic spiraling out of control. But he admitted that the lockdown would not continue till September, which is when experts claim that the Covid curve is expected to flatten in India.It has been pointed out that factors such as the likely trajectory of the epidemic over the next few weeks, capacity to build up an effective and responsive healthcare system to deal with the epidemic in a short period, impact of the lockdown on the economy and financial system, and ability to support poor sections in the event of continued or partial lockdown would be the key in deciding the future course of action.
17-04-2020||---||Microbiologist at Covid lab tests positive in Jalandhar||Chandigarh, April 16The state reported 11 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the count to 197. Six cases surfaced in Jalandhar, three Patiala and two Pathankot. Besides, a patient undergoing treatment in Amritsar passed away today.Sixty-year-old Sansar Singh Bhaini of Passwal village in Gurdaspur died at GMCH, Amritsar. He had attended the cremation of his relative, a former Army subedar who had died of coronavirus in Jalandhar.With Jalandhar emerging as the second-most active hotspot of the state, Medical Superintendent Dr Mandeep Kaur has been transferred. The patients who tested today positive in the district included two contacts of a Shahkot woman -- her 56-year-old husband and a 30-yer-old nurse who treated her.Notably, three people, including a microbiologist, also tested positive for Covid-19 via rapid test. Their swab samples have been sent to Amritsar for confirmation. At least 10 staff members of the civil hospital and close contacts of the microbiologist have been put under quarantine.In Patiala, the wife and two children of an infected social worker tested positive. Civil Surgeon said all three were shifted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital. He said they were earlier home-quarantined. The Health Department informed that around six persons who came in contact with the family members would also be tested after two days. Following three news cases in the district, the department started the screening process of the entire city.(With inputs from Ravi Dhaliwal, Aparna Banerji and Karam Prakash)
17-04-2020||---||Punjab Ministers to forgo salary for 3 months||Chandigarh, April 16With the state staring at revenue losses to the tune of Rs 22,000 crore for financial 2020-21 in view of the Covid-19 crisis, all Cabinet Ministers on Thursday decided not to take their salary for the next three months, even as the Chief Secretary appealed to all government employees to take voluntary cuts in the salary to help state meet the unprecedented contingency.The decision was taken at a meeting of the finance sub-committee, constituted recently under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, to take stock of the fiscal implications of the pandemic and find ways of generating revenue to compensate for the losses and meet the costs resulting from the crisis.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal informed the meeting that of the Rs 88,000 crore revenue receipts estimated to be raised by the state, only about Rs 66,000 crore would be generated in the light of the curfew, which had brought all business and tax receipts to a standstill and resulting in lower GST collections.Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh issued an appeal asking employees of all government departments, PSUs, local bodies, boards and corporations to voluntarily contribute towards the relief fund. He suggested that grade A and B employees should contribute 30 per cent, grade C 20 per cent and grade D 10 per cent for April, May and June.
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown: Many students remain logged out||In times of Covid lockdown, higher educational institutes in the state have moved towards online classes so that students do not miss out on their studies, but poor Net connectivity is playing a spoiler. Students in rural areas, particularly in the border belt, have been affected the most.A student from a village in Gurdaspur district pursuing LLB from Punjabi University, Patiala, said: “I have a laptop, but poor connection hampers my study. But think of my friends who don’t have computers or laptops.”Prof RK Kohli, Vice-Chancellor of Central University in Bathinda, said: “No doubt, students are facing connectivity problem in certain areas. Our students from Kashmir and Kerala are finding it difficult to download online lessons. The network strength of a 2G connection is too weak to download the lessons.”Gurdeep Singh, a student at the Panjab University Centre for Human Rights and Duties, echoed VC’s views. “Students residing in remote areas of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab do not have laptops. And those who have laptops face the problem of poor network.”Pratham Aggarwal, an MCA student, appreciated teachers’ efforts in trying times but regretted that the poor Net infrastructure was bringing their efforts to naught.In all this, universities are trying their best to prepare online lessons. Vice-Chancellor Kohli said, “Universities and colleges are using different means so that students don’t lag behind in their studies. The University Grants Commission (UGC), for example, has created more than 23,000 highly graded lectures on 769 subjects for postgraduate courses on MOOC (Massive Online Open Courses). Also, lessons for 1,900 subjects are available on Swayam platform.”Punjabi University VC Prof BS Ghuman said, “Besides the UGC, Punjabi University faculty has prepared quality academic material on different subjects. Certainly, there is no replacement for classroom teaching. But these tough times has provided us with an opportunity to expand our academic vision and prepare innovative teaching modules.”Poor connectivity is not the only problem universities are grappling with. As the nationwide lockdown has been extended till May 3, universities are still undecided on annual examinations. They are still waiting for new guidelines from the UGC.
17-04-2020||---||Finally, 41 Pakistan nationals return home via Attari border||Amritsar, April 16As many as 41 Pakistani nationals, who were stuck in India following the closure of border due to Covid-19 outbreak, returned via the Attari border on ThursdayThe Union Government is facilitating the repatriation of 180 Pakistani citizens stranded in different parts of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar PradeshSAFMA activist Rajinder Singh Ruby said 263 Indian citizens too had been stranded in Pakistan, including many students. They have been asked to stay put in line with the government’s policy till some arrangement was made for their return, he said.“We were in touch with several Sikh pilgrims who got stranded at Gurdwara Dehra Sahib in Lahore. They told that they had conveyed the Indian High Commission in Islamabad to help them reach India,” he said.Meanwhile, all Pakistani nationals were screened as before they were allowed to cross over to Wagah. They would undergo self-isolation in Pakistan.Showing gratitude towards India and Pakistan governments, Karachi resident Mohammad Hussain said, “We had gone to Mumbai on March 8 to attend Urs ritual. By the time of our return, the lockdown was imposed. We faced some difficulty, but it was acceptable given the situation.”Nankana Sahib resident Bhupinder Singh said he had come on February 22 as a tourist with his family. “On returning home, I would be to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Janam Asthan, Nankana Sahib. Pakistan too should help Indian citizens return to their homes,” he said.
17-04-2020||---||Bathinda man loses Rs1.5L in online fraud||Bathinda, April 16Amid curfew restrictions, frauds on the pretext of online purchase and home delivery of liquor are on the rise in the region.Was promised home delivery of liquorBathinda resident Preetmohinder Singh alleged he got calls from an unidentified person, who claimed to be working at a wine shopHe offered to arrange liquor for SinghHe asked for Singh’s bank account details for the payment, and took out Rs1.5 lakhIn one such incident, fraudsters siphoned off Rs1.5 lakh from the bank account of a resident of Urban Estate, Phase 3, in the city.In his complaint, Preetmohinder Singh alleged that he got calls from an unidentified person saying that he worked at a wine shop and could provide him liquor on his doorsteps. Later, he asked for his bank account details for the payment, and took out Rs1.5 lakh.The Bathinda police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC, and Sections 43, 66C, 66D of the IT Act 2008, at Kotwali police station.Meanwhile, sources said despite lockdown, vends in the city were selling liquor though the backdoor. Many are even posting their advertisements on social media, claiming that they would provide liquor on the doorstep of residents.Bathinda SSP Dr Nanak Singh said many frauds advertisements pertaining to liquor home delivery had surfaced on the social media, which were fake as nothing of that sort was possible during the curfew period.
17-04-2020||Ropar||Liquor vend employees attack officials||Two persons, hiding in a liquor vend, attacked officials of the district administration and even tried to set them ablaze in Transport Nagar last evening.The Ropar Deputy Commissioner said after receiving complaints that liquor was being sold from this vend, officials were sent there.Ropar Naib Tehsildar Satvinder Singh told the police that when he reached the vend around 8.30 pm, a number of people had gathered there.On seeing him, the people fled the spot, while the vend was locked from inside. Sub-divisional Magistrate Harjot Kaur too reached the spot along with security personnel.Satvinder Singh alleged that when they broke the shutter, the accused attacked them and tried to put an LPG cylinder on fire. A case under Sections 186, 353, 506 188 of the IPC has been registered. — TNS
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Online classes in ITIs begin||The Technical Education and Industrial Training Department has started online classes of students of Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). The e-content has been identified for 34 trades by constituting committees of principals and instructors.Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Technical Education and Industrial Training, said the e-material had been identified from several sources such as Bharat Skills, National Instructional Media Institute and YouTube. The e-learning material will be sent to students via WhatsApp a day before the class. — TNS
17-04-2020||Bathinda||Yet to receive gunny bags, say arhtiyas||The procurement of wheat was started on April 15, but many commission agents (arhtiyas) in the district are yet to receive gunny bags to pack the produce.A commission agent said delay in the arrival of bags may lead to a chaotic situation. The unavailability of gunny bags could lead to a protest. He alleged that till now, no inspector of the state procurement agencies had contacted them regarding the purchase which wasn’t the case earlier.Bathinda Arhtiya Association president Satish Babbu said, “All arrangements are in place for wheat procurement. Some gunny bags have arrived while the rest will arrive as soon as procurement picks up pace in the district.”Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “We have enough gunny bags for 8 lakh MT wheat. All arrangements of procurement are in place.” — TNS
17-04-2020||Aman Sood||No labour, Punjabi youths sweat it out in fields||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 16Gurpreet Singh (24) from Sanaur is busy in his father’s six-acre field helping him with a sickle to harvest the wheat crop.Till early March, Gurpreet was hopeful of moving to Australia for greener pastures on a student visa, never to come back again. The abroad plans are now shelved.Many other international students are struck abroad and many have been brought back home under difficult conditions. Gurpreet is happy to wait and help his father in the fields. “A majority of us left studies with the sole aim to move abroad,” he says.Their dollar dreams delayed by a few years due to Covid-19, Punjabi youths are now busy helping their parents in fields and grain markets. With the world pandemic spreading and many countries sending back migrant workforce due to job cuts, Punjabi boys can now be seen doing farm labour.“I have seen my son and two nephews in the fields for the first time. It is really encouraging, but I doubt if it would last long as they both were waiting for their admission letters from a Canadian College,” says Karanbir Singh Sandhu, a farmer from Raungla village. “Our generation worked hard in fields, but today, once the son in our families grows up, all he wants is to move abroad and we are dependent on migrants for all farm-related chores,” he said.Punjab’s foreign dreams are an open secret, with thousands migrating every year and ‘outbound student mobility’ rising significantly. About 75 per cent of students who wish to move abroad every year are from agricultural families. Most of these families have relatives abroad and are happy to send their sons away. Migration to foreign countries has become a status symbol in some villages. The men simply move away to Canada as students or temporary workers in search of a better life.Former head, Department of Economics, Punjabi University, Dr Gian Singh, who has done many studies on rural labour and international migration from Punjab, says barring Jat Sikh youths from well-off families, majority of others will try to save on the money and work in fields.“However, this is a short-term change, and once the lockdown is over, our youths will continue with the exodus,” he states, adding the political system and generation of jobs was the key problem of the state.
17-04-2020||---||Tight vigil at Punjab grain markets, 8,600 policemen on guard||Chandigarh, April 16As many as 8,620 Punjab Police personnel, along with 6,483 volunteers, are maintaining round-the-clock vigil at mandis and in villages to ensure smooth procurement operations amid the Covid-19 crisis. They are following stringent guidelines for their own protection and for the strict enforcement of health and sanitation protocols as well as social distancing measures at all procurement centres.DGP Dinkar Gupta said as a part of the two-pronged strategy, the frontline police personnel on duty at the mandis have been equipped to protect the farmers and others coming to the centres, while also ensuring their own protection.All police personnel have been provided with face masks, gloves, hand sanitisers, etc, and also briefed about their proper usage. Police personnel having health issues, especially those relating to heart and respiratory issues, have not been deployed on frontline duty. To ensure social distancing, PA systems are being used for effective dissemination of guidelines and instructions so that physical proximity is avoided at the centres, which are being regularly sanitised.The police personnel deployed in various mandis have been asked to ensure checking at all entry/exit points, traffic flow and decongestion of roads leading up to the purchase centres.Gupta said the policemen had also been directed to ensure that combine harvesters did not operate after 7 pm. Elaborating on the role of volunteers during harvesting and procurement, Gupta said they had been given the task of ensuring social distancing in mandis. They are also helping the police in management of traffic outside the mandis and on roads leading to procurement locations.The volunteers have also been given the responsibility of access control by way of reception assistance and checking, distributing and vetting of various passes of commission agents besides providing assistance to the administration in ensuring food, water sanitation and hygiene.
17-04-2020||---||Punjab farmers reject e-tokens, say process too cumbersome||Chandigarh, April 16Sukhpal Singh, a small farmer in Kanakwal Bhanguan village of Sangrur district, says he has started praying regularly to calm his nerves.“I have been told by the commission agent that I can get the crop to the mandi on April 27. But the combine harvester from the neighbouring village will be available to me on April 18. My crop will have to be stored in the open for almost nine days as I have no space. I just pray the weather remains favourable and I can get the reward for my produce,” he says.Sukhpal Singh is among the 17 lakh farmers of Punjab who are busy harvesting their crop in the time of Covid. Farmers like him have never faced so much confusion. With harvesting on at a full swing, panic has gripped them as they contemplate on how and where to stock the grain till they get an e-token to transport the grain to mandis. Even understanding the nuances of getting e-tokens is beyond farmers’ comprehension.It is for the first time that every aspect of wheat harvest — from procurement and lifting to storage — is being done under a tech-driven system, introduced by the government through the Punjab State Agriculture Marketing Board. The farmers, though aware of the new technology, find themselves “mobile-technology challenged” to reap the crop and take it to mandis.Jagjit Singh Dallewal, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Dallewal, says putting in place a technology was not enough when a majority of farmers did not know how to validate the e-tokens on mobiles. “I have a standing crop on 20 acres in Dallewal village of Faridkot. The crop will be harvested now, but will be taken to the market after a week according to the date assigned to me. With labour unavailable, how will I lift the grain stored in the open and load it on the truck?” he asks.Jagjit says the government should have set up multiple weighbridges in each block and asked farmers to bring their produce there.Supporting his argument, Amrik Singh, a farmer in Ganduan village near Sunam, says every time he sees an overcast sky, his heart skips a beat.“All of my family members are involved in harvesting as we want to have as many hands as possible because of labour shortage. The other scary aspect for farmers is the management of wheat straw, which we are forbidden to reap through straw reapers till May 1. Fire incidents take place when the straw catches fire. Since there is time between harvesting and sale of wheat, farmers should be allowed to immediately reap the straw to avoid any fires,” he said.Sutantar Kumar Airi, Director, Agriculture, says all employees of the department along with the staff of the Punjab Mandi Board were continuously in touch with farmers and were offering innovative and customised solutions to any problems being faced by them.
17-04-2020||---||Patiala cop, whose hand was chopped, promoted as Sub-Inspector||Chandigarh, April 16Harjeet Singh, the ASI whose hand was chopped during an attack by Nihangs in Patiala, has been promoted to the rank of Sub-Inspector in recognition of his exemplary courage. Three other police personnel, who were on duty along with the ASI for enforcing curfew, have been awarded Director General’s Commendation Disc.They are Inspector Bikkar Singh, SHO of Patiala Sadar police station, and ASIs Raghbir Singh and Raj Singh.Making an exception from the laid down norms, DGP Dinkar Gupta has also conferred the DGP’s Commendation Disc on Yadwinder Singh, a non-uniformed official of the Mandi Board, who is posted as AR in the market committee, Patiala, recognising that he was part of the joint team of the police and the Mandi Board.
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||High Court fixes 2-day deadline for advance response to pleas||In an order that will expedite the hearing of civil cases during the Covid lockdown period, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today fixed two-day deadline for government and its agencies to file advance response to the contentions raised in the petitions.Time-saving exerciseThe order means that the pleadings complete in all respects will be placed before the Bench, when the matter finally comes up for hearing. The move will cut down the notice-of-motion stage, saving precious court time in the process.The entire exercise will be carried out before the cases are even “mentioned” before the Bench for hearing. In legal parlance, mentioning denotes request for hearing cases. In normal circumstances, mentioning indicates out-of-turn requests, which are accepted in cases involving urgency.The order means that the pleadings complete in all respects will be placed before the Bench, when the matter finally comes up for hearing. The move will cut down the notice-of-motion stage, saving precious court time in the process. The replies to the contentions raised in the petitions, under normal circumstances, are filed after the issuance of notice of motion. The entire process, at times, takes months and at times more than a year. In the order, Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha made it clear that the official respondents in the civil cases will submit their response to the issues raised in the petition within two working days. The response will be put up, along with the mentioning slip, before the Bench hearing the mentioning of the cases.“Thereafter, the cases in which the mentioning has been allowed or otherwise, will be communicated to the advocate concerned through the return email as well as on the website of the High Court, on the fourth working day. This will, however, be subject to the discretion of the Bench where it deems necessary to take up the matter on an earlier date,” reads the order issued on behalf of the Chief Justice by High Court Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry.The High Court, for the purpose, has also designated law officers from Punjab, Haryana, Union Government and Chandigarh to accept the advance notice through email. The counsel will be required to send paper books through e-mail to them before applying for mentioning of the matters. The officers to be designated for Haryana are Deepak Balyan and Deepak Sabharwal, while designated officer for Punjab are Pradeep Bajwa, Sahil Sharma, HS. Grewal and Gaurav Dhuriwala. Additional Solicitor General Satya Pal Jain has been designated for all matters concerning the Union Government, while Pankaj Jain and RS Rai have been designated for Chandigarh.Referring to the criminal matters, the order says the cases in which the mentioning is allowed will be communicated to the advocate concerned through the return email. It will also be posted on the High Court website the same day itself. After the mentioning has been allowed, the advocate or the party concerned will be required to file the petition on the e-filing portal of the High Court.
17-04-2020||Anirudh Gupta||Long queues outside banks weaken battle||Ferozepur, April 16Long queues outside banks in the area are weakening the battle against Covid. One can see elderly, widows and women from weaker sections coming in droves to banks, flouting social distancing norms.The reason behind the long queues could be the transfer of ex-gratia amount of Rs 500 into the accounts of poor women under the Jan Dhan Yojana as part of the relief package of Rs 20.39 crore.“So far, no positive case has surfaced in Ferozepur. But such gatherings can be risky,” said Chand Prakash, Election Tehsildar. Though bank officials have been taking all precautions like sanitising the hands of customers and asking them to wear masks, chances of people contracting the infection are high. “People just don’t listen. The elderly do not maintain distance, thus posing a great risk,” said a banker.Paramjit Kaur of Bareke village near the Indo-Pak border said the lockdown had rendered him jobless. “I need my pension to feed my family. If the lockdown is extended further, we will not have any source of livelihood,” said Chando of Arifke village, 20 km from here.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the administration had decided to open 44 common service centres in various villages. These would remain open from 9 am to 2 pm and people can withdraw pension and ex-gratia amount from these places. “This will check overcrowding outside banks,” he said.SSP Bhupinder Singh said he had deployed additional police force to deal with the long queues outside banks. “We are advising the people to maintain distance and abide by the curfew orders,” he added.
