17-05-2020||Patiala||Labourers shuttled back to Punjab from UP border, feel ‘don’t belong to this country’||Over 150 Uttar Pradesh bound migrant labourers held a protest on National Highway near Punjab and Haryana border on Sunday.The migrant labourers protested at the Shambhu border after they were dropped back from Haryana-UP border.In fact, labourers had reached the Haryana-UP border and about to cross into UP when Haryana authorities picked them and dropped them back to Punjab.The migrant labourers reportedly walked over 200 kilometres from Ludhiana to UP-Haryana border.Unfortunately, when the migrant labourers tried to enter Uttar Pradesh, they were stopped by Haryana Police.The labourers were huddled into three roadways buses and dropped at Haryana-Punjab border near Shambu village.Anguished over this, the labourers staged a sit-in protest at the highway for an hour.Heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed when the labourers broke down into tears and pleaded the authorities to drop them to their native places in Uttar Pradesh.In the meantime, the officials from Patiala reached the spot and pacified them.Mahesh Kumar, a migrant labourer, who walked from Ludhiana, said that they were dropped back into Punjab by Haryana Police.He said, “We walked over 200 kilometres along with our children to reach home. However, I was stopped by Haryana Police.”Another labourer, Vineeta of Lucknow, said, “We are stuck in the city and running out of money without jobs. We feel as if we don’t belong to this country. We don’t have any other option but to walk down to our homes. Sadly, they are not even letting us go to our home.  We don’t want to die on the road. Please, let us go to our home.”Manpreet Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Ghanaur, who reached the spot, said, “We are asking the migrant labourers to stay in Punjab as the government is providing food and shelter to them. Today, we provided them food and asked to return to their cities in Punjab and register themselves for the train journey.”
17-05-2020||Mohali||Ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini appears before SIT||Ex-DGP Punjab Sumedh Singh Saini on Sunday appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) in a case registered against him and other policemen in abduction and disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani in Mataur police station.Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Singh Chahal said the former DGP had arrived at 4 pm before the SIT and the questioning continued till 5.30 pm. He said the SIT had questioned him about the case, the details of which cannot be revealed.The roads leading to the office of the SSP had been sealed by the police till ex-DGP Saini appeared before the SIT.According to sources, the police had cordoned off the area after Saini had requested the police for the same as he did not wish to meet anyone else except the SIT.Pertinently ex-DGP Saini was summoned by SIT after the local court on May 11 had granted him anticipatory bail.The court had ordered Saini to join investigation within a week and also submit the passport to the police. The court had further restricted him not to come out of his house till the lockdown period in view of the coronavirus was over.Following the directions of the court, Saini had submitted his passport and gave undertaking that he was ready to join the investigations and was residing at the said address.   Earlier the Mohali police had constituted the SIT headed by Superintendent of Police Harmandep Singh Hans (Investigation) along with Deputy Superintendent of Police Bikramjit Singh Brar and Inspector Rajiv Kumar SHO Mataur police station to probe the case.Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of victim Balwant Singh, had filed a complaint against the former DGP in Mohali on May 6 and the case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy).
17-05-2020||Bathinda||Gangster Navdeep Chatha attacked inside Bathinda Jail||Two gangsters Rahul Sood and Ajay Kumar on Sunday attacked notorious gangster Navdeep Chatha in his high-security cell inside the Bathinda Central Jail.Chatha was seriously injured in the attack and was taken to civil hospital, where a doctor seeing his condition shifted him to Faridkot Medical College for treatment.Jail superintendent Manjit Singh said, “These three gangsters are lodged in high-security cells inside the Bathinda Jail. On Sunday morning, these three gangsters went back to their cells after breakfast. On reaching back, Chatha went to sleep, after which Rahul Sood and Ajay Kumar went inside his cell by breaking the window and attacked Chatha, who was sleeping.Later, after hearing the voices, CRPF and security personnel deployed outside the cell rescued Chatha and immediately took him to the jail hospital for treatment, where after first aid, he was referred to the civil hospital.Doctors who treated Chatha said it was a deadly attack as apart from fracture in two legs, his 7-8 bones in hands have also been broken.Moreover, Chatha has also received injuries on his head as well due to which he has been referred to Faridkot Medical College for the treatment.Cantt police station SHO Inspector Narinder Kumar said the injured gangster has not recorded his statement yet but police have registered a case against gangster Rahul Sood and Ajay Kumar on the complaint sent by jail superintendent.He also stated that soon police would take them on production warrant and interrogate them about the reason behind the attack.It is suspected that the reason behind the attack was old rivalry between them. It is also suspected that mobile phones have been seized from both the gangsters many times inside the jail and they had suspicion that Chatha gives the information to the security personnel about the phones inside the jail.It is pertinent to mention that these three gangsters have been lodged in Bathinda Jail for notorious crimes.
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three new COVID-19 deaths; cases near 2,000 with 18 fresh infections in Punjab||Three COVID-19 patients, including a six-year-old boy, have died in Punjab, bringing the death toll to 35, while 18 fresh infections pushed the virus count to 1,964 in the state, officials said on Sunday.A total of 109 more people were discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured novel coronavirus patients to 1,366 in Punjab, according to a medical bulletin.The state reported 18 fresh cases on Sunday, it said, adding the number of active cases stands at 563.A six-year-old coronavirus positive boy, who was also suffering from a liver disease, died on Saturday at a Ludhiana hospital, a health official said.An 84-year-old Gurdaspur man and 80-year-old resident of Batala also died of the novel coronavirus on Saturday. Both were suffering from some kidney-related problem and undergoing treatment at a Ludhiana hospital, an official said.Of the fresh COVID-19 cases, a maximum of six were reported in Amritsar, followed by five in Ludhiana, four in Faridkot and three in SBS Nagar, taking the count to 1,964 in the state, according to the bulletin.Five of the fresh cases were the people who returned from abroad, it said.Thirty-six COVID-19 patients recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals in Muktsar, 34 in Faridkot, 18 in Jalandhar, 11 in Bathinda and five each in Patiala and Rupnagar, the bulletin said.Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 307 cases, followed by 207 in Jalandhar, 154 in Tarn Taran, 144 in Ludhiana, 122 in Gurdaspur, 106 in SBS Nagar, 102 in Mohali, 100 in Patiala,  92 in Hoshiarpur, 88 in Sangrur, 65 in Muktsar, 59 in Moga, 60 in Rupnagar, 56 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 59 in Faridkot, 44 each in Fazilka and Ferozepur, 41 in Bathinda, 32 each in Mansa and Kapurthala, 29 in Pathankot, and 21 in Barnala, as per the bulletin.Punjab has seen 35 coronavirus deaths. One patient is critical and on ventilator support, the bulletin said.A total of 51,812 samples have been taken so far in the state and 47,484 of them have tested negative while reports of 2,364 are still awaited. PTI
17-05-2020||Rupnagar||Dera head murdered in Punjab’s Ropar||An 80-year-old head of a dera was found murdered at his ashram here on Sunday, police said.The dera chief, Shri Maha Yogeshwar Mahatma, had been living alone in his ‘Shri Muni Desham Ashram’ here since the COVID-triggered lockdown began in March, they said.One of his followers visited him on Sunday and found the ashram gate broken open. He also found Mahatma murdered in his room, police said.Kathgarh Station House Officer Parminder Singh said the body was found in a decomposed state, indicating that Yogeshwar Mahatma might have been killed at least a week ago.A case had been registered and investigations were underway, the police said.Local Shiv Sena leaders expressed anguish over the killing. PTI
17-05-2020||s||Punjab CM takes exception to FM’s uncalled for remarks against Sonia, Rahul||Chandigarh, May 17Taking strong exception to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s criticism of the Congress’ humanitarian efforts to help the distressed migrants, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Sunday squarely, blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre and in the states for aggravating the migrant crisis and politicising such a grave issue.The Congress, including all party-led states, were working day and night to support the migrant labourers in this hour of crisis, with his own government had already arranged 149 trains to ferry 1,78,909 migrants to their native states, said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, adding that the process of facilitating the labourers to go to their homes was still continuing in Punjab.Reacting strongly to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s uncalled-for comment that Sonia Gandhi should have asked her party chief ministers to help the migrants, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said the Congress president had been holding regular interactions with the party chief ministers on this and other critical COVID and lockdown-relates issues.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh also flayed Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comment that Rahul Gandhi should have walked with the migrants when he met them, terming it highly frivolous and totally unbecoming of a senior minister.Instead of ridiculing Rahul, who came out on the roads to extend support and compassion to the migrants, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s should have spoken to the chief minister of the BJP-led UP government to allow entry to the buses arranged by Priyanka Gandhi to transport migrants, he remarked, referring to the buses that were stranded at the Delhi-UP border on account of the UP administration’s refusal to let them enter the state.Dismissing Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s remarks as being in bad taste and clearly politically motivated, not behoving the Finance Minister of the nation, Captain Amarinder said every Congress chief minister, leader and worker was engaged in ensuring that the migrants received every possible succour in this hour of crisis when they had been left by the Central Government to fend for themselves.The entire Congress machinery was doing everything possible, on the directions of Sonia Gandhi, to help the migrants, lakhs of whom were risking their lives in trying to get home, said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.He reminded Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman that it was only after Sonia Gandhi asked the party units in the states to pay for the migrants’ train tickets that the Central Government announced its decision to finance 85 per cent of the cost, with 15 per cent to be done by the states.His own government, said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, had been taking full care of the migrants from the day of the imposition of the national lockdown in March, ensuring that they were provided food and shelter, and even wages/fiscal aid in many cases.This was the reason why the migrants did not even try to leave Punjab all these weeks, till they finally got the opportunity to meet their families – a natural development in any crisis, he added.Unlike many BJP-run states, none of the Congress chief ministers had tried to stop any migrants from coming or leaving their states, he said, adding that he had personally ensured that not one migrant labourer in Punjab went to sleep hungry.He pointed out that he had highlighted the plight of migrants as far back as March 30, 2020, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Much before the so-called relief package for the migrants, his government had been providing food packets to them at par with the ration cardholders in the state, he said.Instead of attacking those who were genuinely trying to help the migrants and the poor, the Centre should, in these devastating times, carry every leader and worker, irrespective of political affiliation, to providing the much-needed support to the people of India, said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.
17-05-2020||---||Getting Rs 47 per day, Midday meal cooks unable to make ends meet||Patiala, May 17Getting merely Rs 47 per day, thousands of the midday meal cook workers are unable to make ends meet during the lockdown.They say they are risking their lives every day by going house to house to distribute food to the kids.Midday meal cooks culminated their week-long protest, here, on Sunday.They had been holding their protest across the state to highlight their plight owing to their meagre salary. During the protest, the cooks came out of their houses and clanked the utensils to demand a hike in their monthly salaries.However, despite working for four to five hours daily, they are getting a monthly salary of just Rs 1700.Paramjit Kaur from Safdipur village, a miday meal cook, said that they had been making food for over 100 students every day, however, their own family members were really under stress.She said: “We get around Rs 47 per day and the majority of the cooks are widows, therefore, it becomes very challenging to run a household with such meagre amount, especially, during the lockdown.”Moreover, over 43,000 cooks, employed under Midday Meal scheme, don’t have any health insurance.A cook, Rani from Dalanpur village in Patiala, has been the worst-hit sans insurance. She narrated that she had been operated four times during the lockdown for her throat. She will have to stop her treatment, hence forth, because she has already run out of money, says Rani.Rekha Rani from Suniarheri village in the district said: “Since long, they have been getting meagre salary because making food for over 100 kids is not a serious work in the eyes of the authority.”Vikram Dev, member, Democratic Teachers Front, said: “As per the Minimum WWages Act, an unskilled labour gets Rs 338 per day. It is unfortunate that the government is not giving even minimum wages to those workers. We demand that the government should immediately hike their monthly salary.”
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||8 of 16 Covid positive Punjab Police personnel discharged: DGP||Even as eight of the 16 COVID-19 positive cops in the state were discharged after full recovery from hospitals on Sunday, the Punjab Police continued to scale up its protective and welfare measures for personnel on frontline duty, adding 20 district quarantine centres in the past one week.With this, the total number of such centres, notified by the Department of Health & Family Welfare, has gone up to 78, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed on Sunday, adding that of the 16 Covid positive police personnel in hospitals as on May 14, eight had been discharged today.Giving details on the quarantined police personnel, the DGP said a total of 190 cops from district police (110) and armed police (80) are currently in quarantine at the district quarantine centres set up by the department, after coming in contact with infected persons while on duty.Another 90 district police personnel and 69 armed police personnel are under home quarantine, taking the total number of cops now in quarantine to 349, from the earlier 615, of whom 266 had completed the mandatory quarantine period.To ensure strict adherence with all protocols and uncompromising care for the wellbeing of the cops at the quarantine centres, close coordination is maintained with police nodal officers of the districts and doctors, said the DGP.The welfare wing receives information from the nodal officers regarding health updates on quarantined personnel every day, while advisories issued by the Department of Health of Punjab and WHO regarding COVID-19 is circulated to all the quarantined cops.Similar care is taken with respect to those in home quarantine, and the availability of medical officers is ensured for monitoring their health for any symptoms through the police nodal officers of the districts.The DGP said an analysis of the quarantined police personnel and those tested positive revealed that 16 cops had to undergo  quarantine as they were primary contacts of police officials tested positive, while 150 cops were primary contacts of accused persons who were brought for interrogation and had thereafter tested Covid positive.Another 118 cops had to be quarantined as they were deployed on duty to bring back pilgrims from Hazur Sahib, workers from Jaisalmer (Rajasthan), escort students to Jawahar Navodaya Sadan, travel to J&K to drop stranded children and labour, and escort students from Kota (Rajasthan).In addition, 54 were quarantined in district Mansa as they were primary contacts of Covid positive cops who were performing duty in the containment zone of Buddladah, Mansa, while 11 in Ludhiana were quarantined as they came in contact with the body of a person suspected to have died of the infection.
17-05-2020||Ludhiana||Nanded pilgrims quarantined at Ludhiana Civil Hospital go on hunger strike||Pilgrims quarantined at Ludhiana’s civil hospital since they tested positive have gone on a hunger strike demanding to be sent home.Some 40 pilgrims who began returning to Punjab at the end of April after being stranded in Maharashtra for more than a month have been admitted to the civil hospital. The pilgrims were on a visit to Nanded’s Hazur Sahib when the central government called a country-wide lockdown on March 25.    Kamaljeet Kaur, a resident of Salodhi village, was among those who went on a hunger strike on Sunday morning. She was admitted to the hospital on April 30 after she tested positive. “After I tested positive I was told that I will be kept here for 14 days. It’s now 18 days. When we ask about reports of our tests, the staff give us no answers,” she said.Half of her family are at the hospital, the rest are at home after they tested negative.“Our whole life has been upended,” she said. Another patient who did not want to be named said the hospital authorities were not listening to their pleas. “We told them we would home quarantine ourselves but we want to be with our families. They just wouldn’t listen,” he said. Senior Medical Officer Geeta did not respond to our requests for comment.Incidentally, the hospital released some 25 pilgrims on Saturday after they tested negative.
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jobless in Ludhiana, migrants set off for home over 1,000 km away||Kicked out of his job in Punjab's Ludhiana, Vijay Kumar headed home to Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, often keeping to village roads to avoid police and wading through the Ghaggar river with his wife and 11-year-old daughter.After repeated efforts, he could not book any of the special Shramik trains.Kumar says he decided to return home, over 1,000 km away from Ludhiana, when his employer told him to vacate the room where he was staying.Kumar says he worked in a garment factory and was not paid for over a month.Since the Punjab Police was not allowing migrant labourers to cross the state border, Kumar says he travelled through villages.He had to wade through a stretch of the Ghaggar river near the Punjab-Haryana border to reach Ambala on Saturday morning.Like Kumar, other migrant workers have been forced to make similar journeys to reach their homes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar after rendered jobless due to the lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus spread.Another group of migrant workers and their families crossed the same river to enter Ambala district, hoping to find a way home.A youth who was part of the group said he worked in an industrial unit in Ludhiana.“There has been no work for us since the lockdown. I have exhausted all my savings and the house owner too had been putting pressure for rent for the past over a week. How long could we continue like this. So, we decided to go home,” he said.Ambala Deputy Commissioner Ambala Ashok Sharma said the administration has sent several migrant labourers from Ambala to their destinations in Bihar and UP through buses and trains.Labourers entering Haryana are kept in relief shelters till arrangements are made for their journey ahead, officials said.A week ago, the Haryana administration had stepped in, accommodating them in relief shelters.Officials said migrant workers are being sent to their villages only after they register with the district administration and their home states have given approval to receive them.Many migrants who entered Haryana had said that not all of them were able to register online. They sought help from the government, saying arrangements should be made for their journey back home.There have been similar reports recently of migrants, including women and children, of crossing the Yamuna river from the Haryana side to enter Uttar Pradesh.Yamunanagar Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar said this has not come to his notice.However, on Saturday he led a team of police and civil administration officials to check if any migrant was using the river route.“Since morning, we have been on the round. Our enforcement teams are also on job, but we did not come across any migrant crossing the Yamuna river,” he said on Saturday.In Faridabad district of Haryana, which abuts the national capital, migrant workers, were seen waiting on footpaths late in the night, with many hoping truck drivers will take them to some distance.Some claimed they had reached the highway from Delhi and Ghaziabad.A woman with a child on her lap said she was going to Jhansi with her family.Some said after the imposition of the lockdown, they were left with no work and though the government made food arrangements for them, they still wanted to go home. PTI
17-05-2020||San Francisco||Southern California Sikh Community pitches in to help thousands with meals, groceries||Southern California's United Sikh Mission has been distributing about 1,400 meals daily for the past month with help from hundreds of volunteers in the local community, a media reported.This is one of the largest operations in the region, supplying thousands of vegetarian meals not only to seniors and health-care workers at local hospitals but also through the daily drive-through, India-West news quoted a local media report as saying.In addition, it was also distributing groceries and face masks on weekends at the Jurupa Valley temple here.Gurpreet Singh, a coordinator with the United Sikh Mission, spoke to the Orange County Register of how their small operation, which started out serving about 175 meals daily outside the temple, grew with help from the local Sikh community into a significant project that has handed out 40,000 meals over the past four weeks.The nutritious food is made fresh daily at local restaurants in Fontana and Upland.Volunteers then pack the meals, comprising mostly of rice and lentils seasoned with Indian spices.The Mission is now partnering with community leaders and churches in the Inland Empire to help with meal deliveries to seniors in Jurupa Valley, Moreno Valley and Riverside and to area hospitals.Another organization pitching in to feed those in need is the Khalsa Food Pantry in Pacoima run by the Khalsa Care Foundation, said the India-West news report.The Food Pantry provides hot meals every Friday in partnership with Los Angeles City Councilwoman Monica Rodriguez's office.The pantry has started a GoFundMe page to raise donations to meet the increasing demand.Apart from food and groceries, the pantry also provides feminine hygiene products once a month, said the report.In Bakersfield, meanwhile, the Sikh Riders of America, is providing face shields for law enforcement, first-responders and frontline health-care workers. IANS
17-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Aadat Se Majboor' actor Manmeet Grewal commits suicide; neighbours refuse to help fearing coronavirus||'Aadat Se Majboor' actor Manmeet Grewal allegedly committed suicide at his Navi Mumbai residence on Friday night, according to a report by Mid-Day.  The last rites were performed on Saturday. The 32-year-old actor was buried in debt and couldn't find work due to the lockdown.The 'Kuldeepak' star was found hanging in his bedroom by his wife who tried to save him. His wife screamed for help, but no one answered. The neighbours believed Manmeet may have contracted coronavirus. In conversation with Spotboye, Manmeet's friend Manjit Singh said: “He was very normal that evening, went to his room and locked it from inside. That time his wife was in the kitchen making food. When she heard the noise of a chair, she rushed to the bedroom and held him. She screamed for help and neighbours did come hearing the noise, but no one came forward to help or get him down.”Finally, a security guard arrived and brought down the body by cutting the dupatta. He was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead. “The actor was in so much of trouble, that they had mortgaged gold ornaments. He didn’t have money to pay Rs 8,500 as rent,” an officer from the police station said in the report.Manmeet is survived by his wife and parents who stay in Punjab. The couple got married two years ago.
17-05-2020||Srinagar||Muslims perform last rites of Sikh in J&K's Ganderbal amid lockdown||Amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Muslims performed last rites of a Sikh who passed away in Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday.Ranveer Singh, a resident of Punjab, who was working as a carpenter in Wakura area of Ganderbal district of central Kashmir died a few days ago, the officials said.Singh was living in the village – about 35 kms from here – along with a few colleagues at a rented accommodation.Soon after the news of his death spread, locals informed police and made arrangements for performing his last rites, officials said.Singh was cremated in the presence of officials of the civil and police administration, Wakura Tehsildar Ghulam Mohammad Bhat told PTI."The locals showed huge support and arranged everything for the cremation of the deceased. The expenses related to the cremation were made by the locals. They also deposited some money in the account of Singh's wife," he said."It is our duty to help neighbours irrespective of their religion," Abdul Rehman, a local resident, said.He said many people from outside have been working in the area for the past several years and live there for the most part of the year."Most of them leave the valley when winter approaches, but return in a few months. They become a part of the society. We try to help them in whichever way we can when they face any difficulty. So, when we heard about Singh's death, we came forward to arrange for his last rites," Rehman added. PTI
17-05-2020|| ||Over 400 more coronavirus patients discharged, total 1,257 cured in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 16With 14 new cases of coronavirus being reported from Punjab, the total count went up to 1,946 on Saturday. Over 400 coronavirus patients were discharged from different hospitals after recovering from the disease in Punjab on Saturday, officials said.With the discharge of 444 patients, the total number of cured patients reached 1,257, as per the medical bulletin. They were discharged from various hospitals in Punjab, as per the bulletin.Five more persons tested positive for the virus in Kapurthala district taking case count to 25.Among the fresh cases, four persons had arrived from Dubai while the fifth is a resident of Phagwara city.In Nawanshahr, three-year-old Kamaljeet Singh was among the 33 others who was discharged from on Saturday.On Friday, 508 patients were discharged in the state.The state government is now following the Centre’s revised discharge guidelines, which states that people infected with coronavirus having very mild, mild and pre-symptomatic cases can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days and no test for COVID-19 required before discharge.With more number of patients recovering from COVID-19, the total active cases now stood at 657 in Punjab, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, 14 more persons contracted the infection in the state, pushing the total COVID-19 count to 1,946 in Punjab, as per the bulletin.Five fresh coronavirus cases were reported in Kapurthala, three each in Ludhiana and Faridkot, two in Jalandhar and one in Rupnagar, according to the bulletin.Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 301 coronavirus cases, followed by 207 in Jalandhar, 154 in Tarn Taran, 139 in Ludhiana, 122 in Gurdaspur, 103 in SBS Nagar, 102 in Mohali, 100 in Patiala,  92 in Hoshiarpur, 88 in Sangrur, 65 in Muktsar, 59 in Moga, 60 in Rupnagar, 56 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 55 in Faridkot, 44 each in Fazilka and Ferozepur, 41 in Bathinda, 32 in Mansa, 29 in Pathankot, 32 in Kapurthala and 21 in Barnala, as per the bulletin.Out of the total cases, 32 have died, the bulletin stated.One patient is critical and on ventilator support, it stated.A total of 50,613 samples have been taken so far in the state out of which 46,028 samples are negative and reports of 2,639 samples are still awaited. — PTI— With agency inputs
17-05-2020||---||147 patients discharged, only 1 active case left in Amritsar district now||Amritsar, May 16With the change in government policy regarding hospital admissions of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, a total of 147 positive cases admitted to the Government Medical College and Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital were discharged on Saturday. With this, the district is left with only one active patient, who was diagnosed on Saturday.Shivdular Singh Dhillon, DCAll patients were discharged after following proper procedure as per the revised guidelines. Patients have been asked to observe home quarantine for at least 10 days.The authorities have discharged 296 patients till date, while four Covid-19 patients had died during treatment. The district has reported 301 positive cases till date, of which 147 were discharged on Saturday. However, one of these patients was a resident of Fatehgarh Sahib and his name was deleted from the list of positive cases from the district.A health official said, “After the deletion of name of Fatehgarh Sahib resident, we were left with 300 positive cases. Today another positive case from Tarsikka has been identified, the count again reaches 301.” He said all asymptomatic positive patients do not require hospitalisation as per the fresh government guidelines and thus have been discharged.As per the government’s fresh guidelines, all cases very mild, mild, symptomatic, pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic can be discharged from isolation centers provided they are asymptomatic for the last three days. The officials stated that the new guidelines would decrease the workload on health machinery and they would be able to focus more on critical patients.The sources in the department stated that with repatriation of state residents from other states as well as countries expected in the coming days, a mammoth task of testing and taking care of positive cases lies ahead for the local administration.Dubai-returned 18 persons quarantined in hostelTarn Taran: Eighteen persons, including three pregnant women, who had returned from Dubai, were quarantined at Bibi Amro hostel of Sri Guru Andev Dev College, Khadoor Sahib, 25 km from here, on Friday. The college is being run under the patronage of Padma Shri Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib.They had reached the Amritsar airport on May 13 and were brought to Khadoor Sahib next day by the administration. They will spend 14 days in the hostel. “We are providing them organic food and all other items of basic necessities,” said Baba Bada Baldev Singh, a follower of the sect.One of the quarantined persons, Rasal Singh of Marhana (Tarn Taran) village, said they faced hardships when they reached the airport on May 13 at 9 pm. The administration pressurised them into staying at private hotels which was beyond their capacity. He said they had lost work in Dubai and returned without money. “Here we are very comfortable,” he said.It was worth noting that 155 devotees from Hazur Sahib and 45 persons from ‘Majnu ka tilla’ in Delhi were also quarantined at different institutes of the college in Khadoor Sahib.57 patients test -ve, sent home Tarn Taran: As many as 57 people, whose report came out to be negative, were sent back to their homes from hospitals on Saturday. SDM Rajnish Arora said of these, 29 were admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital, while the other 28 were at the local Guru Nanak Dev Super Specialty hospital. As many as 85 patients have already been discharged from hospitals with 29 patients under treatment. Civil Surgeon (CS) Dr Anoop Kumar said all patients still under treatment were healthy. He said discharged patients were advised to keep themselves in quarantine at their respective homes. The discharged patients expressed gratitude to doctors, staff and the district administration for providing them adequate facilities.
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Crack down  on liquor smuggling: CM Punjab||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday directed the police to crack down on liquor smuggling and illicit distillation of liquor to protect the cash-strapped state from incurring revenue losses.The Chief Minister has ordered immediate action against DSPs of sub-divisions and SHOs in whose areas such activity is seen taking place, and strict proceedings against any government officer/official found negligent or supporting any illegal activity in any manner relating to distillation/smuggling/distribution of liquor, etc.On the directives of the Chief Minister, DGP Dinkar Gupta has asked all CPs and SSPs in the state to identify liquor smugglers/suppliers/bootleggers district-wise and police station-wise by May 23.The officers have been asked to take legal action against all such persons, including under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management and Epidemics Act. The DGP said the Chief Minister had made it clear that due to acute economic and financial stress, the government needed to mobilise all possible revenue. — TNS
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to resume limited public transport service||Amid a decline in the daily count of new cases over the past four days, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced replacement of the strict curfew with a lockdown till May 31 in the state, while indicating resumption of limited public transport and maximum possible relaxations in non-containment zones from May 18.The containment zones would be strictly sealed while shops and small businesses in non-containment areas could start operations, he announced, adding that details of all relaxations would be announced by Monday, taking into account the new guidelines by the Centre for Lockdown 4.0. He, however, made it clear that educational institutes would remain shut.In a live Facebook interaction, the CM said the daily number of new cases in the state had come down during the past four days after the recent upsurge due to arrival of pilgrims from Nanded, students from Kota, etc. He thanked the people for their cooperation, which had enabled the state to control the Covid cases, whose doubling rate was now 44 days, as against of several other states, such as Maharashtra’s 11 days.The CM said schools could start online classes without any non-tuition fee charges and without fee hike.Offices, both private and government, may be allowed to open for the entire week during normal office hours, with staggering in office timings to avoid overcrowding, if required, as per the state government’s suggestions.The CM said the government wanted no restrictions on movement of people from 5 am to 7 pm, and suggested that restrictions may be imposed between 7 pm and 5 am.
17-05-2020||Amritsar||‘Fiscal crisis’ drives  youth to suicide||Depressed over his poor economic condition resulting from over a month-long curfew, a youth, identified as Sunil Seth of the local Katra Bhai Sant Singh area, allegedly committed suicide on Friday evening.‘Was denied help’Due to the lockdown, Sunil Seth silpped into depression. His kin allege when the owner of the shop, where he used to work, refused help, he took the extreme step.He was working as a salesman at a readymade garment showroom. His family members alleged that the owner of the store had refused to help him financially and didn’t even give him salary.They alleged that the store owner had called Sunil and asked him not to come till June 1. When he went to meet him, he gave him a small amount. He was upset over the crisis. His body was found hanging with the ceiling fan at his home last evening.The family members said Sunil had borrowed money to meet the household expenditure during the lockdown and the lenders were asking him to return their money.The police said action under criminal procedure code had been initiated on the basis of the statement of the family members. He said the body was handed over to the family after autopsy.
17-05-2020||Ludhiana||Ex-cop’s son jumps nakas, held after shootout in Ludhiana||The police chased a car after it jumped a number of nakas in the city on Thursday. The driver was arrested after a brief exchange of fire.He is depressed, says fathertaking medicines.Due to the lockdown, he was not able to visit the doctor, which deteriorated his condition.“My son doesn’t take drugs and he can never keep any illegal weapon,” he says.After a 10-km chase, Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal managed to corner the car at Ladhowal where the police had already placed a barricade on the Commissioner’s alert. The police reportedly fired at the car in which driver Sukhwinder Singh of New Kundan Puri suffered a bullet injury on his right leg. A .315 bore country-made pistol, two live cartridges and 10-gm heroin was recovered from the accused. Another person accompanying him was unhurt during the entire incident.Sukhwinder is working in an investment company and is the son of a retired policeman. Agrawal told The Tribune that in the morning, a Honda Jazz car broke a naka at Fountain Chowk. The cops at Bharat Nagar Chowk were alerted. “I was heading towards Bharat Nagar Chowk and the Honda car was behind me. I was not aware that it had broken a naka. When cops came forward to stop the car, the driver didn’t listen and tried to run over the policemen. I then sounded an alert and asked my driver to chase the car suspecting a criminal element in it,” Agrawal said.The driver also tried to hit his pilot Gypsy when gunmen were trying to corner the car, he said. The Commissioner said since he was behind the Honda car, he saw it breaking over 10 nakas. “I alerted Ladhowal SHO Balwinder Singh who first closed the toll barrier and then erected a barricade on highway. When the accused saw the huge naka at Ladhowal, he stopped the car and tried to take a U-turn by scaling the divider, but his car got stuck. He then fired at the police. The SHO retaliated due to which the driver suffered a bullet injury. The driver had started firing at the cops, but finally, he was cornered,” the Commissioner added.
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Refrain from hiking fee, Punjab pvt schools told||The Punjab Government has directed to the private schools not to increase fees for 2020-21 academic session.A letter sent to the managements/principals of all private and unaided schools of the state, Director Public Instructions (SE) Sukhjit Pal Singh said the directive had been issued in view of the lockdown.The schools have also been asked that they should five the option to the parents to pay fees on monthly or quarterly basis. The managements are further advised to sympathetically consider the cases of students whose parents’ livelihoods might have been adversely impacted due to the lockdown, for fee waiver/concession and no child may be denied access to education (online or regular) over non-payment of fee.It is also directed that the school managements should not resort to removal of any teacher or reduction in the monthly salary or total emoluments teaching/non-teaching staff. The schools shall endeavour to impart online/ distance learning so that education is not adversely impacted due to the present or future lockdowns.
17-05-2020||Jalandhar||PTU to hold online exams from July 1||IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) has announced that it will conduct online examination for its more than 1 lakh students for the ongoing semesters.The university is already working to find the best model for a successful online examination process. Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKGPTU, said a mock test would be conducted within next few days. He said they had conducted the first phase of the initiative successfully.Prof Sharma said they decided that the examination process would go online, right from paper setting to the conduct of exam. The mode will be finalised after getting the details of IT infrastructure available in institutes as well as with students at their present locations. Prof Sharma said the university examination for the final semester of all courses would start from July 1.
17-05-2020||Ferozepur||No active case in Ferozepur||Following the recovery and discharge of 39 Covid-19 patients from the isolation ward yesterday, the remaining three patients in the district too were tested negative and were allowed to go home today, making this border district once again “Covid-free”.The district had a total of 44 patients. The first patient, a constable after spending 14 days in isolation ward, was sent home after being tested negative, while one patient had died. He was a TB patient. — OC
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||High Court adjourns cases till July||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today adjourned till July the proceedings in cases previously fixed for hearing between May 18 and May 31, indicating that the summer vacation would be observed as usual.The High Court goes into a limited functioning mode in June every year as it customarily observes summer break. During the period, a Division Bench and a limited number of Single Benches function for taking up cases involving urgency.As the High Court is currently not functioning at its full potential following the Covid outbreak, the observation of vacation was within the domain of doubt, with a section of lawyers seeking break from the holidays.Although so far the High Court has not officially made its stand clear on the issue, it today issued a notice making it clear that the case fixed for hearing till May-end would be adjourned till July.The order issued on behalf of the Chief Justice by Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry says: “Keeping in view the prevailing situation due to outbreak of the novel coronavirus and after considering the prevailing situation in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh where the conditions of lockdown and the containment zone continues and with a view to ensure the safety of the Hon’ble Judges, advocates, staff and litigants; the administrative committee has resolved that all cases already fixed /listed from May 18 to May 31 shall be adjourned... and all interim orders passed in the said cases shall continue till the next date of hearing.”
17-05-2020||Jalandhar||3 booked for organising religious gathering||AAP: Prove charges against officers Chandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Aman Arora has challenged Congress ministers and MLAs to prove the allegations levelled by them against top officers for a Rs 600-crore revenue loss or apologise to them and people. In a statement, Arora said, “Congress ministers and MLAs should prove the charge against the Chief Secretary and other top officers or apologise to them and the people.” — TNS
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt’s excise revenue data misleading: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today alleged that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was lying to the people and fudging figures to show an increase in the excise revenue during the Congress government’s first year in office even though it had caused loss to the state exchequer as far as liquor tax collection was concerned in the last three years.The party also expressed concern over the manner in which Congressmen were running “illegal” distilleries and indulging in bootlegging, demanding immediate arrest of Congress legislators Madan Lal Jalalpur and Hardyal Singh Kamboj.
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||657 active cases, 200 more discharged in Punjab||With another 200 patients discharged today, the number of patients who have been cured has reached 1,257 in the state.Under the revised policy of discharging the asymptomatic patients from quarantine centres, the state government has relieved around 952 patients in last two days. Now only 657 active cases are left in the state. At least 14 fresh cases were reported on Saturday after which the state count has reached 1,946.As per the media bulletin, six patients were reported from Kapurthala, three each from Ludhiana and Faridkot, two Jalandhar and one Ropar.In Kapurthala, a 34-year-old pregnant woman, a native of Dhaliwal village, and a 29-year-old man, who has lost his job of four years with a Dubai-based company, are among those who tested positive for Covid on Saturday. Unwilling to part with her husband who is still there, the woman took the risk of flying back.The man, who had gone to Dubai mid-March, after spending a three-month leave in India, was laid off soon after he went back as the lockdown had come into place. They are among 20 Kapurthala natives, who returned to India from Dubai on Thursday. The tally in Kapurthala district has reached 32. In Jalandhar district, the cases climbed to 211 with three more testing positive. The new patients are 24 year-old man from Greater Kailash (near Maqsoodan), a 45-year-old man from Ishwar Colony and a 52-year-old woman from Bhogpur. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said most of returnees from Nanded had been discharged from the isolation centres.Claiming that the recovery rate of the state was about 64 per cent, he said now there were only 657 active cases. He said the mortality rate was 1.6 per cent that was below the national average. He said aggressive efforts were being made to trace and screen every Covid suspect.
17-05-2020||Jalandhar||Centre’s Covid package doesn’t offer much, claim farm experts||Measures proposed by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to give an impetus to the farm economy of the country have perhaps not gone down well with experts.Farmers protestFarmers in different parts of the state on Saturday held a protest against the “anti-farmer policies” of the Centre by standing on the rooftops of their houses while maintaining social distancing.As many as 10 farmer organisations in Punjab participated in the protest. While most farmers waived green flags standing on the rooftops, at some places, nukkad meetings were also organised.They are of the view that the provision of easy loan in the 1.63 lakh crore package is not really required by the farmers of Punjab, who already have an access to institutional credit mechanism and are already reeling under heavy indebtedness.Economist Sardara Singh Johl said: “I found yesterday’s speech of the minister more of a reiteration of the budget that she has already announced. She has primarily made loans easier, but this is not what the state farmers need. They have already been asking for waiver of previous loans. As many as 80 per cent farmers of Punjab are in the marginal category. They cannot fulfill the needs of their families till the time we set up small industrial unit in their vicinity for supplementing their income. Small farmers cannot even go for e-marketing of their produce. We just need to integrate some agricultural services for them such as giving input and output machinery like tractors on contract and setting up some service centres.”Retired principal, Cooperative Banks Staff Training College, Jalandhar, Nachhatar Singh, said, “There was neither any immediate relief plan announced by her nor any improvised marketing model, which the farmers were actually waiting for. The farmers of Punjab have various issues before them. They are being asked to go in for direct seeding, for which there is no study to show how it could affect their productivity. All those studies which have been done are for controlled environment and not from fields where wagaries of weather really matter.”Punjab Agricultural University Registrar Dr Rajinder Sidhu too maintains that the volume of credit for Punjab farmers should not be enhanced and needs to be carefully monitored. “All studies, including those by NABARD, have shown that the indebtedness in Punjab is the highest in the country. The farmers here are bad financial managers,” he said, adding that the relief package could in no way be related with Covid-induced crisis as it did not offer any immediate relief.He said there were some offers which if taken well could help uplift therural sector in Punjab in the longer run.
17-05-2020||Amritsar||Help too late, of no use, say migrants||Migrants have termed the Centre’s package a belated attempt to rescue them from the crisis following the two-month-long lockdown to control Covid-19 outbreak.Nagina Singh, a daily wager, said he had not got any work for the past 55 days while he has to support his family consisting of wife, son, daughter-in-law and two daughters. Singh said he sustained only on his savings in the past two months. He said during the lockdown, he received a one-time aid comprising 10-kg wheat flour, two kg of pulses and sugar each.Brij Das, a migrant labourer, said the factory owner paid him only Rs 2,500 as the salary for April, instead of Rs 7,000. He said if he gets ration from the government, then he might continue to stay here.Brij Das said a large number of migrants were compelled to return to their homes due to non-payment of salaries and non-availability of work.Sukhdev Pal, president of the local chapter of Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad, lamented that it took the Modi government 50 days to announce a package. He said the migrants were the worst-affected in the lockdown.
17-05-2020||---||1.8 lakh labourers sent home via special trains||Chandigarh, May 16The state government has facilitated the return of more than 1,80,000 migrant workers to their home states through 150 special trains.As per a government release, the state government has spent Rs 10 crore on special trains. The government has further planned to send over 200 trains in the next 10 days.Of 150, maximum trains (57) went from Ludhiana followed by 45 from Jalandhar. Other places from where trains have departed include Amritsar, Patiala, Mohali, Bathinda, Ferozepur and Sirhind. Trains from Doraha are on cards.Maximum trains are going to UP, followed by Bihar and Jharkhand. The Punjab Government is also sending trains to Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh.Assuring the state’s commitment to go the extra mile to mitigate their sufferings, an official said food, water and other essentials were also being provided to all those travelling back home for their journey.
17-05-2020||Jalandhar||Nawanshahr scribe was stabbed 14 times: Report||The post-mortem report of Nawanshahr journalist Sunpreet Singh Mangat (35) has said he suffered “14 stab wounds” and the time between the injuries and death was “a few minutes”.The report said, “In the opinion of the board, the cause of death in thiscase is due to hemorrhagic shock which is caused by injuries....”Sunpreet was found dead on the roadside on the Udhowal turn near Rahon on May 10. The incident was ruled an accident by the police, which had lodged a case under Sections 304A and 279, IPC, against unidentified persons. Sunpreet is survived by his father (62), mother (62), wife (34) and two children. — TNS
