17-03-2020||---||Amarinder hits back at Sukhbir, says ‘atrocious lies’ unleashed out of desperation||Chandigarh, March 17Ridiculing the Akali Dal chief for his “atrocious lies” that reflected his total frustration, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said Sukhbir Badal had clearly lost all sense of proportion in his desperation to get back into the political limelight.“The whole of Punjab knows what kind of a man the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief is and the people of the state have categorically rejected him and his party – a humiliation that his inflated ego cannot swallow,” said the Chief Minister, adding that Sukhbir’s latest tirade against the Congress government showed the deep sense of despair he was suffering from.With his desperate attempts to deflect public attention from the Bargari and other sacrilege cases having fallen flat, Sukhbir was clearly grappling with the harsh reality that his crimes were now catching up with him, said Amarinder, adding that the bundle of lies he had come out with reflected Badal Junior’s worst fears. Sukhbir’s senseless and unfounded accusations against the Congress in the Bargari case, in particular, showed that he knew he and his party colleagues were well and truly cornered, and would not be able to escape the arm of justice for long, he added.“Has Sukhbir forgotten that it was he and his family who were at the helm of the government when religious texts were being burnt and torn in Punjab?Has he forgotten that he was the Home Minister of the state when innocent people were fired upon in Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura?” asked the Chief Minister.Even if he wants to conveniently ignore these hard facts, the people of Punjab have neither forgotten nor forgiven him or his party for what happened under the nose of the SAD-BJP government, Amarinder said.The Chief Minister said the fact that Sukhbir had chosen to unleash his viciously false propaganda against the government just a day after the latter had come out with its checklist of successes of the past three years showed the extent of the Akali leader’s insecurity.Sukhbir knows he and his party have no political existence or standing in the state now, he said, adding that while the Akali Dal chief had always been a master of deceit, he had now hit a new low in the face of imminent action in the sacrilege cases.Taking on the SAD president over his criticism of the development and welfare programmes, the Chief Minister scorned Sukhbir for hiding behind “outrageous lies” after himself betraying and neglecting the people for 10 years. “Your government did not deliver on even 10% of its promises in 10 years, while we have completely or partially fulfilled more than 75% of our promises in just 3 years,” he quipped.Amarinder pointed out that he had personally given out figures and data to prove every claim and achievement of his government while the Akalis had failed to highlight even one major accomplishment of their decade-long rule.Captain Amarinder also lashed out at Sukhbir’s obsession to see him (the Chief Minister) sitting in office every day, Amarinder quipped that the people of Punjab were neither interested nor did they care about where the government was operating from. All they were interested in was seeing work happening on the ground, which was more than visible to them, and which was the reason they continued to repose confidence in the Congress, election after election in Punjab, he added.
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Cong hand in sacrilege acts in Punjab: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday alleged that the Congress was “squarely responsible for the desecration of religious texts” in Punjab.He alleged that the incidents of the desecration of religious texts were a “part of a deep-rooted conspiracy to defame” the then SAD-BJP government ahead of the 2017 assembly elections.“Subsequent events have provided categorical and convincing evidence of the Congress hand in the conspiracy. The version of the key witness Surjit Singh (in the 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing incident at Faridkot) unnerved the Congress government as they knew that this would lead the trail to their house,” Badal alleged.“That is why they brazenly and shamelessly tried to destroy the evidence by putting pressure on the key witnesses to change his version, leading to his death under psychological stress,” he said.The Akalis in the past had accused a minister and a Congress MLA of mounting pressure on Surjit Singh for not deposing as a witness in this case to save some accused.Surjit had died of cardiac arrest on January 13.Attacking the Congress government a day after it highlighted its achievements on the completion of three years in office, the SAD dubbed the party rule as the period of betrayal marked by the neglect of people.The opposition party also dared Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to name “a single development project or welfare scheme” started by his government while accusing him of “cheating” farmers on debt waiver.The SAD chief also accused the CM of betraying the youth in the name of jobs, cellphones and Rs 2,500 unemployment allowance every month.The Congress government on Monday had held a press conference to highlight its achievements to mark the completion of three years of its rule in the state.“This is a period when the people of Punjab got nothing except betrayal, indifference and neglect at the hands of a power-drunk and arrogant ruler who humiliated Punjabis, treating even meeting people below his royal dignity,” Badal alleged.Attacking the chief minister for being “inaccessible”, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal asked how many times Amarinder Singh toured the state and enquired about people’s problems.He said in the past three years of the Congress rule, the state remained “headless” with “no government visible” either in the civil secretariat or in villages, towns and cities.“How many times in these three years have you been to your office or to your state or how many times have you been even to the sacred Harmandar Sahib and Durgiana Temple to seek blessings of the almighty,” Badal asked the chief minister.He said Chief Minister Amarnder Singh “lied shamelessly” in the name of the great ‘Guru Sahiban’, taking a “false oath” in the name of Guru Gobind Singh, “only to cheat farmers” on debt waiver and jobs to suicide-hit families.Stating that the Congress government has “not fulfilled” any promise made to people, Badal said, “Forget implementing the Rs 90,000-crore farm loan waiver, the government has not even released one rupee to any farmer from the Rs 3,000 crore allocated for loan waiver in the last year’s budget.” Badal alleged that during the Congress rule, all promises remained “unfulfilled” due to which people suffered.He said power tariffs had gone up by 17 times in three years from around Rs 5.50 per unit under their rule to Rs 8.5 per unit.He said power tariffs for the industry too had gone up to Rs 9 per unit, crippling the industrial sector. — PTI
17-03-2020||New Delhi||DSGMC bans entry of foreigners to gurdwaras, who have not completed 15 days' stay in India||He said only foreigners who have been in India for more than 15 days would be allowed to visit gurdwaras as a matter of precaution and preventive measures. Sirsa said, “Langars served by Sikh organisations at different places on the gurdwara premises will not be allowed henceforth. All devotees have been requested to take langar prasad from main langar halls only.” TNS
17-03-2020||With the twin aims of creating a conducive and self-learning environment besides enhancing the students’ scientific and arithmetic perspective||Making learning great fun; the Punjab way||These parks are equipped with various elements from the curriculum, a graphic board, a geo-board, symmetry patterns, puzzles, games, among different features coupled with key elements printed on the walls, numerical in English and Punjabi, days, colours, fruits, vegetables, other than the models of cells, heart, and different body parts, which has generated great interest among students. Besides this, various models installed in the parks, have been made of fibre, plastic, iron, and cement, besides utilizing the excess material available with the school.It has also ensured that accurate information provided through these parks should be in English or Punjabi languages in right terminology, besides simple and interesting way, and completely based on curriculum. Maximum effort should be made to include the 3-D Models, working models, and daily routine in these models, display boards, etc which should be accessible to the students.Educational Park of DhilwanNabha (Barnala) is unique itself as information on various topics on walls automatically attracts the students. Developed in Government Senior Secondary School, Dhilwan and named after Dr.SarvapalliRadhakrishnan, this park has different formulas such as those of circle, hemisphere, triangle, rectangle etc., knowledge about science, Punjabi grammar and basic knowledge on other subject is in abundance in the park.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
17-03-2020||The Punjab Government has shown its commitment towards providing cheaper and quality health services and is taking all necessary steps to ensure that the people of the state are not deprived of quality health services. The Budget for health services and family welfare has been increased by 15 per cent. The state government is of the opinion that it is easier to construct hospital and medical services but the bigger challenge is to develop qualified doctors and allied staff. Thus||Punjab set to be a major medical education hub||The Government Medical College at Mohali shall start functioning from the year 2020-21 for which the Society has been registered. Director Principal has also been appointed. The charge of the hospital and other related health centres has been given to Medical Education and Research Department. A budget of Rs. 10 crores has been earmarked for Guru Nanak Dev Government Medical College. Central Government has also released the first installment of Rs. 81 lakhs out of its share. A total of Rs.  325 crores are estimated to be spent on this college. Tertiary Cancer Centre for cancer patients is under construction at Fazilka and is proposed for Hoshiarpur. A budget of Rs. 4 crores has been released during 2019-20 while for the 2020-21 period, Rs. 33 crores have been budgeted.Further, the land at Ferozpur to set up a satellite centre of PGI has been transferred to the concerned authorities. For the State Cancer Institute, Amritsar, Rs. 38.33 croreshave been budgeted of which Rs. 21.46 crores have been budgeted for major works and Rs. 17.2 crores have been budgeted for machinery.Its been since long that a Medical College has been established in the State. With the efforts of this government, a medical college is being started in S.A.S. Nagar (Mohali) which will start its operations from the academic session 2020-21. Rs. 157 croreshave been budgeted for its construction and establishment costs. Besides this, for establishment of medical colleges at Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, distribution of initial sum of Rs. 10 crores is proposed. For which expected approvals have already been received. The academic sessions in these two colleges are proposed from session 2021-22 and 2022-23 respectively. Rs. 897 crores have been reserved in the 2020-21 budget which is 49 percent more than the 2019-20 (revised estimate).(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
17-03-2020||As computer labs and other ICT equipments becoming inseparable part of teaching–learning process||Solar energized government schools saving electricity||The process of installation of solar panel system in 880 government high and senior secondary schools has already been started, which would be expected to complete by 30th June, 2020.Punjab Government is planning that excess solar energy generated by the schools can be transferred back to grid via net metering, thereby enabling the school to earn revenue and plough back such revenue for effective schooling. Installing solar panel enables schools to run on eco-friendly energy while at the same time reduces electricity bills of schools. Solar energy is stable and comparatively economical as compared to other sources of energy.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
17-03-2020||With an aim to provide free education to all 23.50 lakh students studying in government schools||Another milestone; free education to all students up to class 10+2||Admission fee of Rs.10, tuition fee of Rs.10 and computer fee Rs.30 are being charged from boy students of class 9 and 10 at present, while admission fee of Rs.10, tuition fee of Rs.10 and computer fee Rs.35 are charged from boy students of class 11 and 12, which would now be totally free for all the students up to class 12th. Total 1,11,635 students are studying in 9th class, 89,647 students are studying in 10th class, 91,846 are studying in 11th class and 69,988 are studying in 12th class across the state.Now, all these students across the state would get benefit.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
17-03-2020||---||School education gets a fillip as Punjab government pushes for reforms||Punjab is vigorously pushing bold reforms to improve the standard of teaching–learning in government schools since three years. Efforts of Education Department under the visionary guidance of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh have borne fruits, while for the first time in 2019, the government schools have outperformed private ones in Board exams as the pass percentage of government schools in matriculation exams was 88.21 per cent as compared to 79.51 per cent of private schools. And, the pass percentage of government schools for class 10+2 exams was 88.14, which was again better than 83.69 per cent achieved by private schools.Under the “Catch them Young” mission, Punjab has become the first state in the country to start pre-primary classes, which commenced in 12,921 government schools. 2.50 lakh children have already been admitted in pre-primary classes of various government schools. Sports based teaching methodology is being adopted in pre-primary 1 and pre-primary 2 classes in order to generate interest of the children and make them feel comfortable while they step into their stage of learning. The pre-primary schools have been provided with colourful benches and other material to make learning a fun.Similarly, “Mission Cent Percent” is gaining popularity as teachers of Primary, Middle, High and Senior Secondary schools have been motivated, who further taking additional classes in morning and evening to provide additional information to the students of class 5th, 8th, 10th and 12th who are preparing for their board exams, so that the target of achieving 100 per cent results can be achieved.In order to raise the quality and standard of education and school infrastructure and provide students with the up-to-date knowledge, approximately 5,992 government primary, middle, high and secondary schools have been transformed into smart schools, where green boards have installed and colourful & high quality benches for students and teaching staff have been provided with Rs.23.14 crore. 21,000 smart class rooms from class 1st to 10th are now being used for teaching various subjects through e-content.With a thought of providing quality education to the students, emphasis is being laid on teaching the subjects by way of English Medium in government schools. English as a medium of instruction has introduced in 2,940 primary and 3,173 middle, high & senior secondary schools. At present, more than 1.46 lakh students in 6,113 government schools have adopted English as a Medium of Instruction.To increase the vocabulary of students, Ajj da Shabad (Today's word) activity has been started in the morning assemblies. Each day, one important but forgotten word of Punjabi language is spoken and taught by the school heads. Information is also shared about a root word of English language and its meaning is taught as per the level of different classes. Besides, online quizzes are prepared for the words studied under Ajj da Shabad and the same is sent to students and teachers for revision. Every day, special slide under 'Padho Punjab-Padhao Punjab' programme is sent by the department for the morning assembly of class 1st to 5th students. These slides contain Thought for the Day, Questions of General Knowledge, English Words, Subject related activities etc. thus helping in overall knowledge of the students. Summer Camps organised in 6,234 government schools by volunteering teachers.In order to bring transparency in teacher transfers, the government has also taken the initiative of making the process of transfer online. Approximately 7,500 transfers have been made under new process so far. Hardworking teachers are being felicitated on a regular basis in order to motivate them to perform even better. Around 50,000 hardworking teachers have been felicitated for giving 100 per cent results and making smart schools. Department has transferred 405 teachers from exempted category such as cancer patients, PwDs, widows, divorcees, war widows/widows of martyrs, where death of the spouse makes it necessary for the serving employees etc.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
17-03-2020||---||Punjab medical colleges not to be closed, students to act as workforce to fight coronavirus||Patiala, March 17Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Vice Chancellor Raj Bahadur on Tuesday said medical students would be used as workforce to fight coronavirus.He said medical colleges would not be closed in view of the coronavirus threat.He was here to inaugurate a physiotherapy centre at Government Medical College, Patiala.
17-03-2020||---||Quarantined persons seek release||Amritsar, March 16Demanding their release, patients, who have been kept under observation at the quarantine centre, and family members said basic amenities and food provided to them were of poor quality.The patients demanded that they should be quarantined at their homes as they were feeling harassed. Lucky, who had returned from Spain a month ago, said, “My brother had arrived from Spain in an early morning flight on Monday. He is scheduled to get married on April 2. Now if he is not released from the quarantine centre till March 31, how will manage he manage things in the remaining two days?” Lucky said the hygiene level at the quarantine centre was not up to the mark.An elderly woman, who had been at the quarantine center, said, “Our families are worried and visit us daily to enquire our well being.” She complained that there were not proper arrangements at the center for the quarantined facility.Surprisingly, quarantined persons managed to come to the entrance gate of the centre and interact with the media and their relatives. Sensing the alarming situation, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Sandeep Rishi and other officials rushed to the place. The ADC managed to pacify the quarantined persons and their families. Rishi said the administration was following the guidelines issued by the government in view of the coronavirus threat.He said the quarantined persons, doctors and others who were attending them were being served same quality of food. Later, the Health Department circulated pictures of washrooms and other facilities at the centre to counter the allegation of poor hygienic. At present, the centre houses 13 persons, who had arrived from various countries.
17-03-2020||---||TET-pass  teachers to gherao Capt’s residence in Patiala||Sangrur, March 16Members of the TET-pass BEd Unemployed Teachers’ Union staged a protest here on Monday and announced that they would protest outside the residence of Punjab Chief Minister in Patiala on March 20. “We had high hopes from Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, but even he has refused to accept our long-pending demand of our recruitment in the Education Department. We will protest in front of the residence of CM in Patiala on March 20,” said Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, president of the union.
17-03-2020||Abohar||20 kg poppy husk seized||The police intercepted a truck on National Highway-52 on Sunday evening and sized 20 kg of poppy husk and 3 kg of opium from the accused, driver Gurnam Singh (50) of Dhuri in Sangrur and his assistant Jassa Singh (29) of Raikot in Ludhiana. Dudhwakhara police station incharge Ram Bilas Bishnoi said poppy husk was hidden under the bags of vegetable. Preliminary investigation reportedly indicated that the duo had arranged the contraband from Neemach in Madhya Pradesh to further supply it in Sangrur. ocCustom officials seize goldPhagwara: The Customs Department seized gold weighing 580 gm from a passenger at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar, on Sunday. Dipak Kumar Gupta, Customs Commissioner, said the passenger, who was coming from Dubai, had deboarded the Air India flight on March 15 at 4 pm. "The passenger's conduct raised our suspicion and therefore our team intercepted him. It was found that he was carrying gold in the form of foils. We recovered the gold foils worth Rs24 lakh," Gupta said. TNSSix stolen bikes seized, one heldAbohar: The police on Monday claimed to have recovered six stolen motorcycles, and arrested one person in this connection. The police nabbed Narinder Kumar, however, his accomplice Pawan Kumar was not found at his residence. A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 379, 411 and 34 of the IPC. OC541 beneficiaries get Rs 906-lakh loanPhagwara: The Punjab Scheduled Castes Land Development and Finance Corporation has given Rs906.39 lakh as loan to 541 eligible beneficiaries. Chairman of the corporation Mohan Lal Sood said they had set a target of advancing Rs550 lakh loans to mark 550th Gurpurb. oc
17-03-2020||Vishav Bharti||Govt not to supply drug to pvt centres||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 16The strong lobby of private de-addiction centres and drug manufacturers in Punjab seems to have sabotaged the state government’s initiative of putting a cap on the price of de-addiction medicine buprenorphine-naloxone.The government has now decided not to provide the medicine to the private centres, which had to stick to the controlled rate of Rs 7.5 per tablet. The government had promoted the initiative as the first ever “big relief for the victims of drug abuse” by displaying the Chief Minister’s photographs in newspaper announcements last year. In an order issued on Thursday by the Managing Director of Punjab Health Systems Corporation, the government has said the private de-addiction centres “should be at liberty to take medicines from any company (except the company whose products have been debarred) of their choice.”The order has also directed all civil surgeons that the stock of buprenorphine-naloxone available with them should be deposited back with the respective drug ware.Last year, over 100 private de-addiction centres sold over 8 crore tablets (roughly priced at Rs 30 per tablet) in just 11 months. The government centres, incidentally, distribute the same medicine free of cost.Meanwhile, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has said he is not aware of the matter. The Managing Director of Punjab Health Systems Corporation, Manvesh Singh Sidhu, however, said that since the government had given the freedom to centres to procure the medicine from wherever they wanted, the corporation won’t supply them the medicine.Present order: The private de-addiction centres in the state should be at liberty to take de-addiction medicine buprenorphine-naloxone from any company of their choicePrevious order: In November last year, the govt said centres mustn’t sell 2 mg tablet for more than Rs 7.50. The centres were supplied by the govt at Rs 6 per tablet. The private centres were earlier selling it for Rs 30-40, almost 10 times higher than the actual price
17-03-2020||---||Kartarpur corridor shut temporarily: CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 16Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday declared that the closure of Kartarpur corridor was only a temporary measure in view of the coronavirus outbreak.The Chief Minister reiterated his commitment to ensuring that the corridor, which marked the fulfilment of the long-pending demand of the people to visit the historic gurdwara, would always remain open “except during crisis”.The decision to close the corridor was a temporary precautionary measure aimed at checking the spread of the deadly disease, he pointed out, adding that there was no question of keeping it shut permanently.The corridor had fulfilled the dream of millions of devotees to have “khulle darshan deedar” of the historic shrine and the decision would not be allowed to be reversed at any cost, said Capt Amarinder.Medical students worriedPatiala: Despite government orders to shut down educational institutions till March 31, all medical, dental and nursing colleges in the state continue to run.However, amid the Covid scare, medical students are reluctant and scared to attend the classes. Students of government medical colleges, Patiala, said they wanted to go home and prevent themselves from getting infected with the deadly disease.An MBBS student of a government medical college, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The likelihood of virus attacking the students is high given that the premises of the college is the hotspot for the virus.”Taking to The Tribune, DK Tiwari, principal secretary, Medical Education, said the situation was grim and a situation of emergency could arise in the state, therefore, they needed manpower to manage the crisis in a better way.He said the students would come in handy as support staff and they would not be exposed to infected patients.Zoos closed till March 31Chandigarh: In the wake of coronavirus, CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered the closure of all zoos in the state till March 31. An official spokesperson said the decision was taken as a preventive measure. Pertinently, there is one big zoo at Chhatbir, near Chandigarh, besides four small ones at Patiala, Ludhiana, Bathinda and Neelon, near Samrala. Nearly 4,000 visitors on an average visit these zoos daily, whereas the number swells to 10,000 over weekends and more during holidays in summer and winter seasons. TNSKeep sanitisers in gurdwaras: SGPCAmritsar: Amid Covid scare, the SGPC has directed all gurdwara managements to adopt precautionary measures as prescribed by the Health Department. On the lines of Golden Temple, hand sanitisers will be used in all gurdwaras for devotees. The managements have been told to maintain hygiene in the community kitchen. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said. “Akhand path for sarbat da bhalla will start on Tuesday and the bhog ceremony will be on Thursday.” A special ward has been set up at Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College and Hospital. TNS
17-03-2020||Our Correspondent
||Water supply to Abohar service stations snapped over violations||Abohar, March 16 The Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (PWSSB) on Sunday snapped water supply connections to nine automobile service stations here for violating norms.  The Bar Association had approached a court here over frequent accumulation of rain and sewage water in the sub-divisional complex. Last year, the Abohar Sub-Divisional Magistrate had served a notice to the PWSSB for its failure in clearing the complex of dirty water even after two weeks of rain. Accumulation of water had started to affect the functioning in the office of Superintendent of Police, of sewa kendra and judicial courts. During inquiry it reportedly came to surface that as many as nine automobile service stations were reportedly functioning on the Seetogunno Road outside the sub-divisional complex, generating silt during its operations. Consequently, the silt generated would enter into the sewage pipes, leading to blockage. Last month, the PWSSB had served notices to the owners of erring service stations, asking them to arrange pits for the disposal of silt. However, so far the owners had not responded to the notice, sources said.  The PWSSB had deployed machines last month to unclog the pipes on the Seetogunno Road, but it proved to be futile as there was no end to the accumulation of silt. Executive Engineer (XEN) Jugal Kishore today took note of the situation and directed the staff concerned to take action. The police escorted a team of junior engineers Shavinder Singh, Gagan Bajaj and Rahul Sehgal to the nine service stations and snapped their water supply connections. The XEN said other automobile service stations in the town had also been told to arrange pits, adding that action would be taken against all erring establishments. If silt continued to clog the sewage pipes, then the next step would be to seal the erring service stations, he said. Some automobile service stations existed in residential areas as well, as the owners had reportedly got no objection certificates issued from the authorities concerned.
17-03-2020||Faridkot||Lokpal summons former school board chairman||In a case of alleged financial irregularities in the functioning of a private school at Kotkapura where teachers were exploited by preparing fake salary slips, the Lok Pal has issued a show-cause notice to a former chairman of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB). In its inquiry report, an IG in the Lokpal office had accused the then chairman Dalbir Singh Dhillon for favouring the school. The inquiry report has not only exposed the modus-operandi of the school but also accused PSEB authorities of connivance. After Vipan Kaushal, a Kotkapura resident, complained to the Lokpal about the alleged irregularities at Amarpati Memorial High School, the inquiry found that the school submitted three fake salary statements to the PSEB and the Employment Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). While the teachers were getting meagre salaries between Rs 700 and Rs 1,500, the statements submitted by the school showed that the teachers were paid Rs 4,550-5,480 per month.In the statements to the EPFO, the school showed salaries at just Rs 350-500 per month. The Director, Education Department (Secondary), had asked the Secretary, PSEB, to cancel the recognition of the school, but the then chairman took no action, alleged Kaushal. In this case, the EPF enforcement officer directed the school to pay Rs 5.16 lakh as PF dues for the last nine years.  Dhillon said the school’s affiliation was withdrawn after some delay since the academic session was on. “I will appear before the Lokpal on April 29 to oppose the inquiry report,” he said. — TNS
17-03-2020||Archit Watts
||Tattered Muktsar-Malout road threat to commuters||Tribune News Service Muktsar, March 16 Ride on the Muktsar-Malout national highway is no less that a nightmare. Though repair work was carried out in the past, the road again developed potholes.  PWD (B&R) officials said the condition of the road was such that the authorities might have to spend huge sums on its repair.   With the financial year coming to an end, getting the budget approved won’t be easy. A number of mishaps have taken place on the road, still the authorities have not prepared an estimate to widen and repair the road. Some social organisations of Muktsar and Malout even held protests, demanding immediate repair of the busy road. Memorandums too have been submitted to the Deputy Commissioner and Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti, who is Malout MLA, but to no avail. Motorists say commute is risky, especially at night.   “When we change the lane to avoid potholes, drivers of vehicles coming from the rear or the opposite direction get confused, which often results in mishaps. Without any further delay, the authorities should start the work. It will help save precious lives,” said a truck driver. Rakesh Kumar, a commuter, said, “I frequently take the route to go to Kotkapura. The 30-km road between Muktsar and Malout takes about an hour, while the stretch of 30 km between Muktsar and Kotkapura takes less than 30 minutes.”   Manpritam Singh, SDO, PWD (B&R) Central Works, said, “I along with the executive engineer today took the Muktsar-Malout NH-354 to see its condition. We have prepared an estimate of Rs 2.25 crore for the repair work. However, the financial year is about to end and the funds can’t be released now. The road actually needs widening and strengthening. We recently carried out some patchwork on one side of the road, but that too did not last.” Meanwhile, some residents said Muktsar and Malout come under the Ferozepur constituency, which was represented by SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and he should take up the matter with the ministry.
17-03-2020||Moga||Cops freeze property of 5 drug smugglers||In a major crackdown, the Moga police on Monday froze assets of five drug peddlers of Badhni Kalan area in Moga.  The peddlers, identified as Pardeep Kumar, a resident of Badhni Kalan village; Sadhu Singh, a resident of Lopo village; Boora Singh, a resident of Daudhar Sharki village; Dalip Singh, a resident of Buttar Kalan; and Pritam Kaur, a resident of Lopo village, were convicted by the sessions’ court under various sections of the NDPS Act.  After the police received clearance from the Central Government’s Revenue Department, it froze all movable and immovable assets of the smugglers immediately, said Jangjit Singh, Moga DSP (detective). The DSP (D) put up a notice on the front gate of the property of the accused, warning people not to purchase it. As per the orders, the accused couldn’t sell their property to anybody, otherwise, they could face legal action.  If the accused appeal in a higher court and get acquittal against their conviction, then they can file a claim to regain their ownership rights over their property.  — TNS
17-03-2020||Sameer Singh
||Bathinda bridge submerges as drainage channel overflows||Tribune News service Bathinda, March 16 A rainwater drainage channel in the district’s Chak Ruldu Singhwala village has overflowed its banks after a recent spell of rain, submerging a bridge over it.  Villagers fear if the bridge, situated near the Punjab-Haryana border, remains submerged for a longer period of time, its foundation will be weakened and it may come apart. The drainage channel is known as Losada drain that begins from Barnala district. Rainwater from hundreds of villages in Malwa districts flows through the channel before it enters Haryana and then Rajasthan.  Villagers cite two reasons for the overflowing drain. First, the Haryana Government levelled the drain at its end about 10 years ago, blocking the flow of water. Second, the drain is not cleaned regularly. “The drainage department does not clean and repair the drain regularly. As a result, its condition deteriorated over the years,” Chak Ruldu Singhwala village sarpanch Baldeep Singh told The Tribune.  Chak Ruldu Singhwala village sarpanch Baldeep Singh told The Tribune, “Drain water has entered our village and neighbouring village Pathrala. We have already intimated officials, but no action has been taken till now. The government must come up with a plan to resolve the problem.” Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM) Amarinder Singh Tiwana simply expressed administration’s inability to resolve the matter. “Canal water can be blocked, but it’s impossible to block water in the drainage channel. Besides, the administration cannot do much as Haryana has blocked the drain. If the panchayat can come up with a solution, the administration is ready to provide funds for it. But villagers should not worry as banks of the channel are in good condition,” he added.
17-03-2020||Saurabh Malik||24 years on, HC junks plea for border fence removal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 16For 24 years, a petition seeking removal of barbed wire fencing along the Indo-Pakistan border area in Punjab remained pending before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. When it finally came up for hearing this month, no one appeared on behalf of the petitioners, leading to its dismissal.The delay in the matter may sound exceptional, but is not extraordinary. National Judicial Data Grid figures reveal that the High Court, as of now, has 5,59,615 cases and 29 appointments of judges pending. It is suspected that many petitioners are no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases are suddenly listed, the counsels are often at a loss in the absence of complete records or instructions.Even though the High Court has been making efforts to bring down the pendency, the number of old cases has been piling up progressively; and with the shortage of judges, the piles are unlikely to shrink easily. The High Court, as of now, has 56 judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. The situation is expected to worsen in the coming months with four judges scheduled to retire.The matter was brought under the judicial scanner with the filing of a petition by Sampuran Singh and other petitioners against the Union of India and other respondents. The petitioners, as an alternative, were seeking directions to acquire their agricultural land falling in the area of barbed wire and the line of actual control. The petitioners had added that they had the right to enjoy their properties effectively, being citizens of India. But the same was not possible in the present circumstances.When the petition eventually came up for hearing before Justice Lisa Gill, the Bench observed the matter was directed to be heard along with another petition of 1996, which was dismissed in August 2011. The petition, along with yet another matter, was decided by a common order, but the present petition was somehow not listed along with it. Justice Gill observed the prayers were similar in both petitions. In the third petition, the petitioner was aggrieved due to requirement of identity cards in the border area.“None had appeared on behalf of the petitioners on the last date of hearing. Today again, there is no representation on their behalf. It appears that the petitioners are not interested in pursuing the matter any longer and no useful purpose will be served by continuing the proceedings in the present petition. It is, accordingly, dismissed... In case of any subsisting grievance, needless to say, the petitioners are at liberty to move an appropriate application within two months,” Justice Gill concluded.PETITIONERS LIST REASONS
17-03-2020||---||FIR against Cong man quashed||Chandigarh, March 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court has quashed an FIR against senior Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Bhullar in a case of coincidence.The court was told that both Bhullar and his sibling were born on the same date and month but different years, leading to allegations of birth certificate’s forgery.Allowing the petition, Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill observed both certificates with June 24, 1975, and June 24, 1978, as the date of birth were found to have been issued against proper and genuine entries. “There being no allegations that the certificates were ante-dated, no mala fide intention can be presumed on the petitioner’s part,” Justice Gill added.Bhullar was seeking the quashing of the FIR dated May 27, 2012, registered for cheating, forgery and other offences under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 at the Valtoha police station in Tarn Taran district. The complainant had alleged that the petitioner’s date of birth certificate, PAN card and passport reflecting the date as June 24, 1978, had been forged for contesting the Youth Congress president election in 2011, as the age limit was capped at 35. It was added that an arms licence could have been issued to the petitioner on December 12, 1996, only if he was 21. It was alleged that it might have been issued on the basis of the certificate showing the date as June 24, 1975.The petitioner’s counsel submitted Bhullar’s matriculation certificate with date recorded as June 24, 1978. The same date was recorded in Class XII certificates, along with Bachelor of Laws degree and his passport.Referring to the other certificate, the counsel submitted it, too, was genuine and issued with regard to his brother, who died within three months of his birth. “It was a sheer coincidence that the date and month in the certificate are the same as in the certificate indicating the date of birth as June 24, 1978,” the counsel added.Justice Gill asserted that the continuation of present proceedings would be “nothing but a clear abuse of process of law”.“I find merit in the contention of the petitioner’s counsel as to how his parents in 1979 while getting his date of birth entered as June 24, 1978, would presume that one day in 2011 he would be contesting the elections by using a wrong date of birth,” Justice Gill said.The Bench also took note of the fact that the records relating to the arms licence stood destroyed. In its absence, it could certainly not be said that the licence was issued by using certificate reflecting the petitioner’s date as June 24,1975
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Four IAS, 8 PCS officers transferred||A Venu Prasad is back as the Principal Secretary, Power, after the Punjab Government issued transfer orders of four IAS and eight PCS officers here today.  He has been entrusted with the charge of Power Department at a time when the government is about to roll out the power tariff concession for 49 lakh domestic power consumers. Additional Chief Secretary Ravneet Kaur, who was heading the department and had earlier replaced Prasad, now retains the charge of Additional Chief Secretary, Forests and Wildlife Department.  Other than this, 2005-batch IAS officer Jaskaran Singh has been posted as the Managing Director, Punjab Roadways Transport Corporation, and as the Special Secretary, Jails. Mohali DC Girish Dayalan has got an additional charge of Chief Administrator, GMADA. PCS officers have also been transferred, with ADC Mansa Rajdeep Singh Brar and ADC, Bathinda, Sukhpreet Singh Sidhu have swapped places. Additional Chief Administrator, Jalandhar, Development Authority Brajinder Singh gets additional charge of the Secretary, Regional Transport Authority.  Five other PCS officers have also been issued fresh transfer orders. — TNS
17-03-2020||---||Covid: HC working restricted, lower courts also hit||Chandigarh, March 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court today went into “restricted functioning” mode in view of the Covid threat, with its administrative committee of judges deciding to curtail the hearing of cases to urgent matters only. The court made it clear all ordinary and regular list cases would be adjourned.The functioning of lower courts across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh would also be affected with the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana unanimously resolving to request the advocates to abstain from work in all the courts and quasi judicial tribunals till March 31. The advocates may appear only in urgent matters such as bail, anticipatory bail and stay, the council said. The decisions were taken during a meeting attended by chairman Karanjit Singh, both Punjab and Haryana Advocates-General Atul Nanda and Baldev Raj Mahajan, besides other members.Former chairperson Vijender Singh Ahlawat said elections to the Bar associations, too, had been postponed from April 3 to April 17.The HC made it clear the litigants were not required to be present for hearing of cases unless their presence was specifically ordered.It also made it clear that bail and related matters would be adjourned for short dates, preferably for two to three weeks. All anticipatory bail petitions, habeas corpus pleas and protection matters would be listed as per the prevalent filing system. In case of urgency, the matter would be listed only by mentioning it before the Bench.The entry to the HC premises will remain restricted to gate number 1 and 2.More suspected casesThree more suspected cases of Covid — two in Gurdaspur and one in Amritsar — were reported on Monday. Two Batala-based men were admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Gurdaspur. One of the patients works in Axis Bank on the Batala-Jalandhar road. He was posted in the NRI wing of the bank. The other patient returned from Saudi Arabia. In Amritsar, one more suspected patient of Covid was admitted to the isolation ward of Government Medical College. He returned from Spain on Monday morning. Officials said his samples had been taken. tns
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Patwari held taking bribe||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Monday arrested a patwari wjile taking a bribe of Rs27,500. A VBspokesperson said Rampal Singh, a patwari posted at Sunam in Sangrur, was nabbed by a team of VB for accepting a bribe of Rs27,500 from Jaswinder Kaur of Sangrur’s Jakhepal village. The complainant told the VB that the patwari was demanding Rs35,000 for demarcating an agricultural land. He said he had already given Rs7,500 to the accused. After verifying the information, the team of VB laid a trap.  A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the accused at VB police station, Patiala. — TNS
17-03-2020||Arun Sharma
||Illegal mining poses threat to power towers||Tribune News Service Anandpur Sahib, March 16 As illegal mining continues unabated in the district, the infrastructure has suffered a serious damage. Electricity towers here are an example of that. Sand around two 220-KV electricity towers on the Sutlej riverbed has been dug up, weakening the foundation. The towers on the 78-km Ganguwal-Jamalpur power supply line are on the verge of collapse as sand and gravel have been dug up to a depth of 20 ft. If the poles are felled, power supply to Ludhiana could be affected, the Punjab State Power Supply Corporation Limited (PSPCL) said. Executive Engineer (XEN) Ajay Pal Singh said he learnt about the matter recently. When he visited the spot, he found that several stone crushers had come up in the area. A notice was issued to the management of one of the stone crushers, who denied his involvement in digging up sand around the towers, he added. This is not for the first time that the mining mafia has damaged power supply lines. A couple of years ago, the Powercom authorities had laid a 66-KV line from Anandpur Sahib to Kiratpur Sahib and laid the foundation of three towers, which were to come up in the Sutlej riverbed near Sangatpur village.  As soon as the foundation was laid, the mining mafia dug up sand around it. The foundation was washed away during the monsoon and the authorities abandoned the work of laying a new power line. The XEN said, “As of now, the priority is to save two towers from falling down. The Civil Department is on the job to strengthen the foundation of the towers.”
17-03-2020||---||Cops seize 1.6 lakh more pills, arrest 1||Barnala, March 16Taking investigations further into the drug racket busted last week with the seizure of 40 lakh tablets, the police seized Rs35.6 lakh drug money last night and arrested one more accused with 1.6 lakh more habit-forming pills.Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel said the kingpin, Taib Qureshi of Uttar Pradesh, was supplying drugs to many states. “On Sunday, a police team arrested Rajinder Kumar from Malerkotla and seized 1.6 lakh tablets from his possession and Rs35.6 lakh drug money. He was running a medicine shop and was selling intoxicating tablets in bulk,” said SSP Goel.To date, the Barnala police have arrested eight persons, including Qureshi from Mathura with 40 lakh tablets, Rupesh Kumar 3,440, Prem Kumar and Hardeep Singh 3,000 and Rs60,000, Mohan Lal 2,000, Balwinder Singh and Naresh Kumar 6,700 and Rs5 lakh.“It is a national-level racket as the accused had been supplying pills to other states also. Our special teams have been working round the clock to arrest the remaining members of the gang,” said the SSP.Police sources confirmed that the role of some officers of the Health Department was under the scanner for their alleged failure in taking timely action against the sale of drugs in their respective areas.Kingpin from Uttar Pradesh
17-03-2020||
||Farmers storm DC office with stray cattle||Sangrur, March 16 Farmers of Changal village stormed the office of Sangrur Deputy Commissioner with 30 stray cattle today. They brought the animals in five tractor-trailers and were adamant to release them there. “Despite paying taxes and the Punjab Government making tall claims that it has opened many gaushalas, stray animals  are damaging our crops. We have met all senior officials, but no one is taking our problem seriously. We have come here to release these animals so that officials get to know what we go through,” said Major Singh, a farmer from Changal village.    “Apart from ruining  our crops, these animal have been the reason for fatal accidents. Many residents of our area have suffered serious injuries. Still the authorities are not taking any steps,” said Jatinder Singh, another resident.“Recently, three persons of our village were attacked by stray cattle after they tried to stop them from entering their field,” said Kultar Singh, another resident.  Sangrur SHO Gurbhajan Singh said the animals were shifted to a gaushala in Jhaneri.
17-03-2020||
||To counter Navjot Sidhu, fake channels come up on YouTube||Amritsar, March 16  Within hours of the launch of “Jittega Punjab” channel on YouTube by Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, several fake channels with the identical name were created on social media. To counter them, YouTube is in the process of sending copyright breach notices to fake channels.  Sidhu’s personal assistant Gaurav Vasudeva said anti-Punjab forces had been trying to mislead people with fake “Jittega Punjab” IDs on YouTube. Any illegal use of content from the original channel will tantamount to copyright breach followed by the legal procedure, he said. “The creation of fake channels proves one thing. Sidhu’s opponents are apprehensive of his direct connect with people. They want to scuttle his move, while some want to misuse the ‘Jittega Punjab’ ID for their personal and monetary gains,” he said.  Sidhu launched the channel on March 14, attracting 13,300 subscribers till now. The viewership of his first video has crossed 45,000. Within 24 hours, fake channel with the same name emerged on YouTube. The search for “Jittega Punjab” throws up 40 links prefixed “official” and “real”, creating confusion about Sidhu’s channel.  Almost every fake channel runs Sidhu’s latest video, but scant subscribers and viewership give them away. A majority of the fake channels were launched on March 14. But some already existed; their operators simply renamed their channels to gain viewership by cashing in on Sidhu’s publicity.  The name of the original channel is written in Gurmukhi, followed by the name in English.  “Navjot Singh Sidhu insisted on the name in Gurmukhi. The channel’s logo is inspired by state bird Northern Goshawk,” Gaurav said.
17-03-2020||
||Rs6L for boxer for Olympic berth||Chandigarh, March 16 State Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday announced to honour boxer Simranjit Kaur with a cash reward of Rs5 lakh for being the first woman boxer from the state to have qualified for Olympics. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal too felicitated Simranjit and presented her Rs 1 lakh. An official spokesperson said Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, along with Simranjit Kaur and her family members, met Captain Amarinder Singh here this morning. Congratulating Simrajit Kaur on her feat, the Chief Minister said she had really made the state and every Punjabi proud, and wished her best of luck for Tokyo Olympics-2020. He assured that the state government would extend all possible support and cooperation to her in the future as well.  Sodhi said the Sports Department would provide a suitable government job to her as per her qualification and ability.  Kaur started her career from Chakar village in Ludhiana, her native place. She won a bronze in Junior Women Championship in 2013, a bronze in Senior World Championship in 2018 and a silver in Asian Boxing Championship in 2019.  Meanwhile, Sukhbir felicitated Simranjit and said her grit in taking up boxing would encourage other girls to take up this sport. He also congratulated the boxer’s family for supporting Simranjit’s passion. He said he was confident that Simranjit would do well at the Tokyo Olympics and bring laurels to the state.
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Jakhar: PPAs have hit finances||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar today said the people of Punjab had high hopes from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh regarding probe into sacrilege cases and the controversial power purchase agreements (PPAs). Speaking at the function to mark the three years of Congress government, the PPCC chief said the common man would be happy if power tariff was brought down by Rs 2 per unit and action was taken against three private thermal plants that were bleeding the state’s economy. “I am sure the CM is working on it,” said Jakhar. Appreciating the CM for bringing the state out of economic crisis, he said it was still a long way to go for the government. “It would have been easy to put people behind bars in Bargari and drug cases but due process is being followed by the government,” hesaid.  — TNS
17-03-2020||---||5,500 govt schools now smart: Singla||Chandigarh, March 16Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla today claimed that “improvement in the quality of education in government schools has led to a substantial increase in enrolments. In many cases, students have shifted from schools affiliated with the CBSE or the ICSE to the PSEB, he said.This was possible as their parents got convinced about better learning experience in government schools all over the state, the minister said.Addressing a press conference called by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to highlight government’s achievements in the past three years, Singla said, “While people talk about smart schools in Delhi as a big achievement, it is worth pointing out that Delhi has about 350 smart schools out of the total 900. Punjab, on the other hand, has been successful in converting at least 5,500 of the total 19,500 as smart schools in the last about two years. These schools also got help from panchayats, NRIs, former students and NGOs.”
17-03-2020||
||For non-compoundable violations, one-time settlement policy soon||Chandigarh, March 16 The Punjab Local Bodies Department will soon come out with a one-time settlement policy (OTS) for non-compoundable violations.  At a function, held to celebrate three years of Congress’ rule in the state today,  Brahm Mohindra, Local Bodies Minister, said after soliciting public opinion, the department would come out with a user-friendly OTS scheme.  Flagging other important achievements of the Local Bodies Department, he said the government had done away with one of the CLU charges, the most disturbing hurdle for investors to set up their own units.  The minister said now the CLU charges outside the municipal limits had been removed.   He termed the one-time settlement (OTS) policy for those having illegal colonies within the municipal limits as an achievement as there were approximately 22,000 such colonies in the state that had mushroomed since 1995. “The Punjab Management and Transfer of Municipal Properties Act, 2020 aimed at providing a legal framework for the management and disposal of the municipal and trust properties. Likewise, the Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act, 2020 aimed at allowing slum-dwellers to get land allotted in their name.”  Putting all speculations to rest, the minister today made it clear that the election to 127 ULBs, the term of which is nearing completion, would be conducted. Out of the total 167 ULBs, the term of 127 ULBs is ending soon.  He said on the directions of the Chief Minister, the process of wardbandi in the ULBs to give 50 per cent reservation to women was on and as soon as this process was complete, the elections would be held.
17-03-2020||
||‘Govt’s report card old wine in new bottle’||Chandigarh, March 16 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has termed the achievements listed by the state government on the completion of its three-year term as a bundle of lies. The party said it was a mere ploy to divert the people’s attention from its colossal failures. In a statement issued from the party headquarters here on Monday, Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had painted a “rosy” picture in the report card, accusing them of lying yet again to hide their massive failures.  He said the government’s claim that it had fulfilled all promises made in the election manifesto, except 103, which would be fulfilled in the next two years, was a design to earn some brownie points. It was unfortunate on the part of Chief Minister and Finance Minister for maintaining a stoic silence over the financial health of the government, adding that it (the government) had been borrowing anything between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 crore from the Union Government year after year to run the already cash-strapped state government, taking it to the lowest ebb in terms of financial status.
17-03-2020||---||Revenue growing despite slump: FM||Chandigarh, March 16On the completion of three years of the Congress government, Punjab is poised to usher in overall development and prosperity in every sphere. The “inheritance of debt” has successfully been turned around and the economy is once again looking up, claimed Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, while addressing mediapersons here today.He said Punjab would soon emerge as a frontrunner in the country with the sustained fiscal and economic consolidation in a holistic manner. Manpreet claimed that Punjab had revived its economy as the ill-conceived policies coupled with fiscal mismanagement by the previous SAD-BJP government had led the state to severe financial crisis. He decried previous regime for conversion of debt worth Rs 31,000 crore into term loan, thereby jeopardising the entire state finances.The minister pointed out that Punjab had never been defaulted on double overdraft during the last two years.
17-03-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Revision may up commercial rates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 16The state government has proposed to give relief to almost 49 lakh domestic power consumers without putting the burden on Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).The proposal is to reduce tariff for domestic consumers by about Re 1 per unit with effect from April 1, say sources in the Power Department. With the government facing criticism for doling out subsidies to various categories of consumers, it is now proposed to reduce tariff for domestic consumers by cross-subsidising the commercial consumers.While the CM refused to divulge details, he said the matter would be decided by the Punjab State Power Regulatory Authority, when it announces the tariff for 2020-21 later this month.The sources said the government was proposing to waive some part of the 20 per cent electricity duty for domestic consumers and also cross-subsidise the commercial consumers by reducing the tariff burden on domestic consumers. As a result, commercial consumers may have to pay slightly higher tariff.It may be noted that of 97 lakh power consumers in the state, 70 lakh are domestic. Of these, 21 lakh from SC and BC category, minorities and BPL get 200 units of power for free. Sources say almost 45 lakh of these consumers will get major relief, while the remaining would get minor benefit. However, the 11 lakh commercial consumers will have to bear the brunt of cross-subsidy.“Each year, the government collects electricity duty of Rs 4,000 crore. It is a major source of income, and keeping in mind the financial prudence, especially when Rs 12,000 crore goes as power subsidy to different categories of consumers, it has been decided to go in for cross-subsidisation of tariff rather than giving more free or subsidised power to a particular section,” said an official.
17-03-2020||---||Will cut power tariff, fill 1 lakh vacancies: CM||Chandigarh, March 16The Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government, on completing three years in office on Monday, rolled out a slew of measures with an eye on the 2022 Assembly elections.Coming out with a roadmap for the next two years with focus on key poll promises, the Chief Minister announced opening of one lakh government jobs against vacant posts and rationalising power tariff for domestic consumers.To address complaints of illegal mining, Capt Amarinder, while addressing the media along with his Cabinet colleagues, said a proposal to ensure steady supply of sand at the pithead would be announced in the next two to three weeks. He claimed that revenue generation through auction of sand mines had seen significant improvement, with Rs 120 crore accruing this year, while sand prices remained low.At the same time, he announced to address the concerns of party leaders and MLAs over sacrilege and police firing cases, saying he would go to the bottom of the mater to ensure punishment for the guilty. He also promised to completely eliminate the transport and mining mafia.On poll promises, the CM claimed that a total of 225 of the 424 items in the 2017 Congress manifesto had been implemented. “At least 96 are partially implemented and the remaining 103 will be implemented in the next two years,” he said.Refusing to share details of the proposed tariff reduction for domestic consumers, the Chief Minister said the plan would be shared only after the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Authority’s approval. The reduction would be around 15 to 20 per cent effective April 1, it is learnt.Meanwhile, in view of the Covid scarce, the state government scaled down its high-profile celebrations to mark three years of Capt Amarinder Singh’s government.A senior functionary said the government cancelled its plan of organising a rally in Patiala to make announcements. “We have scaled down the celebrations because of Covid, much to the anguish of party leaders,” Capt Amarinder said told the media here on Monday. At the press conference, journalists and others were screened and asked to sanitise their hands. However, media conclaves to mark three years of the government are being held as scheduled.At Monday’s events, the attendance was thin. State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, Punjab affairs in charge Asha Kumari, four out of eight Congress Lok Sabha members — Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewrai, Jasbir Singh Dimpa and GS Aujla — and only legislators Amrik Dhillon, Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring were present.Key announcements
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Still young to fight Assembly poll: Capt||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday made it clear that he would contest the 2022 Assembly elections. “I’m still quite young,” he said in a lighter vein while speaking at a press meet to mark the completion of three years of his government.On the role and status of Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said the former minister was a part of the team and “we will consider his wishes”. To a question on Sidhu taking up Punjab issues with the party high command and not the state leadership, the Chief Minister said he was “free to discuss any issue with anyone in the party. On “Jittega Punjab”, he observed: “Anyone can run a channel.” Dismissing the power subsidy being given by AAP in Delhi as mere drama, Capt Amarinder Singh said it was wrong to draw parallels between Punjab and Delhi as the latter had “no farmers or the police to take care of.”He announced one lakh jobs to Punjab youth over the next two years through “a transparent and merit-based system.” The CM said 225 of 424 items in the Congress poll manifesto had been implemented. — TNS
