17-06-2020||Patiala||11 staff members test positive for COVID-19 at Government Rajindra Hospital||Government Rajindra Hospital it seems is becoming a hotspot for coronavirus because 11 staff members — including a junior resident — tested positive on Wednesday evening.The 11 staff members included five staff nurses, four ward attendants, a doctor, and a security guard, said Patiala health department.Notably, two nurses at Rajindra Hospital had already tested positive for coronavirus.All the staff members who got infected with the virus were from the emergency ward. Moreover, Rajindra Hospital has already shifted the patients of the emergency ward to another ward and the sanitisation of the emergency ward is on.The patients at the emergency ward will also be tested for the virus to stem further spread of the virus at the hospital.   A patient was from Sangrur with respiratory problem was admitted to the emergency ward. However, the patient was not isolated despite showing flu like illness. The patient later tested positive for coronavirus.Dr Paras Pandove, Medical Superintendent, Rajindra Hospital, said that steps were being taken to stave off the spread of the virus at the hospital further.He said, “We are tracing the contacts of the staff members — who tested positive — to stop the spread. Patients at the emergency ward have already been shifted to another ward.”Meanwhile, it has been learned that disregard of social distancing was the main reason of spread among the staff. The sources informed that nurses, who tested positive, were reportedly, even, sharing the meal with each other during the break.The health department informed that it was a serious concern as the spread of the virus now looms large at the hospital.Notably, Rajindra Hospital is the first tertiary health institution where such as a large number of staff has been infected.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said all the staff members have been shifted to the isolation ward of the hospital.He informed that they have given recommendations to the hospital authorities.“Ward has been closed for 48 hours while all the patients in the ward will be tested for the coronavirus,” said Sumeet.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab coronavirus cases continue to spike; state reports 126 new infections, 6 deaths||Punjab reported 126 new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday---the third consecutive three-figure rise in the state’s COVID-19 cases.Punjab’s COVID-19 count now stands at 3,497, according to the state’s latest COVID health bulletin.Six new deaths pushed the death toll to 78, the bulletin showed.Four deaths were reported in Amritsar. Ferozepur and Sangrur, according to the state government's medical bulletin.Three districts---Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar---accounted for 69 per cent of Wednesday’s cases.A significant proportion Wednesday’s cases---70---were contacts of diagnosed cases. Seventeen were cases categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness) and an equal number had travel history.Ludhiana reported 40 new coronavirus cases---the highest of any district on Wednesday. Thirty-four were contacts of already diagnosed cases. Three were categorised as ILI and three others were new cases with no contact history.In Amritsar, 12 were ILI cases and five were contacts of previously diagnosed patients.Of Jalandhar’s 31, 21 were contacts of diagnosed cases, eight were people who just returned from abroad, and two were new cases with no contact history.Jalandhar’s coronavirus cases now stands over 400.Ferozepur (6), Pathankot (6), SAS Nagar (5), Bathinda (4) Mansa (3), Fatehgarh Sahib (3), Moga (3),  Sangrur (2),Patiala (1), Kapurthala (1), Tarn Taran (1), Fazilka (1), Faridkot (1) and Hoshiarpur (1) made up the rest of Punjab’s numbers.A policeman tested positive in Tarn Taran.Sangrur reported nine new cases later in the evening, but these have yet to be added to the official tally .Of SAS Nagar’s five cases, one had recently returned from Gurugram. Three others were contacts of diagnosed cases and one was categorised as ILI.Of Pathankot's six, two had recently returned from Delhi, two others were contacts of already diagnosed cases and the last two were new cases.In Ferozepur, five of six were contacts of diagnosed cases and the last was an ILI case.Kapurthala's lone case recently came back from Tamil Nadu.Fazilka's lone case recently came back from Delhi. All of Bathinda's patients were new cases with no contact history and no travel history.  Mansa's three cases were people who returned from Delhi recently.Of Moga's three cases, one had recently returned from Delhi and two were categorised as ANC. Hoshiarpur and Faridkot  both had new cases.   One of Fatehgarh Sahib's three cases was a contact of a diagnosed case, one was ANC and the last was a new case.Besides this, there were 17 cases whose source of infection was outside Punjab. These cases have not been added to the state tally.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (659), Ludhiana (449), Jalandhar (409), SAS Nagar (184), Patiala (179), Gurdaspur (171), Tarn Taran (170), Hoshiarpur (145),  SBS Nagar (121), Sangrur (164), Pathankot (157), Faridkot (89), Ropar (82), Fatehgarh Sahib (81), Muktsar (73), Moga (74), Bathinda (61), Fazilka (54), Ferozepur (58),  Kapurthala (49), Mansa (37), and Barnala (31).   The state's death toll stands thus: Amritsar (25), Ludhiana (11), Jalandhar (10), Hoshiarpur (5), Pathankot (5), Sangrur (4), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Patiala (2), Tarn Taran (1), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (2), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1)Amritsar still leads the tally of both infections and deaths---the district has 25 deaths from 659 infections.Three districts--Amirtsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar---account for 40 per cent of the state’s cases.Punjab has been seeing a steady rise in coronavirus cases in June---35 per cent of the state’s COVID-19 cases have been recorded in this month alone.The state has reported 778 new coronavirus cases since June 10.As things stand today, the state has 881 active cases cases---more than thrice the number of cases it had at the end of May.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder extends condolences to families of 4 Punjab martyrs of Galwan Valley clash||Extending his heartfelt condolences to the families of the four Punjab martyrs of the Galwan Valley clash, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced ex-gratia compensation, along with a government job to a next of kin of the deceased.The chief minister expressed grief and shock at the violent clash in Galwan Valley of Ladakh, in which these four men lost their lives.Read more: Family was planning wedding of Sangrur martyr Gurbinder SinghPatiala village mourns after Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh killed on LAC in LadakhPall of gloom descends on Mansa village after death of sepoy Gurtej Singh in LadakhThe loss suffered by the families was immeasurable and could not be compensated with material things, but the compensation and the jobs would help alleviate some of their sufferings, said Capt Amarinder, paying his tributes to the four men who lost their lives in the violent clash near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China.The chief minister said Cabinet ministers would represent the state government at the martyrs’ funerals, which will be held with full Army honours in their native villages.He directed the respective district administrations to make all arrangements, befitting the occasion, for receiving the bodies of the fallen soldiers.While one family member each would be given a government job in all the four cases, the families of Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Santnam Singh will be given Rs 12 lakh compensation  each in line with the government policy, on account of their married status.Mandeep hailed from village Seel of Rajpura tehsil in district Patiala, and Satnam Singh belonged to village Bhoj Raj, tehsil Gurdaspur, an official spokesperson said.The families of the two unmarried martyrs, Sepoy Gurtej Singh of village Bire Wala Dogra, tehsil Budhladha, district Mansa, and Sepoy Gurbinder Singh, Tholowan district Sangrur, will be give Rs 10 lakh each as compensation (Rs 5 lakh as ex-gratia and Rs 5 lakh in lieu of land). Sepoy Gurbinder Singh belonged to 3 Punjab regiment.
17-06-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Pall of gloom descends on Mansa village after death of sepoy Gurtej Singh in Ladakh||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 17A pall of gloom descended on Birewala Dogra village in Budladha tehsil of Mansa district after the news of death of sepoy in Indian Army Gurtej Singh (23) reached.Singh was killed in a clash with Chinese Army at Ladakh on Monday night. Gurtej is survived by his father Virsa Singh, mother and two elder brothers. Friends and relatives rushed to Singh’s house and consoled the bereaved family.Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargav visited the family members. The body is expected to reach here on Thursday. It is learnt Gurtej’s elder brother got married 20 days back and in his last phone call with his family members, he had said he will come soon to meet his sister-in-law. But that was no to be.
17-06-2020||Patiala||Patiala village mourns after Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh killed on LAC in Ladakh||Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh who was killed on the LAC in the Galwan Valley clash in Ladakh was the sole breadwinner of his family comprising of his mother, wife and two children.The family, including his mother Shakuntla, wife Gurdeep Kaur, and two children Mehakpreet (17) and Jobanpreet (12) and an aunt, were inconsolable hearing the news of his demise.Read more: Family was planning wedding of Sangrur martyr Gurbinder Singh21-year-old jawan from Himachal killed in Indo-China clash at LAC, village grieves his lossHis three elder sisters are married in Ambala and Bahadurgarh of Patiala.A pall of gloom descended on the village after they got the news of Mandeep Singh’s death.He had left his village after a nearly month long holiday only two weeks ago. Administration officials said his body is expected to reach Patiala tomorrow.
17-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Family was planning wedding of Sangrur martyr Gurbinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 17The family of Sepoy Gurbinder Singh (22), who attained martyrdom on the Indo-China border in Galwan Valley, were planning his marriage as he had been engaged during his last vacation. Since the news of his death reached his native village Tolawal, locals have been thronging the house.“We got a call in the morning that Gurbinder has been martyred and his body is likely to reach on Wednesday night or Thursday. People are pouring in. My father and I are finding it tough to keep the news from my mother, who loved her youngest son the most,” Gurpreet Singh, elder brother of Gurbinder, said.Read more: Patiala village mourns after Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh killed on LAC in Ladakh21-year-old jawan from Himachal killed in Indo-China clash at LAC, village grieves his lossHe said Gurbinder was 12th pass and had joined the Army in 2018.“We had a chat with him around 20 days back and he had informed us that he would not be able to talk to us for some days because there was no mobile connectivity in lower part of the valley. We were planning his marriage as he had been engaged to a girl around eight months back,” said Gurpreet.Balvir Singh Bham, block samiti member from Sunam, along with other prominent persons, was also present.   Labh Singh, father of the deceased, was inconsolable when someone asked him about when the body would arrive.  “Gurbinder has made the supreme sacrifice and our nation is proud of him. His family is the responsibility of our government. We would provide all help to the family,” said Daman Thind Bajwa, Congress Sunam halqa incharge.Sunam Sub-Divisional Magistrate Manjit Kaur said the body would reach the village on Thursday. “We have got information from authorities that the body would reach Tolawal on Thursday,” said Kaur.
17-06-2020||Balwant Garg||Covid crisis: MCC again extends joining date for MD/MS students||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 17Keeping in view the lockdown situations in various states, the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) of the Director General Health Services (DGHS) on Wednesday again extended the Physical Reporting for candidates who were allotted seats in MD/MS courses in Round 1 and Round 2 of counseling for admission. The joining time has been extended from June 22 to June 30.On June 13, the MCC had directed all candidates to report physically before June 22 or their seat allotment was to be deemed cancelled.After receiving a lot of representations from medical colleges as well as candidates regarding problems being faced in commuting to the allotted colleges, the MCC has taken a sympathetic view in this regard. The MCC has decided that the candidates who have been upgraded in Round 1, the earlier college from back end college of Round 2, need not go physically to earlier round college. The check box of relieving will be deactivated for colleges.The MCC orders read that the candidates who participated in Round 1 of seat allotment can resign their seat in an online mode by informing the college through email. The colleges have to report the surrender on intra MCC portal and generate seat surrender receipt mailed to the candidate system for reversion to states in case of all India quota and allotment in mop up round in case of deemed and central universities.MCI relaxes rules for MD/MS examsIn view of COVID-19 pandemic, the Medical Council of India (MCI) has allowed some relaxation in conducting of post graduation examinations for board specialty courses including MD/MS and post graduate diploma courses.MCI decision came after most of the medical colleges had expressed their difficulty in adhering to the existing regulations to test the candidates by giving a minimum of one lone or two short cases. Since, the objective of the practical exam is to ascertain skills relevant to the specialty but as an alternative method, the MCI has asked the colleges to include simulations in lieu of clinical cases.Earlier, the MCI had received the representations from medical universities across the country, wherein the universities had expressed their difficulties in getting external examiners for conduct of exams due to restriction in travel. The representations had sought relaxation in the existing norms for the conduction of the exams regarding the appointment of external examiners.The MCI had conveyed the universities if two external examiners from outside state were not available due to the pandemic, these external examiners to be selected from different universities in the state and both of these examiners have to be physically present at the venue of the examinations. In case it is not possible, one of the two external examiners to be selected from a different university, who would be physically present at the venue of the examinations and the second external examiner from another different university outside the state would participate through video-conferencing.
17-06-2020||Vibha Sharma||Heat wave in Punjab and Rajsathan in next two to three days: IMD||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 17The IMD has predicted heatwave to severe heatwave conditions over West Rajasthan and heat-wave conditions over East Rajasthan and Punjab over the next two to three days.Meanwhile, “isolated to fairly widespread” rainfall with a thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds are also expected over the Western Himalayan Region and plains of Northwest India between June 19 and June 21, according to the weather office.Widespread rains are also very likely along the West Coast with isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Coastal Karnataka, Konkan and Goa, Northeast, East and adjoining Central India during the next five days.The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Lat.23°N/Long.60°E, Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur, Bahraich and Lat.28°N/Long.81.5°E. pic.twitter.com/VpahHD6Fhm  Boosted by two low-pressure systems, one over southeast Arabian which later turned into ‘severe cyclone’ Nisarga and another system over the Bay of Bengal, the Northern Limit of Monsoon is passing through Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich.It is expected to reach Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab and parts of Jammu and Kashmir by around June 25-26 with an error margin of three days, according to private forecaster Skymet.
17-06-2020||---||Accused of fabricating evidence sent to five-day police remand||Faridkot, June 17Sohail Singh Brar, the prime accused in the case of fabricating bullet marks on a police escort vehicle in the Behbal Kalan police firing case of October 2015, was produced before the Judicial Magistrate First Class, (JMIC) Faridkot, on Wednesday.The court has allowed five-day police remand to the accused after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab police averred that questioning of Sohail Singh Brar was necessary to dig out the names of all conspirators in the case of fabricating evidence in the Behbal Kalan firing case.Son of a late Akali leader, Sohail had allegedly helped the police in creating fake bullets marks on pilot gypsy of former SSP Moga and prime accused, Charanjit Singh Sharma, so that the police could create an alibi for self-defence.In the Behbal Kalan police firing incident, in which two persons were killed, the police are mainly relying on the plea that it had opened fire in their right to private defence.The right to defence is a source for protesting oneself if one is in harm’s way.Using a private .12 bore gun, these bullets marks were made by SP-rank officer at the house of Sohail Singh Brar in Faridkot on October 14, 2015.Even Sohail had made a statement to this effect before the judicial court in Faridkot on February 22, 2019.The SIT had not arrested Sohail Brar over the past year as it was alleged that the SIT was under political pressure to give a clean chit to Sohail Brar for him turning into a prosecution witness.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amid pandemic, over 2 lakh students enrol in Punjab govt schools||In a major shift, government schools in Punjab have witnessed more than 2.10 lakh new admissions this year. A majority of these students have come from private schools.There is no denying the fact that one of the reasons for this shift is the closure of many private schools. However, also visible is the impact of initiatives introduced under the ‘Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab’ campaign for the past three years. The biggest change, this year, has been that a large number of teachers have also shifted their wards to government schools all over the state. In fact, Deputy DEO, Bathinda, Kapil Sharma has also shifted his son to a government school from a private one.Mohali schools see big improvementThe total number of students in government schools in 2019-2020 was 23.52 lakh while it has grown to 25.62 lakh in the current session.The total enrolment in pre-primary classes has increased from 2.25 lakh to 2.95 lakh; from 3.91 lakh to 4.13 lakh in Classes IX and X; and from 3.12 lakh to 3.69 lakh in Classes XI and XII.The biggest increase of 69 per cent has been witnessed in the pre-primary classes of Mohali district. The strength has increased from 8,816 to 14,906.In another instance, Manjit Kumar shifted his daughter Labia Mehra from KV Public School, Kayam village, to Government Senior Secondary School, Musapur. He said, “The biggest reason I changed the school of my daughter is the transformation that government schools have witnessed during the past two years. Improved classroom teaching and a spick-and-span campus have got at least nine more parents from our village shifting their children from private schools to government ones.”The total number of students in government schools in 2019-2020 was 23.52 lakh while it has grown to 25.62 lakh in the current session. The total enrolment in pre-primary classes has increased from 2.25 lakh to 2.95 lakh; from 3.91 lakh to 4.13 in Classes IX and X; and from 3.12 lakh to 3.69 lakh in Classes XI and XII. The biggest increase of 69 per cent has been witnessed in the pre-primary classes of Mohali district. The strength has increased from 8,816 to 14,906.Talking to The Tribune, Secretary, Education, Krishan Kumar, said, “Latest information suggests that the numbers are still growing in government schools. One of the biggest reasons is our team adapting to challenges posed by Covid.”In order to facilitate the student movement to government schools, students are not required to get ‘school leaving certificates’. A senior official said, “Students can just walk in and enrol on the department portal. The school leaving certificates can be submitted later.”At the same time, teachers are complaining that they are being forced by their departments to increase the enrolment. Teachers in Sangrur said they had only verbal orders and nothing in writing.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Adopt Punjab model to combat Covid: PM to states||Appreciating Punjab’s Covid micro-containment and house-to-house surveillance strategy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked all other states to adopt the model which was helping Punjab successfully control the spread of the pandemic to a significant extent.While Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was describing the state’s model, the PM intervened and suggested that all states should follow the same approach to effectively counter the outbreak, said a spokesperson.‘State prepared’On the state’s preparedness to tackle the pandemic, the Chief Minister said 5,000 isolation beds were ready in the government’s level 2 & 3 facilities, in addition to 10,000-15,000 beds in level 1 Covid care centres for mild patients.The PM was conducting a videoconference with CMs of Punjab and other states, as part of his scheduled two-day interactions to review the situation.During the meeting, Capt Amarinder suggested to the PM to set up a group, including a few chief ministers, to discuss and formulate a coordinated Centre-state response to the effect of the pandemic on the economy and governments across the country.Capt Amarinder recalled that when, in early April, he had said Covid could go on till September, he was called an alarmist by some people. However, with experts now warning that the pandemic could continue even beyond September, it was important to learn to co-exist with it and cope with it, he stressed, underlining the need for the Central and state governments to work in close coordination.Calling for urgent steps to mitigate Punjab’s financial stress, the CM said a detailed memorandum had already been sent to the Centre, listing out the impact of Covid and also seeking fiscal and non-fiscal assistance.Even as he thanked the Prime Minister and Finance Minister for the release of GST payment of around Rs 2,800 crore in early June, Capt Amarinder said he had sought the release of the state’s pending share of taxes to tide over the fiscal crisis. The crisis in Punjab was likely to be acute with around Rs 25,000-30,000 crore shortfall in revenue collection on various counts, he said.Even though Punjab’s contribution to the all-India cases was less than 1 per cent (at 3,140 cases) at present, with a mortality rate of 2.1 per cent and recovery rate of 75 per cent, the curve was rising as a result of the in-bound travellers and the easing of restrictions and more mixing of people, the Chief Minister said.On the state’s preparedness to tackle further spread of the pandemic, he informed the meeting that 5,000 isolation beds were ready in the government’s level 2 & 3 facilities, in addition to 10,000-15,000 beds in level-1 Covid care centres for mild patients.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Give strong  response to China: Capt Amarinder Singh||Expressing anger over a violent clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday called for a strong response from the Central Government to the repeated violations on the Indian territory by the Chinese.“It is time now for India to stand up to these repeated incursions that are a blatant violation of our territorial rights and put a stop to such attacks on our territorial integrity,” said the Chief Minister, asserting that every sign of weakness on the part of India made the Chinese reaction more belligerent.While it was important to defuse the tension at the border, and India was not in favour of war, Capt Amarinder said the country could not afford to show weakness at this time and needed to take a strong stand to deter the Chinese from any further intrusions and attacks on its territories and men. Even after brutally beating the commanding officer and two soldiers to death, Beijing was feigning innocence, and trying to put the blame on India, accusing it of provoking the conflict through ‘unilateral actions’, the Chief Minister said. — TNS
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy growers feel the pinch of diesel price rise in Punjab||The rising diesel prices have state paddy growers on the tenterhooks. With diesel being used in large quantities — for aerating and field levelling for paddy transplantation — farmers in the state are feeling the pinch.Withdraw hike: SADSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday asked the Punjab CM to withdraw the steep increase in VAT on petrol and diesel. He also said the government should stop misleading farmers on recent ordinances related to agriculture and trade issued by the Centre.Since June 7, the diesel price has shot up by Rs 4.14 per litre (from Rs 64.39 per litre to Rs 68.53 per litre today), while that of petrol has increased by Rs 4.95 per litre (from Rs 72.78 to Rs 77.03 per litre). Not just the Centre, the Punjab Government is also imposing a higher value added tax on these products, in spite of a dip in global crude oil prices.“This time round, the agriculture sector is doomed,” rues Kulwant Singh, a farmer from Kishangarh village in Mansa, highlighting the high input costs that farmers have to incur on paddy cultivation. “Labour rates have increased by 60- 70 per cent over the last year and the cost of pesticides has gone up by 15 per cent. Now, the zooming diesel price is giving sleepless nights to farmers,” he said.In Fazilka, Beera Kukar, a petroleum dealer, said till last year, whenever the prices of diesel would go up, unscrupulous retail fuel dealers from Rajasthan would start supplying diesel to farmers, as it was cheaper there. “But now, the Rajasthan border has been sealed and farmers have no option but to buy diesel here itself. Since the cost is rising steadily (by over 60 paisa per day since June 7), many farmers have failed to level their fields for paddy transplantation. This will have an adverse effect on the crop yield,” he said.Ramandeep Singh Mann, a farm activist, said a constant rise in the price of diesel had proved the anti-farmer stance of the Centre.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hold Punjab Assembly session on farm ordinances: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, has stressed the need for convening a special session of the Punjab Assembly on the issue of three ordinances passed by the Central Government recently. It claimed the ordinances would hit the agriculture sector hard and make millions of farmers and labourers suffer.A delegation of the party, led by Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema, met Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh in Chandigarh on Tuesday to hand over a memorandum to him over the ordinances, which, the delegation alleged, were anti-farmer and anti-state.“The three ordinances, introduced by theUnion Government, are nothing but a political gimmick in the name of agricultural reforms,” the memorandum said.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Congress top brass reaches out to ‘sulking’ leaders||Days ahead of announcing a new body of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), the party’s central leadership is learnt to have intensified its efforts to reach out to senior Congress leaders and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa.Recently, AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Asha Kumari met Bajwa at the latter’s Chandigarh residence, making an effort to bury the hatchet between him and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Bajwa has been regularly targeting the Chief Minister over the functioning of the Congress government.Refusing to comment on his meeting with the Punjab affairs in charge, Bajwa said, “Before sending emissaries, the Chief Minister must fulfil the oath he took with a ‘gutka’ in hand of punishing those involved in sacrilege incidents and the subsequent police firing at Bargari and Kotkapura. There should be an immediate end to the mining mafia, excise mafia and cable mafia in the state. Those behind the excise revenue loss of Rs 2,700 crore in the past three years must be exposed.”The Chief Minister and Bajwa last met in January this year when the former had called a meeting of party MPs. Bajwa further said, “Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi should call a meeting of the CLP in Delhi and must interact with all MLAs to ascertain the ground reality.”Not just Bajwa, efforts are also on to rope in Navjot Singh Sidhu for an important role in the state party unit or in the Cabinet. After resigning from the Cabinet in July last year, Sidhu has been avoiding criticism of the Chief Minister while being active on the social media to remind people of all that he did during his tenure as a minister. The Chief Minister has already said Sidhu was very much a part of Congress and was always welcome to discuss issues with him.Sources in the party said chances of Sidhu joining the Cabinet during the impending reshuffle were bleak. He, however, could be given a crucial role like the chairman of the party campaign committee as it is being felt that due to the anti-incumbency factor, the combo of the Chief Minister and Sidhu would help the party win the 2022 Assembly elections.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sidhu posts video, raises illegal liquor trade issue||Amid reports of the Congress high command trying to bridge the gap between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, the cricketer-turned-politician has in a video touched the controversial issue of liquor smuggling.Using various video clippings of the 2017 Assembly elections and his stand as a Cabinet minister on setting up a liquor corporation, the former minister, in the video, explained his rationale of setting up the corporation to check revenue losses.Trying to draw a parallel between the state of affairs during the pervious Akali government and the present government, the anchors in the video are seen speaking on the issues like ending the cable, mining and liquor mafia. — TNS
17-06-2020||Moga||Ex- info panel chief joins rebel Akali group||Former State Information Commissioner Nidharak Singh Brar today joined hands with rebel Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa.In 1984, a couple of days before the Operation Bluestar, Brar was arrested by the police after an encounter with the BSF at Bibi Kahan Kaur Gurdwara in Moga. After coming out of the jail, Brar joined the youth wing of the SAD and remained associated with the party for two decades. — TNS
17-06-2020||Faridkot||Man held for ‘fabricating’ evidence||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing cases on Tuesday arrested Sohail Singh Brar, a resident of Faridkot. Brar is accused of fabricating evidence in the Behbal Kalan firing case.‘Helped in creating fake bullet marks’Sohail Singh Brar allegedly helped the police in creating fake bullet marks on a pilot Gypsy of former SSP and prime accused Charanjit Singh Sharma so that the police could use the excuse of self-defence. Two persons were killed in the incident.Son of a late Akali leader, Brar had allegedly helped the police in creating fake bullets marks on a pilot Gypsy of former SSP and prime accused Charanjit Singh Sharma so that the police could use the excuse of self-defence. In the incident, two persons were killed. The police are mainly relying on the plea that it had opened fire in self-defence.Using a private .12 bore gun, the bullet marks were made by an SP-rank officer at the house of Brar in Faridkot on October 14, 2015. Even Sohail had made a statement to this effect before a court in Faridkot on February 22, 2019. The SIT did not arrest Brar as, it is alleged, the probe team was under political pressure to give a clean chit to him.Confirming that Brar had been arrested, Inspector General of Police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, chief investigator of the SIT, said the team would produce the accused in a Faridkot court tomorrow.The SIT has already filed a challan against six persons, including ex-Akali MLA Mantar Singh Brar, IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal, ex-SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, Paramjit Singh Pannu and others.
17-06-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar youth drowns in Canada||A city-based youth who had gone to Canada on a study visa last year drowned in a beach while he was holidaying with his five friends.The deceased has been identified as Shivam Arora (21).His family resides at Satkartar Nagar here and his father Sanjiv Kumar runs a shop in Peer Bodla Bazaar. After receiving the news, Kumar said: “Last evening, he messaged me that he was going with his friends to a beach. I had even cautioned him to take extra care as he didn’t know how to swim.” — TNS
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Vigilance nabs three for issuing forged disability certificates||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) today arrested three officials of the Health Department who allegedly issued fake disability certificates, dope tests and medico-legal reports (MLRs). Numerous beneficiaries are addicts who got arms licences on the basis of fake documents.Chief Director-Cum-ADGP, Vigilance Bureau, BK Uppal said the VB carried out an operation and arrested lab technician Vijay Kumar, pharmacists Darshan Singh and finance-cum-logistic officer Tejinder Pal Sharma. The trio used to issue fake disability certificates, dope test reports and MLRs, he said.“The officials of the Mansa Civil Hospital were taking hefty bribes from people to change their type of injuries. They were issuing forged dope test reports and fake physically disabled certificates. These employees have links with owners of private hospitals and private/government doctors,” he said.He said the trio charged Rs 10,000 to change positive dope test report to negative. As a result, many drug addicts succeeded in getting/renewing arms licences. Besides, addicts working with the Punjab Police and other departments were able to clear the dope tests.A case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 120-B of the IPC and Sections 7,13 (1) (E) of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the accused.
17-06-2020||Muktsar||Coronavirus fallout: Jobless, artistes in Punjab take up menial work||Amid the pandemic, a number of artistes, including musicians and singers, have been forced to take up menial jobs to eke out a living.Sukhdeep Singh, a singer who used to perform in ‘jagrans’, is now transplanting paddy to make ends meet. A resident of Tappakhera village in Malout subdivision here, 30-year-old Sukhdeep used to earn Rs 15,000-20,000 a month before the Covid outbreak.“I have to look after my elderly mother. Now that the government has banned religious gatherings and cultural events, I have no option but to do labour. Earlier, I used to perform at over 10 programmes in a month. But since the Covid outbreak, I haven’t been called for a single event,” said Sukhdeep, who is also doing BEd.“There is no job available in market except labour work. I am not the lone artiste who has been forced to take up this work. A number of other musicians are doing the same. We appeal to the government to help us in these difficult times,” said Sukhdeep. Harjinder Singh, a drum beater, said, “I am unable to meet the expenses of my family due to the situation arising out of the pandemic. I have now taken to selling vegetables as there is no demand for musicians.”Vinod Khurana, a renowned music teacher from Malout, said, “We met the local SDM, apprised him of our condition and handed over a memorandum of our demands, addressed to the Chief Minister, to him. Artistes are badly affected due to Covid.”
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four more succumb in Punjab, toll 75||With four more deaths being reported today, Covid-19 casualties in the state have reached 75. While three deaths were reported from Amritsar, the fourth one was from Ludhiana.In Amritsar, 49-year-old Nirmal Singh of Haripura, 51-year-old Seema of Bhushanpura locality and 66-year-old Krishan Singh, a resident of Ajit Nagar, died due to the infection. The health authorities claimed that Seema had hypertension while Nirmal Singh suffered from hypertension and diabetes.Besides the deaths, the state media bulletin reported nine more positive cases in Amritsar today. While three are contacts of positive patients, six suffer from influenza-like illnesses.The deceased in Ludhiana was 72-year-old ex-serviceman from Mansuran village. He was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Sunday and was on ventilator.Medical Superintendent of DMCH Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said the patient was on ventilator and had co-morbidities also. He was a diabetic and had coronary artery disease.In the state, 104 fresh Covid cases were reported. With this the tally has reached 3,371.As per the media bulletin, among districts, 31 cases were reported from Jalandhar; 22 from Ludhiana; nine each from Patiala and Amritsar; six from Pathankot; four each from SAS Nagar, Kapurthala, Sangrur, three each from Hoshiarpur and Fazilka; two each from Gurdaspur and Ropar; and one each from Faridkot, Ferozepur, Tarn Taran and Fatehgarh Sahib.Jalandhar topped the chart with 31 cases being reported today. While one of them is a contact of a previous case, 30 are new cases with no contact history so far. Five of them are police personnel posted on the Punjab Armed Police campus here. The remaining hail from different localities of the city and satellite towns, including Shahkot.Among 22 cases reported in Ludhiana, 13 are contacts of positive patients. Of the 13, five belong to the containment zone of Chawni Mohalla, three from Sahnewal and the remaining are from Habib Ganj, Daba Lohara Road and Islamia School Road.
17-06-2020||Patiala||Booze scam: Probe widens, ED to file FIR||The probe into the illegal liquor manufacturing across the states of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan just got wider after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) decided to register an FIR to investigate the “money trail”. ED sleuths visited Patiala and other parts of the state to start formal investigations into the case.The directorate, conducting a probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, is looking into at least a dozen FIRs registered at various police stations in Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana. “A collective FIR at the ED headquarters is likely this week,” a top source said. However, no officer is willing to speak on the matter due to sensitivity of the case.A team led by ED’s Punjab Deputy Director Niranjan Singh today made a visit to Patiala and held a closed-door meeting with Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu. “The case, pertaining to an illegal liquor distillery involving a Congress sarpanch in Ghanaur, was discussed in detail,” say insiders.Sources said the ED had decided to widen the ambit of the probe. “Illegal liquor has recently developed as a major trade involving crores of rupees. Though the accused are arrested and many liquor bottles seized, hardly any cash is recovered. Investigations will now specifically target the ones who pocketed crores of rupees,” a source said.An official of the ED confirmed to The Tribune that case files of all recent liquor hauls in Punjab made by the police and excise departments would be probed in detail to study the money trail. “The role of excise and other officials who were hand in glove with the accused and made fortunes will also be probed,” an official said.Kingpin held, joint raids conductedRaikot: The police have arrested the kingpin of a group involved in filling inferior quality liquor in bottles of high-end brands. The accused has been identified as Bittu Chhabra, owner of Hardy's World and elder brother of liquor baron Kewal Chhabra. Joint teams of the Ludhiana (Rural) police and the Excise Department conducted search on the premises of Hardy's World. Ludhiana (Rural) SSP Vivek Soni said the special investigation team, supervised by IG Nageshwar Rao, had identified Bittu on the basis of calls made by him to another accused who had been arrested by the Jodhan police from the illegal bottling unit at Khadur on February 13. Sources reveal that Bittu had made around 300 phone calls to the persons involved in the case. OC
17-06-2020||---||Ex-Army man shoots dead 2 brothers over land dispute||Gurdaspur, June 16An ex-Army man gunned down two brothers following a land dispute at Santokh Rai village falling under the jurisdiction of the Dhariwal police station.Dilpreet Singh (24), who in December last year had returned from France where he used to work, and Gagandeep Singh (28) were shot dead by Jaswinder Singh, who retired from the Army recently, with a .12 bore gun.Both parties were involved in a dispute over a tract of land. SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said the incident occurred at a dera near Santokh Rai village falling in the jurisdiction of the Dhariwal police station. The SSP said Jaswinder Singh and his wife had been nabbed.“The weapon used in the crime has also been recovered. I have formed a team, led by a senior officer, to go into the exact sequence of events leading to the murders. The brothers and the accused had an old rivalry over the possession of land. We have also arrested Jaswinder’s wife who is said to have instigated her husband into committing the crime,” said the SSP.He added that a case under various sections of the IPC, including 302 (murder) had been registered against five persons. “The case has been registered on a complaint filed by one Gurpreet Singh, a resident of the village where the crime took place. Apart from Jaswinder Singh and his wife Harjinder Kaur, the other accused are Sukhmandeep Singh, Lovepreet Singh and Amandeep Kaur,” he said.
17-06-2020||Amritsar||‘Harassed’ by police, boy commits suicide||A boy, identified as Ankit (18), committed suicide by hanging himself late yesterday evening after being allegedly harassed by police officials.The family members today held a demonstration against the police demanding stringent action against the accused. The police have suspended ASI Sham Sundar and ASI Davinder Singh with immediate effect while a report asking for their dismissal is being prepared which would be sent to senior police officials for further action. Surinder Kumar, father of the deceased, said in a suicide note, Ankit had alleged that the cops ‘placed’ condoms in his scooter while he was on way to a market. They sought money and harassed him.Harpal Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, said the department had suspended two ASIs after verifying facts. — TNS
17-06-2020||Moga||Woman held with 1.20 kg heroin in Moga||
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to take up UP Sikh families’ eviction with Yogi||Taking cognisance of the reports of attempts by the UP government to displace more than 30,000 Sikh farmers by evicting them from the land which they had cultivated, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh today said he would take up the issue with his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.Such an act was against the federal structure of the country and its constitutional polity, said the CM.Reportedly, the Sikh families had been settled in the districts of Rampur, Bijnaur and Lakhimpur for three generations now, and had even received proprietorship rights from the UP government in 1980, said Capt Amarinder. — TNS
17-06-2020||Amritsar||SGPC to offer subsidised package for Covid patients||The SGPC today announced a ‘subsidised’ treatment package for Covid-19 patients at Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital.The hospital trust announced to charge Rs 50,000 for a ‘seven-day’ treatment, which includes testing, food and medication.Ventilator charges have been fixed at Rs 6,000 per day. Allied anti-biotics and anesthesia are also included in these charges.Private hospitals are charging between Rs 35,000 and Rs 40,000 daily for the treatment and ventilator charges are extra.A multi-speciality hospital chain has been charging Rs 72,550 per day for the treatment with ventilator and Rs 53,000 sans ventilator.Dr AP Singh, Dean, Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences, said actual cost involved in curing the Covid patient came around Rs 1,00,000. “In our hospital, the patient needs to pay just Rs 50,000 for a week. Remaining amount will be compensated by the trust,” he said.
17-06-2020||Ropar||DLSA awards Rs7L to minor rape victims||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) today awarded Rs 7 lakh compensation to each of the two minor rape victims. The compensation was received from the special court of Additional District Judge Surinderpal Kaur.Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Harsimranjit Singh said the compensation was granted under the National Legal Services Authority’s victim compensation scheme 2018, and the said amount was disbursed in the form of fixed deposit receipts in the favour of minor victims.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||100% institutional preference in quota seats under High Court scanner||Hundred per cent institutional preference in the state quota seats for admission to postgraduate courses in medical institutions has come under judicial scanner, with the Punjab and Haryana High Court asking the Secretary concerned to file an affidavit on a petition alleging that the move was illegal.The Secretary has been asked to explain the percentage of reservation provided under the institutional preference in the current session and the exclusion of other candidates “in violation of settled principles of law”.The direction came on a petition alleging that the benefit of institutional preference was granted to an extent of 100 per cent of the total state quota seats in the general and physically disabled category.The Bench was told that Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, despite the issuance of directions last year, again issued notification for conducting counselling for admission to the MD/MS/PG diploma courses by providing the benefit of 100 per cent institutional preference, thereby depriving the deserving and meritorious candidates of their rightful seat.Taking up the petition filed by Dr Shubham Mittal, the Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash also issued a notice of motion and notice regarding stay to the State of Punjab and other respondents. The Bench also fixed the case for further hearing on June 26.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, the counsel for the petitioner contended that the extended institutional preference was against the permissible limit of 50 per cent as authoritatively held by the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in the case of “Saurabh Chaudhari and others versus the Union of India and others”.The counsel said institutional preference being “horizontal reservation” could not have been restricted only to the general and physical handicapped category by excluding the other categories.
17-06-2020||Amritsar||PSGPC remembers Guru Arjan Dev||Amid Nanakshahi calendar row, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) today commemorated the martyrdom of Guru Arjan Dev at Gurdwara Dehra Sahib in Lahore. Unlike the SGPC, the PSGPC follows the original Nanakshahi calendar.‘Akhand Path’ was performed in connection with Shahidi Purab, whereas ragi jathas performed ‘kirtan’.The event was attended by PSGPC chief Satwant Singh, general secretary Amir Singh, former chief Bishan Singh and other representatives of the Evacuee Trust Property Board.A member of the board said every year thousands of devotees from India and other countries turn up, but devotees from abroad could not attend the event in the wake of Covid. To mark the occasion, ‘Akhand Paths’ were also performed at Gurdwara Nankana Sahib and Gurdwara Panja Sahib. — TNS
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||IGP discharges probationer SI||Taking serious note of indiscipline shown by SI Aditya Sharma, who is on probation, the IGP (Patiala Range), Jatinder Singh Aulkah, today discharged him from service with an immediate effect.Sharma has been at the centre of controversy, with two FIRs registered against him by a woman who he had allegedly sexually assaulted and then married, apparently to escape the disciplinary action.Repeatedly accused of committing serious crimes, including sexual intercourse by a person in authority, he also failed to complete ‘basic training’ at the Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur, said a spokesperson for the police. — TNS
17-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Waqf Board divided over use of Punjabi in recruitment||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 16An amendment to the Punjab Waqf Board (Ministerial Staff) Regulations, 2019, to make Punjabi non-compulsory for direct recruitment to the board has led to a sharp divide among board members. Of the total 10 members, five have decided to oppose the amendment, which calls for giving six months to non-Punjabis to learn the language after recruitment.“Since the board looks after the properties of Punjabi Muslims, the language must be given preference. How will a candidate with no knowledge of Punjabi work in the state? In 2019, through an amendment to the regulation, we had made matric with the Punjabi language a must for recruitment to the board. But last week, the board chairman, along with four other members, amended that regulation,” alleged Izaz Alam, a member.“During a meeting on June 10, five members voted against the resolution for an amendment to the regulation. Though it was 5-5 on both sides, the chairman, through his casting vote, favoured the amendment. It’s unfair to the Punjabi language and we will take up the matter with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh,” said Alam.“We have brought in this amendment to invite best talent from other states and improve the functioning of the board,” said Junaid Raja Khan, waqf board chairman.
17-06-2020||Muktsar||Cop attacked in Muktsar||Moga man rapes sister-in-lawMoga: A woman was allegedly raped by her brother-in-law at Meenia village in Nihalsinghwala subdivision in Moga. The victim said: “After marriage, my husband Sukhpreet Singh stayed here for a couple of months, but later returned to the US with his parents.” After she began to live at her in-laws' house, her brother-in-law Harpreet Singh, who had been misbehaving with her for some time, raped her on June 12. TNS601 cell phones recoveredMansa: The district police have recovered about 601 mobile phones which were stolen during lockdown. Inspector General of Police, Bathinda range, Jaskaran Singh said the police had recovered 601 lost or stolen cell phones. Of 601, 26 cellphones were retrieved from outside the state. The SSP said village or ward police officials would deliver the mobile phones to the remaining people on their doorsteps. TNSProtest at Thermal ColonyBathinda: A team of the district administration headed by DC B Srinivasan, who went to Thermal Colony, regarding a proposal faced protest from the PSEB engineers on Tuesday. Milan Jain, secretary, Punjab State Electricity Board Engineers Engineers Association, said during a meet, ADC (G) Bathinda, snatched records from a woman engineer and pushed her. TNS
