17-10-2020||Ludhiana||Upset over birth of girl child, woman kills elder daughter||Upset over giving birth to a second girl child, a 30-year-old woman Saturday allegedly killed her elder daughter, 4, by banging her against the wall in her bathroom, police said.They said the woman is wife of a migrant labourer from Bihar.“She thrashed her 4-year-old daughter to death by hitting her against the wall and the floor of her bathroom in her house at Navneet Nagar in Salem Tabri locality,” Inspector Gopal Krishan said.He said Priyanka, wife of Tinku Yadav, had given birth to a girl child, her second daughter, two months ago.“She was upset because she did not have a male child,” Krishan said.He said she took her elder daughter in her arms for giving her a bath, but then suddenly started hitting the child against the wall and the floor causing head injury which proved fatal.Darpan died on the spot, he said.Joint Commissioner of Police Bhagirath Meena said the woman was arrested and charged with murder.The family hails from Bihar, he said. — PTI
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 19 more COVID-19 deaths, 427 new cases||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 3,999 on Saturday after 19 more people succumbed to the disease, while 427 new cases took the infection tally to 1,27,154, according to a medical bulletin.The places which reported new coronavirus cases include Jalandhar (73), Ludhiana (54) and Mohali (48), the bulletin said.There are 6,230 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 760 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons in the state to 1,16,925.Twenty-two critical patients are on ventilator support, while 140 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.So far, a total of 23,00,669 samples have been collected for testing in the state, it said. — PTI
17-10-2020||Phagwara||Farmers hold protests across Punjab over new farm reform laws, burn effigies of PM Modi||Farmers under banners of different organisations held protests across Punjab and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as they accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of maintaining a “stubborn attitude” towards the agitators’ demand of revoking the newly enacted farm laws.The opposition parties have been protesting the three farm sector laws, alleging these are “anti-farmer measures” and will “destroy” the agriculture sector.The government has, however, asserted the new laws will free farmers from the clutches of middleman and allow them to sell their produce anywhere they want at a remunerative price.On Saturday, protests were held at many places, including in Phagwara, Muktsar, Amritsar, Patiala and Bathinda which led to a disruption of vehicular traffic.Farmers assembled at Phagwara-Hoshiarpur road and held a march. They then burnt the effigy of prime minister alleging that their leaders were “disrespected” during a meeting with Agriculture ministry officials in Delhi.Representatives of several farmers’ bodies had on Wednesday walked out of a meeting held in Delhi to discuss the farm laws with the Union agriculture secretary after finding no Union minister present at the meeting.Addressing the protesters in Phagwara, BKU (Doaba) general secretary Satnam Singh Sahni said, “We have been agitating against these farm laws for the last three months. But the Centre has turned a deaf ear to our demands.”Refuting reports about fissure among agitating farmer bodies, he asserted that they were all united in their fight against the “anti-farmer” laws.Another farmer leader Manjit Singh Rai said, “If PM Modi shows sincerity in the matter and himself intervenes and invites the agitating farmers, we will go for such parleys.”In Ludhiana, a group of agitating farmers demonstrated outside a hotel at Ferozepur road when a meeting of the Punjab BJP led by its state unit chief Ashwani Sharma was in progress. The protesters raised slogans against the Centre and demanded the withdrawal of three farm reform laws.Over the past several days, farmers have been blocking rail tracks, laid siege to toll plazas, fuel pumps, shopping malls and staged sit-ins outside the residences of several BJP leaders in the state.Rail traffic has been disrupted and in turn, coal supply for thermal power plants has been impacted by the farmers’ agitation.The farmers have been demanding that the three farm laws passed by Parliament recently be repealed. They have expressed apprehension that the new laws will pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. — PTI
17-10-2020||---||Farmer dies during protest over farm laws in Mansa||Bathinda, October 17A farmer, in his fifties, who was sitting on the indefinite ‘rail roko’ agitation against farm laws for past 17 days, reportedly died of heart attack in Mansa district on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as 50-year-old Jagtar Singh who was a resident of Guradi village in Mansa.His wife had died two years ago due to cancer. As per villagers, Jagtar also had outstanding debt running into lakhs of rupees.Balkaran Singh, a farm union leader, said, “Jagtar was participating in the protests regularly for past over two weeks. He was a member of BKU Kadian. Today he participated in a protest march being carried out in different parts of the city and after coming to railway lines near Mansa city area he felt uneasy and was taken to the government hospital Mansa. Doctors there declared him brought dead. He owned 3 acres of agricultural land.”
17-10-2020||Kolkata||'Assaulted' Sikh man's wife 'happy' after meeting Bengal DGP, hopes to take husband to Punjab soon||Karamjit Kaur, the wife of   private security officer Balwinder Singh whose turban came off during his arrest last week, on Saturday expressed happiness after meeting West Bengal DGP Virendra and hoped she could take her husband back to Punjab soon.Kaur, who had threatened to stage a sit-in protest with her son outside state secretariat Nabanna from Saturday to seek Singh's release, thanked the media and the administration in West Bengal for the "positive developments"."Today I met the DGP. I am positive that Balwinder will be out of jail soon. I wish to take him back to Punjab after his release," she told reporters.Singh was arrested during the BJP's 'Nabanna March' on October 8 and has been in the custody of the Howrah Police since then.He is likely to be produced before a court soon and is expected to seek bail, sources said.Singh has been booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act for carrying a firearm, the license of which, is valid only in Jammu and Kashmir, police has claimed.Singh's wife and son Harshveer had come to Kolkata on Tuesday and met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan seeking his intervention in the issue. Dhankhar had tweeted in her support.The video of his turban coming off during a scuffle with the police on October 8 went viral on social media.A section of the netizens claimed the police had pulled off his turban, while the law enforcers maintained it had accidentally come off during the scuffle.Several Sikh bodies and cricketer Harbhajan Singh have condemned the alleged touching of a Sikh's turban, saying the incident has hurt the community's sentiments. PTI
17-10-2020||New Delhi||Early harvest, labour unavailability due to pandemic led to more farm fires this time, say officials||Punjab and Haryana have recorded more incidents of stubble burning this season so far compared to last year and it is largely due to early harvesting of paddy and unavailability of farm labour due to the coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Saturday.According to the Punjab Pollution Control Board, the state has recorded 4,585 farm fires this season so far compared to 1,631 such incidents during the corresponding period last year.Haryana has also recorded an increase in farm fires—from around 1,200 incidents till October 16 last year to 2,016 this year.Karunesh Garg, Member Secretary of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, however, said the number of stubble burning incidents seem large because of early harvesting of paddy this year."Around 17 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was harvested till October 15 last year. This year, the figure is around 40 lakh metric tonnes. It shows that farmers harvested their crop early this year," he said.The monsoon season continued until September-end last year, delaying harvesting of paddy, Garg said.Earlier this week, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar had asked Punjab to control stubble burning after air quality in the national capital hit "very poor" levels.Garg said it was wrong to blame Punjab for Delhi's bad air."Stubble burning in Punjab may be a factor but its contribution to Delhi's pollution is less than one per cent," he asserted.An official from the Haryana government said the number of farm fires in the state has "certainly increased" as compared to last year. "It can be attributed to the unavailability of farm labour due to the COVID-19 pandemic."S Narayanan, member secretary of the Haryana Pollution Control Board, said, "The number of farm fires, so far, is more than last year... Maybe it is due to early harvesting. So, it is too early to predict whether we will end up burning more stubble than last year.”"Most farm fires occur in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kaithal. The administration has not been able to completely control stubble burning in those areas. Efforts are on."According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the contribution of farm fires to Delhi's PM2.5 concentration rose from around 6 per cent on Thursday to 18 per cent on Friday.On Saturday, it is estimated to be around 19 per cent, SAFAR said. It was only around one per cent on Wednesday and around 3 per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had Friday said meteorological conditions in Delhi have been "extremely unfavourable" for dispersion of pollutants since this September as compared to last year.With less area under non-basmati paddy cultivation this time, CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava hoped the number of stubble burning incidents will be fewer this year compared to 2019.Non-basmati paddy straw is considered useless as fodder because of its high silica content and so farmers burn it.Gargava also said stubble burning peak might not coincide with the peak of adverse meteorological conditions this year due to early harvesting of paddy.With Delhi-NCR bracing for months of poor air quality, experts have warned that high levels of air pollution can aggravate the COVID-19 situation. Severe air pollution in Delhi is a year-round problem, which can be attributed to unfavourable meteorological conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions and local sources of pollution.According to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a Delhi-based think tank, transportation contributes the most—18 to 39 per cent—to Delhi's air pollution. Road dust is the second-largest source of air pollution in the city (18 to 38 per cent), followed by industries (2 to 29 per cent), thermal power plants (3 to 11 per cent) and construction (8 per cent). PTI
17-10-2020||---||Amarinder, Rahul Gandhi vow to force Centre to revoke farm laws||Chandigarh, October 17Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday joined Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in pledging to force the Union Government to revoke the farm laws, which they said would be debated in the special session of the Vidhan Sabha on Monday with the aim to aggressively and effectively combat the damaging impact of the legislations on farmers.Asserting that his government would take all steps to counter the black laws and protect the farmers of Punjab, Captain Amarinder said he would spend every single day of the rest of his life for the revival of Punjab.“Whatever time I have left with me, I will fight for the farmers and every other section of the state’s people,” he declared.Condemning the Centre’s anti-farmer legislations as an attack on the soul of every farmer of the country and an assault on Punjab’s future, Captain Amarinder also announced his government’s decision to give proprietary rights to those settled on Lal Dora land in villages for long. His government will soon launch a Mission ‘Lal Lakir’ for this purpose and the residents will be given ‘sanads’ (certificates) for residential properties owned by such people, said the Chief Minister.Fulfilling another long pending demand, we will launch Mission ‘Lal Lakir’ to ensure proprietary rights to those settled on Lal Dora land in villages for long. The residents will be given sanads/certificates for residential properties owned by them. pic.twitter.com/UBaqK7lExjWelcoming the Chief Minister’s decision to convene the special session, Rahul said the voice of the farmers was gagged in Parliament but it would now resonate in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha and echo in every part of the country till the Central Government is compelled to withdraw the farm laws.If these laws were in the interest of the farmers, why did the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre not allow a debate on them in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, he asked.Virtually launching the second phase of the Smart Village Campaign (SVC-II), along with Captain Amarinder Singh, the Congress MP assured all panchayats of his party’s full support to them, as well as the farmers and farm labour, in their fight against the new laws.Representatives of all the Punjab village panchayats participated in the virtual launch programme.Condemning the farm laws as a blatant attack by the BJP on the soul of farmers of the nation, Rahul said the Centre had launched an assault on Punjab and its farmers with these ill-conceived and unconstitutional legislations. Every farmer and labourer was feeling the pain of this attack, he added.The AICC leader lashed out at the BJP for imposing laws on the nation from the top, without taking people at the grassroots into confidence. That was the difference between the BJP and the Congress, with the former talking about buildings and not foundations, he said, noting that farmland was the foundation of every village. Rahul declared that the Congress will not allow India’s foundations to be weakened in this manner and will go all out to strengthen these foundations, he added.Pointing out that the past decisions of the BJP government at the Centre had led to total collapse of the economy and promoted large-scale unemployment, the Congress leader congratulated Captain Amarinder for generating jobs for youth.Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also took on the BJP over the farm laws, which he said were designed to kill the farmers and the farming sector. The state government, he said, should do everything in its power to prevent that from happening.
17-10-2020||Our CorrespondentBhikhiwind (Tarn Taran)||Shaurya Chakra awardee cremated amid tight security in Tarn Taran village||A 62-year-old Shaurya Chakra winner who was shot dead on Friday was cremated here on Saturday under tight security, officials said.Comrade Balwinder Singh (Sandhu) Bhikhiwind was shot dead by some armed men on Friday at a school that his family runs on Friday. The school also served as Balwinder Singh's residence.His last rites were performed amid tensions that have gripped the area since his shooting.Balwinder Singh was awarded the ‘Shaurya Chakra’, which is counted among the country’s highest bravery award, in 1993 because of his role in fighting militancy.His family had previously refused to cremate him until his killers were arrested, but relented when district authorities intervened and promised action.Police meanwhile continue to investigate the killing. Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale said they were going through security cameras at the school, which was run by Balwinder Singh's family.Political groups such as Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) meanwhile have demanded better security for his family, and a government job to a family member.District Police said they had given three armed security men to the family for protection. Patti’s Sub Divisional Magistrate, who was at the wreath laying ceremony, said he had asked the state government to consider the demands.
17-10-2020|| ||Noted writer Kuldeep Dhir who wrote books on science in Punjabi dies at 77||Patiala, October 17Renowned writer Kuldeep Singh Dhir - who played a key role in making concept of science popular among Punjabis - passed away here on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Dhir, 77, breathed his last at his house here.He was born at Mandi Bahau Din, now in Pakistan’s Punjab.Dhir, a blend of science and humanities, did his Bachelor of Science from Thapar Institute of Engineering in 1966. He did his Master of Arts from Punjabi University in 1974. Dhir, a recipient of the Shiromani Punjabi Lekhak Award in 1999, had been the head of the Punjabi department at Punjabi University in 1990 before he was elevated to Dean, Faculty, Languages, in 1999.Author of around 65 books on science, Dhir played a key role in making science popular among Punjabis, by writing books on science in Punjabi.His books include ‘Taap Gati Vigyan Te Taap Engine’, ‘Padarth Samratha Vigyan’, ‘Udyogic te Utpadan Engineery’, ‘Bharti Atom Bomb da Mahan Birtant’, ‘Nanotechnology: Agli Kranti’, ‘Dharti ho Pare Hor Hor’, ‘Vigya, Vigyani ate Aam Aadmi’ and ‘Navan Vigyan Naven Dishade’. Meanwhile, Punjabi Sahib Sabha, Patiala, have condoled his demise. Darshan Singh, president of the Sabha, said, "I convey my deepest condolences to the grieved family. It is a huge loss to Punjabi literature."
17-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Air Force to test fire bomb in Bathinda's Bhisiana, villagers told to be vigilant||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 17The Indian Air Force (IAF) will test-fire live ammunition at Bhisiana base on October 17 and 18 in the district.The villagers of nearby villages have been told to be vigilant and not to create panic.The Bhisiana Air Force station security section has also written a letter to the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner stating that a test-fire of a bomb was planned here on October 17 and 18.During the test fire, a massive sound of the explosion is expected with a remote chance of the remains of splinters falling. Virk Kalan village, which is very close to the Air Force station, will be the most affected by the sound.In the letter, they have further stated that in view of this, it is requested that an awareness message may be passed to the villagers to be vigilant and not to create panic. All village heads would be informed of the exact time of the explosion.The letter is written by Kuldeep Kishore Sharma, Group Caption, Station Security Officer, Bhisiana Air Force station.Bathinda Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said: “Bomb testing to be done at Bhisiana Air Force station and as a precautionary measure, the BDPO has been instructed to aware villagers not to panic. There is no need to worry as only the sound of the explosion will be heard.”
17-10-2020||London||Punjab-born Irish man eyes Guinness record for ‘walking the earth’||A 70-year-old man, born in Punjab and based in Ireland for over 40 years, has applied for a Guinness World Record after completing what he calls his Earth Walk – covering over 40,075 kilometres or the equivalent of the circumference of the earth in under 1,500 days – without stepping out of his home city of Limerick.Vinod Bajaj began his journey in August 2016 with a humble goal of losing some weight and getting fitter.As he shed the kilograms, his enthusiasm for walking only multiplied and led him to chart out varying routes, including through indoor malls to overcome weather constraints.“During the first three months of my walking seven days a week, I lost 8 kg by having a deficit of 700 calories per day. Over the next six months, I lost a further 12 kg. The loss of weight was almost entirely due to walking and I did not have to change much of my eating habits,” said Bajaj.“Typically, I started walking early in the morning and completed mostly in two intervals, the first one was always for a longer duration. There were many times I did the entire walk in a single attempt. Starting early allowed me to finish up by early afternoon, which gave me plenty of time to do things such as shopping, bank work, house and garden work,” he said.The retired engineer and business consultant grew up in Chennai and moved to Scotland in 1975 for a Master's in Management from Glasgow before work took him to the Republic of Ireland 43 years ago, where he has been living with his family at Castletroy, a suburb of Limerick, for 36 years.It was the local Irish and world news that kept him company during his long walks, which fell within a 10 km radius of Castletroy.He also downloaded the Pacer activity tracker app on his smartphone to keep a complete track of his steps and its records flagged his major milestones along the way.“By the end of the first year I walked 7,600 km and to my surprise, I found that in fact, I walked to India from Ireland. I continued walking and by the end of year two, I walked a cumulative total of 15,200 km and I found that in fact, I walked more than the circumference of the moon (10,921 km). This motivated me further and I decided to walk the circumference of Mars (21,344 km),” he recalls.“The difference between the Mars Walk and Earth Walk was approximately 19,000 km and I knew it was not going to be easy. I continued walking with an aim to complete my ultimate goal,” he says, in reference to his Earth Walk, which he completed on September 21.His application with the Guinness World Record is currently under process as they assess if his walk covering the equivalent of the Earth's circumference in 1,496 days and 54,633,135 steps makes the cut.Meanwhile, his walking mission continues despite the COVID-19 lockdown constraints, which only means he has to repeat his routes a few times a day to meet his daily walking goal.He also keeps himself replenished with almonds, cashews, walnuts and bananas to keep energy levels up during the walks.“My wife and siblings were not impressed initially as they all felt that I was walking too much and my health would be affected. Eventually, they came around reluctantly and now hope that I will reduce my walk and not attempt a second Earth Walk, anti-clockwise,” he jokes.While he awaits a response on his potential world record, Bajaj is keen to spread the message that walking is the best form of exercise for all ages – “better than running or jogging and it is free”.Having run through 12 pairs of shoes, at an average three per year, during the course of his Earth Walk, his central advice is to invest in a good pair of walking shoes and socks.And, other advice for fellow walkers: “Loneliness will be the biggest walking challenge and can partially be overcome by listening to music or podcasts. Make the umbrella your best friend so that no weather will upset your walk plan and self-motivation, discipline, consistency and time management are key”. PTI
17-10-2020||---||Lockdown-induced poverty forces couple to kill their 2 kids, themselves in Punjab's Faridkot||Faridkot, October 17An accountant at a brick kiln and his wife allegedly committed suicide after killing their two children at Kaler village of Faridkot on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.The deceased belonged to Sikar district of Rajasthan.In a suicide note, Dharampal blamed Covid-driven lockdown for his economic hardship, forcing him and his wife to end their lives after killing their kids.In the three-page note, he gave details of the of Rs 9-lakh debt he had and of Rs 6.5 lakh that he had given as loan to others.
17-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||This Sushant Rajput is winning hearts with his creativity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16The country might have lost its heartthrob Sushant Singh Rajput, but Jalandhar city can still boast of its own 16-year-old Sushant Rajput who is bagging accolades for his creativity ahead of Dasehra.One can’t help but admire the work of Rajput. Having remained engaged in making and selling kites, working models of science and charts, this Class XI student of Junior Model School, Ladowali Road, is busy making short effigies of Ravana these days. He has come up with colourful effigies in two sizes – approximately 6 feet and 4 feet tall, he is selling these outside his residence at the Central Town here.The teenager explains why he feels his effigies will sell good, “The state government is yet to decide on whether to allow Ram Leelas and Dasehra melas. Also, most people would avoid visiting melas and would only go for small-level celebrations. I expect the mohalla leaders to buy small effigies from me for holding mohalla-wise celebrations of Dasehra.”The boy, who has already started displaying these effigies outside his residence, says that he has already begun getting orders and inquiries from the passers-by.Sushant’s father Gulzari Lal, who deals in jute sacks, says, “My son started experimenting with the craft items since his childhood. He has been selling handicrafts for the past four years and is already bringing in good income. His 6-feet effigy is getting sold for Rs 2,500 and the smaller one for Rs 1,200. He is doing everything on his own except that I get him bamboos required and cut them into the size that he needs.”His mother Malti recalls, “My elder son Kushant was also creative like him but we lost him a few years back.” She is all praise for Sushant too, “He works so hard and spends two days carefully cutting coloured papers and pasting them together over the framework of bamboo and under-layers of newspapers to give a proper shape to each effigy. He learnt it all by himself as no one in our family was into this business earlier. He is so passionate that he sometimes stays awake the whole night to complete the task that he began.”
17-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Go vocal for local stores, Jalandhar residents urged||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16As the festive season draws near, there is a growing clamour in the local markets, appealing to the residents not to make online purchases and instead walk down to the nearby shops for buying lights, appliances, gifts, clothing and other stuff.Even the shopkeepers of Asia’s one of the biggest wholesale markets of electrical goods, which is based at Phagwara in Jalandhar, have appealed to the residents not to go in for purchase of any electrical or electronic stuff from online portals such as Amazon and Flipkart and instead help them to boost their business.President of Jalandhar Electrical Traders Welfare Association Amit Sehgal has said, “Our sales are down and we are in dire need of customers to bail us out of the grim situation that we are all facing. We are telling our customers not to make any online purchases as they are likely to face problems of guarantee or exchange of products, which won’t be a problem with us. Being locally available, we are ready to provide them all after sale services as well. So, they must depend on us or our local retailers instead of going for online shopping.”He added, “When the curbs were relaxed, we enjoyed good sales for nearly 1.5 months as people were in dire need of items and were waiting for us to open. But now, we are witnessing a huge dip in our sales and there is hardly any customer in the market these days. This is otherwise the time when our sales used to be the maximum. We used to have so many customers otherwise, this time of the season.”Rohan Sehgal, President of Model Town Market Association, too says that he is mulling over a ‘word of mouth campaign’ asking people to make purchases from their own local market instead of exploring the required items from the web. I have interacted with many shopkeepers selling gift items, clothes and other stuff. They are satisfied over the decision to extend time of opening of shops from 6 pm to 10 pm. In Model Town, most visitors are evening shoppers. They get free from work and come to have fun with family. They now say that their sales have resumed by 80 per cent since Coronavirus outbreak.”Rajiv Gupta, a manufacturer and MD of KCSAD LED Lights India Ltd, says, “I am really enthused by people chanting ‘Make in India’ slogan. It is a big boost for manufacturers like us.”
17-10-2020||The Science City reopened on October 15. It sent a wave of cheer among science aficionados. In the first two days of its reopening||Kapurthala's Science City reopens after seven months||Food Court along the banks of Kali BeinFood Court along the banks of Kali Bein, solar lights for several approach roads, among other projects are in the offing as part of the preparation for the 551st Gurpurab in Kapurthala this year. The plans were discussed during the meeting held here on Thursday for the arrangements during celebration of the 551th Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev. A meeting of key officials was held on the issue on Thursday. It was decided during the meeting that solar lights shall be installed on four roads – Sultanpur Lodhi to Lohian, Sultanpur Lodhi to RCF, Sultanpur Lodhi-Busewal and Sultanpur Lodhi to Talwandi Chaudhrian. The DC also instructed PEDA employees to begin a survey on the issue. Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema, DC Deepti Uppal, ADC Rahul Chaba, SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Dr Charumita SSP Jaspreet Singh Sidhu were among others were present.
17-10-2020||Vijay C Roy||Punjab, Haryana, Himachal in fray for drug park||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 16All northern states, except J&K, will compete with each other besides southern and western states for a bulk drug park to reduce the country’s dependence on China. The last date to apply for the same was October 15.Dr Dinesh Dua, Chairman, PharmexcilLift investment capWe have appealed to the government to do away with minimum investment cap on availing production-linked incentive scheme for greenfield projects for bulk drugs and extend it to brownfield plants as well The Centre has framed an area scoring criteria for the selection of states for setting up the bulk drug parks. The government proposes to develop three bulk drug parks through grant-in-aid to states with a cap of Rs 1,000 crore per park with 70% financial assistance.The Punjab Government has proposed to set up the park in Bathinda. Haryana proposes to set up the park in Hisar. Himachal Pradesh had earlier decided to send a proposal to the Centre to set up the bulk drug park in Una district.The Indian pharmaceutical industry is the third largest in the world by volume. However, India is significantly dependent on import of basic raw materials viz. bulk drugs that are used to produce medicines. In some specific bulk drugs, the import dependence is 80 to 100%.Besides existing incentives, the industry expects more sops to attract investment and become self-reliant. “To make the scheme a success, we have appealed to the government to do away with minimum investment cap on availing production-linked incentive scheme for greenfield projects for bulk drugs and extend it to brownfield plants as well,” said Dr Dinesh Dua, whole-time director, Nectar Lifesciences, and chairman, Pharmexcil.The Centre is likely to announce the name of selected states by December.States such as Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh have also applied for medical devices park.
17-10-2020||---||Anti-terror braveheart shot in Punjab||PK Jaiswar & GurbaxpuriBhikhiwind, October 16Shaurya Chakra awardee Comrade Balwinder Singh (Sandhu) Bhikhiwind (62) was today shot dead by two unidentified assailants on his residence-cum-school premises, months after the government withdrew his security cover. SIT to probe, CM vows actionAssailants opened fire on him while he was opening the gate of the school. He was taken to a hospital where doctors declared him “brought dead”. He had suffered five bullet injuries. The Bhikhiwind police station is only 100 metres away from the crime spot.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale said a case had been registered and all possible angles were being looked into. The deceased’s family members claimed it was an attack by terrorists.“Comrade Balwinder Singh was on the hit list of terrorists. Even after repeated requests, the police failed to provide security to the family,” said Balwinder’s wife Jagdish Kaur. Balwinder had fought bravely against terrorism for years. He had trained even his children to fight against militants. His exploits made it to the international media, including National Geographic. The Union Government awarded him Shaurya Chakra in 1993. “Balwinder Singh Sandhu and his brother Ranjit Singh Sandhu are opposed to the activities of terrorists. They were on the hit list of terrorists. The terrorists, so far, have made 16 attempts to wipe out the Sandhu family within about 11 months,” the citation for the gallantry award said.His is the only family in the country that has received four Shaurya Chakras. Besides Balwinder and his wife Jagdish Kaur, his elder brother Ranjit and his wife Balraj Kaur also received the Shaurya Chakra.Balwinder’s house was located near the ancestral house of Parmjit Singh Panjwar, self-styled chief of the Khalistan Commando Force, who was later declared India’s “most wanted terrorist”.Panjwar himself led several attacks on the house of the Sandhus. Their house was attacked with rocket launchers hand grenades etc. for over 40 times. When the police failed to come to their rescue, the Sandhus decided to arm themselves.“Terrorist attacked us numerous times and 42 FIRs were on record,” said Jagdish Kaur.Though the deceased was a state-level leader of the CPM when he fought against terrorism, he joined the Revolutionary Marxists Party of India (RMPI) about two years ago.DIG, Ferozepur range, HS Mann visited the crime site.
17-10-2020||Balwant Garg||Inflated MRPs of medicines, Red Cross reveals it all||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 16Don’t take the MRP (maximum retail price) of a medicine as its actual price. Many times the MRP, the price mentioned on a medicine strip or bottle, is 10 times more than the drug’s actual cost.The fact was highlighted by the Red Cross Society in Faridkot, which today released a list of over 90 medicines that carried an MRP 5 to 10 times more than the sale price being offered by its outlets.The society is running four medicine shops at three civil hospitals in the district and the local government medical college. “As there’s a huge difference in the actual price and the MRP, we decided to release a list of 93 medicines generally used for various ailments,” the Red Cross authorities here said. Most of these medicines have a highly inflated MRP on the package. For instance, the commonly used antibiotic Ozon-OZ has a printed MRP of Rs 120 but the drug is available for Rs 26 at the Red Cross shop.Painkillers Piroxygen-DT and Sachahe ASP carry a printed MRP of Rs 71 and Rs 90, respectively, but are available at Rs 7 and Rs 18. Rabibak-DSR, a medicine for acidity, is sold for Rs 16 against the Rs 110 MRP.“We are not selling these medicines at any discount or loss. The MRP of medicines and surgical equipment is at times 10 times more than the cost price,” said Subash Chander, secretary of the Red Cross Society, Faridkot.The Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers recommends that the MRP should not exceed more than 50 to 100 per cent of the manufacturing cost of the drugs. However, the MRP of the drugs of some reputed pharmaceutical companies is more than 500 to 1,000 per cent of its actual cost of production, said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences.“Only the government and society can jointly fight the corrupt practice. We need a Lokpal-like institution to tackle the menace,” said Sadhu Ram Deora, president, Lok Manch, a voluntary organisation in Kotkapura.Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, president of the Bhai Kanhaiya Cancer Roko Sewa Society, said. “We have raised the matter with the Centre and state government and requested pharma firms to stop this unethical practice.”
17-10-2020||Solan||Himachal Pradesh lookout notice for Punjab ‘fraudster’||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Himachal Pradesh, today issued a lookout notice for Hoshiarpur resident Ranjeet Singh Kang (44) wanted in cases of cheating and criminal conspiracy. Bureau’s Additional Director-General Anurag Garg said the two cases had been registered in Solan and Shimla in November 2019.Kang would allegedly persuade buyers to purchase vehicles on loan from finance companies, promising that these would be rented out to private companies. Thereafter, he would fraudulently take these away, leaving the gullible buyers in the lurch.While Kang is yet to be traced, his four accomplices have been arrested and eight vehicles recovered. — TNS
17-10-2020||Tribune ReportersFazilka||BKU (Lakhowal) rejoins ‘rail roko’ stir||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) rejoined the “rail roko” agitation in Fazilka today. The president of the BKU Fazilka unit, Gurbhej Singh, said, “We were part of the agitation and will continue to be so. We will work in tandem with other unions in the larger interest of the farmers.”Office-bearers of the BKU (Lakhowal) were suspended from the coordination committee for moving the Supreme Court against farm laws without taking other organisations into confidence. Since then, activists of the Lakhowal group were not being allowed to take part in the agitation. Later, the union withdrew the petition. Today, their activists protested on a railway track with others.Support for Haryana farmersAmritsar: The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has condemned the Haryana Government for getting an FIR registered against their counterparts in the state over the death of a farmer during a BJP tractor rally in support of farm laws in Ambala.A 72-year-old farmer had died on October 14 and the case was registered against several persons after the deceased’s son claimed some protesters were behind his father’s death.Terming it a political move aimed at scuttling the farmers’ protest, committee state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher claimed the case was wrongly twisted at the insistence of the BJP government in Haryana.“Our colleague in Haryana told us the farmer had died of heart attack and no one could be blamed for the unfortunate incident. He had suffered heart attack twice earlier too. But the Haryana Police were made to file a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder), IPC, against our supporters with the intention of disrupting our protest,” he said. The committee had been blocking the rail track near Devi Daspura village for the past 22 days to protest the farm Acts.He said the BJP’s MP-level meeting was held with Haryana farmers which too remained inconclusive.The committee urged the Chief Minister to grant at least Rs 20 lakh relief each to the next of kin of farmers who died during the ongoing agitation in Budhlada and Sangrur.
17-10-2020||Muktsar||Now, Raja Warring faces farmers’ wrath, shown black flags||A day after some farmers blocked the way of senior BJP leader Vijay Sampla at Maha Badhar village here, a large number of farmers today lodged a protest over Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring’s visit to Gurusar village in his Gidderbaha Assembly segment. They waved black flags outside a house where Warring had gone to meet some party workers.‘NO ENTRY’ STICKERS at gidderbaha VILLAGEA majority of the people in this village have already announced that they will not allow any politician to visit anybody in their area in the wake of their protest against the farm laws. They have even pasted stickers outside their houses telling politicians to stay away.Notably, a majority of the people in this village have already announced that they will not allow any politician to visit anybody in their area in the wake of their protest against the farm laws. They have even pasted stickers outside their houses telling politicians to stay away.So when Warring, in a cavalcade, reached the house of a Congress activist in the village today, a number of farmers gathered outside and lodged a protest by showing black flags. They even raised slogans like “Warring go back”.Sensing gravity of the situation, a police party, led by the Gidderbaha DSP, reached the spot.Hardeep Bhangal, a resident of Gurusar village, said, “We lodged a protest against farm laws when Warring visited our village today. Though the police did not allow us to go near him, we showed him black flags. We are not targeting any particular individual or political outfit, our protest is against all politicians. We don’t want any politician to visit the village until the farm laws are revoked.”
17-10-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||460 panels set up in Fatehgarh Sahib to stop BJP leaders||Members of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have decided to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in all blocks of Fatehgarh Sahib district on Saturday, said Gurmeet Singh Roorki, district president, BKU (Sidhupur) here today.He said no BJP leader would be allowed to enter the villages. He said they had formed committees comprising farmers and youths in 460 villages of the district that will keep a close watch on leaders. If anyone entered any village, he will be gheraoed and kept hostage. — OC
17-10-2020||Jalandhar||Did Youth Congress avenge Rahul Gandhi’s blockade in Hathras, asks Vijay Sampla||Former Union Minister Vijay Sampla today questioned the state government over whether the action against him yesterday was a “revenge” for Rahul Gandhi being prevented from meeting the Hathras rape victim’s family during his first visit. Sampla said if the state government did not arrest the culprits in the Fazilka incident within two days, he shall be “forced to take the next step”.Addressing the media here, Sampla said, “The way I was prevented from meeting the family shows that the government is shielding the culprits. Rather than nabbing the accused, it is targeting the family of the victim. Youth Congress workers blocked me yesterday. Everything was managed by the Congress.”Sampla said, “The farmers did not stop us. We are standing with them but the Congress and other parties are using the farmers’ protest for their own interests. I want to appeal to farmers to be advised on this. I also exhort them to back us on the issue of justice to Dalits.” — TNS
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||BJP leaders instigating farmers: Sunil Jakhar||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar today said there was a larger political design behind BJP leaders’ confrontation with protesting farmers.Referring to former Union Minister Vijay Sampla staging a protest yesterday after being stopped by farmers, Jakhar said it was done to undermine the struggle of farmers.“Any sensible man can understand as to why the BJP ministers were not sitting across the table with farmers to listen to them and give their point of view. Instead, they are trying to have a face-off with farmers to give a different colour to the issue,” he said.“Despite the police telling Sampla to take an alternative route, he insisted on taking the route on which the farmers were protesting knowing well they would register their protest on seeing a BJP leader. He was looking for a confrontation with farmers,” Jakhar said. — TNS
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder indulging in theatrics: Harpal Cheema||Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday alleged that Chief Minister Amarinder Singh was maintaining double standards over the Centre’s farm laws. He alleged that the government was scared of the relentless farmers due to which it was indulging in theatrics to mislead the community.Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Cheema termed the one-day session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha convened by the government on October 19 as a mere “eyewash”. He said the government should have extended the session by at least seven days, keeping in view the seriousness of the issue.Cheema reiterated that AAP had been trying to convene a joint meeting of all political parties, agronomists, farmers’ organisations and other stakeholders ahead of the session so that a unanimous decision could be put across in the Assembly to annul the laws. He slammed the government saying that it was running away from the farmers and the Opposition. He alleged that the corruption-riddled Capt Amarinder government was playing a pawn to the Modi government to camouflage its own failings and foibles.Cheema said had the state government been serious about the issue, all the political parties and farmers’ organisations would have been aware of what legislative steps the government was going to take during the special Assembly session to save Punjab from the impact of the laws. He alleged till Friday, no agenda had been made available to AAP.
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||SAD’s Bill seeks removal of amendments to 2017 Act||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today submitted a private member’s Bill in the Vidhan Sabha secretariat calling for removal of amendments to the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 2017, to prevent farmers of the state from being exploited at the hands of private entities.SAD legislature party leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said the Bill sought to undo the damage done to farmers’ interests by way of amendments introduced to the Act by the Congress government.Dhillon said the amended Act had put farmers at the mercy of private players as far as pricing and sale of their produce was concerned.He said establishment of private marketing yards and direct purchase of produce from farmers had taken away the protection that had earlier been given under the Act.Stating that it was of utmost urgency to protect the interests of farmers, Dhillon requested Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh to allow the amendment Bill to be introduced in the forthcoming special Assembly session by waiving the mandatory notice period of 15 days needed to move the Bill.
17-10-2020||Sangrur||School dropout bucks the trend of stubble burning||At a time when many farmers of the state are adamant on burning paddy stubble on the pretext of lack of required equipment, Daljeet Singh (55) from Kakra village has set an example as he has been cultivating various crops on 220 acres without burning stubble for the past five years.He has also been trying to spread awareness about the ill-effects of stubble burning. He owns 70 acres in Kakra and 150 acres in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh.“I have studied only up till class VIII but since I wanted to save the environment, I have been taking help of educated members in my family and government officers. From the past five years, we have not burnt crop residue,” the farmer said.At Kakra village, he has been cultivating maize, potato and paddy, while in MP he sows soybean, mustard and wheat.“The burning of residue takes away the nutrients of land. Also, I noticed that per acre production of crops has increased after we shunned stubble burning,” he said.His son Harkanwal Singh also helps Daljeet in farming. “Though I am preparing for civil services, I help my father by apprising him about the latest techniques,” Harkanwal said.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said special teams of the Agriculture Department had been visiting almost all villages of the district to convince farmers against burning stubble.Daljinder Singh, another farmer from Chathe Nakte village of Sangrur, cultivates various crops on 18 acres and has refrained from burning stubble from the last 10 years.“After I shunned stubble burning seven years back, my per acre production of crops increased. I have been getting all support from the Agriculture Department and requesting other members of my community to stop burning crop residue,” said Gurdeep Singh, a farmer from Mehal Kalan of Barnala.Besides, officers of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kheri, have also been organising training camps in various villages.“I, along with our officers, have been visiting various villages to convince farmers against burning of fields. We have got a encouraging response so far,” said Tej Pratap Singh Phoolka, Barnala DC.
17-10-2020||Our CorrespondentAbohar||Kisan Mazdoor Union flays cops for inaction in assault case||The Kisan Mazdoor Union organised a protest march here to flay the police for delay in the arrest of 22 persons who were booked for assault on Hans Raj Golden, Secretary, CPI district unit. The procession passed through main roads of the town with participants raising slogans against the police.Senior union leader Avtar Singh said on October 6, Golden and other CPI leaders had demanded the arrest of Amandeep Kamboj, alias Skoda, who was involved in cases of fraud.He alleged Skoda had been declared a proclaimed offender by the court, but the police were hesitant to take any action against him due to patronisation by some senior police officers.He had been held a few years back when he claimed proximity to the then Director General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini during the SAD-BJP rule.The CPI had announced to stage a dharna outside the office of SSP, Fazilka, on October 13. Before activists could stage the protest, some persons allegedly assaulted Golden, resulting in fractures in his leg and hand.
17-10-2020||Bathinda||NRIs call convention in US on October 17||Punjabi NRIs have called a national convention over three farm laws on October 17 at GN Event Centre in Virginia in the USA. All parties and organisations have been given an open invitation.Representatives of all political parties, organisations and clubs are slated to participate and put forward their views.The banner of the event reads “Na main Akali, na main Congress, te na main AAP, main haan Kisan”.Organiser Mehtab Singh, who is the director of the Sikh Political Affairs Committee, US, while talking to The Tribune over phone, said, “Office-bearers of all political parties — Congress, SAD, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab Ekta Party and SAD (Democratic) — and various other organisations will participate in this convention and will present their views on farm laws.”He said Punjabi NRIs would be made aware of farmers’ woes so that they could participate in getting these laws revoked.Mehtab said, “Various clubs, including Punjabi Club Maryland, Ek Punjabi, United Punjabi, Chardikala Sports Club, World United Guru Nanak Ek, Sikh Community Center Maryland, Young Professional Network and others have announced to participate in this convention.”Moreover, he said street meetings over the issue were already taking place in the US and protests would be intensified.At public meetings over this issue, Punjabi NRIs claim they are from families with a farming background and many of them still had agricultural land in Punjab and a large number of their relatives were involved in agriculture. They said this was the right time to stand with Punjab’s farmers and to raise their voice at all platforms to get the laws revoked.Punjabi NRIs from the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Italy, France and other countries have come forward to voice their solidarity with farmers on the issue.Leaders of farmer unions say the solidarity is unprecedented. “Never in the history have NRIs taken part in a protest movement on such a large scale. They have come out in unison against these farm laws,” said a leader.
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Nine private schools lose NOC for flouting Covid norms||Coming down heavily on private schools for violating government instructions during the Covid-19 pandemic, School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla has cancelled no objection certificates (NOCs) given to nine schools in various districts.Singla said he had been monitoring complaints against such schools and after reviewing the cases of th nine schools, he had decided to cancel their NOCs for defying government directions.The minister had put out his personal email ID — vijayindersingla@gmail.com — to receive complaints against wrongdoings by private school managements.He said after receiving the complaints against the schools, the Education Department served notices to the managements and after finding their replies unsatisfactory, their NOCs were cancelled.He said the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government would not allow school managements exploit employees or flout other instructions.Two of the schools were from Amritsar district, three from Ludhiana and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur, Bathinda and Jalandhar districts, he said.The schools are: Delhi Public School and Devindra International School, Amritsar district; Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar, DAV Public School, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, and Amrit Indo-Canadian Academy, Ladian Khurd, in Ludhiana; Baalak Yesu Convent School, Phatak Majra village, Fatehgarh Sahib, Rayat Bahra International School, Hoshiarpur, Indo Swiss International Convent School, Jalandhar, and The Vibgyor School Ramgarh, Bathinda.
17-10-2020||Patiala||Patiala’s Ishita tops Punjab in NEET||Ishita Garg, 18, secured an All-India Rank (AIR) 24 in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and topped the state. She got 706 marks out of 720 in the medical examination, the results of which were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) late Friday evening.Ishita, who had secured 97.2 per cent marks in the Class XII board examination, said the Covid-induced lockdown helped her a lot in her preparation for NEET. She said, “The lockdown made the difference for me. I did self-study for 8-10 hours during the lockdown.”Giving credit to her parents, who are doctors in Nabha, Ishita said her mother was the “guiding angel” in her journey.
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab RERA is meant to be multi-member body: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) is meant to be a multi-member body and is expected to function as such. The Bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted there was no provision in the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, which envisaged the authority to function as single member while exercising quasi-judicial or adjudicatory functions.Conclusions and directionsThe Bench also quashed Regulations 7 and 8 of the Punjab RERA Procedure Regulations-2017. The Bench, during the course of the hearing, was told that the regulations delegated the authority’s adjudicatory functions to a single member. The Bench asserted it was unable to sustain the validity of Regulations 7 and 8 and quashed them on the ground of being ultra vires.The Bench upheld the appointment of former IPS officer Sanjiv Gupta as the authority member. But it also ruled that the judicial functions of the appellate tribunal in the state of Punjab could not be exercised by a single-member Bench. “Any order passed by a single-member Bench of the appellate tribunal will be null and void in law,” it said.The Bench also set aside orders passed by the appellate tribunal’s single member for want of jurisdiction and “not on any other ground”. The orders of the authority’s single member, forming the subject matter of the appeals before appellate tribunal, were also set aside. “The result will be that the complaints will stand remanded to the authority to be disposed of in accordance with law,” the Bench added.
17-10-2020||---||Recoveries surpass daily case surge in Punjab||Chandigarh, October 16In what can be viewed as a positive sign, the number of recoveries is almost double the number of new Covid cases being reported. Corroborating this, 979 patients have recovered as against 507 fresh cases having been reported today.Besides, the state has recorded 26 deaths in the past 24 hours.The number of fresh cases continues to fall, and so does the fatality rate.The industrial city of Ludhiana has reported maximum number of new cases at 68, and has recorded five more deaths.Amritsar continues to keep the health authorities on toes, as the district has topped the toll chart with six deaths, while the number of new cases reported is 40. Jalandhar, too, is showing signs of improvement with 54 new cases and three casualties. As many as 60 cases have been reported in Patiala.
17-10-2020||Ludhiana||Enrol kids for NTSE by November 2, DEOs told||In a letter issued to all District Education Officers (DEOs) in the state, the Education Department has asked them to get desired students registered for the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), stage 1, by November 2.Assistant Director, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), stated in the letter that the date for the NTSE (stage 1) is December 13. While many students expressed willingness to get themselves registered, many schools are not cooperating with students on the issue of registration.The department has asked the authorities concerned to be in touch with private, aided and affiliated schools so that more and more students can get themselves registered for the exam.Besides, the department has made a strategy to coach students for the exam so that maximum pupils can clear it and avail scholarships.For students studying in government schools, extra efforts are being made by the department, and the SCERT is preparing a list of experts to prepare modules and study material for them. The study material will be accessible to all students across the state through the Punjab Educare app. In government schools, NTSE coordinators have been appointed to shortlist the prospective students for the exam. — TNS
17-10-2020||Sangrur||Eight booked for abetting suicide in Malerkotla||The Malerkotla police have registered an abetment to suicide case against eight persons, a day after three members of a family allegedly consumed a poisonous substance, leaving a woman and her daughter dead. Her son Shivam Jindal is battling for life at a Patiala hospital.Malerkotla DSP Pawanjit said in his statement to the police, Shivam claimed he had taken Rs 4 lakh loan from a local financier, but the latter, in connivance with certain locals, forged documents and started forcing them to repay Rs 22 lakh.“We have registered a case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC against eight persons and are conducting further investigations,” he said. — TNS
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ensure potable water in govt schools by November 30, says Punjab CM||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has directed the Water Supply and Sanitation Department to ensure clean drinking water and toilets in all government schools and anganwadi centres in the state by November 30 to protect the health of children, especially in the present Covid situation.Expressing concern over the health problems triggered among children due to lack of potable water and adequate water for sanitation purposes, the Chief Minister has ordered a massive campaign for this purpose under the ‘Mission Tandarust Punjab’ and ‘Swachh and Swasth Punjab’ programme of the government. The campaign will be undertaken with the active participation of school management committees, panchayats and local body representatives.The Chief Minister’s directives were communicated to the Departments of School Education, Social Security, Women and Child Development, Finance, Local Government, Rural Development and Water Supply and Sanitation by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.Chairing a meeting, Mahajan asked the Departments of Local Government and Water Supply and Sanitation to take immediate steps to ensure piped drinking water supply and toilets in all government schools and anganwadi centres as per the requirements projected by the respective departments.Principal Secretary, Social Security Women and Child Development, Raji P Shrivastava and Secretary, School Education, Krishan Kumar said there were 27,302 anganwadi centres and 19,146 government schools in the state which shall be targeted during the campaign for ensuring clean drinking water and access to toilets.Principal Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation, Jaspreet Talwar said Rs 38.76 crore had been provided to the Department of School Education for the construction of 7,152 toilet seats in schools and ensuring water for sanitation in 467 schools.
17-10-2020||Ludhiana||Gold loot thwarted, 4 shot at in Ludhiana||In a broad daylight robbery bid, six armed men today held local Muthoot Finance office staff captive and attempted to loot 30 kg gold worth Rs 15 crore before being chased by public and police, ending in the arrest of three suspects. In the melee, four persons suffered bullet injuries.Suspects came from BiharPolice Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the suspects, who had come from Bihar for the robbery, had rented a room in ChandigarhOver a few days, they rode all the way to Ludhiana daily to case the office before returning to Chandigarh for the nightMinutes after the staff opened the company’s Dugri road office around 9.15 am, six masked men arrived there on motorcycles. Five of them entered the office located on the first floor and held the staff captive at gunpoint. They filled their bags with around 30 kg gold.Since the staff could not mark their attendance, company’s Delhi control room got suspicious and checked the CCTV cameras, only to find that a robbery was on in its Ludhiana branch. The Delhi staff alerted the Ludhiana police, following which cops from the Model Town police station reached the spot.As the robbers tried to flee on motorcycles, the company staff, public and police challenged them. Cornered, the robbers fired over a dozen rounds, injuring three staff members and a civilian.The injured were indentified as Muthoot employees Mahinder Singh, Aditya Sharma and Surinder Kumar and civilian Daljit Singh. Also, staffer Umesh Kumar suffered a fracture while fighting with the robbers.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, Additional DCP - 3 Sameer Verma, ACP Jatinder Singh reached the spot to supervise the investigation.While three suspects were captured, the other fled the scene. Those arrested have been identified as Roshan Kumar Tatiya (23), Sourav Kumar (18), both of Vaishali, Bihar, and Kamlesh Kumar, 25, of Nalanda, Bihar.Three pistols, 30 live cartridges, five magazines, four mobile phones, three Pulsar motorcycles, and a bag containing tape rolls, ropes, keys, nail cutter, handcuffs and some other equipment were recovered from their possession.The police were verifying whether the suspects came from Bihar on motorcycles or used some other mode of transport. He said company employees, public and cops displayed bravery in nabbing the suspects and would be rewarded by the police department. Interestingly, a video went viral showing the staff cornering the robbers and an unarmed policeman seen challenging the suspects, braving a barrage of fire.
17-10-2020||Amritsar||Sikh activists to file case over missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib||The SAD (Amritsar) today decided to register criminal proceedings against those found guilty of misappropriation of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’.On the other hand, some SGPC members said the apex body had abdicated its responsibility. On October 5, 18 SGPC members had jointly served a 15-day ultimatum to SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal to initiate criminal action against those held accountable for the misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’, otherwise they would lodge a police complaint.As many as 16 SGPC officials and staff members were indicted by an investigation panel appointed by the Akal Takht.SAD (Amritsar) activist Tarsem Singh Jawarke said the SGPC had taken a U-turn on filing FIRs to save some officials. “Now, we will file a criminal case with the police. The SGPC had withdrawn its decision of registering FIRs with an excuse that the police should not interfere in a religious matter. Why, then, the sacrilege incidents are reported to the police? Why do SGPC president and other officials keep police protection around them? Actually, it was all done to save their blue-eyed officials,” he said.
17-10-2020||Sangrur||Punjab CM to launch development works in 68 Sangrur villages||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will virtually launch development works in over 68 villages of the district on Saturday.The development works worth Rs 10.60 crore include construction of parks in villages, construction of streets, stadiums, renovation of parks, among other things.Arrangements have been made for the meet in various smart schools of the district. Members of panchayats will also be present in the schools.“After the launch of development programmes, we will visit various villages like Bakhopir, Nadampur, Phaguwala and Sakraudi to ensure that the sanctioned grant is being utilised in a transparent manner. Since the formation of our government, we have brought about much needed development across the state,” said Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla, who is also an MLA from Sangrur.The villages where development works will be started fall under the Dirba, Malerkotla, Lehragaga, Sangrur, Bhawanigarh, Sunam and Dhuri subdivisions of the district. “Since the development works had already got stalled in the wake of Covid-19, the Punjab Government must ensure speedy completion of all pending works. Apart from virtual meetings, the CM should also send his team to various villages to take stock of the ongoing development works,” said Gurmale Singh, a farmer from Bhawanigarh area.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Rajinder Batra said they had made all required arrangements.
17-10-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Sacrilege suspect to stay in police custody for seven more days||The police remand of Sehajvir Singh, the accused in the two sacrilege cases in Fatehgarh Sahib, has been extended for seven days. His hearing was held virtually today.Meanwhile, on behalf of the SGPC, senior advocate Amar Deep Singh Dharni presented an application to become party to the case, but the court rejected the application.The SGPC said it would challenge the order in the High Court.Karnail Singh Panjoli, SGPC member, appealed to the police to expose the forces behind such incidents. He said another sacrilege case in Tooran village in Amloh had not yet been solved yet. — OC
17-10-2020||Bathinda||Will march to FM office over thermal plant deal, says AAP||Aam Aadmi Party leaders Baljinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur Ruby on Friday alleged that the state government had doled out the thermal plant land, worth crores of rupees, to some patronised corporate houses for peanuts. Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal was involved in the dubious deal, they said.They said the party would stage a protest march on Saturday at 11 am against the open ‘loot’ of the land by certain corporate houses, in collusion with their political masters. The march would start from the Fire Brigade chowk and members will walk to the office of Finance Minister, and escalate pressure on the Chief Minister to roll back the government’s decision of selling the land.The AAP leaders said, “The government is openly giving away the land to corporate houses in the name of developing a drug park there. The land is being leased out to them for 33 years at Re 1, which might be extended up to 99 years. The corporate houses will also be provided power at Rs 2 per unit and water at Re 1 per litre.”The AAP legislators blamed the Finance Minister and questioned, “How the thermal plant land was transferred in the name of PUDA without the statutory approval of the BOD, and in the absence of any agreement?”“The total cost of the project is Rs 1,878 crore, of which the Central Government is contributing Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 878 crore is being given by the state. The government should restart the thermal plant immediately instead of selling it to private players,” the MLAs said.
17-10-2020||Abohar||BJP Mahila Morcha leader, spouse held in Abohar||The police today arrested former councillor and BJP Mahila Mandal (South) president Raj Rani Goyal and her husband Raj Kumar Goyal in connection with a case of cheating and forgery.Sources said Ajay Kumar of Azeemgarh colony, in a complaint, alleged the Goyal family had tampered with revenue documents related to the sale of a residential plot and later indulged in theft of some records.The complaint was investigated by an official of the Revenue Department. After taking opinion of the legal cell, the police registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forging will), 471 (use of forged document), 457 (trespass), 380 (theft) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Their son Amit was also named in the FIR but he was not present in the house when the arrests happened. The accused are likely to be produced in a court tomorrow. — OC
17-10-2020||Sangrur||Punjab teachers’ front demands regularisation of staff||Hundreds of teachers from Punjab, under the banner of Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), today organised a rally in Sangrur, and sent a letter to Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla through Naib Tehsildar, Sangrur, in protest against non-fulfilment of their long-pending demands.To protest on November 9Senior leaders of the DTF said they would protest in front of the Education Secretary office in Mohali on November 9, if the government failed to meet their demandsThey alleged that they had sent memoranda of demands in May and June, but they did not receive any reply from Punjab Education Minister or the Chief MinisterTheir main demands include regularisation of services of contractual teaching and non-teaching staff, special chance for transfer to teachers posted at a long distance from their homes and promotion of teachers.The teachers and senior leaders of the DTF gathered at the local BSNL Park, and marched towards the residence of Singla, where they raised slogans.Senior leaders of the DTF said they would protest in front of the Education Secretary office in Mohali on November 9, if the government failed to meet their demands. “Despite our repeated requests, the state government is acting irresponsible and not taking our demands seriously,” alleged Devinder Singh Punia, state president, DTF.“The state government is making tall claims of bringing improvement in education. However, its non-seriousness towards teachers’ demands has exposed that all claims are only on paper,” said Raghuvir Bhawanigarh, state vice-president, DTF.
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Stone laid for defence accounts staff buildings||The foundation stone for the office and residential accommodation as well as transit family for Defence Accounts Department (DAD) staff at Amritsar, Kapurthala and Yol was laid at a virtual ceremony at Chandigarh today.The ceremony was organised online, with the Controller General of Defence Accounts, Sanjiv Mittal, joining in from New Delhi.The residential buildings will provide accommodation to all DAD staff working at Amritsar, Kapurthala and Yol. The office buildings at Amritsar and Kapurthala will provide better services to the Army units under the jurisdiction of these offices and better facilities to the pensioners. The buildings are being constructed at Rs 14.42 crore. — TNS
17-10-2020||Bathinda||Kin seek release of war veteran assaulted in West Bengal||The wife and 16-year-old son of Balwinder Singh, a Black Cat commando and veteran of the Kargil war, who was allegedly assaulted and arrested by the police in Howrah, West Bengal, have been running from pillar to post seeking his release.Karamjit Kaur and her son had visited Howrah from Barkandi village in Bathinda along with Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. They met the Governor of West Bengal, who promised them justice. Sikh organisations in West Bengal have joined hands and submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in this regard.Notably, Balwinder, now retired, has been serving as the personal security officer of West Bengal BJP leader Priyanshu Pandey and was arrested by the Kolkata police for carrying a gun during BJP’s protest rally.Talking to The Tribune over the phone, Karamjit said, “My husband has done no harm to anyone. I fear for his life. I couldn’t stay home and decided to fight against the injustice. In the garb of an investigation, the WB police have illegally detained my husband while there aredeliberate attempts of giving political overtones to the issue.”Sirsa, in a video posted on the social media, has condemned the act of the local police and “unsupportive” approach of the state government.Rupinder Singh, Balwinder’s cousin, who accompanied his wife to WB, said, “We have been exploring every possible alternative for Balwinder’s release and seeking support from all quarters to get strict punishment to the police personnel, who not only beat him but also tossed his turban and dragged him by his hair, thereby hurting religious sentiments of the Sikh community.”“At the protest venue, the pistol carried by Balwinder was a licensed one but the WB police have slapped stringent sections against him that may sentence him for life,” he said.Gurtej Singh (71), father of Balwinder, said, “In the video circulated on the social media, my son can be clearly seen urging the police not to toss his turban but they did it thrice and then dragged him by his hair. Nothing can be more shameful than this. The Sikh community must stand united to ensure his safe and secure release.”
17-10-2020||Morinda||Man booked for murder of 21-year-old youth||Body of missing youth found in canalAbohar: The body of a youth, who went missing on Tuesday, has been found in a canal in Sriganganagar. The victim, identified as Deepak Goyal (28), was the only son of his parents. He had opened a coaching centre last year, which had to be shut due to the lockdown. He could not manage any other business and felt frustrated. OC
