17-11-2020||New Delhi||AAP demands cases to be lodged against Punjab, Haryana CMs for stubble-burning||The AAP wants to appeal to the Air Quality Commission as well as the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance and lodge cases of criminal negligence against the chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab for pollution plaguing Delhi due to stubble-burning, party spokesperson Atishi said on Tuesday.Addressing a press conference, she said the people of the national capital are unable to breathe in clean air due to stubble-burning in Punjab and Haryana.The pollution caused by stubble-burning has further weakened the lungs of people, which were already affected due to COVID-19, the Kalkaji MLA said.“We want to appeal to the Air Quality Commission as well as the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the matter and file cases against the chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab. We demand that cases of criminal negligence must be filed against them. It is their criminal negligence because of which Delhi-NCR and the entire north India are suffering from a public health emergency,” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said. PTI
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Not against corporates, but need regulation to protect farmers’ interests: Amarinder||Expressing concern over the difference of opinion between the state and central governments on the agricultural bills, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said his government was not against corporates but it had to ensure farmers’ interests were protected. “We are not against corporates but there has to be a regulation to protect the farmers and the long-standing relationship they have with the Arhtiyas,” he said at the USA-Punjab Investors’ Roundtable 2020 that he inaugurated.“Any attempt to do away with this system will not work,” he asserted, adding that his government had brought in Bills in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to negate the impact of the central farm laws and had also taken up the issue with the Prime Minister, the Union Home Minister, among others.“We have to ensure food security, what is plenty today may not be there tomorrow,” he pointed out, adding that India was currently exporting wheat but that could change when its surplus diminished.“The country has to keep its reserves,” he said at the virtual inaugural session of the USA-Punjab Investors’ Roundtable 2020.Appreciating the growing interest of American companies in Punjab, which contributes 3 per cent to India’s GDP with just 1.5 per cent of the country’s land area, the Chief Minister said earlier that while it was predominantly an agricultural state and home to India’s Green Revolution, his government wanted agriculture to become more high-value now, with greater growth in the overseas market.Inviting the investors to enjoy the state’s unique business-friendly culture that promoted entrepreneurship, he pointed out that USA was the top export destination (USD 685 million amounting to approx. 12% of Punjab’s total exports in 2019-20) for Punjab-based companies.At the outset, the Chief Minister congratulated the US on the completion of its electoral process and on the election of Joe Biden and Kamla Harris as President and Vice President elect, respectively. He hoped this would usher in a new era of cooperation and friendship between the US and Punjab.Underlining the role played by the large and vibrant Punjabi NRI population in the US, the Chief Minister said they were working hard to bring success to their countries, with Taranjit Singh Sandhu, currently serving as the Indian Ambassador to the US, a prime example of the synergy that exists between USA & Punjab. Noting that Punjab was the preferred landing place for several American and other foreign investors coming to India, the Chief Minister pointed out that Pepsi and Walmart started their Indian operations at Punjab, and more than 30 American firms, such as Amazon, Walmart, Quark, Cargill, Tyson, Schreiber, Pepsi, Coca Cola currently have operations in Punjab.Referring to the sweeping changes made by his government in the industrial and business policy, the Chief Minister said it was an all-encompassing policy that provides attractive incentives to large units, MSMEs and Start-ups across both, manufacturing and service sectors.Invest Punjab (Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion) is one of its kind with its model of “Unified Regulator”,  the Chief Minister noted, disclosing that more than 66 services from more than 12 departments could be availed at this single-window service portal.“The CEO PBIP is vested with the power to grant state level clearances,” he said, adding that there is an emphasis on equal incentives to expansion and new units in the new policy, which also provides unique police incentives, such as GST reimbursement and liberal employment subsidy (with no domicile restriction).Referring to the gender neutrality prevailing in Punjab’s industry, the Chief Minister noted that 24 hours shifts are allowed in the state for both men and women for all types of industries – manufacturing and service sectors. Later, in response to a question on the Sports industry in the state, Captain Amarinder said Punjab’s industry is largely constituted of MSMEs.
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||30 more Covid deaths, 515 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday reported 30 more deaths due to coronavirus, pushing the toll to 4,510, while 515 new cases took the infection tally to 1,42,597 in the state, as per a medical bulletin.There are 5,821 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.The places which reported new coronavirus cases included Ludhiana (92), Jalandhar (76), Mohali (76) and Patiala (59).A total of 265 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,32,266, as per the bulletin.Twenty critical patients are on ventilator support while 152 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 29,01,513 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. — PTI
17-11-2020||GS Paul||Akal Takht officiating jathedar appeals to Sikhs to unite against ‘anti-Panthic’ forces||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 17Amid facing flak over ‘missing’ Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ and allegedly underplaying fire incident that damaged the holy scriptures in May 2016, the SGPC on Tuesday commemorated its centenary at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in Golden Temple complex.Nonetheless, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh attempted to justify the SGPC’s action taken against misappropriation of 328 saroops and also tried to pave the political pitch of SAD with its president Sukhbir Singh Badal also present on the dais.Taking a dig at the dissident Akalis, Jathedar said SAD is the ‘son’ of SGPC and no force can ever break this relationship. Since 2004, SAD had established its supremacy over the SGPC, post the era of Gurcharan Singh Tohra.He advised the SAD leadership to conduct ‘Punjab to Panth’ march so that no one could disassociate ‘son’ (SAD) from its mother (SGPC).While clarifying the practicality of knowing the whereabouts of ‘missing’ saroops, he said, “How could the SGPC be held liable to disclose the saroops’ dislocation when it was the misappropriation done by some of its officials and staff members fraudulently? This issue was being given a wrong twist equating it to be sacrilege incident, whereas it was a matter of corruption and administrative lapses. Required action has already been taken in the matter and officials responsible were dismissed and suspended,” he said.Recalling the episode of locking SGPC’s Teja Singh Samundri Hall office twice by the protesting Sikh outfits, including Satkar Committee members, he asked the SAD workers to don ‘aggressive’ approach against such anti-Panthic forces. “I want to tell the ‘son’ (SAD) of the SGPC that if any ‘sirfire’ (disgruntled element) dared to repeat it, don’t stay indoors, come to Amritsar and confront them,” he said.He added that to destabilise that ‘Panth’, the Centre, which comes out of EVMs, wanted to break the SGPC and run all Gurdwaras by forming Trusts controlled by it on the pattern of Temples because the SGPC was a State in itself. Taking an opportunity, Sukhbir also unfolded his blueprint and goal for the future Punjab. Elaborating the works of development, Sikh history and war memorials during SAD’s tenure, he said, “When we form a govt, our maximum stress would be on health and education. Preserving the great Sikh and Punjab heritage will be the another focus area. In addition, we focus on world class infrastructure, and strive to clean our rivers and canals. But all this can only be achieved if we remain united and defeat those who want to divide us,” he added.Describing Congress as ‘worst enemy of Sikhs’, he said, “Since the founding of the Khalsa more than 320 years ago, the Sikhs have faced three enemies, the Mughals, the British and the Congress. Of these, only Ahmad Shah Abdali and Indira Gandhi were responsible for demolition of Akal Takht. Now, some people want to gain control of our shrines with the same Congress sponsorship.”He said throughout a century, the ‘Khalsa Panth’ has entrusted its faith in SAD. “Only the Sangat has the right to decide on the religious affairs of the community,” he said.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the issue of “patitpana” besides strengthening the “Dharam Parchar Lehar”. He said the SGPC would establish an advisory committee to resolve grievances of Sikhs worldwide. He said it was unfortunate that despite an announcement the centre had not released Sikh detainees who had completed their jail terms. He said an Art Gallery would also be established as part of the 100 year celebrations. Others who spoke on the occasion included Golden Temple head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh, Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, Takht Patna Sahib Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh, DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa and Bibi Jagir Kaur.
17-11-2020||Mohali||Moga sex scandal: Mohali police claim to solve double murder case with arrest of gangster||Mohali police claimed to have solved a double murder case of a couple in Ferozepur in 2018 among others after the arrest of a dreaded criminal, Ranbir alias Bira, in a car snatching case in Kurali.An FIR was registered in this case under Sections 392 and 34 of the IPC and under Section 25 of the Arms Act at Kurali City police station on August 10.Bira, a resident of Gurdaspur, who is a close associate of gangster Sukhmeetpal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal and Supreet Singh alias Harry Chatha, confessed his involvement and named his associates who committed some major crimes in Punjab.Ranbir was part of the masked team that killed accused-turned-approver couple of Moga sex scandal. Ranbir along with his associates Harvinder Singh and Bhupinder entered the house of Manjit Kaur and her husband Rajpreet Singh.After removing the CCTV camera, they shot the couple dead in broad daylight. They were carrying three pistols and had used a bike which was arranged by Harwinder Singh Dodhi.Sukh Bhikhariwal was the mastermind of this incident and provided them with financial help, police said.A case under Sections 302, 34 of the IPC and 25 and 27 of the Arms Act was registered at Zira police station in Ferozepur on September 21, 2018.Harvinder Singh Dodhi was also arrested by Gurdaspur police on October 22. Both of them had not disclosed their involvement in the above mentioned incidents, when they were arrested by STF and Gurdaspur police. But now they have confessed their involvement.Ranbir further confessed that he was also a part of the three armed bike-borne attackers, who freed the notorious smuggler Harbhajan Singh alias Rana of Ferozepur from the police custody at a roadside eatery near Ghall Khurd village, on Ferozepur-Moga road on August 18, 2018.They fired on the police team, in which one of the police officials got injured. A case under Sections 307, 225, 34 of the IPC and 25, 27 of the Arms Act was registered at PS GhallKhurd, Ferozepur district on August 18, 2018.The conspiracy to free the notorious smuggler was also hatched on the directions of Bhikhariwal and Harry Chatha. They provided financial aid to them for committing the crime, said police.In 2018, Harvinder Singh Dodhi, Bhupinder alias Bhinda along with one of their associates on directions of Harry Chatha, had tried to kidnap a doctor from Ranjit Avenue, Amritsar, but it was a failed attempt as Bhinda accidently fired from his .30 caliber pistol injuring Dodhi and they fled from the spot.Bhupinder also managed to make his passport on fake particulars from Himachal Pradesh before he was arrested by STF on September 30, 2019 from Jandiala Guru in an Arms Act case. His fake passport has also been recovered now. Further investigation is in progress.The sex scandal came to light in 2007 when a victim of the extortion racket opened up. Two women in connivance with the cops and another accused extorted money from influential localites by threatening to disclose their identities.
17-11-2020||New Delhi||SC reserves order on Punjab ex-DGP Saini's anticipatory bail plea in murder case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its order on former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini's petition seeking anticipatory bail in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case.After hearing arguments from senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi for Saini and senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, representing the Punjab Government, a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said it would pass a reasoned order.The Supreme Court had on September 15 granted interim protection from arrest to Saini and posted his plea for anticipatory bail for hearing after four weeks.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had on September 7 dismissed his anticipatory bail plea."This case is of 1991. After 30 years what is the hurry to arrest him...We will grant you time to file a reply," the Bench had said, adding that he would not be arrested till further orders.However, the top court had asked Saini to cooperate with Punjab Police in the investigation of the case.Multani - a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation - was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack.Saini’s troubles started in May when he was booked at a police station in Mohali along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. The murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.Rohatgi had earlier contended that the Punjab government was after Saini because he had filed two chargesheets in which Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was an accused. "This is why they are after me," he had submitted.In a separate petition, Saini has also challenged a Punjab and Haryana High Court order dismissing his plea for quashing of the FIR in the case.He is also facing trial in a Special CBI Court in Delhi along with three others for alleged kidnapping and disappearance of automobile businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver Mukhtiyar Singh in 1994.
17-11-2020||New Delhi||Indian-American author Divakaruni profiles Rani Jindan in her new novel||Indian-American author Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni's new novel will bring alive one of the most fearless women of the 19th century - the legendary warrior queen Jindan Kaur. "The Last Queen" will be released by HarperCollins India in January 2021, the publishers announced on Tuesday.Daughter of the royal kennel keeper, the beautiful Jindan was Maharaja Ranjit Singh's youngest and last queen besides his favourite. She became regent when her son Dalip, barely six years old, unexpectedly inherited the throne and went on to become a legendary warrior queen.Passionate and dedicated to protecting her son's heritage, Jindan distrusted the British and fought hard to keep them from annexing Punjab. Defying tradition, she stepped out of the zenana, cast aside the veil and conducted state business in public.Addressing her Khalsa troops herself, she inspired her men in two wars against the British. Her power and influence were so formidable that the British, fearing an uprising, robbed the rebel queen of everything she had, including her son.She was imprisoned and exiled. But that did not crush her indomitable will."The Last Queen" is being described by the publishers as an exquisite love story of a king and a commoner, a cautionary tale about loyalty and betrayal, and a powerful parable of the indestructible bond between mother and child.The novel has already been optioned for film rights.Divakaruni said she is delighted to bring the "amazing and largely-forgotten" Maharani Jindan Kaur to readers."From the beginning, I was struck by her strength and unfaltering courage even as she goes through the worst challenges of her life. Delightfully human with her faults and foibles, the resolute Jindan has been an inspiring companion to me through these troubled times," she said."I trust she will do the same for all who pick up this book. I am additionally excited because the book has already been optioned by Endemol Shine for a movie," she added.According to Diya Kar, publisher (commercial) at HarperCollins, Divakaruni's "matchless storytelling is a great gift to the world. What a perfect time to be given this incredible story of a remarkable woman, a real icon for us today".Houston-based Divakaruni has authored books like "The Forest of Enchantments", "Before We Visit the Goddess", "Oleander Girl", "The Mistress of Spices", "Sister of My Heart", "Palace of Illusions" and "One Amazing Thing". "The Mistress of Spices" and "Sister of My Heart" have been adapted into movies. PTI
17-11-2020||Jalandhar||Police arrest 4 drugs smugglers; 11 kg heroin recovered||The rural police on Tuesday arrested four drug smugglers. They recovered 11 kg of heroin.
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Kapil Sharma's name inked on singer Oye Kunaal's hand, here's why||Singer Oye Kunaal is fond of new tattoos. However, one tattoo stands out. It is the name of comedian Kapil Sharma inked on his right hand.Sharing the reason behind the love and respect Oye Kunaal has for Kapil, he said: "There was a phase in my life when my father was suffering from a lot of health issues. I had never seen my father so ill before that. Right now he is fit and fine. At that time the atmosphere in my house was very grim and dark. So, in an atmosphere where people were not talking to each other with ease in the house, Kapil Sharma's show used to be on television.""We used to watch his shows, the re-runs. His shows kept going on and the atmosphere in the house started changing. With his show's laughter, positivity started returning in the household. By that time my father also started responding to the medicines. And I never knew at that time that I would meet Kapil paaji. I wanted to tattoo his name but never really got it," he added.Oye Kunaal also arranged a meeting of his father with Kapil."Eventually I came to Mumbai but still never actually got it inked. Although the thought was always at the back of my mind. After some time I met Kapil paaji, and we developed a good bond. This tattoo is a reminder of the reality of my life. The day I made my father meet Kapil Paaji, I felt as if I have achieved everything in life. It was the single happiest moment for me. I also showed the tattoo to Kapil paaji, and he was so surprised. This is my way of showing love and respect to him," said Oye Kunaal, got the tattoo made last year. IANS
17-11-2020||Parvesh Sharma||5 people burnt alive as car hits truck in Punjab’s Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 17Five people were burnt alive in the car they were travelling in when it caught fire after collision with a truck on the Sangrur-Sunam road.The five car occupants were returning to Moga on Monday night after attending a wedding reception at Dirba town.Among those who died was a doctor."The accident occurred around midnight. The car hit the diesel tank of the truck and the fuel spilled, leading to the car catching fire. The occupants did not get time to come out as the doors got locked. The car had to be cut to extricate the bodies," said the SHO.The truck driver fled the spot, but police said they are hopeful of nabbing him at the earliest.Sangrur DSP Satpal Sharma said the bodies had been moved to Sangrur civil hospital for post-mortem."We have informed the relatives," he said. A senior lawyer and his assistant were burnt alive two days ago as their car caught fire after dashing into a tree near the Phagwara bypass chowk in Hoshiarpur district.
17-11-2020||---||MP Santokh Chaudhary tests positive||Jalandhar, November 16Days after he led a tractor rally at Nakodar in favour of the protesting farmers, Jalandhar MP Santokh Chaudhary tested positive for the Covid-19 contagion on the day of Diwali.His family said he might have contracted the virus during the rally held to mobilise support for the farmers. The 74-year-old MP, who had been active in various events and shobha yatras, has been advised complete rest by doctors. He is under home quarantine.The tractor rally on November 10 saw the presence of AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, Congress leader Jagbir Brar, Shahkot MLA Hardev Singh Ladi Sherowalia and Chaudhary’s son Vikramjit Chaudhary, who is in-charge of the Phillaur Assembly constituency.The rest of the members of his family, including his wife, son and daughter-in-law, have not tested positive.“As I have tested positive for the Covid, I request everyone who has come in contact with me to get himself tested for the virus. Stay safe and take care,” Chaudhary tweeted this message from his Twitter handle on Diwali.On Monday, Vikramjit Chaudhary said, “We think father may have contracted the virus during the tractor rally because he got ill for two days soon after it. He is resting but is expected to be up and about soon. His four doses, as per the medicine course recommended were also completed today.” Chaudhary’s family members have also gone into self-isolation.Meanwhile, Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari also tested positive for the Covid-19 disease on Monday. He also took to Twitter to share this information. He said he got himself tested after running a mild fever.
17-11-2020||---||Sikh bizman gets ‘Community Hero’ award for service||Jalandhar, November 16A California-based businessman, Sandeep Singh Chahal, was awarded on behalf of the California Assembly on October 2 as a 'Community Hero'. The award was presented to him by Assembly member Kansan Chu for his volunteer services during the Covid-19 pandemic.The award ceremony was hosted as the 6th Annual Community Hero Awards Ceremony at the San Jose City College Milpitas Extension (Parking Lot) located in Milpitas. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, this year's ceremony was a 'drive-through' for honourees and those who nominated them.Speaking on the occasion Chahal said the award was for all members of his team who worked day and night along with their family members to serve the community during the Covid-19 pandemic.He said that we not served only to get this award but to follow the teachings of great Gurus. Later assembly member Kansan Chu presented a plaque and certificate to Sandeep Singh Chahal.The community hero awards ceremony is an annual tradition started by California Assembly and community awards are being presented by assembly member Chu. He said for the last five years, honourees were nominated because they dedicated their time and efforts to make the community a better place to live, work, play, and retire. This year, Covid-19 has impacted our community tremendously, but with that impact, we have also seen a rise in the number of unsung heroes that dedicated their time to give back to the community.”We have received the most amount of nominations this year as compared to previous years. “I am so proud to represent a community that is home to so many selfless heroes," said assembly member Kansan Chu.
17-11-2020||---||Scholars discuss ways to liberate Sikh body from politics||Jalandhar, November 16Sikh philosophers on Monday gathered at the KL Saigal memorial to participate in a seminar ‘Dasha te Disha’ to mark the occasion of the centenary of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.All speakers raised a demand to liberate the Sikh body from the control of politicians. Ex-Pro Vice Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University Dr Prithipal Singh Kapoor said the SGPC should not be used as tool to take over its reins but to follow the principles on which it was founded, ie, primarily to maintain the sanctity of Sikhism and the Sikh panth. For this to happen, he emphasised on the need to improvise the election system to the body. He said that it can be worked upon only if there is an overhaul of the gurdwara system so that it can be freed of any kind of politics.He also added that politics is based on complete lies and false claims but SGPC should be all about truthfulness and total transparency.Dr Balkar Singh, former HoD of the Department of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Studies, said that Sri Akal Takht, SGPC and Shiromani Akali Dal have traditionally been the three main Sikh organisations.All three bodies have been using one another directly or indirectly. “So, the Badals cannot be defeated just by mere accusations but the panth needs to chalk out a strategy for the same wherein it needs to specified about ways and means to bifurcate religion from politics,” he also suggested to rope in retired IAS, PCS and officials from other departments to facilitate it.Rajya Sabha MP, Sukhdev S Dhindsa, said he had already specified that the SGPC elections should be allowed to be contested by those who have a pure religious bent of mind and no political thinking.Harjeet Kaur Talwandi, daughter of ex-SGPC chief Jagdev S Talwani, ex-MP Paramjit Kaur Gulshan, SGPC member Paramjit Singh Raipur, Jagjit Singh Gaba and Gurcharan S Channi were among those who attended the event.
17-11-2020||---||US House hailed for recognising Guru Tegh Bahadur’s service to humanity||Amritsar, November 16The Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) on Monday acclaimed the New York (the US) Assembly for recognising Guru Tegh Bahadur as the protector of human rights and the Sikh community for its selfless deeds worldwide, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic.Members of the World Sikh Parliament’s Councils for Religion along with Civil and Human Rights organised the 345th martyrdom day and the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur at the Gurdwara Sikh Center of New York recently. On the occasion, state and city officials from New York joined members of the Sikh community and recognised Guru Tegh Bahadur’s sacrifices to uphold human rights and justice.CKD president Nirmal Singh said it was a proud moment that the Guru’s birthday and martyrdom day would be commemorated in the New York Legislative Assembly which had passed a resolution in this regard.Dharam Prachar Committee chairman Bhag Singh Ankhi and honorary secretary Swainder Singh Kathunangal said, “The move has further enhanced the dignity of the Sikh community globally. The community’s social service beyond racial discrimination also won accolades and Sikhs have won the heart of the local government on foreign soil,” they said.
17-11-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Punjab Govt to talk with Centre for national martyr tag to Kartar Singh Sarabha’||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Nov 16The Punjab Government will take the issue of declaring Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha as ‘National Martyr’ with the Central Government soon.The announcement was made by Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria after paying tributes to the martyr during a state-level martyrdom function held at Sarabha village near here on Monday. Sarkaria announced a grant of Rs5 lakh from his discretionary funds for the sports club of the village.“While our government is committed to promote the ideas of our great martyrs CM Capt Amarinder Singh has already decided to develop and restore all places related to the martyrs,” said Sarkaria claiming that during the Independence Day celebrations at Ludhiana two years ago the chief minister had announced a grant of Rs1.25 cr for the development of Sarabha village.Earlier, Congress leaders led by Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Capt Sandeep Singh Sandhu paid floral tributes at the statue of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha. Meanwhile, football teams of Ajitwal village and Miana village emerged winners and runners-up at the annual football tournament held on the occasion.Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, Chairman, Punjab Youth Development Board; KK Bawa, Chairman, PSIDC; Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma; Karan Warring, Vice-Chairman, PEDA; SDM Baljinder Singh Dhillon and Kuldeep Singh, president of the club, were present on the occasion.The martyrdom day was also observed by the Ludhiana Unit of Communist Party of India. Activists led by district secretary DP Maur, Ramesh Ratan, Charan Sarabha, MS Bhatia, Kewal Banwait , Vijay Kumar, Avtar Chibber and Sham Lal paid homage to Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha by garlanding the statue of the martyr at Bhai Bala Chowk, Ludhiana.The event was also celebrated at the Malwa Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Model Town, Ludhiana.
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy sale, storage banned in 4K centres in Punjab||The state government has banned the sale, purchase, storage and processing of paddy in more than 4,000 sub-yards and purchase centres with immediate effect. This comes even as the procurement season has 15 more days before it ends.High arrivals in state procurement centres 1.93 LMT paddy purchased on Monday196.64 LMT purchased by govt agencies this year 155.78 LMT bought by agencies in same period last year1.90-2 LMT range of daily arrivalsThe move reportedly stems from the high market arrivals of paddy much beyond the total estimated production. Punjab has already procured 197 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of paddy so far in the ongoing kharif season, while the state’s paddy production, including 10 per cent higher yield, could not have exceeded 170 lakh metric tonnes.For avoiding rushThe Tribune had highlighted this anomaly in paddy purchase in these columns last week. It is believed that traders and some millers are buying cheaper paddy from outside the state at Rs 800-Rs 1,000 per quintal and after fudging records they are selling this paddy in the name of local farmers at mandis on the MSP of Rs 1,888 per quintal. It is also suspected that some millers got the release orders for paddy to be bought inter or intra district, but no physical purchase was done by them. Instead, they used the cheap paddy bought from other states and showed it as the ones they got on purchase orders.Figures available with The Tribune reveal that today 1.93 LMT of paddy were purchased, taking the total purchase by government agencies this year to 196.64 LMT. In the corresponding period last year, 155.78 LMT paddy was purchased by the government agencies. The daily arrivals now are in the range of 1.90- 2 LMT.In the orders issued today by the Punjab Mandi Board, the earlier orders declaring the purchase centres and sub-yards as mandis have been withdrawn. There are 1,872 permanent purchase centres in the state, besides 2,388 private mills that have been designated as purchase centres, necessitated to avoid rush at mandis because of Covid-19. The orders issued today mean that the purchase of paddy can now continue only at the 198 main yards till the end of the procurement season.Punjab Mandi Board secretary Ravi Bhagat said while daily arrivals of paddy was reducing, it had been decided to close some purchase centres.
17-11-2020||Muktsar||Punjab’s lone cotton cleaning, drying unit defunct since Day 1||The state’s first and lone cotton pre-cleaning, drying machine unit set up at the cotton market in Malout in 2014 is lying unused since its inauguration. The machine, which cost about Rs 2 crore, has been used just once and that too during its inauguration.Rs2-crore machine turning into scrapA visit to the site revealed that most parts of the machine were turning into scrap and wires were broken.The Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board had bought the machine from Nagpur in Maharashtra and handed over to the Malout Market Committee for the ease of cotton growers.The state government had launched this project on no-profit-no-loss basis. The machine has a capacity to clean six tonne cotton per hour, weed out leaves from the cotton crop, also lessen the moisture content as per requirement and improve the quality of cotton fiber for marketing purposes.Sources in the Malout Market Committee said: “A watchman has been hired to safeguard the machine. Besides, there was a proposal to protect the machine from rain and dust, but its estimated cost was nearly Rs 1 crore, thus the idea was dropped. We have repeatedly written to the Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board, sought funds to make the machine functional again. The machine was an idea of the then SAD-BJP government and not even the recommendation of the local market committee officials was sought.”A farmer said: “The machine was once used to clean and dry normal variety of cotton, but after the processing almost nothing had come out thus it was never used. There is a fear among farmers that the machine will work on only those varieties that are sown and picked with machines. Even market committee officials have never given any demonstration and the machine is out of order since long.”A senior official of the market committee said: “It is a fact that the dryer in the machine had dried up the cotton and almost nothing had come out when the machine was used once.”Gurpreet Singh Sidhu, secretary, Malout Market Committee, said: “The machine is lying unused for the past five years. We had recently repaired it, but more funds are required for the repairs and other running expenses.”
17-11-2020||Our CorrespondentLudhiana||More trains cancelled due to ongoing farmers’ protest||The Northern Railway has announced further cancellation of Covid special and festival trains and partial cancellation of some other trains in the region due to the ongoing agitation of farmers.Officials said among the trains that have been cancelled till November 18 are: 02425/26 Jammu Tawi-New Delhi Rajdhani Express, 02053/54 Amritsar-Haridwar Janshatabdi Express, 22439/40 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Vande Bharat Express, 02461/62 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Shri Shakti Express, 02011/12 Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express, 02029/30 Amritsar-New Delhi Swarn Shatabdi Express and 05211/12 Amritsar-Darbhanga Jannayak Express.Some other trains would also remain cancelled as per the following schedule: 02421/22 Jammu Tawi-Ajmer Express (November 16, 17), 02231/32 Chandigarh-Lucknow Express (November 16, 17), 04401/02 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Express (up to November 19), 09611 Amritsar Express (November 19), 09614 Amritsar-Ajmer Express (November 20), 09613 Ajmer-Amritsar Express (November 16, 18), 09612 Amritsar-Ajmer Express (November 17, 19), 02587 Gorakhpur-Jammu Tawi Express (November 16), 05098 Jammu Tawi-Bhagalpur Express (November 17), 02919/20 Dr Ambedkar Nagar-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Dr Ambedkar Nagar (up to November 18), 04611 Varansai-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra (November 17), 03256 Chandigarh-Patliputra Express (November 16) and 05532 Amritsar-Saharsa Express (November 16).
17-11-2020||Bathinda||Farmers oppose animal tagging||Farmers have expressed reservations over tagging of animals as part of the foot and mouth disease (FMD) vaccination programme conducted by the state Animal Husbandry Department.Department officials visiting fields to conduct vaccination of animals said they faced strong opposition by farmers over tagging of animals. Notably, as part of the vaccination drive under the National Animal Disease Control Programme, approximately 65 lakh cloven-footed animals were to be vaccinated for the FMD in the state from October 15 to November 30, but farmers in many villages have shown reluctance against tagging of their animals.A veterinary inspector in Bathinda said, “During the vaccination drive, farmers of a village entered into a verbal duel with us and opposed tagging of animals. They doubt that the government might levy additional tax on them.”Talking to The Tribune, Shingara Singh Mann, president of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said, “Vaccination drives for FMD and other diseases were conducted in the past as well but nobody asked farmers to get their animals tagged. Farmers’ apprehension is that the government wants to create profiles of animals by linking the owners’ IDs so that later it can levy tax. Farmers have no reservations in getting their animals vaccinated.”However, as per senior department officials, tagging would help them create and maintain profiles of animals and their owners. The records would also assist the government in ensuring proper health of animals and quality production.
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Aid sought for kin of farmer couple||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sidhwan and other party leaders today expressed grief over the suicide committed by a farmer couple of Lokkhera village near Longowal and demanded financial aid for the victims’ family.In a statement, the AAP leaders said due to the anti-farmer policies of the state government, farmers were being forced to commit suicide, adding the government had failed to fulfil its poll promise of a complete loan waiver. — TNS
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab government responsible for crop damage: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party Budhlada MLA Principal Budhram and Barnala MLA Meet Hayer have accused the state government and mandi board officials of being responsible for mismanagement in making proper arrangements to protect the produce in mandis, leading to their damage due to rains.In a statement issued from party headquarters on Monday, the AAP leaders alleged that the crop was damaged at mandis due to the incompetence of the state government and marketing board staff.The AAP leaders claimed that the government and the mandi board officials had failed to put in place proper arrangements for the protection of crops at mandis, which led to the extensive damage of the produce. They said since the dry crop was not procured by the authorities on time, hence the damage.
17-11-2020||Our CorrespondentFazilka||Blockade lifted after relief for family of deceased||Farmers have decided to lift the road blockade at the Mahmu Joiyan toll plaza as the government has announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh and a job to the next of kin of farmer Baldev Raj, 60, who had died during a dharna at the toll plaza on Friday to protest the farm laws.However the indefinite dharna on the toll plaza will continue. After the death of Baldev Raj, who reportedly suffered a heart attack, the farmers had blocked the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway resulting in inconvenience to commuters.Gurwinder Singh, senior vice-president, BKU (Ugrahan), said Jalalabad SDM had handed over a cheque of Rs 2 lakh to the family members of the deceased farmer. He said the administration had assured to give another Rs 3 lakh at the “bhog” ceremony of Baldev Raj, the date for which is yet to be fixed and a job to the next of kin of the deceased farmer.“We shall give another Rs 3 lakh and a contract-based job to a kin of Baldev Raj soon,” said Suba Singh, SDM, Jalalabad.The farmer’s post-mortem examination was conducted in the district hospital here today. Doctors said he died due to cardiac arrest.
17-11-2020||Bathinda||BKU relents after assurance||Farmers under the banner of the BKU Ugrahan blocked highways at three places in the district to lodge protest and demanded free treatment for a farmer who got injured during a protest six days ago.Later, the blockades were lifted after the officials of the administration assured them of bearing the treatment cost. Farmer Shagandeep Singh was injured during a protest in Bathinda six days ago. — TNS
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||JP Nadda to unveil BJP offices in 10 districts of Punjab||In the first step towards contesting all 117 Assembly seats, the Punjab BJP is set to open offices in all districts of the state. Ten such offices will be inaugurated by party national president JP Nadda on November 19.Party’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh today said the BJP had started preparations on a war-footing to contest all seats in the 2022 elections. He said the organisational structure at 23,000 polling booths was being strengthened by mobilising party workers at the grassroots level.He said Nadda, who would inaugurate the offices virtually, would soon undertake a three-day tour of the state to take stock of the preparations and galvanise the party workers for the forthcoming Assembly battle.Chugh said party leaders would highlight 160 public welfare schemes launched by the Centre in Punjab. — TNS
17-11-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur wedding sees anti-govt slogans||Retgarh village saw an unusual departure of a marriage party in the morning when the groom, along with his friends and relatives holding flags of the BKU (Ugrahan), raised slogans against the Central Government over the farm laws.A majority of farmers have decided to celebrate their weddings in this manner across Punjab until the laws are withdrawn. “We have been protesting against the laws for more than a month. All farmers have decided to celebrate their marriages by raising slogans against the government. Apart from marriages, other functions will also be turned into protests against the Centre,” said Harnek Singh, father of the groom and a BKU (Ugrahan) leader.Groom Jashanjeet Singh said the laws would ruin farming in Punjab and all farmers along with their families should raise their voice. “Like me, I request families of farmers across Punjab to turn their occasions of celebration into protests,” he said.
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Fill posts of counsellor in women cells: Aruna||Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary today said the posts of professional counsellor should be filled in women cells throughout Punjab.Chairing a meeting with Punjab State Women Commission members, Chaudhary said she would write to the Director General of Police (DGP) to fill these posts on a priority basis and also called for a report in 15 days in this regard. She also called for a status report pertaining to filled and vacant posts of counsellor in women cells.Prior to this, the Chairman of the Punjab State Women Commission, Manisha Gulati, had raised the issue about the dire need of professional counsellors in the cells.
17-11-2020||Patiala||Teachers act as kids’ ‘proxy’ in online tests||Government school teachers are reportedly appearing in online exams for the Punjab Assessment Survey (PAS) on behalf of students to ensure “maximum attendance”.Teachers are indulging in the practice to jack up students’ attendance allegedly owing to pressure from senior officials of the Education Department.The Tribune discovered that the teachers initially tried to reach out to students telephonically, then through buddy groups to remind them of taking the test, before finally acting as proxies for students.A visit to a government senior secondary school in Patiala revealed how class teachers were appearing in a test on behalf of students. “It is difficult to reach out to every student and remind them of the test. Senior officials want each school to ensure 100 per cent attendance in these tests. So I have to appear in the tests on behalf of truant students to meet the attendance criterion,” said the teacher. A class VII student of a school in the Nabha block of the district was marked present and his test filed by someone else despite him not appearing in the test.Meanwhile, teacher unions claimed the PAS was being rigged to show higher attendance and quality education. They also questioned the assessment of learning outcome when tests were being taken by students from home with the help of family and teachers. Vikram Dev, senior vice-president, Democratic Teachers Front, said, “An attempt is being made to promote online education. Therefore, this survey is being conducted. To prove that online education is successful, teachers are being pressured to maintain 100 per cent attendance of students.”
17-11-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda education office gheraoed||Teachers under the banner of the Democratic Teachers’ Front gheraoed the District Education Officer’s office alleging pressure on them to ensure maximum attendance and results under the Punjab Assessment Survey (PAS) online exams.The protesters also sought reinstatement of the services of a teacher who was suspended while serving at Government Middle School, Jalal village, in June. The gherao of the office complex continued for three hours.Resham Singh of the front said: “We have submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister via the DEO requesting the department officials not to pressure teachers to ensure maximum attendance and results under the PAS exams.” — TNS
17-11-2020||Patiala||Rain clears air, Punjab residents breathe easy post Diwali||All it took to wash away air pollutants post Diwali and over 74,000 farm fire incidents was a good spell of rain.The air quality has now reached satisfactory level and the smog-like condition, prevalent in the state for the past over a month, has also improved.On Diwali night too, farm fires continued to add to the already polluted air with over 9,621 cases reported in Sangrur, 7,469 in Bathinda, 6,730 in Ferozepur, 5,704 in Moga, 5,267 in Patiala and 4,800 in Mansa and Muktsar.The state government has imposed a fine of Rs 2.6 crore of environmental compensation of which Rs 5,72,000 has been recovered.Punjab is inching towards an all-time high farm fire count, which has already crossed 73,883 as compared to record 81,000 witnessed in 2016.Meanwhile, despite rain on Sunday, the day after Diwali, the air quality in Punjab was a poor 304, with Amritsar recording 374 on the air quality index, Ludhiana 345, Mandi Gobindgarh 281, Patiala 269, Jalandhar 314 and Khanna 240. Delhi’s average stood at 435.However, rain spell for a brief period and windy conditions today ensured that the air quality in Punjab was back to moderate with Khanna being least polluted at 68, Amritsar 104, Ludhiana 103, Patiala 73 and Jalandhar 116 as compared to Delhi’s 221.“The farm fires are now almost over and barring a few districts with few incidents expected, the air pollution is not likely to rise further,” a top official said.
17-11-2020||Patiala||Punjab leads in providing study material during lockdown: Survey||Punjab has secured the top position across India in providing online learning material to students of government schools in rural areas during the Covid lockdown.According to a survey, the state Education Department had successfully provided study material to around 87.1 per cent children of government schools when schools were shut for six months.As per the Annual Survey of Education Report (ASER)-2020 (Rural), Punjab is followed by Himachal Pradesh wherein 85.4 per cent students of government schools got the study material.The survey explored the provision of and access to remote education mechanisms and material in rural parts of the country.WhatsApp had been, by far, the most popular mode of sending learning material to the students, revealed the survey. The survey also highlighted that there were two major reasons behind many students not receiving the study material: Lack of smartphones and some teachers not doing as much as they should have. However, the survey highlighted that 83.3 per cent of children enrolled in government schools had access to smartphones.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “It is an outcome of the efforts of our teachers who went the extra mile to impart education during the lockdown. The outcome of the survey is a testimony to our ongoing efforts to improve the quality of education in government schools.” — TNS
17-11-2020||Patiala||Covid warrior braved poverty to become doctor||Standing up to poverty, 25-year-old Dr Ankit Kumar, a resident doctor in the Department of Surgery at Guru Gobind Medical College, Faridkot, who died of Covid-19 on Friday morning, had worked hard braving poverty to don the white coat. Dr Ankit is survived by his parents and two younger sisters.Soni expresses griefDr Ankit, who studied at Kendriya Vidyalaya in Patiala, had dreamt of becoming a surgeon, said family members. Belonging to a reserved category, the family had taken an education loan of Rs 3 lakh to pay the fee of his post-graduation course.His father Suresh Pal, who works as a class 3 technician in the Railways, is the only source of income for the family of five.His mother Lokesh Devi said: “We had earlier taken a loan of Rs 2 lakh for his MBBS. We took another loan of Rs 3 lakh for his post-graduation course. We didn’t even have money to hire a taxi to see our son in Faridkot while he was undergoing treatment. We had to borrow money for a taxi.” Younger sister Ankita said his brother was a bright student who braved all hurdles. “Ankit was very hardworking but wasn’t happy after joining the post-graduation in surgery. However, he never gave the reason for his dismay. He always wanted to come home when not working.”Meanwhile, Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), met the family today. “It is a great loss to the medical fraternity and society. He was our frontline worker. We gave him the best possible healthcare,” he told the family when asked about alleged lack of care. Asked about why Dr Ankit was not shifted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, Dr Bahadur said: “Our college offers good treatment for Covid. Moreover, his condition deteriorated rapidly over a few hours.”They had forwarded the file, as sought by the Secretary, for a financial relief to the family, he added.
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||445 fresh cases, 23 deaths in 24 hours in Punjab||The state reported 445 fresh cases and 23 deaths in the past 24 hours. As per a media bulletin released on Monday, the total number of cases has gone up to 1,42,082 and deaths 4,480.In the district-wise breakup, SAS Nagar topped the chart with 118 cases, followed by Ludhiana (84), Hoshiarpur (45), Amritsar (32) and Jalandhar (28).At 5,601, the number of active Covid cases also witnessed a slight increase. At present 156 patients are on oxygen support and 18 are critical on ventilator support.Ludhiana led the state with seven deaths, Ropar four, Amritsar and Jalandhar two deaths each, and Bathinda, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Moga, SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar, Pathankot and Patiala one death each.
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sonu Sood face of Punjab EC drive||The EC has given its consent to appoint Bollywood actor Sonu Sood as ‘Punjab state icon’ to spread awareness about ethical voting.Punjab Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said the EC had approved a proposal by his office in this regard. He said his appointment would make people, especially youth, aware of ethical voting. — TNS
17-11-2020||Faridkot||DGHS tightens noose to check entry of bogus NRI candidates||To prevent misutilisation of NRI quota seats in MBBS courses, the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) has demanded affidavits from the persons who are NRIs and sponsors of NRI candidates to ascertain the eligibility of applicants.The sponsors have to give proof of their relationship with the candidate and also submit details of their passport, visa and embassy certificate. To ensure that the sponsors fund the entire course fee (US $1.10 lakh) of the candidate, they have to give affidavits to this effect.MBBS admissionsThe Directorate General of Health Services has demanded affidavits from the persons who are NRIs and sponsors of NRI candidates to ascertain the eligibility of applicants for MBBS admissions.In the MBBS courses, 15 per cent seats are reserved for NRIs. The counselling process is underway.A candidate is eligible under the NRI quota only if he/she deposits the fee in foreign currency from own NRI account or parents’ NRI account.Sources said some medical institutions grant admission to a certain number of students under the NRI quota by charging a higher fee. In these cases, neither the students nor their parents are NRIs. In fact, under this category, students, who are not meritorious, get admission as they can bring more money, the sources said.To ensure that the NRI quota seats are utilised by NRIs only for their children and merit is not given a go-by, the DGHS has taken steps to ensure genuineness of candidates.The person who sponsors the student should be a first degree relation of the student and should be ordinarily residing abroad as an NRI.
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||AAP: Capt giving patronage to Punjab drug mafia||Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema today accused CM Amarinder Singh of extending political patronage to drug mafia in the state. Demanding his resignation, the AAP leader said the CM’s adviser Sandeep Sandhu, OSD Ankit Bansal and Daman Mohi be arrested and handed over to an investigating agency.Cheema alleged the drug mafia, which the then Badal government had nurtured during its 10-year tenure from 2007 to 2017, was now being allegedly run by the Congress government. “The association of Rano sarpanch and former Youth Akali leader Gurdeep Singh with Sandhu, Bansal and Mohi corroborate the charges,” he said. Gurdeep was recently caught with a cache of drugs.Rubbishing the allegations, Sandhu said the STF formed by Capt Amarinder Singh had arrested the Rano sarpanch. “If the person had political patronage of the government, how could he be arrested by the STF,” he said. — TNS
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM extends greeting on Jainacharya’s birth anniversary||Brar is Secy (Agriculture)Chandigarh: The Punjab Government on Monday posted Mandeep Singh Brar as the Secretary, Agriculture and Cooperation, and SS Gill as Secretary of various departments, including Personnel, Public Relations, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Printing and Stationery, Statistics and Establishment. TNSKhanna gets new SSPChandigarh: The government on Monday posted PPS officer Gursharandeep Singh as the new SSP of Khanna. He replaces Harpreet Singh who has been posted as the AIG (Crime) with the Punjab Bureau of Investigation, Chandigarh. In other orders, AIG (Welfare) Sukhwant Singh Gill has been given additional charge of Commandant 82nd Battalion, PAP, Chandigarh. Also, SP Balraj Singh has been posted as Commandant, Ladha Kothi, Sangrur. TNS
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL moves High Court against Punjab||In a state-versus-state case, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against Punjab for quashing an order taxing meter rent and service line rentals received by it.Taking up the matter, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh issued notice of motion to the state and other respondents, while fixing the case for further hearing on December 15.Next hearing on decemeber 15As the case came up for hearing through videoconferencing, the petitioner sought the quashing of the order dated October 10, 2019, passed by the Excise and Taxation Officer, taxing meter rent and service line rentals by treating the same to be transfer of right to use the goods.The petitioner claimed it was contrary to the provisions of the Indian Electricity Act and also to the law laid down by various high courts. It was required to be quashed also for the reason that exorbitant demand has been raised, which was palpably illegal and without jurisdiction.Directions were also sought for quashing notices issued by the Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner’s appeals directing the petitioner to produce the proof of payment of pre-deposit by November 11, failing which the case would be decided without any reference to the petitioner. The counsel claimed it was arbitrary and contrary to the provisions of the Electricity Act. Besides, the petitioner was suffering financial crunch.The counsel added the petitioner was a Government of Punjab undertaking and a state-owned statutory body formed under a special enactment, promulgated by the state under the provisions of the Electricity Supply Act, 1948, to arrange for the supply of electrical energy that may be required within the state.
17-11-2020||Amritsar||Covid shadow on pilgrims’ visit to Nankana Sahib||Amid the Covid-19 threat, uncertainty looms over Indian devotees’ proposed visit to Pakistan to attend the 551st birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak.Pakistan had extended invitation to Indian Sikhs to grace the three-day celebrations scheduled at Janam Asthan, Sri Nankana Sahib, beginning November 27. The occasion falls on November 30. However, it will be the discretion of the Indian government to grant the permission.Around 1,500 applications were received by different organisations, of which 500 applications were endorsed by the SGPC to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) for furnishing of visa formalities.SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh said ‘absolutely’ no communication was received from the MEA. “The chances that the ‘jatha’will be allowed to visit Pakistan are bleak,” he said.Yet, Ferozepur-based International Bhai Mardana Yadgari Kirtan Darbar Society head Harpal Singh Bhullar seemed hopeful. “We have not received the official nod from the MEA yet, but a few days back, we were approached by agency officials enquiring about the antecedents of the applicants. This indicated that the process was on to grant permission,” he said.
17-11-2020||Sangrur||BJP protests ‘delay’ in getting delimitation info||Alleging ‘delimitation’ of wards of the Sangrur Nagar Council in violation of norms, former councillors along with members of various NGOs today protested in front of the council office. They alleged the council employees made the draft notification of delimitation and map public today when only two days were left for submitting objections to the delimitation exercise.“Since Congress leaders feel they will lose elections in all wards of the council, they have got delimitation done in violation of norms. Council employees sought objections on November 12, but to hide the illegal delimitation, they did not share the details of the process. They did it today only after our protest,” alleged Randeep Deol, BJP Sangrur district chief.SAD leader Chamandeep Singh Milkhy said the council authorities should have given at least one-week time to locals to submit their objections against delimitation. “But now, we have the time till tomorrow evening. Council employees are working like Congress men. They must face strict action,” Milkhy said.Executive officer of council Ramesh Kumar denied all allegations. “We have done everything as per law and have nothing to hide,” he said. — TNS
17-11-2020||Moga||Canada-based woman booked for duping Moga youth of Rs 24L||In a common practice of ‘fake’ marriages to find greener pastures in western countries, a youth hailing from Dhudike village in Moga district has been cheated by a Canada-based NRI woman of Rs 24.11 lakh on the pretext of marriage and helping him get a work permit.Mahinder Kaur, mother of Kamaldeep Singh who fell victim to a ‘sham’ marriage, in a statement alleged that Pawandeep Kaur, presently settled in Canada, solemnised marriage with his son last year.Pawandeep originally hails from Kaonke Khosa Khurd village of Jagraon subdivision in Ludhiana district. She came to India to solemnise the marriage with Kamaldeep and also lived at his house for a month before going back to Canada.After the marriage, she and her parents allegedly took Rs 24.11 lakh from Kamaldeep and his parents on various occasions to arrange a sponsorship for him. He went to Canada and lived with his wife for a couple of months, but later, she threw him out of her house and complained to the Canadian police.A criminal case under Sections 420 and 120B of the IPC has been registered against Pawandeep Kaur and her father Ranjit Singh at the Ajitwal police station. The police raided the house of Ranjit Singh but he is absconding.
17-11-2020||Sangrur||Action sought after bovine parts found in well||The Sandhaur police are carrying out raids to nab suspects following the recovery of bovine parts from a well on the Raikot road. A team of the Punjab Gau Sewa Commission, led by chairman Sachin Sharma, visited the site today and demanded stern action.“The killing of cows is unacceptable. I have warned the officers concerned of strict action if they fail to prevent such crimes in the future. I have directed a thorough probe,” Sharma said. Malerkotla SDM Vikramjit Panthey said the situation was under control. — TNS
17-11-2020||Ferozepur||6 years on, jail relocation project hangs fire||Uncertainty looms over the project to relocate the Central Jail to the outskirts of the city. In February 2014, then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal had announced the project, estimated to cost Rs 150 crore, but neither the funds arrived nor any decision was taken due to subsequent change of regime in the state.Security riskThe Central Jail is presently located along the main artery of Ferozepur city due to which it has become vulnerable to security risks as several residential and commercial establishments have come up along the jail’s outer peripheryThe project continues to hang fire due to procedural wrangles and failure of the state government in allocating adequate funds for it.A few years ago, the state government under the optimum utilisation of vacant government land scheme had transferred around 10.68 acres of jail land to PUDA to build residential and commercial places with a plan to utilise the entire jail land subsequently. However, since the project is hanging fire, the fund-starved PUDA has also kept its plan on hold.Sources said the cash-strapped state government wanted to commercially exploit the prime chunk of the Central Jail land measuring over 60 acres in the heart of the town. Even a piece of land measuring around 44 acres had been identified near Khai Pheme Ke village on the Ferozepur-Fazilka road for the construction of a new jail regarding which a proposal had been approved by the government.Talking to mediapersons here, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Minister for Jails, admitted that the Central Jail needed to be shifted to the outskirts since the present location of the jail was not appropriate in terms of safety and security.“In fact, both jails in Ferozepur and Moga are smaller in size and need to be shifted at a better place. I have written to the Deputy Commissioners of these two districts to find an appropriate place for the shifting of the jails and construction of new and modern jails,” he said.
17-11-2020||Anirudh GuptaFerozepur||Scheme on, but no ‘shagun’ for needy girls||The ‘Ashirwad’ scheme of the state government, earlier known as the ‘Shagun’ scheme, mooted to provide financial assistance to girls belonging to economically poor families for their marriage, has itself become a victim of the poor economic condition of the state.Notably, no grant has been received under the scheme for the border district for the past one year. Around 1,200 people who had applied for benefits under the scheme are still waiting for monetary help. Ironically, most of the girls who had applied for financial assistance have already got married.Grants yet to be issuedNo grant has been received under the scheme in Ferozepur district for the past one year. Around 1,200 people who had applied for benefits under the scheme are still waiting for monetary helpUnder the scheme, the state government provides financial assistance of Rs 15,000 to Rs 21,000 for the marriage of a girl belonging to a low-income family.As per data, from April 2017 to September 2020, more than 8,000 girls applied for benefits under the scheme. In Ferozepur subdivision, 4,210 girls applied whereas 1,892 applications were received in Zira and around 1,948 in Guruharsahai.Karmobai, a resident of Tendiwala village, said after her husband’s death in 2018, she was concerned about her daughter’s marriage. “Someone suggested that I should apply under the scheme, after which I sent the application in December last year. Later, my daughter got married. Now, it has been almost one year, but I have not received any amount,” she said.Angrej Singh of Kot Karor Kalan village said he had applied under the scheme for her daughter’s marriage last year but had not received any help from the government.Sukhjit Singh, Block Social Justice and Empowerment Officer, said the applications had been forwarded after verification. “I cannot say anything regarding why the funds have not been received,” he said.
17-11-2020||Vishav Bharti||In Punjab, few opt for job of medical specialist in government hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Once much sought after, the job of medical specialists in the government sector now doesn’t appear to hold much attraction. Despite numerous assurances and walk-in interviews, 60 per cent of the recently advertised posts of specialist doctors are vacant.In July, the Health Department started recruitment of specialists for 142 posts in six fields, including internal medicine, pulmonary medicine, gynaecology, anaesthesia, general surgery and paediatrics.However, in the last four months, only 62 specialists have taken the offered job.Less than 50 doctors joined work, as stipulated, in the first week of August. Twenty of them wanted the joining date extended.The response to “internal medicine” speciality has been particularly poor. Out of 40 posts of medicine specialist, just around 15 were filled.Experts feel that the main reason behind the cold response to walk-in interviews is the failure of the Health Department to satisfy specialists professionally and financially.“In the past, surgeons have been posted at places where there is no infrastructure to perform surgeries,” said Dr Pyare Lal Garg, health activist and former Registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot.However, Principal Secretary, Health, Hussan Lal said the problem was mainly with clinical specialities such as internal medicine, pulmonary medicine and gynaecology, as specialists in these subjects get a better deal monetarily in the private sector.He said the government was trying to make the job of specialists in the government sector more attractive by offering them incentives and postings of their choice.
