18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: No easing of restrictions in Mohali after April 20, says DC||The Mohali administration will not ease curfew restrictions in the district on April 20, a top official of the district said on Saturday as Mohali reported another case of coronavirus.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in a tweet that any curfew relaxations could result in large movement of people---a development that could lead to an upsurge in coronavirus cases.Dayalan said in a tweet: “Mohali will not be relaxing the curfew on 20th since the district has the highest number of cases in the State and not reached the stage of no new cases in 14 days. Opening up would imply a large population who work/ reside in tricity moving to and fro in surrounding areas”.The district has so far reported 57 coronavirus cases---the highest in Punjab. Death toll from the deadly virus stands at two.The announcement also comes a few days after the central government and state tightened restrictions and announced an increase in testing in hotpots.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his speech on April 14 that he was extending nationwide lockdown until May 3, but would ease certain restrictions after April 20, depending on the prevailing situation.Days later, the central government divided the country into zones---red, orange and green---as part of its containment strategy.Red zones were districts with the largest number of cases and green zones were areas with no cases.The state government has already identified 17 hotspots in the state---with Mohali topping that list.
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: War of words between Amarinder, Harsimrat over central funds to state||Days after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh raised the issue of a special package and release of GST arrears with the Centre, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday claimed that the central government had given funds and foodgrains to the state to combat COVID-19.Sharing details of the funds sent by the Centre to the Punjab government in a series of tweets, the Bathinda MP asked Singh why no relief was given to the needy.“Punjab received funds & grains to deal with #COVID_19 crisis. I am sending you details @capt_amarinder. People want to know where are the things came from Centre? Why no relief being given to them? Better you first distribute relief sent to u before making out a case for more.“As far as funds received by Punjab after March 20 when #Coronavirus broke out, please note the state received Rs 3,445 cr including Rs 2,366 cr on account of GST compensation & arrears, Rs 638 cr as RDG, Rs 247 cr for Disaster Mgt, Rs 72 cr for MNREGA & Rs 72 cr under NHM,” she tweeted.Hitting back at the Union minister, Singh accused her of brazenly trying to mislead the people.“Your information is absolutely incorrect,” he said in response to Harsimrat’s series of tweets.The Union Minister of Food Processing Industries also said the Centre had sent wheat and pulses to the state government.“This isn’t all CM Sahib. Centre has also sent 15 kg wheat & 3 kg pulses for 1.4 cr people which is half of state’s population. It’s still lying in Pb godowns & not reached a single household. Shouldn’t you prioritise work & ensure this relief reaches the needy at the earliest,” she said in another tweet.The chief minister, however, said the state has received absolutely no money from the central government in its fight against COVID-19, while terming the Union minister’s tweets as another manifestation of her “compulsive habit of lying and being ill-informed” about even the basic facts relating to her own state.Asking her to cross-check her facts, Singh said instead of using her office as a central minister to help out her own state, Harsimrat was “shamelessly indulging in petty politics based on blatant falsehoods”. “What are you doing sitting there if you cannot fight for Punjab and its people?” he said, lashing out at the Union minister for trying to undermine the state government’s efforts instead of supporting it in the midst of the crisis.On Harsimrat’s claim of central funds to the state, the senior Congress leader asserted that Rs 2,366 crore referred to by her on the GST count was “Punjab’s money, in lieu of the GST owed to the state against arrears”. “And even there, Rs 4,400 crore of the state’s money was still pending with the government,” he said. “You could not even get our own pending arrears released, leave alone get us the much-needed relief package to fight the COVID-19 battle,” Singh quipped.The chief minister said the other amounts mentioned by Harsimrat in her tweets were normal dues of the state against various routine heads, “which have nothing to do with the COVID-19 battle”.“As opposed to the 10,000 tonnes claimed by Harsimrat, the state had received only 42 tonnes of pulses so far, which is a ‘joke’ considering the state’s requirement,” Singh said. The state government had sought a special package, including Rs 729 crore for hospital upgradation and Rs 550 crore for setting up an institute for advanced virology, as well as release of the pending Goods and Services Tax (GST) arrears of Rs 4,400 crore from the Centre. — PTI
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rain triggers fear of wheat damage in Punjab||Rain that lashed several places in Punjab in the last 24 hours has triggered fear among farmers that the standing wheat crop would get damaged.According to farmers, the rains have also “exposed the tall claims” of the state authorities for making a foolproof arrangement for saving crops at mandis from showers.Hailstorm hit fields in Muktsar district on Friday, an official said, adding that the assessment of crop loss in affected areas was done.“Rains have damaged standing wheat crop at several places in the state. The government should compensate farmers for their crop loss,” said Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh.He claimed that there were not enough tarpaulins to cover produce which was brought to mandis by wheat growers in rain-hit areas.The rains occurred at a time when the wheat harvesting was going on in the state.Officials of the Punjab agriculture department said harvesting at some areas may get delayed due to rains.“In some pockets of Muktsar district, hailstorms hit fields. We are assessing any damage to the crop,” Punjab Agriculture Department Director Sutantra Airy said.Punjab Special Chief Secretary KBS Sidhu tweeted, “The Deputy Commissioners of Muktsar and Bathinda have already instructed the field revenue staff to assess the damage. Compensation, rather the relief, shall be distributed expeditiously out of this State Disaster Relief Fund (SDEF)”.Punjab is expecting the arrival of 135 lakh metric tonne of wheat in grain markets this season. — PTI
18-04-2020||Patiala||Patiala reports 15 positive cases in one day, emerges as new 'hotspot'||Patiala reported 15 coronavirus cases on Saturday---the highest number of cases reported from any of Punjab’s districts in a single day. Nine of the 15 cases were contacts---neighbours and friends—of a book trader who continued with his business despite a curfew in the state. Six other cases were connected with a social worker who tested positive in Rajpura on Friday, and included some of her family members, officials said.  The latest development sent health authorities scrambling to convert both areas into containment zones. Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said 23,975 families were screened on Saturday.”The development has now turned the spotlight on Patiala---a district that is quickly emerging as a coronavirus hotspot. Patiala now has 26 cases---the third highest number in the state after Mohali and Jalandhar.The sudden spike in Patiala’s cases has worried health officials. District authorities said that they could trace neither the social worker’s nor the book trader’s case to local transmission, and say it was likely that they contracted the infection in one of their trips out of the city during the lockdown.
18-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Wheat procurement: Minister loses cool over lack of facilities||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 18In an embarrassment to the Punjab government, three days after the start of official purchase of wheat, allegations of lack of basic amenities like toilets and supply of potable water for farmers were found true when Punjab Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla visited Bhawanigarh grain market on Saturday.Annoyed over the lack of facilities, minister lost his cool, pulled up the officers in public and set the deadline till Saturday evening to put in place all required facilities.“You should be ashamed. Can you drink this dirty water? Why you have not got water taps installed here? What is the benefit of passing resolutions if you do not want to work?” an annoyed Singla posed numerous questions to government officers posted in Bhawanigarh grain market after seeing dysfunctional water taps.Before reaching at water cooler, he found the bathroom smelling badly with broken toilet seats and without proper supply of water.“Could you stand near it for a minute? If everything is not put in order by evening, all would face strict action as you do not have any excuse because CM Capt Amarinder Singh has already provided required funds to provide all facilities to farmers across Punjab,” said the Minister. Singla also interacted with farmers in Bhawanigarh and Sangrur grain markets, where some farmers requested to accelerate the process of issuance of tokens for the purchase of wheat.“The arrival of Singla pushed all officers for quick action. We have shared our problems with him. He has assured quick action,” said Kulwant singh, a farmer sitting in Sangrur grain market.Singla added that there had been some problems in Bhawanigarh grain market.“I detected some problems in Bhawanigarh grain market and some farmers also complained that at Sangrur. I have asked officers to redress all complaints by evening,” said Singla.
18-04-2020||Aditi Tandon||No new COVID case in Hoshiarpur, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri for 14 days||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 18Hoshiarpur in Punjab, and Rohtak and Charkhi Dadri in Haryana are among 22 new districts in 12 states where no new COVID 19 case has been reported in the past 14 days.On the other hand three districts — Patna in Bihar, Panipat in Haryana and Nadia in Bengal — reported cases today after remaining free of new infections for 14 days.The data analysis of districts across India by the Health Ministry shows that as of today 47 districts in 23 states have remained free of new diseases cases for 14 days.Two of these districts — Maha in Puducherry and Kodagu in Karnataka have remained free of new infections for 28 days.The Government today said daily rigorous monitoring and enforcement of lockdown and containment can help Indian districts restrict and address the infection.“Our field level lockdown and containment measures are already giving positive results,” Health Ministry said adding that districts without new cases can register fresh infections if even one person defies government advisories on lockdown, testing and isolation.As of today, the Delhi’s Nizamuddin cluster makes up 29.8 per cent of India’s current COVID cases 14,378.Out of total COVID cases in the country, 4,291 are related to the Nizamuddin Markaz event, Health Ministry said urging people to follow all disease containment guidelines and stay home.Significant burden of disease in top ten states with highest COVID cases is from the Nizamuddin event.In Tamil Nadu 84 per cent of all cases are linked to Delhi’s Markaz event; in Delhi 63 per cent; in Telangana 79 per cent; in UP 59 per cent and in Andhra Pradesh 61 per cent.“Even in states with fewer cases, the Nizamuddin link is noticed. Arunachal Pradesh’s one case is linked to Nizamuddin event; likewise 32 of Assam’s 35 cases and 10 of Andaman Nicobar Island’s 12 cases have Association with Delhi’s Nizamuddin cluster,” Heath Ministry said adding that even one person violating the lockdown is enough to push back national disease containment efforts by days.As of today India’s COVID cases are 14,378, deaths 480 and recoveries 1992.
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||98-year-old woman in Moga stitches masks for the needy||Gurdev Kaur Dhaliwal, 98, wakes up early every day, offers prayers and then spends hours on her sewing machine, which is almost as old as her, stitching face masks for the poor who can't afford them.The resident of Moga district in Punjab has blurry vision in one eye, but that does not let her energy and vigour down, said her daughter-in-law Amarjit Kaur.The nonagenarian, who takes help of a walker, wakes up early, offers prayers and then starts making masks on the machine which her in-laws got for her from Singapore over 100 years ago.   "Several vegetable sellers in our area were not wearing masks. We told them to wear it to protect themselves from coronavirus but they said they could not afford it. Then we decided to stitch masks and give it to them free of cost," Amarjit told PTI over phone.Now, many people have started coming to her house to get free face covers, she said.Dhaliwal's neighbours are coming forward to help her and many of them also giving clothes for making masks, Amarjit said. The Punjab government has made wearing masks mandatory as at least 202 people have been infected with coronavirus in the state. PTI
18-04-2020||---||Ludhiana ACP who had contracted coronavirus dies||Ludhiana, April 18The Assistant Commissioner of Police (North), Ludhiana, who was diagnosed positive for coronavirus on April 13, lost his battle for life on Saturday. He was 52. This is the fourth death from the infection in Ludhiana district.The officer was on a ventilator since April 11. Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga confirmed the death.His first test for the infection had come negative, but subsequently tested positive in a second check. Since then, he showed no sign of improvement. The death was said to have followed a multiple-organ failure.The ACP was on duty at Sabzi Mandi during the last week of March. It is suspected he may have contracted the infection during that time. However, there is no confirmation.Three of his close contacts, including his wife; a sub-inspector posted at Basti Jodhewal; and a constable posted as gunman, have also tested positive.Later, a contact of the sub-inspector – an assistant sub-inspector posted Basti Jodhewal – and the District Mandi Officer tested positive. The ACP’s son, however, has tested negative.The officer had complained of fever and cough at the beginning of April. On April 8 his condition deteriorated, and was admitted to hospital.The Punjab Government on Friday decided to go for plasma therapy for the ACP, and a donor had also been arranged from Mohali the same day. However, the officer passed away before the treatment could begin.
18-04-2020||---||Navjot Sidhu donates 1,000 masks to Amritsar, Tarn Taran  hospitals||Chandigarh, April 18Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu has donated 1,000 pieces of N95 masks to frontline health care warriors of Amritsar and Taran Tarn Civil Hospitals, and Guru Nanak Dev Medical College, Amritsar.This was said in a statement here on Saturday.Fulfilling the commitment to frontline health care workers at the three medical facilities made on Baisakhi Day (April 13), while delivering PPE kits, sanitisers, standard medical masks and gloves, Sidhu on Saturday donated 500 pieces of the N95 medical masks to Guru Nanak Dev Medical College, Amritsar, along with 300 pieces of N95 masks to Civil Hospital, Amritsar, and 200 pieces of them to Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran.
18-04-2020||Ashok Kaura||Rs 300 crore for medical equipment to combat coronavirus in Punjab, says FM Manpreet Badal||Our Correspondent Nakodar, April 18Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Saturday said the Punjab government was spending Rs 300 crore for purchase of medical equipment in the state to combat COVID-19.  Addressing a gathering during the dedication of COVID-19 virus tertiary care centre, here,  at Billa Chuharmi near Nakodar, the Minister was accompanied by Lok Sabha MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh, and MLAs Pargat Singh and Hardev Singh Laddi.He said the Punjab government led by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had no dearth of funds to combat the pandemic.He said medical equipment worth Rs 100 crore each were being purchased during the months of April, May and June.  Badal assured the people of the state that every effort would be made to provide succour to people in this hour of crisis. The minister said the pandemic which had spread in 200 countries across the globe has given a major setback to the economy. He said the state government had already set up a panel under renowned economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia to suggest ways and means for steering the state’s economy out of fiscal stress. Badal said that no stone would be left unturned to secure the interests of Punjabis in this hour of crisis.Describing the entire medical fraternity, including doctors and paramedical staff, as messiahs, the Minister said their immense contribution in combatting the coronavirus effectively in India would be gloriously remembered in history. He said the medical fraternity had been doing a wonderful job during the fight against coronavirus.  Badal urged the people to support the battle against corona by confining themselves to their homes during the lockdown and curfew. The Minister dedicated Sant Waryam Singh Dahiya (SWSD) Hospital, named after renowned freedom fighter, near Nakodar on the Jalandhar-Moga highway to people. The hospital equipped with ultra-modern facilities like operation theatre, X-Ray room and others would have 20-bed isolation facilities with ventilators and other Intensive Care Unit facilities.
18-04-2020||---||Rural pharmacists halt work as 2 of 41 Pak nationals who crossed over from Attari turn Covid positive||Amritsar, April 18Rural pharmacists Association has stopped all work after Pakistan media reported that two women, among the 41 Pakistani Nationals, who had crossed from India on Friday have tested positive for coronavirus.The rural pharmacists stated that employees from their cadre had been in contact with the 41 Pakistani Nationals.“Rural pharmacists are working without PPE kits and N95 masks. We would not join duties unless we are provided safety equipment,” said, Senior Vice President of the association, Navjot Kaur.The district has 91 rural pharmacists in total, under the panchayat department, who have been assigned special duties during COVID-19 pandemic.
18-04-2020||Patiala/Ludhiana||Coronavirus: 23 new cases in Punjab in a day; state tally 234||Twenty-three more cases of coronavirus were reported in Punjab on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 234.Of the fresh cases, 15 were reported from Patiala, six from Jalandhar and one each from Gurdaspur and SAS Nagar. The state has recorded 16 deaths so far. In Rajpura, a private hospital was sealed after a woman tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. The Health Department has collected 16 samples of the close contacts of the woman, whereas in Ludhiana, 126 contacts of sub-inspector posted as SHO, Basti Jodhewal, have been home quarantined.Patiala district reported 15 positive cases of coronavirus in single day.  This is highest number of cases reported in a any district so far. Nine positive case are contacts of the book trader who was selling books even during the lock-down while six are contacts of Rajpura woman who tested positive yesterday. With this, total number of cases in the district reaches 26.Rajpura: A private hospital in Rajpura was sealed after a woman tested positive for coronavirus on Friday in Government Rajindra hospital, Patiala.The Health Department informed that the woman had visited the private hospital before she was shifted to the isolation ward of the government hospital.Patiala Civil Surgeon, Harish Malhotra, said that the hospital has already been sealed, and the entire staff has been home quarantined.He said: “As the lady had visited the hospital, therefore, we have sealed it as a precautionary measure. The patients at the hospital are being screened.”However, the woman was not kept under isolation at the private hospital—despite being symptomatic of coronavirus.As many as, 16 samples of the close contacts of the woman have been taken by the department.Also, the woman does not have any travel history. However, her two sons—who work in electronics—had reportedly visited New Delhi.LudhianaA total of 126 contacts of sub-inspector posted as Station House Officer, Basti Jodhewal, have been home quarantined.The contacts include her family members and people from the police department.On Friday evening, assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who was a direct contact of the SHO Basti Jodhewal, tested positive for coronavirus.Now, the department is also tracing the contacts of the ASI.“The contact tracing is going on, and we are also collecting samples of the contacts of the SI and ASI,” said Civil Surgeon, Dr Rajesh Bagga.Meanwhile, 10 people who were in contacts of the deceased have been isolated at Civil Hospital, Khanna and their samples have been taken.The contact tracing of DMO Ludhiana, who tested positive on Friday, is also going on.She visited Khanna twice and had held meetings.FaridkotFirst coronavirus patient was discharged from the medical college after two weeks of his treatment. He was tested negative for the infection. Two of the other patients in the district are still under observation in the medical college.
18-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Property of six drug smugglers attached in Punjab||Phagwara, April 17In its concerted drive against drug smugglers in Kapurthala district, the district police, headed by SSP Satinder Singh, have attached property worth Rs2,95,61,625 of six peddlers with immediate effect.The decision was taken as per guidelines issued by office of competent authority, SAFEM (FOP) Act, and Section 68F (2) of the NDPS Act, 1985. Police officialsThe following quantity of contraband was recovered from the accused: 4 kg opium and 520 kg poppy husk from Puran Singh of Sainch village in Sultanpur Lodhi; 70 kg poppy husk from Charan Singh, a native of Lattianwala village; 105 kg poppy husk from Kehar Singh; 950 gm heroin from Amandeep Singh of Sainch village in Sultanpur Lodhi; 225 gm heroin from Malkiat Singh and 320 gm heroin from Harpreet Singh.Property of Kehar Singh (Rs69.46 lakh), Charan Singh (Rs69.40 lakh), Malkiat Singh (Rs61.20 lakh), Harpreet Singh (Rs44.80 lakh), Amandeep Singh (Rs40.35 lakh) and Puran Singh (Rs10,40,625) were attached.  Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh and SP (Investigation) Manpreet Dhillon on Friday said the step had been taken as per guidelines issued by office of competent authority, SAFEM (FOP) Act, and Section 68F (2) of the NDPS Act, 1985.The Senior Superintendent of Police said it was their top priority to fight drug menace in the district.
18-04-2020||Tarn Taran||3 more held in SAD leader’s murder case||The Goindwal Sahib police have arrested two assailants of former SAD sarpanch of Gurdaspur’s Dhilwan village from the house of Inderbir Singh, who had given shelter to the murderers, at Chhapri Sahib village, 25 km from here, on Thursday.The accused have been identified as Mandeep Singh Deep of Gurdaspur’s Dhariwal and Jagdish Singh Jagga of Gurdaspur’s Dalam Nangal village.The SAD leader, Dalbir Singh of Dhaliwal, was a two-time sarpanch and vice president of the Gurdaspur district SAD committee. He was shot dead on November 18, 2019, at his native village.SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia had led the protests against the killing of the party leader and blamed senior Congress leaders, saying they were behind the killing.The district police were tight-lipped to divulge any information. — OC
18-04-2020||---||Bathinda residents fret over tomato shortage||Bathinda, April 17Following the district administration’s decision of not allowing any truck to enter the region, the supply of vegetables has been hit amid the Covid-19 lockdown.There is an acute shortage of tomatoes in the district, as it is majorly transported from Gujarat and Delhi. Being an essential vegetable, most residents are facing problems.In view of the spike in demand of vegetables, the prices have also soared by 30-40 per cent in the last one week. The revised rates of the following vegetables are as follows: tomatoes Rs60 per kg , peas Rs90/kg, bottlegourd (kadu) Rs50/kg, chinese cucumber Rs30/kg and cauliflower at Rs25-30/kg.The rising prices of vegetables have started impacting consumers’ kitchen budget during the ongoing lockdown period.Balkar Singh, secretary, market committee, said: “The district administration has refused to allow entry to trucks from other states, due to which there is a shortage of vegetables’ supply in the city. We are trying to find some solution and the problem would be resolved soon.”He said: “We have requested the Deputy Commissioner to allow vehicles carrying essential vegetables in the district.”It is learnt that DC B Srinivasan held a meeting with the District Mandi Officer where it was decided that trucks carrying essential items would be allowed twice in a week to reach fish market land on the Dabwali road.
18-04-2020||---||Hailstorm leaves Muktsar farmers worried||Muktsar, April 17At a time when harvesting of wheat is underway, rain accompanied by hailstorm left the district’s farmers worried on Friday.With a thick white layer of hail emerging on the surface, some villages in Lambi block were the worst hit.The farmers said the hailstorm lasted for nearly 20 minutes, causing damage to the crop.Jimmy Mehna, a farmer of Mehna village, said, “I have never seen such a hailstorm in my village. Not just the hail, but also the speedy wind caused damage to the wheat crop. Everyone in the village is praying for weather to return to normal.”Some farmers said Kandukhera, Dhani Telianwali, Bhitiwala, Kakhanwali, Vanwala, Chak Middusinghwala, Bhagu and Singhewala villages witnessed a similar situation.Jalour Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Muktsar, said, “I am unaware if the hailstorm had hit the area, as no farmer has approached me so far. I will now seek a report from our block officers.”“The unfavourable weather will delay the wheat harvest by a few more days. Now, some weather forecast reports say that the rain may lash the region again in the coming days,” said some farmers.The state government has already advised the farmers not to bring wheat, which has more than 12 per cent moisture content, to mandis.
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt develops ‘chatbot’ on Covid||Actor arranges food for 45,000Moga: On his father’s birth anniversary, Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, a native of Moga, on Friday distributed food to 45,000 poor people living in Mumbai during the lockdown. He has also opened his Juhu hotel for all health workers, calling them “real heroes” working for patients. In his latest Instagram post, he has given a glimpse of the love he has for his father. TNSDepts, staff donate to CM relief fundChandigarh: Milkfed has donated Rs20.34 lakh to the CM Covid Relief Fund. This includes Rs51,000 by Milked Chairman Harminder Singh, seven days’ salary by MD Kamaldeep Singh Sangha and one day’s salary by staff. Officials of Punjab Urban Development Authority, Directorate of Town and Country Planning and Water Resources Department have contributed Rs2.11 crore to the fund. TNSIAS, IPS bodies’ appeal to senior officersChandigarh: The executive committee of the IAS Association and senior officers of Punjab Police on Friday decided to urge all officers in their cadres to voluntarily contribute 30 per cent of their salary for the next three months to the CM Covid Relief Fund. On Thursday, the Cabinet Ministers had donated 30 per cent of their salaries for next three months to the fund. TNSAkhand path in memory of Hazoori RagiAmritsar: The SGPC started an ‘akhand path’ in memory of former Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa at historic Gurdwara Bibeksar Sahib on Friday. Khalsa had died on April 2 due to cardiac arrest after testing positive for coronavirus at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in Amritsar. The ‘bhog’ will be held on April 19. SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said the dates were fixed in consultation with Khalsa’s family. TNS
18-04-2020||Abohar||Activist in Punjab donates Rs 1L for ventilator||To equip the 100-bed Civil Hospital here with a ventilator, a BJP activist has taken the initiative.Vijay Luxmi Bhadoo, who was the state president of the BJP Mahila Morcha, on Friday handed over a cheque forRs1 lakh to SDM Jaspal Singh Brar. “The money should be used to buy a ventilator for the Civil Hospital. I expect more people will come forward to arrange equipment for the hospital. Many NGOs are doing a yeoman’s service by helping hundreds of needy people,” she said. — OC
18-04-2020||---||Mobile clinics to examine policemen||Chandigarh, April 17The Punjab Police have deployed mobile clinics for medical examination of all police personnel. Of the 43,000 police personnel in the field, 30,567 have already been through round one of the check-up.“Mobile police clinics” were functional in all seven police ranges and police commissionerates of the state, said DGP Dinkar Gupta today.In some districts, help is being taken from Civil Hospital doctors to get police personnel checked for symptoms of flu or other illnesses.All personnel would be checked every second day to ensure that there was no health issue among them as regards coronavirus, the DGP said, adding that while all police personnel on duty to enforce the lockdown had been provided with masks, gloves and hand sanitisers, those deployed at isolation wards had been given PPE kits.So far, he said, 2.5 lakh masks, 788 PPE kits and 2.5 lakh units of hand sanitisers had been distributed to protect police personnel.
18-04-2020||---||Birthday of 1-year-olds made special, courtesy cops||Mansa, April 17In an endeavour to save the parents from feeling the fear of missing out on celebrating the first birthday of their little ones, the district police have started sending birthday cakes to parents of toddlers, who are going to turn one amid the ongoing curfew in the district.Special memoryParents look forward to celebrate the first birthday of their children in a grand manner. But amid the curfew, it is impossible. So, the Mansa police decided to step in and make the first birthday of kids memorable. Narinder Bhargav, Mansa SSPMansa SSP Narinder Bhargav said that for families, the first birthday of their kids is always dear to them. Amid the curfew, the parents could do little to celebrate the birthday of their kids, hence the move. “The Mansa police will send cakes to homes of children to celebrate their first birthday memorable,” he said.SSP Bhargav said it was after the village police officers brought the matter to his attention that the district police came up with this idea of providing cakes on the doorsteps of families whose toddler’s birthday fell in this month.The practice began on Friday, with the first birthday cake having been delivered at the residence of Mayra Garg, whose birthday was on April 16.The SSP said birthday wishes were conveyed to the girl’s family on behalf of the district police. Seeing the inititative, neighbours also wished the girl a happy birthday. Overwhelmed, Mayra’s parents appreciated the Mansa police for their initiative and expressed gratitude for helping the family in making the first birthday of their daughter a special one.
18-04-2020||---||e-facility in Punjab has failed: SAD||Chandigarh, April 17Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday claimed that the e-token system had failed and asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take corrective steps to avert chaos in grain markets during the ongoing wheat procurement season.“The failure of the e-token system is not the only concern. The state has also failed in arrange enough gunny bags and ensuring cleanliness and basic hygiene in mandis,” he said, adding that there was a mismatch between the announcements made by the government and the ground situation.The SAD chief claimed there was confusion about the mobile app which generated e-tokens. “Farmers are unable to validate e-tokens on their mobile phones,” he added. — TNS
18-04-2020||Jalandhar||Show-cause notice to Lovely Professional University||The Department of Higher Education and Languages has issued a show-cause notice to Lovely Professional University (LPU), Phagwara, asking the university to explain why it did not shut the campus completely amid the Covid-19 lockdown.The order comes a day after Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh and BJP leader Vijay Sampla demanded action against the LPU for violating lockdown restrictions.An LPU student tested positive on April 11. Subsequently, samples of other students were collected and 40 of them came out negative on April 14. Of the 68 samples collected from the LPU on Wednesday, 31 came out negative on Friday.The Higher Education Department, in its letter to the LPU, stated: “You are hereby asked to explain within seven days of receipt of this letter, as to why no-objection certificate issued to your university be not withdrawn for violating government orders and putting in danger the lives of about 3,200 people.”Rahul Bhandari, Secretary (Higher Education) said, “The district administration has told us that the university authorities didn’t inform the administration of the presence of 3,200 persons, including staff, students and faculty, on the campus.”Aman Mittal, LPU Additional Director, said: “As of now, we are not in a position to comment. We will issue a letter is response to the notice soon.” — TNS
18-04-2020||Bathinda||Telemedicine services start at AIIMS||To ensure social distancing and prevent the transmission of Covid-19, AIIMS, Bathinda, has started telemedicine services for its patients.In view of the influx of patients, people have been facing trouble in getting their OPD appointments.The OPD services of all 13 specialty units have been available all this while. From now on, patients will be provided consultation through telemedicine services by the Central government-run hospital.The hospital has provided five contact numbers on which people can call to schedule their appointment in any one of the slots.Dr Sameer Aggarwal, nodal officer for AIIMS, Bathinda, said, “The decision was made to ensure social distancing and to provide medical services in an effective manner. While the OPD services continued at AIIMS, Bathinda, unhindered, now the doctors would begin to provide consultation via telemedicine services as well. Not every patient, especially those with minor medical condition, need to visit the hospital. All they have to do is simply make a call to schedule their appointment with the respective doctor.” — TNS
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||BKU: Poor arrangement||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) has criticised the state government for the “poor arrangements” in semi-urban and rural mandis.In a press statement issued on Friday, BKU chief Buta Singh Burjgill said the arrangements in a majority of rural mandis were tardy, and the government’s lack of connect with the ground reality would lead to farmd distress.“The government has failed to convince arhtiyas to call off their strike. If they continue to remain on strike, it will not augur well for the smooth procurement of wheat.” — TNS
18-04-2020||---||1 lakh tonne wheat, rice sent via 40 trains||Chandigarh, April 17To ensure uninterrupted supply of food articles to citizens of the country during the lockdown, Punjab has dispatched 1 lakh tonne of wheat and rice to different states through 40 special trains.Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said 78,000 tonne rice and 22,000 tonne wheat was dispatched via 40 special trains in a single day. The minister said all workers involved in loading rice and wheat were provided masks and sanitiser. It was also ensured that the labourers maintained due distance keeping in view health concerns, he added.
18-04-2020||---||ITBP to double production of PPEs, masks||Chandigarh, April 17Following high demand for face masks and personal protective equipment (PPE), which are being made in-house by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) to combat the Covid-19 threat, the force is going to double its production output.Till now, the ITBP has been making these items for the use of its own health and quarantine facility management centres with a small number being supplied to civilian organisations. At present, 200 PPEs and 500 masks are made daily at a centre set up at the Supply and Support Battalion of the ITBP in Saboli, Haryana.So far, the Haryana Urban Local Body has received 200 PPEs and 200 masks. Various quantities from 20 to 50 sets have also been supplied to Rohtak Dental College, Government Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Rohini, and Kondli Municipal Corporation. The ITBP is also donating and distributing these items among various organisations. Many organisations from Gujarat, West Bengal and some other states have requested it to supply the PPEs and masks.Besides being quality-controlled products, they are also cheap in price. The products are meant to be used by people working at quarantine facilities and rendering similar services and not for medical staff engaged in treating patients in hospitals.
18-04-2020||Union Cabinet Minister and Member of Parliament from Bathinda Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday handed over tankers of disinfectants to grain market officials besides undertaking distribution of masks||Harsimrat distributes masks||She said, “I express gratitude to Shiromani Akali Dal volunteers who are wholeheartedly participating in this public safety initiative at great personal risk.”“The NDA government has come to the rescue of people by transferring cash benefits to the needy,” she added.
18-04-2020||---||Release endowment funds: Private colleges||Chandigarh, April 17Promoters of private educational institutions in the state, including private universities and unaided technical colleges, have urged the universities affiliated with the state government and Central educational affiliating councils to release endowment funds and bank guarantees to enable them pay salaries to the staff.The endowments funds and bank guarantees run in lakhs of rupees. The issue cropped up during a webinar of players in the self-financed private education sector, held through videoconferencing on Friday.Jagjit Singh, president, BEd Federation, was the moderator while Ashok Mittal, Chancellor, Lovely Professional University (LPU); Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, Chandigarh University; Charanjit Singh Channi, Chancellor, CT University; Dr Gurmeet S Dhaliwal, president, Punjab Unaided Technical Institutions’ Association and Dr Anshu Kataria, president, Punjab Unaided Colleges’ Association were the panelists.It was pointed out that on the one hand, the government was telling schools not to ask for fees from students while on the other hand, it was asking to pay salaries to staff which was practically impossible. The Joint Action Committee of 1,650 unaided colleges of Punjab has sought the release of Rs 1,850 crore pending dues under the post-matric scholarship fee to pay salaries to their staff.Huge amount of money pending
18-04-2020||Kulwinder Sandhu||4 positive cases, Moga administration on toes||Tribune News ServiceMoga, April 17Four positive cases of Covid reported on April 9 in the town have kept the district administration on its toes. An emergency action plan by the district administration was undertaken to tackle the menace.All four persons were staying in Cheeda village and their movements were reported in the nearby Sukhanand village also. The district administration marked these villages as hotspots and people were put under observation. Chief Medical Officer Dr Andesh Kang said the Health Department had conducted the check-up of all 7,652 people living in the villages as a part of the containment plan besides taking samples of at least 16 persons who came in contact with the four patients. All of them had tested negative, she said.Meanwhile, the entry and exit roads to these villages have been barricaded. Dr Naresh Amla, nodal officer, said a total of 1,388 NRIs and 398 local residents had been put under home quarantine in the district so far.Meanwhile, District Magistrate Sandeep Hans and SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill have called upon the residents to maintain social distancing by remaining in isolation at their residences.The administration has also put up posters of a micro-level containment plan in villages for containing the local-level transmission of the disease.Anganwadi workers have been asked to visit houses daily, clinically search suspect cases, identify contacts of confirmed and suspect cases, maintain list of suspected/confirmed cases and create awareness among communities about disease prevention.
18-04-2020||---||High Court: Covid no ground for bail in heinous offences||Chandigarh, April 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that Covid outbreak in the country was not enough to grant interim bail to an accused if the offence was serious and the jail not overcrowded.The Bench at the same time added that all new inmates were required to be segregated for 14 days within the jail premises to avoid Covid spread. The developments took place on a bail petition by accused facing allegations of causing loss of around Rs 20 crore to the state exchequer on account of GST evasion. They were seeking interim bail citing Covid spread.Taking up the matter through videoconferencing, Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill asserted a complete lockdown for 21 days was imposed on March 24. It stood extended up to May 3. Till March 24, there would have been a regular inflow of fresh prisoners in the jail following arrest in freshly instituted cases or convictions just before the lockdown.“However, after the imposition of lockdown in the entire nation, everything has come to a grinding halt and even the inflow of fresh inmates must have been drastically reduced. It is only when a person comes in contact with someone infected that there are chances of the other person contracting the virus. Since it is more than three weeks after the lockdown was imposed, the number of fresh entrants in the jail would be minimal,” Justice Gill asserted. Referring to submissions by the state counsel that there was no congestion in the Nabha jail and the number of inmates presently confined was below capacity, Justice Gill also took note of the fact that 47 inmates were to be transferred to other jails shortly.Justice Gill said it was further submitted that there was no reported case of Covid-19 on the jail premises. As such, it could safely be said the prisoners within the New District Jail, Nabha, were relatively safe. Justice Gill, however, directed the jail superintendent to ensure adherence to required cautions and safeguards whenever a new inmate was admitted.‘No congestion in Nabha jail’
18-04-2020||---||Punjab govt shelves liquor home delivery proposal||Chandigarh, April 17Punjab’s plan to start door- to-door delivery of liquor in Mohali has been shelved for the time being after it met with resistance from some ministers yesterday.The proposal to start online home delivery of liquor in Punjab was approved in the state Excise Policy of 2020-21. It was proposed that the state Excise and Taxation Department would first introduce the policy in Mohali, provided all stakeholders agreed to the proposal. If it were to succeed in Mohali, the department had proposed it to be introduced in other areas.The issue was discussed at length in a meeting of the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Fiscal Management, held last evening. The meeting was chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who incidentally also holds the charge of Excise and Taxation Department. Sources said the plan met with resistance from at least two ministers in the six-member cabinet sub-committee. They expressed reservation over home delivery of liquor, saying “it would not go down well politically in these difficult times”. Some ministers also expressed their reservations, saying no one would be able to vouch for the “health” of the delivery staff, to be hired for the purpose.The state government was initially planning to open liquor vends in areas where there has been no case of Covid-19. However, with the Central Government banning the sale of liquor till May 3, the proposal could not materialise. The state government had initially targeted to collect Rs 6,240 crore during 2020-21 through the sale of liquor.Ministers oppose decisionThe issue was discussed at length in a meeting of the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Fiscal Management, held on Thursday evening. Sources said the plan met with resistance from at least two ministers in the six-member cabinet sub-committee. They expressed reservation over home delivery of liquor, saying “it would not go down well politically in these difficult times”.
18-04-2020||Barnala||Punjab cops escort pregnant woman to hospital||The Munshi of the Tallewal police station here received an unusual call from a family of Cheeniwal Khurd, seeking help in taking their pregnant daughter suffering from labour pain to a hospital.Wasting no time, Munshi immediately informed cops on patrolling duty who then took her to a hospital, where she delivered a boy.On Friday, Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel honoured all three cops with certificates.“Due to the ongoing curfew, no one was willing to even come out of their houses. Since with every passing second, the pain was aggravating, we decided to call the Munshi, who assured us full cooperation. Initially, we were sceptical, as we knew it was not the job of cops to help in such situations. However, as assured, three cops reached our house within few minutes. My sister has given birth to a boy and she had a normal delivery,” said Pargat Singh, brother of Nancy Kaur, who was discharged from the hospital on Thursday evening.After getting information, ASI Parmjit Singh and head constables Lakhbir Singh and Sukhpal Singh reached the house of the woman in need. “We were patrolling an area when we got a call from Munshi. After we came to know about the situation, we immediately rushed to the house of the woman,” head constable Lakhbir Singh told The Tribune. — TNS
18-04-2020||---||Punjab orders rapid testing in all 24 containment zones||Chandigarh, April 17Days ahead of the Centre’s deadline to review the state’s action plan to contain Covid-19, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered rapid testing in all 24 identified containment zones of the state. The state is geared up for the next 30 days and preparing for a projected spike.No services will be allowed to operate in these areas. For public information, the 24 containment zones in the state will be listed on the COVA app. Jalandhar, Pathankot, Nawanshahr and SAS Nagar have been declared hotspot districts as per the Union Health Ministry. The state had so far been conducting these tests in Jalandhar and SAS Nagar.Chairing a videoconference to review the situation in the state, the Chief Minister directed the police to challan those found moving around without masks (home-made or otherwise) in public places, under the provisions of the Epidemic Act.The Chief Minister also issued strict directives for protection of all employees on the frontline of Covid-19 duty, including health, agriculture, police and revenue department staff, in the light of the death of a kanungo.ACS Vini Mahajan, who heads the procurement committee for Covid-19, said of the 4.5 lakh PPE kits ordered, 26,500 had been received so far, with 30,000 more expected to come by the next week. In addition, there were sufficient stocks of masks, gloves, etc. The number of ventilators in government medical colleges was being ramped from 102 to 220. The Chief Minister directed the Health Secretary to ensure that all guidelines for the management of the bodies were strictly complied with.
18-04-2020||Tribune News Servuice||Punjab nod to plasma therapy for infected ACP||Chandigarh, April 17The state government has given the go-ahead to the medical team of SPS Hospital, Ludhiana, to conduct plasma therapy on Ludhiana ACP Anil Kohli, who was diagnosed positive for Covid a few days ago.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said this after a meeting was held to review the Covid-19 situation in the state.The family of the Punjab Police ACP, who is admitted to Ludhiana’s Apollo Hospital, has also given consent for the therapy, for which the DHS, Punjab, is coordinating for potential plasma donors.The therapy is being arranged by the state government’s Health Adviser Dr KK Talwar, former Director of the PGI.On Dr Talwar’s request, Dr Neelam Marwaha, former Head of Department, Blood Transfusion Department, PGI, had agreed to guide efforts as regards plasma therapy, the spokesperson said.
18-04-2020||---||5 Punjab govt officials test positive in Ludhiana||Chandigarh, April 17With 15 new cases reported over the past 24 hours, the total number of cases has reached 212 in the state.According to the media bulletin of the Health Department, five cases were reported from Patiala, four each from Ludhiana and Jalandhar, one from Ferozepur and one from Mohali.However, the biggest concern is in Ludhiana district where five of the 16 positive Covid-19 cases are government employees, who had been dealing with public widely. The first government official to test positive was the district’s Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) posted at the sabzi mandi, followed by a sub-inspector and a constable, both of whom were the ACP’s contacts. Besides, the District Mandi Officer has also tested positive who was also in contact with the ACP. On March 28, he took part in a meeting that was chaired by the ACP to streamline the working of the mandi. On Tuesday, she went along with the Deputy Commissioner to oversee the arrangements for procurement.It is being feared that the District Mandi Officer also came in contact with hundreds of people as she supervised the arrangements at the grain market. With the procurement process going on, she held meetings with farmers and arhtiyas. The SHO who tested positive today was also on duty and met hundreds of people during the day apart from the staff of the police station. Meanwhile, a kanungo from the Revenue Department, who had tested positive yesterday, breathed his last today. Besides, four more positive cases were reported from Patiala taking the total tally to 11.The four positive cases reported included the wife and two children of the book trader and a woman in Rajpura town of the district. The department said the woman did not have any travel history or close contact with positive cases. On Thursday, a book trader, who went to Zirakpur along with a social worker, tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier, three family members of the social worker had also tested positive.Similarly, five more people, including children, tested positive in Jalandhar today. Three of those tested positive include three contacts of the 40-year-old Raja Garden-based mediaperson who tested positive on April 13. The three include his one-year-old nephew, eight-year-old daughter and 60-year-old mother. The fourth person to test positive is a 25-year-old man, a relative of the Purani Sabzi Mandi woman. As per the department, so far, samples of 5,988 suspected cases have been sent for testing. Of them, 5,113 samples were found negative and reports of 664 were awaited.(With Inputs from Manav Mander, Karam Parkash and Aparna Banerji)
18-04-2020||Pathankot||1,200 workers from J&K on fast for 3 days||Nearly 1,200 workers from J&K, who have completed their quarantine period of 14 days in Pathankot district, are observing a fast for the past three days, seeking they be sent to their towns in the UT.They were stranded in Pathankot after the government imposed a lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The workers were put in quarantine at seven camps.After their quarantine period ended, they refused to take meals, seeking evacuation to their home towns, officials said here.“Though the J&K Government has taken the decision for their return, but we have yet to receive any communique to date,” said ADC Abhijeet Kaplish. — PTI
18-04-2020||---||Farmer fear labour crunch during paddy season in Punjab||Jalandhar, April 17As farmers grapple with teething troubles during the ongoing wheat procurement season, they foresee another problem — shortage of migrant workers for sowing paddy.Usually, farmers face shortage of labour during the sowing season. But this time, it is going to be harsher amid the lockdown as paddy sowing is labour-intensive and only trained labourers are needed for it.‘Labour-intensive operations’For wheat sowing, farmers can still use machines. But paddy sowing is labour-intensive. Paddy requires more labour at the time of plantation of saplings, transplantation, watering and spray. Satnam Singh, farmer from Phagwara’s Sahni villageFarmers apprehend that the problem of labour shortage would persist for long.Agricultural officials are expecting that farmers may sow maize or basmati instead of paddy or they (farmers) might go for direct paddy sowing.But ask farmers and they say that the shift to maize or basmati would be difficult, but they would still be ready to take up crop diversification given the shortage of labour.In Punjab, maize was sown on 1.6 lakh hectares last year. This year’s target is almost double of that.Director (Agriculture) Sutantar Kumar Aeri said, “We have been encouraging farmers to go for crop diversification. The preparations are in place.”Satnam Singh from Phagwara’s Sahni village said, “Farmers can use machines for wheat sowing. But paddy sowing is labour-intensive. Paddy requires more labour at the time of plantation of saplings, transplantation, watering and spray.”Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) president Manjit Singh Rai said, “Farmers are tense. Paddy is an important crop and labour crunch during the sowing season will hit farmers badly.”Another farmer Sukhwant Singh from Jalandhar said farmers might go for maize because it didn’t require much labour.
18-04-2020||---||Decentralise e-token system in Punjab, demand farmers, arhtiyas||Muktsar, April 17Farmers and arhtiyas here are facing hardships in getting e-tokens, which have been made mandatory for bringing the produce to grain markets so as to regulate the flow of people in mandis in view of the Covid-19 lockdown.They demand that the process of issuing e-tokens should be decentralised. At present, e-tokens are issued from the head office in Chandigarh.Tajinder Bansal, president, Kacha Arhtiya Association, said: “We have raised the matter with the district administration, but it remains unresolved. Some arhtiyas are getting three coupons a day and some are getting just one.”Another arhtiya Bunty Goyal said, “Some of us have got e-tokens of mandis where they don’t operate. For instance, an arhtiya got the pass for the Bhullar village purchase centre, whereas his area of work is at the Badhai purchase centre.”The police, meanwhile, have booked a farmer of Lundewala village for bringing his produce to Bhundar village purchase centre without obtaining the e-token for the day he brought the produce to the grain market. The combine harvester owner and the commission agent, too, have been booked.Pritpal Singh Gill, secretary, market committee, Gidderbaha, said: “A farmer of Lundewala village brought the crop a day in advance. Also, the moisture content in his produce was higher than the permissible limit. We can’t allow wet wheat in the purchase centres at such a juncture.”He claimed the system of issuing e-tokens by the Punjab Mandi Board was good.2.85 lakh passes issuedChandigarh: The Punjab Mandi Board has issued 2.85 lakh passes to farmers through arhtiyas to ensure hassle-free wheat procurement. Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Viswajeet Khanna said enough mandis had been set up to avoid crowding. He put the number at 3,691. “There is no condition to get the passes through any mobile app. Farmers should approach arthiyas for passes to take their crops to mandis,” he said. TNS
18-04-2020||GS Paul||Sleeping on empty stomach, migrant workers long for home in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 17Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s assurance to his Bihar counterpart Nitish Kumar about taking care of migrants stranded in Punjab appears to be hollow.‘No food for my children’In the first week of the lockdown, officials visited us and distributed food. That was all. They didn't visit us in the subsequent weeks. I have spent my savings. Now, I do not have a single rupee to buy food for my children. Ajay Mandal, native of BiharScores of migrant labourers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states, who play a vital role in industrial and agricultural operations in Punjab, are claiming that they have not been receiving food for the past 10 days.With Punjab borders sealed till further orders and no mode of transportation, they are left with no option but to stay put. Capt Amarinder had asked Bihar CM Kumar to make an appeal in this regard, while assuring that their lodging would be the liability of the Punjabis (Punjab Government) during the lockdown.Notwithstanding the government claims, the ground reality paints a different picture. Barring a few NGOs, no government agency has come forward to ensure two square meals a day for a majority of migrants putting up at Focal Point, Verka, Tung Pai, Mohakampura, Chatti village, Chamrang road, Inderpuri, Kot Khalsa, Guru Nanak Pura and Haripura.The lockdown has come as a double blow for hundreds of Bihar and UP natives living on the Chamrang road, where 300 families live. In June last year, their shanties and belongings were gutted in fire. Slowly and slowly, they were bringing their lives back on track when the lockdown hit them hard.Ajay Mandal, a native of Bihar, said: “In the first week of the lockdown, officials visited our locality and distributed food. That was all. They didn’t visit us in the subsequent weeks. I have spent my savings. Now, I do not have a single rupee to buy food for my children.”Another migrant Sulekha Devi said, “Ration has finished. I feel mentally tortured to see my children sleep on empty stomach. My husband, who worked in a textile factory, has not received his salary ever since the lockdown was clamped. We want the state government to facilitate our return to our home states.”Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “I will ensure regular supply of food and essential items to migrants living on the Chamrang road and in Kot Khalsa. Officials will be asked to survey other areas to streamline the food distribution process.”
