18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt school curriculum in Punjab to be broadcast on Doordarshan||The Punjab government on Monday said it has decided to broadcast the curriculum of state-run schools on DD Punjabi channel.The decision has been taken to prevent students from loss of studies due to the lockdown, a government release here said.The timing of the telecast for students of class 9 will be 9 am to 11.15 am, starting from May 19.Similarly, the telecast time for Class 10 students will be from 11.15 am to 1.45 pm.The telecast timing for primary classes 3, 4 and 5 will be from 1.45 pm to 2.45 pm, it said.The school education department has already started the education programme on DTH platform for 7 and 8 class students from April 20.The Director Education (SS) has written a letter in this regard to all the District Education Officers and the school heads.The school heads will get the feedback of these programmes on a daily basis and will ensure that the teachers concerned will also watch these programmes, it said.The teachers will be in constant touch with the students and will pass on the time table and schedule of these programmes to them, the release said. — PTI
18-05-2020||---||2 held for rape, illegal confinement; victims rescued||Amritsar, May 18The police have rescued two women from an illegal detention at Ram Tirath temple here. The duo was allegedly kept in confinement and being raped by temple priests.The incident came to light when member of the Punjab SC Commission Tarsem Singh Sailka lodged a complaint against the priests.As per the complaint, the priests had kept the two women, both residents of Ghaniyet Ke Bangar in Batala, in illegal detention on the temple premises. Taking cognisance of the complaint, SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal dispatched a police team headed by SP Amandeep Kaur and DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota to the site and rescued the women.  The police team, accompanied by SC Commission member Sailka and Tehsildar Jagsir Singh, also nabbed priests Girdari Nath and Varinder Nath.Later, based on the complaint of the women, the police registered a case of rape and illegal detention against four priests. Besides Girdari Nath and Varinder Nath, the police also booked Nachhatar Nath and Suraj Nath.The two are absconding and raids are on to nab them, said the SSP.
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to resume public bus services from May 20||Public bus services will resume from May 20 on select routes within Punjab, Transport Minister Razia Sultana said on Monday as the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic entered its fourth phase.She said buses would be run at 50 per cent occupancy.The Punjab Government's move to resume public transport services came after the Centre allowed states to run buses in non-containment zones.Curfew restrictions in Punjab were lifted on Monday while lockdown has been imposed till May 31. To prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, some states had imposed further curfew restrictions, besides prohibitory orders issued under the nationwide lockdown enforced by the Centre since March 25.  “We will resume bus services from Wednesday at 50 per cent occupancy,” Sultana said, adding: “If a bus has 50 seats, then only 25 passengers will be allowed to travel.”Bus services will be resumed only within the state and these will ply between districts, she said.On May 16, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had announced that curfew restrictions would be lifted from May 18 and these would be replaced by lockdown guidelines till May 31.The CM had then also indicated resumption of limited public transport. PTI
18-05-2020||---||Potable piped water connections to all rural households of Punjab by 2022: CM||Chandigarh, May 18Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday said the state was all set to provide 100 per cent potable piped water connections to all the rural households by 2022.Fifty per cent of these households have been already covered with individual water connections. In a video-conference with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the Chief Minister said as of April 1, 2020, of the 1,634 habitations in which ground water was impacted, 477 had been provided potable water, and the state was committed to cover all rural households with piped water supply connections by March 2022, in line with the Punjab Government’s target set even before the conceptualisation of Jal Jiwan Mission by the Central Government.  The Chief Minister sought reduction in GST on treatment plans as well as purification media from the current 18 per cent to 5 per cent, in order to make the Jal Jiwan Mission schemes sustainable in the long run.He pointed out that media in the water treatment plans need to be replaced every 2-3 years. Captain Amarinder also urged the Union Minister to recognise the 1,449 Kandi belt villages as ‘hill area’ to reduce the beneficiary contribution, from 10 per cent to 5 per cent, for construction under the Jal Jiwan Mission.  On the issue of the Kandi belt villages, the Chief Minister said the state government had been repeatedly raising the subject with the Government of India for the past two years, but no action had yet been taken.These villages are akin to neighbouring villages of Himachal Pradesh which are receiving funding on a 90:10 sharing basis, with beneficiaries residing there required to contribute only 5 per cent towards the cost of the scheme, the CM noted.Regarding the status of universal coverage of piped water supply in Punjab, the Chief Minister said as of April 1, 2020, 17.48 lakh households had been covered.Of the remaining 17,59,542 households, 7,60,000 are proposed to be covered in 2020-21, and the remaining in 2021-22, he said.In terms of habitations, the state has already covered 92 per cent of the rural habitations with piped water supply network, and 50 per cent rural households have been provided with individual household water connections, the CM added.
18-05-2020||New Delhi||DSGMC launches ‘Langar on Wheels’ for migrants||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee on Monday launched community kitchen initiative called “Langar on wheels” (community kitchen) for migrant labourers at around ten locations in the national capital region, the committee said.  The initiative, set up at inter-state check points, covers Delhi’s borders and also areas such as Noida, Ghaziabad, Seelam Puri, and Sahadra areas, the DSGMC said in a press statement.“This facility is being introduced to provide food and water to the migrant labourers walking back to their villages from metro cities to ensure they get nutritious, healthy and fresh food and water on the way back to their homes” DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said.“The volunteers of DSGMC are distributing food packets to railways passengers in Shramik Trains at New Delhi Railways Station, Old Delhi Railways Station, Nizammudin, Anand Vihar Railways station, etc, etc depending on the route of the train and demand for the food packets,” he said.Lack of income because of a nationwide lockdown and dwindling finances have sent millions of migrants from across the country, including the Delhi-NCR region, back to their villages. While many take the special trains that Indian Railways have launched for them, many others either walk or cycle back home hundreds of kilometres, exposing them to hunger and exhaustion.
18-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Covid impact: Band artists lose rhythm of life||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18Raj has been playing dhol and other instruments in weddings since last 15 years but he has now decided to leave the family profession and is ready to work as a labourer in a factory. Because of the pandemic, Raj has been forced to borrow money from his relatives and friends to support his family.“I have a family to look after. I am devastated. Kuch nahee bacheya. Kadi nai socheya si, apne pushtaini kamm nu chhadna payega, asi loka nu khushiya dittiya, ajj aap khatam ho gaye. (Nothing has been left. Never thought I would have to leave my family profession. We gave joy to people but have been ruined now),” says Raj.Many like Raj say that they would now look to work as labourers in factories, while some others say that all their lives they had only learned to play bands and nothing else.They have a feeling that now marriages won’t happen the way they used to be, so they were finished. “No one would want band artists and dholwalas now,” they sum up.These artists have also taken loans from several people who are now asking for the repayment. Since this was the marriage season, band artists had brought dresses on rent, which are now lying unused. However, they would have to pay the rent on the dresses.Chandar, a band artist by profession, breaks down as he shares his plight. His life had become a challenge. He is now fearful for his family’s future. “Hum doosron ki khushi mein khush hone waley hain, aaj humari zindagi mein andhera hai. (We used to be happy in others happiness, but today our lives are in the dark)”Chandar has a band team and plays trumpet in marriages and other big events. But now, since no big marriages are taking place amid the pandemic, band artists and dhol players, who used to infuse life in marriage functions, are looking for ways to survive.Chandar explains, “We are the ones whom banks don't pay loans, but we get it from private parties on higher rate of interest. When we earn money from marriages, we repay the lenders. What would we do now? This though is not letting me sleep.”  Chandar says he cannot cry in front of his family because he is the only bread earner and he will have to stay strong. But a mention of his children makes his throat choke. “I have two children, one is studying in Class X and the other in Class XII. Earlier, I had thought that if they won’t study, at least they would become band artists, but even that is not possible now because the band is nowhere,” says a teary eyed Chandar.
18-05-2020||Kapurthala/Pathankot/Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab reports two deaths, 16 new cases||Punjab reported two deaths and 16 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the state's COVID-19 count closer to 2,000. Kapurthala and Pathankot each reported coronavirus deaths on Monday, taking Punjab's COVID-19 death toll to 37.A 50-year-old man from Kapurthala's Bagria village died of the COVID-19 infection after he had tested positive. Authorities in Pathakot reported the death of a 35-year-old auto-driver who had been critical and had been referred to a hospital in Amritsar. This takes Pathankot district's death toll to two and Kapurthala's to three. Ludhiana (6), Hoshairpur (3), Jalandhar (2), Faridkot (2), Kapurthala (1), Tarn Taran (1), and Gurdaspur (1) all reported new cases.Five of the 16 new cases in Punjab were people who just returned from abroad. Of Ludhiana's six new coronavirus cases, four were contacts of already diagnosed cases. Gurdaspur also reported one contact of an already diagnosed patient having tested positive. All of Tarn Taran and Jalandhar's cases were those two had recently returned from abroad. Hoshiarpur also reported two such cases. Punjab's COVID-19 infection tally now stands at 1,980. As things stand, Amritsar still has the highest number of COVID-19 cases at 307. This is the district-wise break up of cases---Amritsar (307), Jalandhar (209), Tarn Taran (155), Ludhiana (150), Gurdaspur (123), SBS Nagar (106), SAS Nagar (102), Patiala (100), Hoshiarpur (95), Sangrur (88), Muktsar (65), Faridkot (61), Ropar (60), Moga (59), Fatehgarh Sahib (56), Ferozepur (44), Fazilka (44), Bathinda (41), Mansa (32), Pathankot (29), Kapurthala (33), and Barnala (21). Eight districts have over 100 cases---Amritsar, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran, Ludhiana, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar, SAS Nagar and Patiala---and account for over 63 per cent of Punjab's total case count.The states death toll now stands as: Ludhiana (7), Jalandhar (5), Amritsar (4), Hoshiarpur (4), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Pathakot (2), Patiala (2), SBS Nagar (1), Ropar (1), Ferozepur (1), and Barnala (1).Meanwhile, in Pathankot, a junior resident doctor involved in treating COVID-19 patients in Government Medical College and Hospital tested positive. He had been attending to Nanded pilgrims who had tested positive. The doctor himself was in quarantine since the last few days.This case has yet to be counted in the state's tally.
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister launches new RTI helpline||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday launched a RTI Helpline, paving the way for the people to get prompt answers to their RTI-related queries with a phone call.With a dedicated number (+91 172 2864100), the new helpline will be accessible to all citizens, including government officials representing public authorities, from 10 am to 4 pm on all working days.According to an official spokesperson, the Punjab State Information Commission, which exclusively deals with RTI matters in the state, has been receiving increasing numbers of queries and inquiries from citizens regarding the RTI Act.The spokesperson added that despite the fact that the RTI Act has been in operation since 2005, the PSIC has observed that even public authorities (Public Information Officers) are not fully conversant with the provisions of the Act.  — TNS
18-05-2020||---||Punjab health dept issues 12-point advisory as curfew is lifted and Lockdown 4.0 begins||Chandigarh, May 18The Punjab Health Department on Monday issued a set of 12 advisories for the general public, as it lifted the curfew and moved into the lockdown phase till May 31.Advisories have been issued for hygiene and sanitisation in banks, private industrial and commercial establishments; use of air-conditioners in residential, commercial and hospital complexes; sanitisation of shops and petrol pumps; the trucks in which goods are to be sent or brought to the state.Detailed advisories for senior citizens have been issued, asking them to stay at home at all times, and depending on young relatives or neighbours for getting even groceries.Guidelines have been issued on how to avoid catching infection when using public transport, which is currently allowed to be used only for stranded migrants and others, at a 50 per cent capacity.The government has reiterated that nobody should travel until it is absolutely necessary.
18-05-2020||Sangrur||Sidhu Moosewala case: Singer, policemen booked under Arms Act||In more trouble for Punjabi Singer Sidhu Moosewala and suspended cops, Sangrur and Barnala police have added Sections 25 and 30 of the Arms Act to both FIRs registered against Moosewala and the five policemen. Also read: Video of cops showing Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala how to use gun goes viralCases have been registered against a sub-inspector, two head constables, two constables and three others.“We have added 25, 30 of Arms Act in the FIR registered against Moosewala and others for violation of Arms Act. We are conducting thorough investigations of the case. After we added Arms Act in FIR, now its non–bailable, while earlier it was bailable offence “ said SSP Sangrur Sandeep Garg.On May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar went viral on the social media, the Dhanauala police, on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, had registered a case under sections 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and five policemen. This included Sub-inspector Balkar Singh, Head Constables Gagandeep Singh and Gurjinder Singh, Constables Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and three others, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal and Jang Sher Singh. The DGP had also ordered the immediate suspension of DSP (Headquarters), Sangrur, Daljit Singh Virk, pending an inquiry on charges of dereliction of duty.Within 24 hours, another FIR was also registered against all under the same sections at Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5 after another video showing Moosewala firing from his private pistol at Laddai Kothi shooting range surfaced.But last week, Patiala IG Jatinder Singh Aulakh directed both Sangrur and Barnala SSPs to depute SP-rank officers for an investigation into the matter.
18-05-2020||Washington||US to deport 161 Indians this week; special flight to take them to Amritsar||The United States this week will deport 161 Indian nationals, most of whom had entered the country from its southern border with Mexico and have exhausted all legal options.A special chartered flight will take them to Punjab's Amritsar.Among those on the list to be deported, the maximum 76 are from Haryana, followed by 56 from Punjab; 12 from Gujarat; five from Uttar Pradesh; four from Maharashtra; two each from Kerala, Telangana and Tamil Nadu; and one each from Andhra Pradesh and Goa. According to Satnam Singh Chahal, executive director, North American Punjabi Association (NAPA), they are from among the 1,739 Indians languishing in 95 jails across the US. They were arrested by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement or ICE while trying to enter the United States illegally.According to an ICE report, the US deported 611 Indian nationals in 2018, which rose over two-and-a-half times to 1,616 in 2019.NAPA said among the 161 to be deported to India three are women.The youngest of them are two 19-year-old youths from Haryana. “The fate of the remaining Indians languishing in the US jails is still unknown,” Chahal said.Though there is no data to show from which Indian states those languishing in the US jails came, most of them are believed to be from north India. Most detainees had asked for an asylum, claiming that they experienced violence or persecution in their home country.Over the past few years, US judges did not buy their argument and dismissed their applications.Chahal, who has been working among them for years, alleged that there is a nexus of human traffickers and officials in north India, especially Punjab, who encourage young people to leave their homes and illegally enter the US. These middlemen and agents charge Rs 35 lakh-Rs 50 lakh from each individual. In a statement, Chahal urged the Punjab government and the Centre to take action against illegal agents. PTI
18-05-2020||Patiala||Punjabi varsity pensioners fume||Hit by the pandemic, Punjabi University couldn’t release pensions for the month of April. However, after the regular staff held an online protest demanding salaries, the university released their dues amounting to Rs24 crore.Citing the SC ruling, Sham Singh, president, Punjabi University Retired Officers Welfare Association, said pension should have been released on priority. BS Ghuman, VC, Punjabi University, said they would be holding a meeting to review financial situation. He said, “It is our priority to pay pensioners at the earliest.” — TNS
18-05-2020||Ferozepur||Ration shop owner shot||Panic gripped the area after a ration shop owner was shot dead by few unidentified assailants at Bandala village in this border district today.The deceased has been identified as Kulwinder Singh (35). — OC
18-05-2020||---||Farm union to protest FIRs for burning stubble||Chandigarh, May 17Farmers in Punjab, under the aegis of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), will hold public protests outside the offices of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited from May 22 to May 24.In a decision today, the union said protests would be held against police cases being registered against farmers for burning wheat stubble. Farmers are also demanding a 16-hour power supply to farms from June 1 onwards, for paddy transplantation. “The transplantation is expected to go on till July-end as labourers are not available,” said union general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan.
18-05-2020||Muktsar||Constable attacked in Malout,1arrested||A constable, who was on a patrolling duty in Malout town, suffered a head injury on Saturday evening after he was attacked by two motorcycle-borne youths.The accused, identified as Gaurav of Harjinder Nagar in Malout town, has been apprehended, while the one who had fled from the spot has been identified as Sonu of Patel Nagar.Identified as Navjot Singh, the constable was admitted to Malout Civil Hospital.A case under Sections 307, 383, 186, 188 and 269 of the IPC has been registered against the assailants. — TNS
18-05-2020||Ropar||Mahant  found dead, probe on||A mahant of a dera was found murdered in his room on the Ropar-Nurpur Bedi road near here today. Mahant Yogeshwar (86) was staying in the dera for the last four decades.The decomposed body of the mahant was lying in a pool of blood and the room was ransacked.SHO Parminider Singh said prima facie the mahant died a week ago. Probe is on. — TNS
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||MLAs question tweaked mining policy||No jatha to Pakistan this yearAmritsar: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic worldwide, a Sikh jatha will not visit Pakistan this year to commemorate the martyrdom of Guru Arjan Dev and death anniversary Maharaja Ranjit Singh that falls on May 27 and June 28, respectively. Dr Roop Singh, SGPC chief secretary, said: “The programmes have been deferred because international borders have been sealed. We anticipate that the situation will get normal by November. We could then think of sending jathas to Pakistan to celebrate Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary.” TNS31 Kerala students leave for homeBathinda: In all, 31 students studying in various colleges in and around Bathinda and hailing from Kozhikode in Kerala, were sent back home on Sunday after getting clearances from the Bathinda authorities and the Kozhikode administration. Harvinder Tinku Grover, secretary, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, said the students were unable to find a safe passage to reach Kozhikode after which their parents approached the Congress in Kerala. TNSDon’t discharge +ve patients: UnionsChandigarh: Farmers and labour organisations have alleged that the government is playing with the lives of people by sending even recently confirmed Covid positive patients home. Sharing reports of such patients from Sangrur, who tested positive three days ago, but were sent home, the BKU (Ugrahan) and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union have announced to hold protest in front of DC offices in several districts on Monday. TNS1.95l getting hypertension treatmentChandigarh: About 12.65 lakh persons have been screened under the Non-Communicable Diseases Screening Programme in 2019-20. Of these, 1.95 lakh were diagnosed with hypertension and were put on treatment by the Health Department. On World Hypertension Day, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said in wake of Covid-19 outbreak, all civil surgeons had been directed to ensure supply of medicines to patients as hypertension and diabetes were major co-morbid conditions contributing to a higher risk of contracting Covid. TNS
18-05-2020||---||Gangster attacked inside Bathinda jail, two booked||Bathinda, May 17Two gangsters were booked for attacking notorious gangster Navdeep Chatha in his high-security cell inside the Bathinda Central Jail today. Chatha received serious injuries after Rahul Sood and Ajay Kumar attacked him. He was taken to civil hospital from where doctors shifted him to the Faridkot Medical College.Jail superintendent Manjit Singh said, “These three gangsters Rahul Sood and Ajay Kumar are lodged in high-security cells inside the Bathinda jail. On Sunday, they went back to their cells after having breakfast. Rahul and Ajay went inside Chatha’s cell by breaking the window and attacked him”.Later, CRPF and security personal deployed outside the cell rescued Chatha and took him to the jail hospital where after the first-aid he was referred to the civil hospital. Cantt police station SHO Narinder Kumar said Chatha had not recorded his statement yet. A case has been registered against Rahul and Ajay. He said the police would take them on production warrant and interrogate about the reason behind the attack.It is learnt that the reason behind the attack can be old rivalry. Mobile phones have been seized from both gangsters many times and they had suspicion that Chatha gave information to security personal about phones inside the jail.
18-05-2020||---||Former DGP Saini appears before SIT||Mohali, May 17Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini today appeared before the SIT in a case registered against him and other policemen regarding the abduction and disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani at Mataur police station.AREA CORDONED OFFKuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP, said the former DGP had arrived at 4 pm and the questioning continued till 5.30 pm. He said the SIT questioned him about the case, details of which could not be revealed.Sources said the police had cordoned off the area after Saini requested for the same as he did not wish to meet anyone else except the SIT.The former DGP was summoned by the SIT after the local court on May 11 granted him anticipatory bail. The court had ordered Saini to join the investigation within a week and also submit his passport to the police. The court had further restricted him from moving out of his house during the lockdown period. Following this, Saini submitted his passport and gave an undertaking that he was ready to join the probe and was residing at the said address.Earlier, the Mohali police constituted an SIT headed by SP (Investigation) Harmandep Singh Hans along with DSP Bikramjit Singh Brar and Inspector Rajiv Kumar to probe the case.
18-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Eco-warriors at it||The mask manAbohar: For the past over two months, Karan Saharan, a student of SGJ DAV Senior Secondary Public School in Haripura village here, has been busy making sanitisers and stitching masks for free distribution among the needy. He parents, Surinder Kumar and Nimita of Dhinganwali village, said he always wanted to serve society. He learnt making sanitiser online using natural ingredients. He was able to stitch a lot masks. The items are being given to the needy, who are also educated about the importance of hygiene in preventing the infection. School principal Sukhdev Singh says Karan has been doing a commendable work.Beyond call of dutyChandigarh: Patwaris have taken up a different role amid the Covid pandemic. Many of them like Kartar Singh, who is posted in Amritsar, are rising beyond their call of duty. When the next of kin of many unfortunate fatalities of Covid-19 refused to cremate their bodies, he came forward and performed the last rites. Last week, when a 34-year-old man succumbed to the dreaded disease, and his relatives living in other states could not make it to his cremation, Kartar Singh came forward and performed the last rites. "Everyone has to die one day. It is better to die serving humanity. I am not afraid of the virus," he says.In father’s memoryMuktsar: Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal buried the ashes of his father Gurdas Badal at his farm at Badal village here. Those present included former CM Parkash Singh Badal, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, and Cabinet ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Kangar and Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi. Despite political rivalry, Sukhbir met his estranged cousin Manpreet thrice in the last three days. He first went to Manpreet's farmhouse with his family on Friday. Both Sukhbir and Harsimrat again went there on Saturday. Badal and Sukhbir on Sunday attended the rituals to collect ashes. This bond between the two families was missing since 2011.
18-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Chitti Bein no more black, environmentalists elated||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 17Around 200 members of the Har Roku Lok Committee (people’s committee for the prevention of floods) working at the Gidderpindi bridge, which is the point of confluence of Chitti Bein and Sutlej, began experiencing an unusual change in the river for the past month. The black, stinking waters of Chitti Bein have become transparent. The foul smell emanating from the body has also disappeared.The change in Chitti Bein and Kala Sanghian is a clear indication that water has become purer as industrial waste is not being discharged into the water bodies. The question is why the government isn’t serious in dealing with the cancerous wasteBalbir Singh Seechewal, EnvironmentalistWhile villagers say the river’s colour has undergone a slight change for the better, the water is not stinking anymore. A resident of Gidderpindi village, Kulwinder Singh, president of the committee, which has been working on clearing out sludge and strengthening the bund to prevent floods, said, “After years, the smell of the river has disappeared. Our feet and hands don’t stink anymore. Rare birds which have never been seen this side are being witnessed. The weather and river haven’t felt this good in ages. The Goindwal factories, which are 40 km away, are visible from our village now. The tower near Lohian which we last saw 20 years ago from the village is also visible. We have been working on the river for the past five months. But the lockdown has brought dramatic changes to the water body.”Jarnail Singh, sarpanch of Eesewal village, said, “We used to get the foul smell of Chitti Bein half a kilometre away, but now, we can’t detect a whiff of foul odour.”Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal said, “Changes in Chitti Bein and Kala Sanghian drains are clear indications that water has become purer as industrial waste is not falling into them. The question is why the government isn’t serious enough about dealing with this cancerous waste. For us, cancer has been a bigger killer than Covid. A permanent solution to these toxic effluents has to be sought after the lockdown.”Senior environmental engineer, PPCB, Harbir Singh said, “Both commercial and industrial wastes are causing problems. There is also a considerable difference due to commercial establishments like hotels, service stations, dhabas, etc, being closed. We will be formulating a report on the prime causes of reduction in pollution.”Ghaggar pollution dipsMansa: The polluted Ghaggar river, whose black and foamy water started emitting a pungent smell in the past two decades, has turned clear in the Sardulgarh area of Mansa district. Villagers appealed to the Punjab Pollution Control Board and district administration to keep a close check on industries disposing of their effluents into the Ghaggar as many of them had resumed work. TNS
18-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Firm allowed to open fruit collection centres||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17A company stopped from procuring oranges following apprehensions regarding theft of kinoos will be back in the trade again. Preventing the fruit business from turning bitter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court recently set aside an order declining it permission to open its centres.The permission to procure self-aborted small oranges for medicinal purposes was unilaterally withdrawn on April 18 primarily on the ground of Covid and that representations were received from a certain segment of farmers expressing fear about the theft of kinoos. The apprehensions stemmed from the fact that “the availability of labourers was less and the farmers were busy due to the harvesting season”.Taking up the petition filed by Hindustan Fardirect Ingredients Private Limited against Punjab and other respondents, Justice Jaishree Thakur said: “It is not as if the petitioner herein is going to collect the kinoos physically from the gardens of the farmers and, in fact, it is the farmer himself who is to bring his produce to the collection centres.”Justice Thakur observed the petitioner was engaged in the business of procuring small oranges for preparing medicines and had been given permission to open collection centres in Sittgunno, Alamgarh and Pattrewala in Fazilka district.Justice Thakur added the court while dealing with the present petition could take note of the fact that permission had been granted to several centres for procurement of wheat, etc. Besides, Fazilka DC’s office had granted relaxation during the curfew/lockdown period for waxing/movement of kinoos, horticulture items, fruits and cold storage daily between 7 am and 7 pm vide order dated May 3.As such, there could be no cogent reason for stopping the petitioner to open its collection centres, if the movement of kinoos, horticulture items and fruits had been permitted by the office order dated May 3.
18-05-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Poultry products back in demand||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 17Poultry products are back in demand after their prices fell drastically last month amid the Covid-19 scare.Now, the price of chicken has increased and it is selling at Rs 220 per kg while the boneless variety is being sold at Rs 340 per kg. The price hike is due to supply shortage as farmers reduced their output due to weak demand. Experts, however, believe that poultry prices had already peaked, with a minimal chance to rise further from here.Mohinder Singh, owner of Ranjit Poultry Centre, said the sale of poultry items had picked up in the past few days even as hotels and marriage places were still closed. He said prices were hiked as earlier, when the demand was low, poultry farm owners were not able to provide proper feed to birds and some had to sell birds at throwaway prices as well.Moreover, as transportation of birds from Haryana is not allowed, there is a shortage of supply as well. Atul Garg, a city resident, said “This is totally wrong as in normal days, boneless chicken is sold at Rs 250 per kg, but nowadays, it is selling at Rs 350 per kg.”He said the district administration should keep a check on the prices of poultry products during the crisis. It is pertinent to mention that in the wake of the Covid outbreak, the sale of poultry products and eggs witnessed a decline as citizens were avoiding eating chicken and eggs. Poultry owners had to face huge losses during this period.Prices SoarRs 220 price of chicken per kgRs 340 per kg for boneless variety
18-05-2020||Balwant Garg||No clarity on fee yet, med students in spot||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 17Huge disparity in the fee structure for over 3,000 MBBS, BDS, MD/MS and MDS seats in the state has left a large number of aspirants on the edge.Over a week after the Medical Education Department informed all medical and dental colleges in the state about the amendment to the Punjab Private Health Sciences Institution (Regulation of Admission, Fixation of Fee and Making Reservation) Act, 2006, which empowers it to fix the fee structure for all medical and dental colleges, while the department is yet to announce the fee structure for all colleges, it has left the students baffled as some private colleges have fixed their own independent fee structure.FORCED TO PAY TO GET ALLOTTED SEAT’As the government is yet to announce a uniform fee structure for all private medical colleges, some institutions have announced their independent fee structure, forcing us to pay fee to get the allotted seat.PARENT The problem is acute for the aspirants of about 1,000 MD/MS and MDS (postgraduate) seats.For fresh admissions in MD and MS courses (clinical), while two private medical college are charging Rs 6.5 lakh per annum as tuition fee, one private college has fixed the fee at Rs 14.90 lakh. Another private college is charging Rs 9.5 lakh as fee plus Rs 5 lakh registration fee.“As the government is yet to announce a uniform fee structure for all private medical colleges by the state government, some colleges have announced their independent fee structure, forcing us to pay fee to get the allotted seat,” said father of a girl student in Faridkot.“There is a deadline to either join or surrender the allotted seat, otherwise admission will be cancelled. But in the absence of the announcement, we are unsure if we will be able to pay the fee,” said father of another student from Bathinda.DK Tiwari, principal secretary, Department of Medical Education, said the state government was already in the process of announcing the fee structure. “The department will announce the new fee structure in view of the amendment to the Act in the next one or two days and all colleges have to adhere to it,” he said.As per the amendment, the state government shall regulate admissions, fix fee and make reservation for different categories at private health sciences educational institutions, which include all medical, dental, ayurvedic and homoeopathic colleges in the state.
18-05-2020||s||Central govt failed migrants, crisis grave, says Capt||Chandigarh, May 17Taking strong exception to the Union Finance Minister’s criticism of the Congress party’s humanitarian efforts to help the distressed migrants, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday blamed the BJP government at the Centre and in states for aggravating the migrant crisis and politicising such a grave issue.‘BJP PLAYING POLITICS’The BJP govt at the Centre and in states is to blame for politicising the matter. The Congress government, on the other hand, is supporting migrants. My government arranged 149 trains to ferry 1,78,909 migrants to their native states till May 16.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterThe Congress, including all party-led states, were working day and night to support the migrant labourers, with his own government having already arranged 149 trains to ferry 1,78,909 migrants to their native states till May 16, said the Chief Minister, adding that the process of facilitating the labourers to go to their homes was still continuing in Punjab.Reacting strongly to Nirmala Sitharaman’s “uncalled-for” comment that Sonia should have asked her CMs to help the migrants, Capt Amarinder said the Congress president had been holding regular interactions with the party CMs on this and other critical lockdown related issues.He said instead of ridiculing Rahul, who came out on the roads to extend support to the migrants, Nirmala should have spoken to the BJP-led UP Government to allow entry to the buses arranged by Priyanka Gandhi to transport migrants.Sent 1.8L at own cost: JakharThe state government has so far arranged to send 1.8 lakh migrant labourers to their native places at its own cost, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar reminded the Union Finance Minister. Contrary to the daily announcements, the workers have not received any help from the Modi government, he alleged.
18-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Excise revenue down Rs 1,820 cr in 11 months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Punjab’s excise collection in the first 11 months of 2019-20 was down by Rs1,820.07 crore, as compared to the Budget estimate of Rs6,201 crore.These figures, revealed in the audited accounts of the Punjab Government, show that in 11 months of the last fiscal, the state managed to collect Rs4,380.93 crore.Interestingly, this shortfall is at the centre of the controversy over the financial relaxations demanded by liquor contractors.In its briefing to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday, the Excise Department had claimed that there were no losses incurred by the department in 2019-20, except the losses because of the lockdown. It is baffling how the revenue shortfall of over Rs1,800 crore could have been bridged, especially when most of the new auction of vends had not taken place nor liquor contractors, wishing to retain their licensing units, had paid the renewal licence fee in full before the lockdown period began.Punjab’s Excise Policy has allowed for renewal of licence for the contractors allotted liquor vends in 2019-20, and 70 per cent of them had opted for renewal of liquor contracts. The total renewal fees to be paid was Rs300 crore and only 60 per cent of this had been paid till March 20, officials in the department told The Tribune.Excise officials contend that ever since the policy of minimum guaranteed quota (MGQ) yielding a minimum guaranteed revenue (MGR) was introduced in 2018-19, they had been able to deliver this revenue. “The Finance Department works the estimated excise collection on a higher side of the MGR. That is why there appears to be a shortfall, even as the targets of MGQ and MGR are being met,” said a senior officer, adding that a loss would be counted only if there was a loss on the MGR. In 2019-20, the department has managed to give MGR of Rs5,500 crore.Data available from the state Finance Department also shows that the excise collections in 2018-19 was down by Rs927.60 crore (revised estimates) and that in 2017-18, it was down by Rs286.79 crore.Sources in the liquor trade, however, do not rule out the large-scale liquor smuggling — both from the distilleries located in the state and from outside — as the reason for the shortfall in targeted excise revenue. It is perhaps thus that the CM has now ordered a police crackdown on all liquor smuggling, though it remains to be seen how successful it will prove to be in increasing revenues.
18-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Govt failed to set up excise corporation: Pargat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 17Congress MLA Pargat Singh today once again hit out against his own government, saying it had failed to set up an excise corporation even in its fourth year of its rule.“I fail to understand as to who is stopping the government from taking this step which can help in raising the income of the state and stop liquor smuggling. Former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu was sent to Tamil Nadu to study the excise corporation model there, but his proposals were not accepted that year as the government had then felt that the excise policy for the year was already getting late. As the government formulated the policy for the fourth year recently, it once again failed to set up a corporation,” said Pargat.‘GST DUES PENDING’Liquor and excise are the two main resources to generate income, especially when the state is reeling under a liability of Rs 2.5 lakh crore and is yet to receive its share of Rs 4,500-crore GST.Pargat Singh, Congress MLAThe MLA said, “Liquor and excise are the two main resources to generate income, especially when the state is reeling under a huge liability of Rs2.5 lakh crore and is yet to receive its share of Rs4,500-crore GST. The ministers and bureaucrats have been fighting over excise matters whereas they all need to realise that it is with the vision and will of political leadership that the bureaucrats tend to function. We all must realise that we are all working under the rule of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, and not the Chief Secretary... The ministers and MLAs say something in meetings and change their stance during private conversations... In another year or so, we will be held accountable by Punjabis.”He said, “We cannot push the issues like sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, power purchase agreement and reconciliation of Rs31,000-crore cash-credit gap under the carpet of Covid-19. We still have time and can take corrective measures. That is why I had sent two letters to the CM. Since I tend to speak up on issues that matter, some sections have started calling me a rebel... I am fine with it since whatever I am saying is in the interest of Punjab.”Sort out CS issue: MLAAfter demanding a CBI probe into excise losses, Qadian MLA Fateh Jang Bajwa on Sunday tweeted, “Is our honourable CM held hostage, literally and metaphorically, by a section of bureaucrats… The situation is very cloudy. It is time for the CM to step in to sort it out. It would be bad as the ministers would lose face in public if they attend meetings attended by the CS.”
18-05-2020||---||SIT probe into illegal distillery on; Oppn alleges deeper scam||Patiala, May 17Four days after the police and excise teams raided an illegal distillery-cum-liquor bottling unit at Ghanaur in Patiala, the Opposition has alleged that the illegal liquor trade is linked to illegal mining and gambling.The Opposition targeted the state government for failing to rein in illegal mining, gambling and illegal liquor trade in Rajpura.FORM HOUSE PANEL FOR PROBE: SADWe demand an HC-monitored probe by a judge as well as a Vidhan Sabha committee to look into the running of illegal distilleries. Prem Singh Chandumajra, SAD Leader The role of the Excise Department is under scanner for its “failure” to bust the illegal liquor unit operating for more than a year.“Excise officials have been accepting bribe. Corrupt officials must be suspended so that their links can be nailed,” Congress MLA from Ghanaur Madan Lal Jalalpur said.Sources say the SIT on Sunday held a meeting in Rajpura and zeroed in on kingpins evading arrest. “It is a matter of investigation that illegal trades in Ghanaur are linked,” a senior official said.Akali leader Surjit Singh Rakhra alleged that the role of some Congress leaders and MLAs in the Ghanaur case was beyond doubt. “Illegal mining and liquor mafia have been operating for years. The beneficiaries of the illegal trade are the same set of leaders,” he claimed.SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “The SIT is investigating the case. If anyone has any information, he should approach the SIT and justice will be done.”
18-05-2020||GS Paul||In Amritsar, 65K in queue to board Shramik trains||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17Trials And TribulationsSome complained they received the SMS late and others said they were asked to return from the railway station in spite of having the reservationAmritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla said: “The process of online registration and medical testing is mandatory.”It would take at least a month’s time for the Amritsar administration to clear the existing list of around 65,000 migrants who expressed their desire to travel back to their home states in UP, Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand.It is estimated that around 2.25 lakh people hailing from UP, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal were settled in the holy city.On May 7, the first Shramik train was chugged off from here with 1,180 migrants for Gonda (UP).Till May 16, only 14,030 could be ferried back to their native places in 12 Shramik trains which ferried 10,650 migrants back to UP and 2,400 to Bihar and 980 to West Bengal. This implied that over 80 per cent migrants willing to go back were still awaiting their turn to occupy seat in the train.Owing to the tedious registration process, coupled with restricted seats in Shramik trains, some of the desperate migrants arranged to travel back on their own.Mahesh Verma of Parvasi wing of SAD said food was the major issue that forced them to leave on foot. “After lockdown, they lost their jobs and were looking for food. Barring the SGPC or local NGOs, the government relief kits were inadequate,” he said.After getting no call for Bihar-bound train for two weeks, Santosh said he sold his cart and pooled in with 10 others to engage a tempo to drop them back to Nalanda (Bihar).“We were 11 persons, including two women and five children, hailing from Nalanda. Here we had no food, so we decided to sell our carts, rickshaws and household articles to arrange Rs80,000 to pay tempo traveller owner. As soon as we managed to procure emergency exit pass, we left on May 11 and reached home on May 13,” he said.Shyam Yadav, Parkash Yadav and Hari living in Gali No 7, Karampura, who were engaged with a catering firm here, said they got themselves registered 15 days ago to go back to Patna, but till date their seats were not confirmed.
18-05-2020||---||Not allowed to enter UP after walking 200 km, migrants protest||Patiala, May 17More than 150 Uttar Pradesh-bound migrant labourers held a protest at Shambhu border after they were sent back from the Haryana-UP border.The labourers were about to cross over to Uttar Pradesh when the Haryana authorities picked them and dropped them back near Rajpura.‘NO HELP FROM S TATE GOVT’We were stuck in Ludhiana as we ran out of money and had no job. We feel as if we don’t belong to this country. We don’t have any other option, but to walk to our homes. Sadly, the government is not even letting us do that. We don’t want to die on roads.Vineeta, Lucknow NativeThe migrants had reportedly walked over 200 km from Ludhiana to the UP border. Unfortunately, when they tried to enter Uttar Pradesh, they were stopped by the Haryana Police. The labourers were huddled into three roadways buses and dropped near Shambhu village.Anguished over this, the migrants staged a sit-in at the highway for over an hour. Some of them broke down into tears and pleaded the authorities to let them travel to their native places in Uttar Pradesh. Officials from Patiala reached the spot and pacified them.Vineeta of Lucknow said, “We were stuck in Ludhiana as we ran out of money and have no jobs. We feel as if we don’t belong to this country. We don’t have any other option, but to walk to our homes. Sadly, the government is not even letting us do that. We don’t want to die on roads.”Manpreet Singh, DSP, Ghanaur, said, “We are asking the migrants to stay in Punjab and the government will take care of them. We provided them food and asked them to return to their cities in Punjab and register themselves for the Shramik train journey.”Some stay back in hope for jobs Jalandhar, May 17As trains continue to ferry migrants to their native places, some have decided to stay back hoping that units will be back in operation soon and they will be demand again.Manjit Kumar, a Bihar native who works in Phagwara, said his decision to stay back might prove right as he expected to find work and a chance to earn more in view of the labour shortage. Another migrant, Nishant Kumar, who works in a hand tool manufacturing unit in Jalandhar, called up his family in UP and told them he would come later after earning more money. — TNS
18-05-2020||---||Stand-off: Ministers, CS to attend meet||Chandigarh, May 17Amid hectic parleys to broker peace between the warring ministers and Chief Secretary Karan Avatar Singh, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called a meeting through videoconferencing on Monday. Health, medical education and food and civil supplies ministers along with the Chief Secretary would be participating.The three ministers — Balbir singh Sidhu, OP Soni and Bharat Bhushan Ashu – will take part in the discussions. The development has raised a question mark on the unanimous decision of the ministers to abstain from any meeting attended by the Chief Secretary. The ministers had earlier staged a walkout during a meeting on excise after the Chief Secretary allegedly misbehaved with them.The three warring ministers — Manpreet Badal, Charanjit Singh Channi and Sukhjinder Randhawa — who had led the charge against the Chief Secretary are not participating as the matter does not concern their departments, said officials.
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Of 16 infected cops, eight discharged||The Punjab Police have set up 20 more quarantine centres for their personnel in the past one week, taking the total number of such centres to 78.Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said of the 16 Covid-positive cops in hospitals as on May 14, eight were discharged on Sunday.An analysis of quarantined police personnel and those who tested positive has brought out 16 cops had to undergo quarantine as they were primary contacts of police officials who contracted the virus, while 150 cops were primary contacts of accused who were brought for interrogation and had tested positive.Another 118 cops had to be quarantined as they were on duty to bring back pilgrims from Hazur Sahib, workers from Jaisalmer (Rajasthan) and students from Kota (Rajasthan). Some of them traveled to Jammu and Kashmir to drop stranded children and labour. — TNS
18-05-2020||---||6-yr-old Ludhiana boy among 3 dead||Chandigarh, May 17With three more persons succumbing to Covid-19 today, the number of total casualties due to the deadly disease has reached 35 in the state. Two of the deceased were from Gurdaspur and one from Ludhiana.Apart from this, 38 new cases were reported and the total state count rose to 1,964. As per a state media bulletin, Amritsar reported six new cases, followed by Ludhiana five, Pathankot four and SBS Nagar three.Besides, 109 persons were discharged from the government quarantine facilities. Apart from five cases reported in the media bulletin from Ludhiana, 18 more persons tested positive, including 13 RPF jawans, one from Kundanpuri and four from Payal.As per the media bulletin, among the five persons who tested positive were two Class IV employees of Civil Hospital, two employees of the Railways, and one from Kundanpuri.A six-year-old boy from Badi Haibowal, who had tested positive and was admitted to PGI’s Advanced Paediatric Centre, lost his life. The patient was admitted on May 15 and expired on May 16 night. After the death, one paediatric junior resident managing the patient and deceased’s parents have been quarantined.In SBS Nagar too, apart from three cases in the media bulletin, two more persons tested positive. The five cases include two persons who had returned from Dubai, two from Amritsar who had come to meet acquaintances in Mandera village and a contact of an already-infected person at Gunachaur village. In Jalandhar, one person reported positive, taking the district tally to 212. The patient is from Qila Mohalla, and is a contact of an corona-positive person from the locality.As per the Health Department, so far samples of 51,812 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 47,484 samples were found negative and reports of 2,364 is awaited.
18-05-2020||New Delhi||Capt Amarinder Singh hits back as Finance Minister derides Rahul||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today derided Rahul Gandhi’s move to meet migrant workers camping at a flyover in Delhi as mere drama. “Let us deal more responsibly with this issue. This is my humble request to Sonia Gandhi,” she remarked.Taking exception to the criticism of the Congress’ “humanitarian efforts to help distressed migrants,” Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh blamed the BJP governments at the Centre and in states for aggravating the crisis and politicising a grave issue.He said instead of ridiculing Rahul Gandhi for reaching out to migrants, the Union Minister should have spoken to the Yogi-led BJP government in Uttar Pradesh to allow entry of buses arranged by Priyanka Gandhi to ferry migrants home. — TNS
18-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Lockdown 4.0: Punjab issues guidelines, public transport to ply in non-containment zones||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Following MHA guidelines on lockdown 4, Punjab government has allowed movement of persons within the state from 7 am to 7 pm, barring the containment zones from Monday.Night curfew, however, will be strictly implemented across the state from 7 pm to 7 am.While ending the curfew from Monday, the state has extended the lockdown till May 31.Allowing movement of vehicles including public transport within the state, it has allowed Inter-State Buses with mutual consent of other states.  For taxis, four wheelers and cab aggregator it shall be limited to one driver and two passengers.  For rickshaws and auto-rickshaws, one driver/puller and two passengers.  For two wheelers and bicycles, it shall be limited to one rider or wife and husband or with one minor child.OPDs in government and private hospitals have been allowed. Sports complex and stadia without spectators has also been allowed. While shops in rural and urban areas have been allowed, restaurants have only been allowed to operate for home delivery & take-away in staggered manner.Barber shops and haircut salons (both in rural and urban areas) have been allowed with condition of no over-crowding.
