18-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Cong’s Faridkot MP faces ire of farmers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 18Congress MP from Faridkot Mohammad Sadique on Sunday faced the ire of protesting farmers at Benra village under Dhuri Sadar police station. Agitated farmers and youngsters kept him “confined” to his vehicle for 45 minutes and posed him questions.“Farmers are dying in protests, but your government is sleeping. Why your government has not announced any compensation as yet?” asked a youngster after stopping the vehicle of Sadique.Within minutes many others surrounded the vehicle of the MP and started asking him questions. They asked that why Congress MPs are not resigning and sitting on indefinite protest in New Delhi against farm Acts and why Congress government was not extending much needed support to their protests?“You are tactically supporting PM Narendra Modi as you raise your voice against farm Acts only in Punjab. But after reaching in Delhi, you start speaking the language of Modi and it’s unacceptable,” said an old farmer.Another youngster said “Modi IS trying to kill farmers of Punjab”, but neither Congress, nor SAD leaders were taking a stand for them.“Our government has been supporting you and I have been giving repeated statements that we are standing with you,” MP Sadique said.But protesters asked the MP that why he had not joined their protest as yet even as he kept trying to convince farmers to let him go to attend a ‘bhog’.Later, Dhuri Sadar SHO Deepinderpal Singh Jeji came and helped the MP to leave the place.“Since the crowd was leaderless, it became impossible for the MP to convince them. I took him in my vehicle and dropped him at some distance after which he left in his vehicle,” said the SHO.
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to table Bill in assembly to boost investment||The Punjab government will table a Bill in a special assembly session beginning Monday to improve the state’s investment climate and generate employment.The state cabinet approved the conversion of the Factories (Punjab Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 into a Bill at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, an official statement said.The Bill is aimed at amending a relevant section and inserting a new section in the Factories Act, 1948. It provides for changing the existing threshold limit for small units.The change has been necessitated by the increase in manufacturing activities by small units in the state and is aimed at promoting small manufacturing units. This would help create more employment opportunities for workers, it said.In view of the absence of any provision in the existing law for compounding of offences for violations found at the time of the inspection of factories by the Inspector, the Bill will also incorporate a relevant section in the Act. This will facilitate faster settlement of cases and reduction in court action, the statement said.On October 14, the state Cabinet decided to convene a special session of the state assembly here to bring in a legislation to counter the Centre’s new farm laws.The two-day session will begin on Monday. — PTI
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||13 deaths, 476 fresh virus cases in Punjab||Thirteen more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday as 476 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 1,27,630.So far, 4,012 people have died from the infection in the state, according to a medical bulletin. The places which reported new coronavirus cases included Ludhiana (67), Hoshiarpur (64) and Jalandhar (54).There are 5,735 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to the bulletin. A total of 958 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection on Sunday, taking the number of cured people to 1,17,883.Twenty-three critical patients are on ventilator while 145 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 23,21,084 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab's Health Dept director conducts surprise checking at govt hospitals||With a view to further improve the emergency healthcare services in health institutions, Punjab's Director, Health and Family Welfare, Manjit Singh, paid surprise visits to various government hospitals in four districts in the state.Singh said the inspection was carried out at district hospitals in Rupnagar, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot and Sub-Divisional hospitals in Garhshankar, Mukerian, Dasua and Balachaur on Saturday."We examined the emergency medical facilities being provided to the people and also checked the availability of essential medicines and medical equipment, especially in emergency and mother and child hospital wards," an official statement quoted him as saying."We also monitored the sampling process for COVID-19 testing at various hospitals. The drive lasted for around 16 hours," said Singh on Sunday.He said that patients and their attendants were asked about treatment facilities being provided in the hospitals."During the drive, a few lapses were found at some places which will be removed on priority basis and necessary instructions have been issued to the officials in this regard," he said.During the inspection, he directed the officials that all the essential medicines should be available in the emergency ward and attendants of the patients should not be asked to bring the same from the market. PTI
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to hold two-day session to discuss Bills to counteract Centre's farm laws||Punjab Assembly session scheduled to begin on October 19 will now last for two days instead of one, officials sources said on Sunday.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had a detailed meeting with Congress MLAs on Sunday afternoon to discuss the farm laws and heard their views for the assembly session.A decision to extend the session to two days will be formally taken at a business advisory committee meeting scheduled for Monday.Official sources said one day in the two-day session will be reserved for debate on the controversial farm Bills that the Congress state government under Chief Minister Amarinder Singh proposes to have passed in the assembly.The farm Bills are intended to counteract the controversial farm laws that the Parliament passed last month. The three central laws---The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020---have since drawn protests from farmers across the country but mainly from the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana. Of particular concern for farmersThe laws replaced three ordinances similarly named that the Cabinet had approved of in June.Farmers and civil rights organisations have been holding protests against the three laws since last month. Of particular concern was The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, which they see as a step to dismantle the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) system. Farmers see this measure as a process to do away with the minimum support price (MSP), a policy under which farmers are assured a minimum return for their produce regardless of the market fluctuations.  Critics say that while the APMC system could do with some reforms, the laws could weaken the system and leave farmers open to exploitation. In the last assembly session on August 28, a resolution was passed by a majority to reject three contentious farm ordinances, which later took the shape of the laws.The Centre, however, has maintained that the new laws will raise farmers’ income, free them from the clutches of middlemen and usher in new technology in farming. ‘Will do everything possible to protect farmers’Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said on Sunday the Centre may “dismiss” the Congress government if it wants but they will do everything possible to protect farmers’ interests.Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Jakhar said, “We discussed how to protect farmers from these black laws. The MLAs gave their suggestions.”    He said the government is clear that it will do whatever it can to protect farmers’ interests. The MLAs were of the opinion that if the Centre feels Punjab’s action of countering the new farm laws was not right, they can dismiss the state government, Jakhar said.“If the Narendra Modi government dismisses our government, they are free to do so. The MLAs were of the opinion, to which the Chief Minister also agreed, that if the Centre has to take such a step they can, but we will do whatever we can to protect interests of farmers,” he said.We are clear that we have to save farmers; we have to protect the peace, harmony and brotherhood, Jakhar said.“If Centre thinks Punjab is coming in way of the benefits they want to extend to big corporates through these farm laws and if they want to dismiss our government, they can,” Jakhar said.Senior Congress leader and MLA Raj Kumar Verka said Punjab will not accept the “black laws”.“The session will now be of two days instead of one-day duration. We are also bringing other bills for the benefit of landless farmers during the session,” Verka said.Punjab Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has always protected the state’s interests.“During his first term as a chief minister, he had taken a bold decision to protect the state’s interests on water issues. Now again, he is committed to protect farmers’ interests,” the minister said.Earlier on October 14, a decision to convene special session of the assembly was taken at a meeting of the state cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here.The chief minister had said that his government will fight the “anti-federal and vicious” farm laws tooth and nail through legislative, legal and other routes. The CM had said he would call a special session of the assembly to bring in necessary amendments to state laws to negate the “dangerous impact” of the central legislations, which are designed to “ruin” the farmers as well as the state’s agriculture and economy. With PTI
18-10-2020||New Delhi||Share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution likely to increase||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the “poor” category on Sunday morning and the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution is likely to “increase significantly”, according to a central government agency.    It was 19 per cent on Saturday, 18 per cent on Friday, around one per cent on Wednesday and around 3 per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday.  The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 275 at 8:30 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 287 on Saturday. It was 239 on Friday and 315 on Thursday, the worst since February 12 (AQI 320).   An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.  During the daytime, winds are blowing from the northwest, bringing pollutants from farm fires. At night, calm winds and low temperatures are allowing the accumulation of pollutants, according to an India Meteorological Department official.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, the farm fire count around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring border regions was 882 on Saturday.Since transport-level wind direction was favourable for intrusion, stubble contribution in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was around 19 per cent on Saturday, it said. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the ventilation index – a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – is likely to be 12,500 metre square per second on Sunday – favourable for dispersion of pollutants.Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed.A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.It, however, said the impact of stubble burning on Delhi's air quality is likely to “increase significantly” by Monday.Punjab and Haryana have recorded more incidents of stubble burning this season so far compared to last year and it is largely due to early harvesting of paddy and unavailability of farm labour due to the coronavirus pandemic, according to officials.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had Friday said meteorological conditions in Delhi have been "extremely unfavourable" for dispersion of pollutants since this September as compared to last year.With less area under non-basmati paddy cultivation this time, CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava hoped the number of stubble burning incidents will be fewer this year compared to 2019.Non-basmati paddy straw is considered useless as fodder because of its high silica content and so farmers burn it.Gargava also said stubble burning peak might not coincide with the peak of adverse meteorological conditions this year due to early harvesting of paddy.PTI
18-10-2020||---||Farmers, traders  protest against Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma||Ludhiana, October 17Members of various farmers’ organisations and trade unions staged a protest against BJP state president Ashwani Sharma here today.They were protesting against the farm Acts and demanded from the Central Government to revoke these laws at the earliest. Raising slogans against the Centre and the PM, they burned an effigy to express their anger.Sharma was here to attend a programme at Maharaja Regency on Ferozepur Road, Ludhiana. Farmers gathered outside the venue to mark their protest.Addressing the gathering, farmer leaders claimed that the laws are against the interests of farmers and traders and aim to benefit big corporates.They accused the BJP of misguiding the farmers and people over the laws. They further accused the Centre for not implementing the recommendations of the Swaminathan report.Farmer leaders, including Tarlochan Singh of Kirti Kisan Union; Hardeep Singh of Bharti Kisan Union (Dakonda); Raghvir Singh Benipal of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha; Surinder Singh Jalaldiwal of Kul-Hind Kisan Sabha and leaders of other unions were present during the protest. DP Maur, a trade union leader, said the Central Government must rollback the farm laws at the earliest.
18-10-2020||---||BJP leaders seek Ravneet Bittu’s arrest||Jalandhar, October 17Members of the Jalandhar unit of the BJP on Saturday met the Commissioner of Police with the demand to book Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu alleging that his statements “threatened to disrupt peace” in the state. Those who met the Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar, were BJP leaders Manoranjan Kalia, KD Bhandari, Mohinder Bhagat, former mayor Sunil Jyoti, Manoj Sharma, Sunny Sachar and others. They submitted a memorandum addressed to the SSP, Jalandhar.The leaders demanded the registration of an FIR against Ravneet Bittu and others as well as his immediate arrest.BJP state president Ashwani Sharma’s car was attacked at the toll plaza at Tanda on October 12, in which the windows of his car had been smashed. An FIR under Sections 341, 427, 148, 149 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 8-B of the National Highway Act, 1956, had been lodged in the case.In a statement on October 14, Bittu claimed the responsibility for the attack and stated that he would rather prefer himself to be blamed than farmers. Talking to The Tribune, former MLA KD Bhandari said, “His statement is provocative as he takes full responsibility for the attack. So far, windows have been smashed but tomorrow something worse might happen. He should immediately be arrested.”
18-10-2020||---||‘No coal supplies, expect long power cuts soon’, Food and Civil Supplies Minister||Jalandhar, October 17Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday said owing to farmers’ strike and “rail roko”, the coal supplies in Punjab had fallen dismally.He said with the remaining supplies, the thermal plants could run for just about four to five days after which there could be long power cuts in the state.Ashu, who was here to launch the smart village campaign phase-2, said the state might have to purchase power from the Central grid. He said the state government wanted the Centre to quickly resolve the farmers’ issues and protests against the farm Acts so as to avert this problem.Coming down heavily on the BJP-led NDA government and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) over farmers’ issues, Ashu said the Centre did not have an iota of pain being faced by the farmers and the SAD had been fighting just to save its political ground in Punjab.Kick-starting 3,201 development projects worth Rs 149.21 crore in 106 villages of Jalandhar, Ashu participated in a video conference held at local district administrative complex. He was accompanied by MLAs Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri, Sushil Kumar Rinku, Avtar Singh Junior Bawa Henry, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori.He listed out the works to be done, including upgrade of road infrastructure, streetlight systems, lying of new sewage lines, setting up of Thapar model ponds, interlocking tiles, sheds in cremation grounds, solid waste management, disposal of sewage waste, construction of panchayat ghars, new playgrounds, community centre, etc.Ashu further added that eight villages of Jalandhar East block had been selected for the second phase, followed by nine villages in Bhogpur block, nine in Mehatpur, nine in Noormahal, nine in Phillaur, 10 in Nakodar, 10 in Lohian, 10 in Jalandhar west, 10 in Rurkan Jalan, 11 in Adampur, and 11 villages in Shahkot blocks.The minister said Rs14.67 crore would be spent on the development projects in Jalandhar east block. Similarly, Rs25.26 crore would be spent in Jalandhar west, Rs12.85 crore in Adampur, Rs13.26 crore in Bhogpur, Rs16.90 crore in Nakodar, Rs18.56 crore in Phillaur, Rs10.76 crore in Shahkot, Rs10.23 crore in Noormahal, Rs8.32 crore in Rurkan Kalan, Rs10.55 crore in Lohain, and Rs78.05 crore in Mehatpur block.The opening ceremony was held simultaneously in 66 locations of the district in which a large number of sarpanches and panches took part through video conference. The participation of panchayats was observed as a step to enable and empower them to ensure the complete facelift of their villages.
18-10-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Decades on, poor road infra bane of Khemkaran residents||Tarn Taran, October 17Over 70 years have elapsed since the country gained Independence but residents of Khemkaran border area are still waiting for civic amenities. Their area still cries for proper road connectivity. The condition of link roads in the area always remains in bad shape. Besides, the condition of the 50-km-long Khemkaran-Amritsar National Highway is also deplorable, adding to the residents’ worries.Earlier, it was known as the Khemkaran-Amritsar state highway. Eight years ago, the highway was upgraded as the national highway with its width being increased from 22 feet to 33 feet. This highway project is still far from completion. The road has become a lifeline for border area residents. Thousands of residents travel daily from the area to Amritsar and vice-versa. These include students, employees, farmers, traders, etc.Sahib Singh, a resident of the area, said people welcomed the project of the national highway as the road has been given divider facility which was to make the highway an accident-free zone. He said the part of the highway from Bhikhiwind to Khemkaran, which has been completed, was neither properly designed nor built as sewerage water of villages could be seen accumulated in the Bhikhiwind, Amarkot and Cheema parts of the highway.This defect was raised during the district-level officials’ meeting presided over by then Deputy Commissioner many times last year but the highways authorities paid no heed as a result of which residents are facing troubles.Arsal Singh Sandhu, state president of the Border Area Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said there was hardly any link road which was in good shape and smooth. He said that the link roads — Bhagwanpur to Makhi Kalan, Makhi Kalan to Dialpur, Algon Kalan to Kalsian with Margindpur-Bhagwanpur, Mehmoodpur to Maddar, Maddar to Van, Assal to Machhike-Rattoke, Tahli Chaunk to Manawan, Bhura Kona to Noorwala, Bhuram Kona to Bhura Karimpura, Valtoha to Bahadur Nagar, Khemkaran to Mehindipur, etc — had not been repaired over the years.Daljit Singh of Dialpur village said it was the routine work of the PWD that it took years to lay bitumen after the first layer of stoning on the link roads in the area which forced the residents to change their route to reach their destinations by covering miles. He said it was this due to the bad condition of link roads that private bus operators were unwilling to ply their buses along these routes. As a result, residents faced conveyance problem and found it difficult to go to nearby townships for shopping and other works.
18-10-2020||---||Ahead of session, Capt to brief MLAs, hold Cabinet meeting||Chandigarh, October 17Ahead of the daylong special session of the Vidhan Sabha on Monday, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called a meeting of the party MLAs to brief them on the tough stand being adopted by the state government and the legislation the government was bringing to counter the three Central farm laws.The meeting would be held ahead of the Cabinet meeting in which the draft of the legislation to be brought in the Assembly would be discussed and approved.To have a wider view, the Chief Minister today held a marathon meeting with the PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and Cabinet Ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, MLA Kuljit Nagra and senior government functionaries. All ministers in a three-hour-long meeting stressed that farmers were looking upon the government with a hope that it would protect their rights. The views of the MLAs are being solicited tomorrow during the CLP meeting before the draft of the action plan is tabled in the Cabinet meeting.Sources said the Capt Amarinder Singh government is going to adopt a tough stand against the farm Acts so that the voice of farmers echoes in the Assembly.“The Congress government will do whatever it can to become the voice of the farmers, even if it means putting the government’s future at stake”, said a senior leader. Sources said various options, including the rejection of the Central farm Acts, tabling a resolution against the laws, tweaking the state agriculture laws to neutralise the effect of the Central laws and a legal scrutiny, were being weighed. The option of declaring the entire state as a market yard under the APMC Act seems not be on the priority list of the government.The state may exploit provisions provided in Article 254(2) that states that if a law made by a state relating to a matter in the Concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament, then the law made by that state can prevail within its territory, provided the President of India gives his assent. Another option is challenging the farm laws in the Supreme Court.
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Crime up in Punjab, CM must go: SAD||The SAD today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take moral responsibility for “breakdown” of law and order in the state and resign immediately.In a statement, former minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said Capt Amarinder had failed to do his duty as Home Minister. “We are witnessing rampant killings and armed dacoities.Just yesterday, Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu was murdered, days after his security detail was withdrawn. We also witnessed Rs 15-crore daylight dacoity attempt at Ludhiana yesterday, which was foiled by alert citizens and not the police force.” — TNS
18-10-2020||---||Two farmers die during protests||Bathinda/Patiala, October 17A farmer sitting on an indefinite ‘rail roko’ agitation against farm laws for the past 17 days reportedly died of a heart attack in Mansa district today. The deceased has been identified as 50-year-old Jagtar Singh, who was a resident of Guradi village in Mansa.The deceased, whose wife died two years ago due to cancer, has left behind three children. As per residents of the village, Jagtar had an outstanding debt running into lakhs of rupees.Balkaran Singh, a farm union leader, said, “Jagtar was participating in the indefinite protests for past two weeks. He was a member of the BKU (Kadian). Today, he participated in a march which was carried out in different parts of the city. After reaching the Railway Lines area, he felt uneasy and was taken to a government hospital but doctors declared him brought dead. He owned three acres of agricultural land.”In Patiala, a farmer leader also died of heart attack while protesting against three farm Acts. Harbans Singh, 73, was leading the protest against the Acts near Mehmadpur Jattan village in Patiala.He suffered a heart attack and died on the spot. Minutes before his death, Harbans, a member of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) had burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi — as a mark of protest against the Acts.While addressing protesters, Harbans had said the Modi government had insulted the farmers by not including any minster in the meeting called at Delhi. “Therefore, we are burning the effigy of the Prime Minister,” he added.Famer union leaders Jagmohan Singh, Dr Drashan Pal, Gurbax Singh Balbera, Satnam Singh, Ranjit Singh Swajpur condoled the demise of Harbans. The farmers unions declared Harbans Singh martyr who died fighting for the farming community.
18-10-2020||Tribune Reporters||Protesters burn effigies of PM Modi, Union ministers||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Bathinda, October 17Farmers today burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Cabinet colleagues in protest against the contentious farm Acts.Office-bearers and activists of various farmer unions vented their ire at the Central Government by organising funeral processions and burning effigies of the PM and his Cabinet on highways, near toll plazas and petrol pumps.Several factions of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, All-India Kisan Sabha and Kirti Kisan Union burnt the effigies at Mullanpur, Ahmedgarh, Raikot and Payal towns. Addressing a gathering at Mullanpur, office-bearers of the All-India Kisan Sabha’s Ludhiana unit said the Central Government had rubbed salt on farmers’ wounds by making a mockery of the Delhi meeting. They said the BJP would have to pay a heavy price for this cruel joke on farmers.“Now when the Punjab Government has expressed its intention to reject the Acts in the Assembly, the Union Government will be forced to rectify its decision by either withdrawing the Acts or making necessary amendments,” said Sikandar Singh Dhillon, an officer-bearer of All-India Kisan Sabha.Sadhu Singh Panjeta, district president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), appreciated that the leaders of all farmer unions were united for a common target and spoke in one voice. Besides blocking rail tracks, protesters have laid siege to toll plazas, fuel pumps, shopping malls of corporate houses and staged sit-ins outside the residences of several BJP leaders in the region.In Bathinda, farmers owing allegiance to 30 kisan unions carried out a protest march from Multania Road to Hanuman Chowk and burnt effigies of the Union Government to express their resentment over the farm laws. Apart from Bathinda city, protests were held in different blocks of the district and effigies of the Union Government were burnt.Shingara Singh Mann, president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said: “The joint protest against the controversial farm Acts entered the 17th day today. However, today’s protest was particularly organised against the indifferent approach of the Union Government to reach a consensus and resolve apprehensions of the farming community.”
18-10-2020||Bathinda||AAP protests move to lease out Bathinda thermal plant land to private companies at Re 1 per acre||The AAP today slammed Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal for proposing to demolish the thermal power plant here and lease out its land to private companies at Re 1 per acre.MLAs Baljinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur Ruby led a march to Manpreet’s office. However, the police used barricading to prevent the protesters from reaching the office.They then staged a dharna and raised slogans against the Congress government and Finance Minister. The protest ended after the Tehsildar reached the spot and took a letter of demands addressed to the Governor.Prof Baljinder Kaur said SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had earlier shut down the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant in Malwa to benefit private players. Now, Manpreet had gone back on his promise by demolishing the heritage project and allowing open loot of its land worth Rs 4,000 crore.Ruby said had the Congress government’s intentions not been suspect, the Bathinda plant would have run till 2031, with one unit running on straw generating Rs 3,000 per acre of additional income for farmers. — TNS
18-10-2020||---||BJP Punjab general secretary Malwinder Kang quits over farm laws||Chandigarh, October 17In the first major dissent within the BJP over the new farm legislations, party’s Punjab general secretary and core committee member Malwinder Kang today resigned from the primary membership of the party.In his resignation letter to BJP state president Ashwani Sharma, Kang reasoned that “the farmers, arhtiyas and small traders were rightly and democratically protesting the new Acts passed by the Union Government”.He said he had raised the issue in support of farmers at the core group meeting of the party and called for party’s state and central leadership to “address the grievances of the protesters.”BJP state president Ashwani Sharma said he was yet to receive the resignation letter. On reasons behind the resignation, Sharma said “everyone has the right to have their opinion and follow their chosen path”.Party sources suggested besides the farm Acts, Kang had an issue with the two other general secretaries of the party. Sources said a number of state BJP office-bearers were unhappy with the way things were being run. Sources said Kang was one of the three general secretaries of the party but power rested with only one.‘Farmers rightly protesting Acts’4 villages ban entry of BJP leaders Ferozepur villages put up outside a house. Tribune photoFour villages falling in Guruharsahai subdivision of Ferozepur have banned the entry of BJP leaders to protest the new farm laws. Posters have been put up “warning” BJP leaders of dire consequences if they tried entering Chappa Adiki, Jawai Singh Wala, Deep Singh Wala and Kohni villages, said Bakshish Azaad, state president, Naujwan Jagrukta Mission.Azaad said the villages had taken the decision to express solidarity with the farming community. “We can feel their pain. The villages have decided to boycott all BJP leaders, including the PM, whose government has enacted the anti-farmer laws,” said Azaad. Mission members on Saturday held a protest march against the NDA government. OC
18-10-2020||---||Won’t let petrol stations owned by business groups to function, say farmers||Batala, October 17Farmers unions today made it clear that they would not allow petrol pumps owned by business groups to function till the Union Government withdrew the farm Acts.BKU (Rajewal) spokesman Kashmir Singh said: “All factions have jointly decided that these outlets won’t be allowed to sell oil because we fear the corporates will capture every inch of agriculture land in Punjab in the future. First, they will form a cartel which will decide what price to give to which farmer and later they will take our lands on lease,” said Kashmir Singh.Today morning, more than 200 farmers laid siege to a petrol pump owned by a business group on the Batala-Jalandhar road.A leader said while during the daytime at least 50 protesters would ensure petrol pumps didn’t run, at night groups of 10 to 15 farmers would put up blockades in front of these pumps.Meanwhile, SSP Rachpal Singh said policemen in civvies had been deployed to ensure no untoward incident took place.
18-10-2020||Muktsar||Several booked after black flags shown to Cong MLA Raja Warring||A day after some farmers waved black flags at Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring during his visit to Gurusar village in Gidderbaha Assembly segment here yesterday, the police registered a case against several persons, including a local scribe who was arrested and later released on bail.Farmers and farm labourers today held a march against Warring, calling him “anti-farmer”. In a video message uploaded on his Facebook page last evening, Warring said: “I fail to understand why some people lodged a protest against me when I was visiting the village to review development works. I have always opposed the farm laws. I am a farmer, ready to sacrifice anything for their cause. The protest was the handiwork of some people playing into the hands of the SAD.” Gurusar residents had already pasted stickers outside their residences announcing their opposition to entry of politicians into the village. — TNS
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi, Capt Amarinder launch phase 2 of Smart Village Campaign||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, along with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Saturday kick-started the second phase of state’s Smart Village Campaign (SVC) with the virtual launch of a Rs 2,775-crore drive to power the complete rural transformation.While Rahul launched the campaign from New Delhi, the Chief Minister and a host of Punjab ministers, officials and sarpanches joined in from a total of 1,500 digital locations, paving the way for execution of 48,910 works across the state.The CM said the scheme would lead to the creation of enormous rural infrastructure to raise the living standard and quality of life by capitalising on technological advances, as part of his government’s Rural Transformation Strategy. He assured of adequate allocation for the schemes to be undertaken under the second phase, which has been kick-started on the culmination of Phase I, which was launched in 2019 for the execution of 19,132 works at a cost of Rs 835 crore.For the second phase, adequate funds had already been transferred to all 13,264 gram panchayats in Punjab, the Chief Minister said, adding that his government intended to give assistance to those house-owners who are living in houses having temporary roofs. The intention is “Har ghar pakki chhat” i.e. to provide the rural poor with better housing facility. — TNS
18-10-2020||Moga||60K narcotic pills seized from Moga resident||The district police have arrested a person for smuggling drugs and seized 60,000 narcotic pills from him. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill said Ram Nath Sethi, a resident of Mistryan Wali Gali, Moga, ran a medical store by the name of Sushant Pharma in Fauji market.“He operates a drug smuggling racket and sources the narcotic tablets from Pindi Street, Ludhiana, to supply them in Moga city and surrounding areas,” the SSP said. Sethi was nabbed by a team of cops from the anti-narcotics drug cell, Moga, when he was on his way from Dana Mandi, Moga, to Zira Road. — TNS
18-10-2020||---||Hit by lockdown, four of family commit suicide||Faridkot, October 17A man and his wife, along with their two children, ended their lives by allegedly setting themselves on fire in Kaler village of Faridkot district today.In a three-page suicide note, 45-year-old Dharampal, an accountant at a brick-kiln, blamed the Covid-induced lockdown for his economic hardships, which forced the family members to end their lives.The charred bodies of Dharampal, his wife Seema (35), daughter Monica (15) and son Hitesh (11) were found in a room of their house this morning. In the note, Dharampal listed details of a Rs 9 lakh debt he had incurred, besides Rs 6.5 lakh that he had given out as loan to others.The victim belonged to Sikar district of Rajasthan and had been working at brick-kilns in the area for the past 10 years.Minutes before Dharampal allegedly ended his life, he sent a text message to some of his colleagues informing them that they were about to take the extreme step.“The message was received on my phone at 4 am, but I read it around 6 am. I, along with some colleagues, rushed to Dharampal’s house and saw smoke billowing from a room,” said Suresh Kumar, his colleague.“We informed the panchayat and the door was broken. All four members of the family were found dead,” he said. “The relatives of the deceased have been informed in Rajasthan. The deceased has blamed the Covid pandemic for economic hardships that forced them to end their lives,” said Satwinder Singh, DSP, Faridkot.
18-10-2020||---||Fresh infections drop below 500||Chandigarh, October 17After a gap of over two-and-a-half months, the number of fresh infections has come down to less than 500. The state has recorded 427 cases and 19 deaths in the past 24 hours.As per the government bulletin, the tally has climbed to 1,27,154 and the toll has reached 3,999.In the district-wise breakup of cases, Jalandhar topped the list with 73 cases, followed by Ludhiana (54), SAS Nagar (48), Amritsar (36), Patiala (28) and Bathinda (27).The number of active cases has further declined to 7,090, while the number of recoveries stands at over 1.16 lakh.At present, 140 patients are on oxygen support and 22 on ventilator support.Of the deaths reported, Amritsar and Pathankot topped the list with three deaths each, followed by Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and SAS Nagar (two each), and Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mansa, Ropar, Sangrur, Tarn Taran and Fatehgarh Sahib (one each).
18-10-2020||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana heist suspects wanted in murder cases||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 17The interrogation of three suspects nabbed during an attempted dacoity at a Muthoot Finance office yesterday has revealed that they were notorious criminals facing murder and contract killing cases across various states.Roshan Kumar, alias Tatya, of Satiautha village and Saurav Kumar of Maudah Chatur village, both in Vaishali district of Bihar; and Sujit Kumar Rai of Bathua Bujurg village in Bihar’s Samastipur district, were nabbed by the police when they were trying to flee with 30 kg gold worth Rs 15 crore.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal told The Tribune the suspects were facing over five cases of murder in Bihar and West Bengal, besides cases of bank dacoity and loot across India. Eight teams had been formed to trace the remaining three suspects who fled the scene. The suspects had opened fire, injuring four persons. The officer said the suspects had rented a room in Chandigarh on a fake ID. A police team had been sent to Bihar to verify the addresses of the suspects. They were in touch with the Bihar and West Bengal police to verify the criminal record of the gang.The suspects were today produced in a local court, which remanded them in four-day police custody.Additional DCP-3 Sameer Verma, member of the special investigation team probing the case, said: “They might have been targeting Muthoot Finance branches across the country. We are gathering details of heists in other branches to zero in on the gang.” Sources said three accused who had fled towards the bus stand, leaving their motorcycle outside the branch, could have boarded a bus for Chandigarh.
18-10-2020||---||AAP names new state, dist office-bearers||Chandigarh, October 17The state unit of AAP today released a list of its secretaries, joint state secretaries, district in charge and district secretaries.Party state president and MP Bhagwant Mann and in charge of Punjab affairs Jarnail Singh announced the appointment of the new office-bearers.Gagandeep Singh Chadha, former state in charge, has been appointed party’s state secretary, while Amandeep Singh Mohi, Dharamjit Singh and Ashok Talwar have been named the state joint secretaries.Besides, the party appointed in charge of various districts, including RTI activist Dinesh Chadha, who has been given the charge of Ropar district.Mann and Jarnail Singh said the appointments had been made on the basis of merit after deliberations at the ground level. They said with the new appointments, the party would be further strengthened at the grass roots ahead of the 2022 elections.
18-10-2020||---||Obit-‘Sahitkaar’ who taught science in Punjabi||November 15, 1943 - October 16, 2020“Punjabi is the mother tongue of 120 million people inhabiting vast swathes of area all over the globe.” No wonder, the man who reminded us so in a book review in The Tribune, thought it was only befitting that science be taught in Punjabi. Eminent writer Kuldip Singh Dhir, who breathed his last on Friday night, practised what he preached. He not only wrote nearly 65 books on the expansive field of science but also taught the subject in Punjabi during his lectures at professional colleges and other institutes. Writer of books such as ‘Taap Gati Vigyan Te Taap Engine’, ‘Padarth Samratha Vigyan’, ‘Udyogic Te Utpadan Engineery’ and ‘Bharti Atom Bomb Da Mahan Birtant’, Dhir never altered the terminology of scientific terms. For how could the theory of relativity be defined any other way? If he was devoted to the purity of his mother tongue, equally strong was his understanding of principles of science and technology. A ‘sahitkaar’ with a scientific temper, he was a prolific writer who wrote in English and Punjabi and contributed regularly to various newspapers as well.Dr Jaspal Singh, secretary, Chandigarh Sahitya Akademy, says that Dhir’s biggest contribution was not merely the books written on science. “Sure he wrote both fact and fiction-based books on topics ranging from Big Bang Theory to black holes and even on Stephen Hawking but equally remarkable was Dhir’s grasp on Sikhism and Gurbani. He elucidated how Guru Nanak’s teachings were based on scientific principles. In fact, one of his latest books was ‘Nanak Ate Nawan Vigyan’.” Inderjit Kaur Sandhu, former Vice Chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala, opines, “In this book, he handled the world of science and metaphysics rather adroitly and gave a fresh perspective on Guru Nanak’s bani.”A recipient of the Shiromani Punjabi Lekhak Award in 1999, Dhir served as the head of the Punjabi Department at Punjabi University in 1990 and retired as the Dean (Faculty), Languages, in 1999. Born on November 15, 1943 in Mandi Bahauddin, Punjab (now in Pakistan), his presence will be missed not only in Patiala — his home for many years — but also in literary circles. His writings will continue to bridge the world of imagination and tangible facts of science. The author who felt the need to interpret literature in a fresh manner himself lent new hues to it.
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Trucks with rice from Bihar ‘let off’, Ratia farmers fume||Farm organisations in Ratia today claimed to have intercepted five trucks carrying rice from Bihar. They were furious that these were allowed to go by the authorities. Zila Parishad member RC Sehnal, claimed that millers were bringing cheap rice from Bihar to be mixed with custom-milled rice here.Had valid papers: SDM“Today, we received information that five trucks loaded with rice were parked near a fuel station. Our leader informed the officers concerned. “The drivers admitted to transporting the rice from Bihar but were let off,” Sehnal alleged. Furious, the farmers later held a demonstration.Ratia SDM Surender Beniwal said the drivers carried valid papers. —TNS
18-10-2020||New Delhi||More farm fires due to early harvest: Experts||Punjab and Haryana have recorded more incidents of stubble burning this season and it is largely due to early harvesting of paddy and unavailability of farm labour due to the Covid pandemic, officials said on Saturday.According to the Punjab Pollution Control Board, the state has recorded 4,585 farm fires so far. The number was 1,631 during the corresponding period last year.Haryana has also recorded an increase in farm fires — from around 1,200 incidents till October 16 last year to 2,016 this year. Karunesh Garg, Member Secretary of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, however, said the number of stubble-burning incidents seemed more because of early harvesting of paddy this year. — PTI
18-10-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Balwinder’s kin: Killing linked to ‘Referendum 2020’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17The Punjab Police have claimed that Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Bhikhiwind, who was gunned down by two assailants on Friday, had negligible threat perception.After providing him security for more than three decades for his fight against terrorism, the Punjab Police had withdrawn three of his four gunmen in July 2017 and the lone security guard left with him in late March this year.Braveheart crematedThe Tarn Taran administration assured the deceased’s family of prompt action in caseThe administration also assured them about their request for a government job for one family memberThe district police have provided three gunmen for the familyThe police reasoned that Balwinder Singh had no threat to his life and the police needed additional force to fight Covid-19.The security threat perception analysis is under scrutiny as Balwinder Singh was gunned down in just over six months after the security withdrawal. There were at least 42 recorded attacks on him by terrorists during strife-torn days in Punjab. “He had not received any threat in last several years nor was there any hint of an attack or his mention in any hit list," said a senior police official, justifying the security withdrawal."We are inquiring further on what transpired in recent past," he added.Meanwhile, Jagdish Kaur, wife of Balwinder Singh, said they had been regularly meeting police officials at the police headquarters for resumption of security, but to no avail.While the family is alleging that Balwinder was shot by terrorists, affiliated to the Sikh Referendum 2020, the police say they are probing the incident from other angles too, including personal enmity.
18-10-2020||---||Will force Centre to revoke farm laws, pledge Rahul Gandhi & Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, October 17Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today pledged to force the Union Government to repeal the “draconian” farm laws, which, they said, would be debated during the special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Monday.“The Punjab Government will take steps to counter the black laws and protect the farmers,” Capt Amarinder said. Rahul condemned these laws as an “attack on the soul of every farmer”. Welcoming the CM’s decision to convene a special House session, Rahul said the voice of the farmers was gagged in Parliament, but would resonate in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha.He was delivering a virtual address at the launch of the second phase of ‘Smart Village Campaign’ in Punjab. “If these laws were in the interest of the farmers, why then did the BJP-led government at the Centre not allow a debate on these in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha?” he asked.
18-10-2020||Archit Watts||Traders buying paddy from UP, selling it in Punjab mandis||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 17With paddy fetching poor rates in Uttar Pradesh, local traders and rice millers are purchasing the crop from that state to make quick money, in the process causing loss to Punjab and its farmers.The authorities have done nothing to stop this practice. Farmers in Muktsar, Faridkot and Patiala claim to have intercepted 15 trucks carrying paddy from UP in the past few days.Nirmal Singh, secretary, Bharti Kisan Union (Sidhupur), Muktsar district, said, “A number of traders are buying paddy from other states. However, this is illegal as paddy grown in Punjab alone can be sold at the local mandis. Also, the buyer has to pay a fee to the market committee on every purchase. This is a clearly a case of tax evasion.”He pointed out that there was a huge gap between the MSP in Punjab (Rs 1,888/ quintal) and that in states like UP, Bihar and Rajasthan. “Farmers in these states are selling their crop to Punjab traders at Rs 900-1,000 per quintal. After paying the freight charges (Rs 150-160/ quintal), it costs the traders Rs 1,150 per quintal. This means they make a profit of nearly Rs 700/quintal.”Nirmal Singh stressed that this “bogus sale” must be stopped as it could hurt the Punjab farmers, who would be unable to sell the entire produce because of the glut. Rice mill owner Ram Pal too wanted a check on the practice. He claimed the paddy from other states was of poor quality with a high moisture content.
