19-10-2020||Chandigarh||17 more Covid deaths, 473 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Monday reported 17 more deaths due to coronavirus pushing the death toll to 4,029 while 473 cases took the infection tally to 1,28,103.The new coronavirus cases were reported from Hoshiarpur (97), Jalandhar (51) and Mohali (42) among others, the medical bulletin said.There are 5,307 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 884 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering taking the number of cured people to 1,18,767.Twenty-seven critical patients are on ventilator support while 117 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 23,39,398 samples have been collected in the state so far for testing, it said. — PTI
19-10-2020||GS Paul||Same-sex marriage in presence of Guru Granth Sahib invites Akal Takht’s ire||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 19With no room for ‘same-sex’ marriage ceremony in the Sikh religion, the Akal Takht has taken a strong notice of a homosexual knot accomplished under the patronage of Sri Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ in the USA.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has issued strong directions to a US couple -- Sarbjeet Singh Neel and his wife Leela -- who have allegedly got this ‘unholy’ ceremony done recently in Sacramento in the presence of ‘saroop’ which was in their possession.Giani Harpeet Singh has directed the North American Sikh Gurdwara managements to take the ‘saroop’ from their possession immediately and place this in a gurdwara.Confirming the development, personal assistant of Harpreet Singh said a strongly-worded letter has been posted to the ‘erring’ US couple as Sikh code of conduct did not allow such marriages.“They were told to hand over the saroop to the designated Sikh activists. It was a blasphemous act of accomplished marriage of two males performed in the presence of this ‘saroop’. It was also a violation of the Akal Takht’s directions,” he said.He added that numerous complaints were earlier received at the Akal Takht Secretariat about the same couple who often indulged in acts of sacrilege. “The US gurdwara management has also been directed to make them accountable for explanation which would be sent directly to the Akal Takht for further course of action,” he said.Sources said the same couple was known for violating the Akal Takht edicts on a number of earlier occasions. He has performed a number of destination weddings by taking ‘saroop’ in planes, caring two hoots to the ‘maryada’.In January 2005, the then Jathedar of the Akal Takht Joginder Singh Vedanti had issued a ‘hukumnama’ (edict) denouncing the same-sex marriages and urging the worldwide Sikh community not to allow such marriages to take place at any Gurdwara. Same-sex relationships were condemned as being anti-Sikh, with the concept of same-sex marriages originating “from sick minds” and being “anti-human”. Earlier, in January 2016, SGPC too was in a fix when Ontario Premier Kathleeen Wynne, who was openly gay and had declared her support to same-sex marriages, visited the Golden Temple. Her visit mired into controversy, but the SGPC claimed to refrain from honouring her with the traditional ‘siropa’ (robe of honour).
19-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin ||Paddy from other states smuggled into Punjab for higher MSP||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 19The Bathinda police have intercepted four trucks and two tractors transporting paddy from other states for illegal sale in Punjab. However, they managed to arrest only one driver as all others managed to escape. Another driver managed to flee along with the truck. Police have registered four cases in the district.In the first case, acting on tip-off, police intercepted a truck (RJ 14 GE 0357) at Jagah Ram Tirath village in Talwandi Sabo area and seized 25 tonne of paddy. Police have arrested driver Kuldeep Singh of Bhagwanpura and booked owner of DR Industries, Bulandshahr, in Uttar Pradesh and owner of BCL Industries, Bathinda, under Section 420 and 120 B of IPC.   In the second case, two trucks were caught carrying paddy from other states at Singo village in Talwandi Sabo area. Police seized truck (PB 05 S 9599) and recovered paddy. However, the driver managed to escape from the spot. Even the driver of another truck (RJ 19 GC 5819) also escaped from the spot along with the truck. Police have booked both truck drivers, owner Pushkar Trading Company, Fatehpuri in Uttar Pradesh and owner of AB Agro Foods, Malout in Muktsar district.In the third case, police stopped a truck (PB 11 AX 9425) and seized 36 tonne 55 kg paddy coming from another state. The truck driver managed to escape from the spot. Police have registered a case against the truck driver, owner of Kailash Trading Company, Sirsa, and owner of SS Industries in Jalalabad in Fazilka district at Talwandi Sabo police station.In yet another case, police intercepted two tractors (HR 44 L 2396) and (HR 44 L 9454) and seized 36 tonne 312 kg paddy coming from Rajasthan. However, no arrests have been made in this case. Police have registered a case against Shivrattan of Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, Rajinder Singh, Gurtej Singh of Ellenabad in Haryana and Sanju of Dabwali in Haryana at Sangat police station. In the initial probe, it has come out that traders purchase paddy at lower rates outside Punjab and sell it at much higher price in grain markets across Punjab, causing losses to the exchequer.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said: “Eight police posts have been made on the roads coming from adjoining Haryana in the districts and teams have been instructed to check the vehicles coming from Haryana. Police will arrest those who have escaped.”
19-10-2020||New Delhi||Kejriwal seeks monthly meetings with CMs of Haryana, UP, Punjab to curb air pollution||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal requested Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday to hold monthly meetings with the chief ministers of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh to curb air pollution, saying there was a lack of political will at the level of the states to address the issue.In a virtual press briefing, he said the affected states have been unable to reach an agreement to stop stubble burning and prevent air pollution. “I believe the pollution due to stubble burning can be controlled in a short span of time. But a lack of political will is visible in doing that,” he said.Kejriwal said the crop residue can be biodegraded or converted into biogas, coal and even cardboard. The paddy straw can be converted into compressed biogas or cooking coal which some factories are doing in Karnal in Haryana, he said, adding crop residue can be “converted into an opportunity” within a year, provided there are sharp timelines to move away from stubble burning.Kejriwal requested the Union environment minister to hold monthly meetings with the chief ministers of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh to find a solution to the deteriorating air in the National Capital Region. PTI
19-10-2020||Islamabad||Pakistan invites Indian Sikhs for Guru Nanak’s 551st birth anniversary||Pakistan has invited Indian Sikhs to attend the 551st birth anniversary celebrations of Sikh faith’s founder, Guru Nanak Dev, an official said on Monday.The three-day celebrations, known as Guru Nanak Gurpurab, will begin on November 27 at Nankana Sahib.Every year, a large number of Sikh pilgrims from India and different parts of the world gather at the Gurdwara Janamasthan Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of Guru Nanak, in Pakistan’s Punjab province to mark his birth anniversary. However, the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to affect festivities this year.The Indian pilgrims will be offered a five-day visa to enter the country upon the proof of a mandatory COVID-19 negative test, The Express Tribune reported.The Abandoned Waqf Property Board and the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) have also sent regular invitations and itineraries to various Sikh societies, including the Shiromani Committee of India, for attending the festivities.In view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Sikhs from India will be allowed to stay in the country only for a limited period of time, with no extensions.The special five-day Nankana Sahib Visa will effectively expire on December 2.“All pilgrims coming to partake in the festivities of Baba Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary will be required to observe and abide by all COVID-19 standard operating procedures throughout their stay, even after showing the mandatory negative COVID-19 test,” an official of the country’s Waqf board said.According to PSGPC Head Sardar Satwant Singh, the schedule of their stay in Pakistan had to be revised in consideration of closed borders and the rising coronavirus tally in India.“There will be no new restrictions placed on the number of Indian Sikh pilgrims making the journey,” he said.As per the Pakistan-India bilateral agreement, 3,000 Indian Sikh pilgrims will be allowed entry into the country for the Gurpurab celebrations.However, this time around, visitors will only have the option of the Nankana Sahib Visa, unlike last year when they had the option of a 10-day visa to visit multiple gurdwaras in Lahore, Nankana Sahib, Hassan Abdal, Kartarpur, Rohri Sahib and Farooqbad.For the first time, Sikh pilgrims visiting the country will also not have the option to stay or shop in Lahore and be required to exit the country upon conclusion of religious festivities.According to Singh, Indian pilgrims will be welcomed at the Wagah Border on November 27, from where they will be taken to Nankana Sahib through a special bus service.“The pilgrims will have access to various gurdwaras in Nankana Sahib and also participate in the Nagar Kirtan custom. At the end of which, they will be shuttled back to Wagha Border December 1, to head back to India,” he added.Last week, addressing a media briefing here, Foreign Office Spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri said that Pakistan reopened the Kartarpur corridor on July 29 but India has not yet opened from its side.The corridor, which allows Indian pilgrims to undertake visa-free travel to the historic Kartarpur Sahib gurudwara, was closed on March 16 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.India has said a decision to re-open the Kartarpur corridor would be taken in accordance with the protocols relating COVID-19 and easing of restrictions.The corridor links Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur in India to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan - the final resting place of Guru Nanak.Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across the river Ravi, about four kilometres from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine.In November last year, the two countries threw open the corridor linking Dera Baba Sahib in Gurdaspur in India and Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, in a historic people-to-people initiative. PTI
19-10-2020||Raj Sadosh||Enthusiasm among children, teachers and parents as schools reopen in Punjab||Our CorrespondentAbohar, October 19With the reopening of schools from Class IX to XII class across the state after about seven months, there is a unique enthusiasm among the children of government schools, as well as the parents and teachers.The Education Department has given discretion to the heads of the schools to utilise services of the teachers for three hours work, this was widely appreciated.Adequate arrangements were made by the school principals for smooth running of the process of cleaning, disinfection and maintaining social distance.As per the instructions of Deputy District Education Officer (DEO) Brijmohan Singh Bedi, COVID-19 related preparations were made to open schools in the district matching the guidelines to observe precautionary measures.Gurdeep Kumar, principal of a school, said at present, the lockout is almost over and many activities were going on as usual. Just as precautions are being taken for other activities, care will be taken in schools to prevent COVID-19.Radhey Verma, a lecturer at a government senior secondary school, said what students learn through direct contact with their teachers, they could not learn from any other means. We would take all possible and necessary steps, he added.Similarly, Devi Lal, one of the parents of the children, says the parents send their children to school not only for academic knowledge but also to expose the hidden talent in them, for which children must go to school since COVID-19 pandemic has been brought under control in the state to a large extent and public life has become quite normal.Students from different villages said they had been eagerly waiting for the school to reopen. Although they continued to study online during the lockout, they were missing out on what they could learn in school. We will ensure full compliance of COVID-19 guidelines, they added.
19-10-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu back in Vidhan Sabha after self-imposed exile; doesn't exchange greetings with Capt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Breaking the self-imposed exile after almost a year and a half, former Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday arrived at Punjab Vidhan Sabha to attend the special session called to discuss and counter the three central farm laws.Prior to going to Vidhan Sabha, Sidhu held a meeting with MLA Pargat Singh at the latter’s residence.Sidhu attending the Assembly session not only indicates the importance he is giving to the farmers' issue, but also signifies reconciliatory undertones between him and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at the behest of the party high command.Though Sidhu did not exchange greetings with the Chief Minister, he met a number of MLAs ahead of the session.Last time Sidhu had attended the session was after the Pulwama attack in Kashmir. Since then, he has been keeping away from the Assembly.
19-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Meeting between Punjab ministers, farmers' union inconclusive; protesters to continue stir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19A meeting between a three-member Punjab Cabinet ministerial panel and the leadership of the state’s largest farmer union BKU Ekta-Ugrahan remained inconclusive on Monday as the protesters said they would continue with their agitation.At the meeting, the union leaders also demanded that the Montek Singh Ahluwalia report, submitted in August, be disregarded.Ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria arrived at Punjab Bhavan for the meeting immediately after the obituary references got over in Vidhan Sabha. The aim of the meeting was to convince the farmers to scale down their agitation. Union president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said their protests would continue till the farmers felt satisfied with action taken by the government to counter the Centre’s farm laws.“We also want the Congress government to withdraw the amendments made by the state government in 2017 to the APMC Act,” he said. Earlier, the protesters had threatened to gherao Vidhan Sabha.
19-10-2020|| ||Punjab Assembly session: Oppn slams govt for not tabling Bill against farm laws on Day 1||Chandigarh, October 19The Opposition parties here on Monday slammed the Punjab government for not tabling legislation to counter the Centre’s farm laws on the first day of the special assembly session, which was adjourned till Tuesday.Reacting to it, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said they are consulting constitutional experts over the issue and copies of various bills to be tabled during the session will be given to the opposition parties by the evening.Earlier, SAD MLAs rode tractors to the Vidhan Sabha, but were stopped by police at the Sector 2 roundabout. The usual drama attached with the session was witnessed as SAD MLAs rode tractors; so did Congress MLAs Gurkirat Kotli and Sukhpal Bhullar.Also read: Navjot Sidhu back in Vidhan Sabha after self-imposed exile, doesn't exchange greetings with CaptAiming to scale down stir, 3-member Punjab ministerial panel meets protesting farmer union leadersAAP MLAs came to the Assembly wearing black capes.The AAP MLAs staged a dharna in the Well of the House, demanding that they be given copies of the Bill against the farm laws to be tabled in the Vidhan Sabha.Akali MLAs try to force their way inside Punjab Bhavan. Tribune photo High drama was witnessed outside Punjab Bhavan as Akali MLAs led by Bikram Majithia tried to enter to brief the media.They raised slogans against the Congress government for being stopped outside the Bhavan, calling it a sham exercise and demanded copies of the Bill.  Some MLAs scaled the gates and forced their way inside the Bhavan. Manpreet Ayali, Pawan Tinu and NK Sharma forcibly entered the Bhavan.The Congress, through Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, moved a motion to include the names of all farmers who had died in the ongoing stir. Their names were included and the House paid obeisance to them, along with to nine others.SAD leader Bikram Majithia told media that they chose tractor as a vehicle associated with farmers to mark their protest against the farm laws.Before going into the House, Akalis burnt copies of farm laws outside the Vidhan Sabha.Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu also attended the session after long.Punjab Pardesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar tweeted: “Punjab Vidhan Sabha should pass a unanimous resolution condemning the humiliating treatment meted out to the farmers representatives by Modi government in Delhi. In doing so BJP has insulted not just the farming community but Punjab itself”.Punjab Vidhan Sabha should pass a unanimous resolution condemning the humiliating treatment meted out to the farmers representatives by Modi government in Delhi. In doing so BJP has insulted not just the farming community but Punjab itself.  The House was adjourned for an hour by Speaker Rana K P Singh after the assembly took up obituary references. The House reassembled for nearly 15 minutes before being adjourned till Tuesday.As it reassembled, Leader of Opposition and AAP senior leader Harpal Cheema said the special session was called to counter new farm laws but the members “have not been given copies of the bills”.“Will we get copies of the bills after the session is over,” he asked.SAD member Gurpratap Singh Wadala said it seems the state government “does not have clarity” over the issue.The main bill against the Centre’s farm laws should have been first tabled and discussed in the House, he said.“The entire Punjab is watching what the government is doing. The legislation to counter the Centre’s farm laws should have been the first business of the House,” said the SAD leader.Senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia told reporters that a “fixed match is going on between the Congress government in Punjab and the Centre”.“It seems the state government is under the Centre’s pressure,” he said, adding that the government is not clear what it needs to do.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal told the members in the House that they will get copies of bills to be tabled in the House in the evening.He, however, said, “As far as countering farm laws is concerned, the government is already in consultation with constitutional experts.”Earlier, the Speaker told the House that only urgent and important government business will be transacted during the session. He said questions or calling attention notices will not be taken up.The House also paid respects to freedom fighters, soldiers, political and other eminent personalities.All members observed a two-minute silence as a mark of respect. — With PTI inputs
19-10-2020||---||Political parties trying to torpedo agitation: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18The protest by farmer associations at Buttari railway station entered the 18th day on Sunday. The farmers also paid tributes to activists Harbans Singh of Sangrur and Jagtar Singh of Mansa, who have lost their lives during the protests, recently.The farmer leaders stated that all political parties were trying to torpedo their agitation. “The political class is presently working for the corporate sector and is indifferent about the farmers and farm workers,” said farmer leader Rattan Singh Randhawa.The farmers also demanded from the government to take action against the nexus of traders and officials involved in the purchase of paddy from Uttar Pradesh at very low prices and its sale in Punjab at Minimum Support Price.The leaders stated that while the farmers in UP were forced to sell their produce at low prices, the traders earn huge profits by selling the same in Punjab markets. They reasoned that with the agriculture market becoming solely dependent on private traders after implementation of three farm related acts, the Punjabi farmers too would be exploited. The farmer leaders stated that the protest would continue till the government is ready to revoke all the three acts.
19-10-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Reaching Asia’s largest wetland a tough affair for eco-tourists||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 18All four roads leading to the 800-acre Keshopur wetland, one of Asia’s largest, are in a wretched condition, and this despite the fact that government agencies responsible for maintaining the road infrastructure have got the requisite funds to set the things right.Over the last decade, the footfall of eco-tourists has gradually dropped. Locals claim before 2010, scores of ornithologists would visit the wetland almost every day when migratory birds from Central Asian countries and Siberia started arriving at their winter abode from November till March.“The micro-economy of the entire area has gone for a toss with tourists refusing to flock the area like in earlier times. Before the roads became a disaster, the economy of nearly 50-odd villages located in the vicinity used to be sustained by bird watchers. This is no longer the case now. Times have changed now,” said Manjit Singh Dala, whose native village is located nearby.In 2017, the then Tourism Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had announced a grant of Rs 3 crore during his Independence Day speech in Gurdaspur. The funds were meant to re-carpet a 6-km stretch of the road originating from Government College till the wetland. Locals were elated. The money did arrive, albeit after a gap of two years, following which work commenced.The passages were given a fresh coat of tar and were also widened. However, this development was short-lived as villagers, particularly small-time shopkeepers of Barnala hamlet, were quick to make encroachments. At many places, the road which should have been 30-ft wide has been reduced to barely 10 feet. Commuters just about manage to drive through.Fatal accidents have become common, but officials are not bothered.A 4-km stretch of thoroughfare coming from Paniyar, branching off from Amritsar-Pathankot National Highway, is in a similar condition. “In the period stretching from 1950s till the 90s, this road was commonly used by eco-tourists. Now, as things stand, it has developed potholes and seldom do tourists take this path,” said Dala. Likewise, a 6.5-km stretch of the road originating from Gurdaspur city, via the Central Jail, which leads to the wetland too, is in a deplorable condition.The responsibility of maintaining the road infrastructure is of the PWD and to some extent the Tourism Department. However, officials of both departments admit that the paucity of funds is acting as an impediment in improving connectivity. “It is a classic case of too many cooks spoiling the broth. Multiple agencies maintain the roads and their functions often overlap leading to chaos and confusion,” said a Wildlife Department official.On January 25 this year, Governor VP Singh Badnore had visited the wetland. Officials admit that his journey from the BSF complex located in the city till the wetland was indeed a bumpy one. “If things did not improve, the wetland may turn out to be a relic of the past. The area is the abode to more than 25,000 birds belonging to 75 species during the peak season. It may mark a sad end to a glorious past. The fund crunch could be solved to a great extent if visitors, like they have in foreign countries, are asked to pay a fee. If the roads remain in a shambles, so will the wetland and its micro-economy,” admitted a PWD official.
19-10-2020||London||UK frees Sikh who killed three Indians in self-defence||An Indian-origin builder who was arrested in connection with the killing of three men, also of Indian origin, following a deadly knife fight on the streets of east London will not face any murder or manslaughter charges as the incident was deemed to be an act self-defence.Gurjeet Singh, 29, had been arrested by the Metropolitan Police in connection with the killing of Narinder Singh Lubhaya, 29, Harinder Kumar, 30, and Malkit Singh Dhillon aka Baljinder Singh, 37, back in January. The three murdered men, originally from Punjab, were found to have set upon Gurjeet Singh at Seven Kings in Redbridge area of London and were killed in the ensuing street fight.“Gurjeet Singh was arrested on January 20 on suspicion of murder. He was charged with possessing an offensive weapon in a public place. Later, the jury found him not guilty,” the Metropolitan Police said. — PTI
19-10-2020||    Anirudh Gupta||Scheme on, but no ‘shagun’ for needy girls||Ferozepur, October 18  The “Ashirwad” scheme of the state government, earlier known as “Shagun” scheme, mooted to provide financial assistance to girls belonging to economically poor families for marriage, has itself become a victim of the poor economic conditions in the state. Notably, no grant has been received under the scheme for this border district for the past one year. Around 1,200 people who had applied for benefits under the scheme are still waiting for monetary help. Ironically, most of the girls who had applied for financial assistance have already got married. It is pertinent to mention here that the scheme was first launched by the SAD-BJP government in 2007 under the Department of Welfare of Scheduled Caste and Backward Class. The “Shagun” scheme was later named “Ashirwad” scheme by the present Congress regime. Under the scheme, the state government provided financial assistance of Rs 15,000 to Rs 21,000 for the marriage of a girl belonging to a low-income family. As per the data available, from April 2017 to September 2020, more than 8,000 girls had applied for benefits under the scheme. In Ferozepur subdivision, 4,210 girls applied whereas 1,892 applications were received in Zira and around 1,948 in Guruharsahai.   Karmobai, a resident of Tendiwala village, said after her husband’s death in 2018, she was concerned about her daughter’s marriage. “Someone suggested that I should apply under “Shagun” scheme, after which I sent the application in December last year. Later, my daughter got married. Now it has been almost one year, but I have not received any amount,” she said. Angrej Singh of Kot Karor Kalan village, who runs a “puncture shop”, said he had applied under the scheme for her daughter’s marriage last year but had not received any help from the government. “What is the benefit of such schemes if it does not provide any help to the poor and needy,” Angrej questioned. Charanjit Brar of the SAD said when the scheme was launched by the party, there was no dearth of funds. “During the SAD regime, funds were regularly provided by the government but the Congress government has failed to provide timely funds for the scheme,” he alleged Sukhjit Singh, Block Social Justice and Empowerment Officer, said the applications had been forwarded after verification. “I cannot say anything regarding why the funds have not been received,” he maintained.
19-10-2020||quote||Academic session to start late for entrance-based courses||Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, said, “The academic session of the first year students will of course start late, as the NEET result is yet to be announced. We are expecting the MCI to issue instructions on how to handle the situation. We will go accordingly. We are also expecting the council to cancel all vacations of the first year students to help cover up the syllabus."Deepkamal KaurTribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 18The Covid-19 pandemic has certainly thrown lives out of gear, and nearly left everyone in a stew. Students wanting to take admission in colleges are in a dilemma over the commencement of the academic session. The admission process for a few courses, which mandate an entrance test and several rounds of counselling, has been caught in a limbo. Sample this: It was only recently the results of JEE Advance and CLAT were declared. NEET result may take another few days. Counselling in all engineering colleges of the state is over, but direct admissions in BTech and BPharmacy are still underway. The second round of counselling to take admission into law colleges is yet to start. Even, Panjab University is in the middle of admissions in various courses. Besides, the entrance test result for admission in various courses offered by Delhi University is likely to take two more weeks.As a result, admissions to various entrance-based courses may not happen even by the second week of November.The college authorities are wary that the academic calendar, especially for the first year students, will undergo a major change.Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, said, “The academic session of the first year students will of course start late, as the NEET result is yet to be announced. We are expecting the MCI to issue instructions on how to handle the situation. We will go accordingly. We are also expecting the council to cancel all vacations of the first year students to help cover up the syllabus."Dr Ajay Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, said, “Though the centralised counselling is over, the colleges are still taking direct BTech admissions. We have not yet decided when to start the new session. We will have a meeting to review the changes in the academic calendar in mid-October, after which the commencement date for the new session will be announced. There will be very few holidays for the first year students. We will need around two full sessions to make up for the time lost due to Covid." He added, “We have decided that the BTech classes will be held online. However, MTech and PhD students, who need laboratories to do research work, will be able to join campus any time soon.”
19-10-2020||---||Missing ‘saroops': A month after SGPC survey, no result||Amritsar, October 18The Akal Takht-constituted probe panel and the SGPC could not find out the whereabouts of missing 328 Guru Granth Sahib “saroops”.Rattled by the missing “saroops” and facing the ire of several Sikh organisations, the SGPC has initiated a door-to-door count of the holy scripture, besides roping in devotees to trace them. Besides, public notices have been released in newspapers.Panel constitutedSGPC employees will visit each gurdwara in the state where the “saroops” were kept.They will also go to private residences to record the number of Guru Granth Sahib and their place of printing.Even after over a month, this first-ever move of the SGPC could not yield desired results.Meanwhile, the Telangana HC lawyer-headed probe panel has prepared a 1,000-page investigation report. The circumstances were thoroughly examined and the officials and employees concerned were rigorously questioned, but the question “where and on whose instance the “saroops” were issued” remained unanswered.Several Sikh bodies cornered the SGPC over its “failed administration” or it was feared to be a deliberate attempt to conceal the facts if the SGPC’s U-turn on taking criminal proceedings against 16 officials and staff members was any indication. The SGPC also faced heat for uncertainty that prevailed in the number of “saroops” that got damaged in May 2016 accidental fire at its publication branch in Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib.Consequently, an indefinite protest continued to be staged in the Golden Temple complex for the past over 20 days.Every “saroop” of Guru Granth Sahib printed from the SGPC is allotted a serial number and the private publishers do the same.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said: “The teams have been directed to get the serial number and other details of every saroop verified even from the remotest part. It could take time but we are on the job. This exercise is being done to get the lead that could help us trace the missing saroops,” he said.Two pro forma were also supplied to the officials wherein they were to fill the details of “saroops” either in the gurdwaras or in private residences.
19-10-2020||Our Correspondent||3 held for ‘thrashing’ Dalit youth in Fazilka||Fazilka, October 18The Fazilka police have arrested three persons for beating up a Dalit youth and forcing him to drink urine at Chack Janisar village of Fazilka district on October 8.Fazilka SSP Harjeet Singh said the accused had been identified as Simranjit Singh, alias Kala, Ramandeep Singh, alias Ramna Sangha, and Jasveer Singh, alias Bhola Pandit, all residents of Chack Janisar village.SIT formed“Two more accused — Sukhjit Singh and Gagandeep Singh — who were seen thrashing the victim have been booked,” the SSP said.He said a special investigation team (SIT) had been constituted to look into the matter. In charge of the Ladhuwala police post has been suspended. “There’s no evidence that the youth was forced to drink urine,” the SSP added.Victim Gurnam Singh, a resident of Chack Madrasa village in Muktsar district, was thrashed on the suspicion of being a thief as he was found roaming near the village around 10.30 pm on October 8. A video of the assault had also gone viral. On October 10, he was admitted to the hospital. The police received a medico-legal report on October 12 and subsequently registered a case.
19-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Statement recorded by court in writing as good as written compromise: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a statement made by a party or his counsel for setting a matter and taken down in writing was as good as a written compromise. The statements recorded in the presence of counsel for the parties before a judicial officer in a court of law did not have lesser sanctity than an instrument of compromise drawn outside the court and attested by some oath commissioner, notary public or any other authority.‘Documentation must for transparency’Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill asserted certain sanctity was attached to a statement made by a party in the court. It has to be presumed that the same was recorded voluntarily. In case a party was permitted to wriggle out of such statement by conveniently raising frivolous allegations against his or the opposing counsel, it would virtually lead to mockery of the court.Justice Gill added the very purpose of incorporating in Civil Procedure Code the fact that a compromise was required to be in writing was to ensure everything was in black and white without ambiguity to prevent a party from backing out on the some terms or to misinterpret the terms and conditions of settlement. The purpose was to avoid undue harassment and wastage of court’s precious time, lest the parties kept agitating the matter time and again.The matter has its genesis in an application by the landlords seeking the tenant’s ejectment from residential premises for non-payment of rent and personal necessity. During the pendency of an appeal in the matter, the parties settled the matter among themselves before getting their statements recorded.The tenant, on the next date, took the plea that he was allured into making a statement regarding compromise by the landlords. But his plea was dismissed by the appellate authority vide order dated September 9, 2019, resulting in the filing of the revision petition before the High Court.The counsel for the tenant-petitioner said the landlord was claiming compromise. But “written instrument” regarding compromise was not brought on record. It was a case where the petitioner was tricked into making a statement by the way of allurement and collusion of the counsel. But the statement was withdrawn on the very next date of hearing. In these circumstances, the compromise was not valid, Justice Gill said.
19-10-2020||Bathinda||Five held for liquor theft in Bathinda||The police on Sunday arrested five members of a gang for stealing liquor and recovered liquor, cash and weapons from their possession.Mansa SSP Surendar Lamba said, “As part of a special drive against crime in the district, our teams have busted a liquor-stealing gang and arrested its members along with cash. The gang members used to strike at liquor vends during late evening hours and decamped with cash and liquor.” “Our teams have also recovered a car and an air pistol among other weapons from the possession of the gang members. The accused have been booked,” he added. — TNS
19-10-2020||---||Bill to boost investment in Punjab Cabinet today||Chandigarh, October 18To improve the state’s investment and generate employment, the Punjab Cabinet today approved conversion of the Factories (Punjab Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, into a Bill to be tabled for enactment in the Vidhan Sabha tomorrow.Other billsPunjab Tissue Culture Based Seed Potato BillPunjab Vesting of Proprietary Rights BillThe approval came during a meeting of the Council of Ministers headed by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The Bill provides for changing the existing threshold limit for small units from 10 and 20 to 20 and 40, respectively. The change has been necessitated by the increase in manufacturing activity by small units in the state and is aimed at promoting small manufacturing units.This would help create more employment opportunities. Consequently, the existing Section 85 of the Act would also stand amended, according to an official spokesperson. Further, in view of the absence of any provision in the existing law for compounding of offences for violations found at the time of inspection of factories, the Bill will also incorporate Section 106B in the Act. This will facilitate faster settlement of cases and reduction in court action. The Bill is aligned to the advice of Legal Remembrancer, said the spokesperson.
19-10-2020||---||Additional Sessions Judge’s approach negated basic norms of fair trial: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, October 18The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the approach adopted by an Additional Sessions Judge negated the “very basic and fundamental norms of a fair trial”. The disapproval came in a case where the accused were denied the right to cross-examine certain witnesses after recalling them.Justice Sanjay Kumar was hearing a petition by Santokh Singh and another petitioner filed in connection with an FIR registered on February 13, 2009, at the Amritsar Vigilance Bureau police station under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code.The disapprovalJustice Kumar observed the state filed an application in the matter under Section 311 of the CrPC to produce certain records relevant to the case. The Tarn Taran Additional Sessions Judge on September 15, 2014, observed that prejudice would not be caused to the accused as they would be given full opportunity to cross examine the witnesses and rebut the record. But the record was apparently taken on file without recalling the relevant witnesses.Aggrieved, the petitioners filed an application under Section 311 to recall a DSP and two other witnesses for further cross-examination. But the then Additional Sessions Judge vide order dated May 17, 2016, disallowed the plea after observing ground was not made out to allow further cross-examination. It would be open to the petitioners to lead defence evidence by examining any official.Justice Kumar observed admittedly the state took recourse to the provision when it wanted to place on record certain documents not produced earlier. The application was allowed observing that the petitioners would be given full opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses and rebut the record.Justice Kumar added: “Surprisingly, the Additional Sessions Judge seems to have completely overlooked the earlier order dated September 15, 2014, passed by his predecessor and dismissed the application on the ground that the petitioners could lead defence evidence and examine any official from the department concerned.Directing the recalling of witnesses, Justice Kumar asserted cross-examination was a valuable right given to the accused and could not be diluted in this fashion. As pointed out by the court in an interim order, the approach adopted by the Additional Sessions Judge negated the very basic and fundamental norms of a fair trial.
19-10-2020||---||Only 50% patients have enough antibodies to donate plasma: GMC||
19-10-2020|| ||SI held for taking bribe||Barnala, October 18The police have arrested a Sub-Inspector (SI) posted at Bathinda for allegedly helping a drug accused after taking money from him. Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel said the police had registered a case on July 13 under the NDPS Act and till date total 10 persons had been arrested. “We have arrested SI Surjit Singh posted at Bathinda as during investigations it has come to light that he had been helping an accused after taking money,” said the SSP. About the involvement of other cops, the SSP said investigations were on.
19-10-2020||---||Women rule the roost at Pbi||Patiala, October 18Women professors at Punjabi University, Patiala, hold key positions in the administrative structure of the university. While Dr Amritpal Kaur, professor, department of literary studies, has taken over the charge of dean academics, which is second in hierarchy to the university VC, various other women professors are holding charge as deans of faculties and departments.Dr Jagroop Kaur, professor, department of political science, is now a dean of the College Development Council, while Dr Ritu Lehal, professor and head, University School of Applied Management, is the dean of faculty of business studies. Also, faculties of social sciences, medicine, law and computing sciences are being headed by women professors — Dr Anita Gill, Dr Gurpreet Kaur, Dr Gurpreet Pannu and Dr Jyotsna, respectively.An official said some key positions, including director of HRD centre and others, were held by women professors. Dr Manruchi Kaur was now the director, HRD centre; Dr Happy Jeji was director, public relations; Dr Ranjit Kaur was director, international students and Dr Monika Chawla was in-charge of the RTI cell.Dr Amritpal Kaur said, “The university has deputed women professors on important positions and delivered a positive message to society. This has sent out a message of equality among men and women and promotes education for the girl child.”“Educated women can make a significant contribution towards sustainable development of both society and nation. More than 65 per cent of girl students are being enrolled in the university every year and the credit goes to the high literacy rate among women of the state. With greater access to higher education, women can break the glass ceiling and reach the zenith of success and glory,” Dr Ritu Lehal said.
19-10-2020||Baldev Singh Dhillon & VS Sohu||Farmers need to be convinced, incentivised||PADDY residue management (PRM) technology is being adopted by farmers at a rate slower than that expected by policy planners. The incidence of farm fires after paddy harvesting in 2019 did not decrease significantly in spite of an appreciable support by the government for popularising farm machinery for the management of paddy residue. These included machines for retention on surface in the field (Happy Seeder and Super SMS-fitted combine), incorporation in the field (chopper, mould board plough and rotavator), and removal from the field (straw baler) of paddy residue. Punjab’s farmers, though known for their keenness to adopt new technologies, neither showed the expected positive response to the advocacy and incentives, nor yielded to other measures adopted by the government.There is no denying the fact that the alternative technology offered to farmers is disruptive in the sense of being contrary to what they have been practising, but the same farming community had rapidly adopted the technology offered to them in the late 1960s that helped the nation in increasing foodgrain production — the unparalleled feat of the Green Revolution (GR). It would be a learning experience to compare these technologies.Productivity advantageGR: The semi-dwarf varieties of wheat and paddy had a distinct (at least 30%) grain yield advantage over the existing varieties. This made it easier to convince the farmers to adopt these varieties, even though their grain type and appearance were not acceptable.PRM: Paddy residue management technology has more of ‘ecological’ benefit with no crop productivity/monetary advantage. Rather, it may have a little productivity penalty in some initial years. Farmers are very well aware and do understand the environmental and health consequences of residue burning as well as the long-term benefit of residue retention/incorporation on soil health and productivity. However, their immediate concern is to achieve higher productivity and livelihood.Investment issuesGR: A farmer could start with a few kilos of seed of the high-yielding variety (HYV); once satisfied, he could scale it up. There were practically no risks once the technology was refined and adapted. The HYVs were able to achieve higher productivity in almost all farmers’ fields due to wider adaptability. Further, the farmer did not have to invest much to shift from one to a better HYV. The higher grain yield potential of GR varieties led to higher productivity and profitability, and tempted the farmers to invest more in farm development and inputs like farm machinery, irrigation facilities, application of fertilisers, etc.PRM: Over the years, farmers have got used to a convenient method of disposal of paddy residue through burning without any cost. On the other hand, the PRM machines are costly. Further, most of the machines are large and for their operation, high-powered tractors are needed, the purchase of which will render the already available tractors useless. Landholdings of farmers have become smaller over time and they cannot afford costly machines. Though custom-hiring is being promoted, there is no surety of getting enough customers, as it happened during 2019. The purchase of costly machines and the use of high-powered tractors will add to the input costs and lower the profit margins of the farmer. Further, most of the machines do not have universal application. With evolving technology, better machines will become available but it is costly to shift from one machine to the other. Thus, in spite of subsidies, the new technology did not embolden the farmer to make heavy investment.Supporting roleGR: The adoption of semi-dwarf varieties of wheat and rice was facilitated by the availability of matching crop production technology (e.g. herbicide Machete for weed control in rice) and farm machinery (e.g. drummy threshers for wheat threshing).PRM: Though several farm machines for residue management are available, the supporting technology to facilitate the operation of these machines (e.g. microbes for rapid biodegradation) is not yet available.Government assistanceGR: The GR technology was cheaper, yet the government provided very strong policy support and incentives driven by the concern for national food security. These included remunerative support price, assured procurement, development of irrigation facilities, supply of fertilisers at subsidised rates, road and marketing infrastructure, electrification, input credit, etc.PRM: Subsidy is being provided to purchase machines. But multi-pronged policy support and government interventions are earnestly needed. One should not expect that only the development of machines will solve residue management issues.Technology refinementGR: The PAU developed and released the first semi-dwarf wheat variety PV 18 in 1966. Farmers were convinced of its yielding ability but being red-grained, they reluctantly adopted it, envisaging problems in the consumption and disposal of produce. The real breakthrough came when PAU released the first amber-grained semi-dwarf wheat variety Kalyan in 1967, later named Kalyansona. This variety was adopted swiftly by farmers due to its amber grain and it continued to rule for the next more than 10 years.The bottlenecks in the cultivation of these varieties were addressed by the simultaneous refinements in the production technologies. To address poor germination due to shorter coleoptiles, shallower sowing depth was advocated. The dates of sowing and scheduling of the first irrigation (coinciding with the crown root initiation stage) were also modified.In the case of paddy, after the initial failure of IR 8, farmers were advised to sow the nursery one month earlier, in about mid-May, and a system was developed to provide electricity for early sowing of the nursery since there used to be power shortage at that time. The results were wonderful: early sown crop yielded up to 7-8 tonnes/hectare compared to about 3 tonnes/hectare of the indigenous varieties. Thus began Punjab’s march towards become an important paddy-growing state.PRM: Refinements are being made in various machines to take care of the limitations and drawbacks noticed in their adoption under different situations. As several stakeholders are involved in this exercise, there has been a multiplicity of machines and terminology (Happy Seeder, Turbo Seeder, Super Seeder, King Seeder, mulcher/chopper/ shredder, etc.). This has added to the confusion and made it difficult for the farmers to decide which machine to buy. Consequently, farmers have adopted a wait-and-watch approach till a refined machine becomes available.An overview of the trends in the adoption of GR technology gives us a cue that the adoption of residue management technology is likely to pick up with their fine-tuning/refinement but more importantly with increased and consistent government support to financially enable farmers to adopt the technology. Farmers need to be convinced, motivated and incentivised.The authors are, respectively, Vice Chancellor and Principal Wheat Breeder, Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, PAU, LudhianaTech choices matterPaddy residue management warrants different technologies for different situations, e.g. different machines are needed for baling, mulching etc. The choice of the machine is also influenced by other factors, such as the succeeding crop, soil type (heavy or light), residual soil moisture after paddy harvest, residue load, etc. In contrast, the Green Revolution technology was a sort of one-size-fits-all that was relevant to one and all. It could be adopted irrespective of the farm size, soil type, etc., thereby benefiting all kinds of farmers — small, medium or large.
19-10-2020||Vijay C Roy||‘Rail roko’ pushes Punjab industry off track||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18The ‘rail roko’ protest by Punjab farmers has interrupted supplies. Consequently, industrial production in the state has shrunk by 30 per cent. A severe shortage of raw material has hit the auto parts, hand tools, machine tools, bicycle, agricultural implements and scaffolding industry.“The protest has caused a severe disruption in supplies. At least six textile industries have closed operations. In the engineering industry alone, the production is down 20-30 per cent,” said SC Ralhan, president of the Ludhiana Hand Tools Association, pointing out that freight traffic had been held up for the past two weeks.“For the bicycle industry, the prolonged agitation has resulted in a severe shortage of inputs, such as rims and pipes. The manufacturers were already grappling with a huge pending demand post lockdown. The farmers’ stir has made it worse for them,” said Pankaj M Munjal, Chairman, HMC, a Hero Motors Company.Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings, said the manufacturers dependent on imported raw material had been hit most, with their containers of raw material stuck at Punjab’s dry ports. Unable to meet the orders, they feared these might now be cancelled.The industry has sought government’s intervention to address the issue. “We have requested the Bhartiya Kisan Union and other farmer organisations to support the industry by allowing goods trains to run,” Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association, said.
19-10-2020||---||Covid cases, deaths dip by 75 per cent in Punjab||Chandigarh, October 18It seems the Covid graph in the state is finally witnessing a downward trend with the cases coming down to one fourth in comparison to the average daily cases reported last month.In September, the state reported 55,000 cases. The average daily cases were around 2,000. However, now the number of cases has come down to less than 500. Same is the case with deaths, which have also declined by 75 per cent.The state reported 476 cases and 13 deaths in the past 24 hours.As per the government media bulletin, the total number of cases now stands at 1,27,630 and the number of deaths has reached 4,012. In the district-wise breakup of the Covid count, Ludhiana topped the list with 67 cases, followed by Hoshiarpur (64), Jalandhar (54), Patiala (52), Bathinda (47), SAS Nagar (41), Amritsar (31).The number of active Covid cases has declined further to 5,735 and over 1.27 lakh persons have recovered from the disease.At present, 145 patients are on oxygen support and 23 are critical and are on ventilator support. As far as deaths are concerned, the state reported 13 deaths in the past 24 hours. In the district-wise breakup, SAS Nagar topped the list with three deaths, followed by Jalandhar, Patiala and Ropar (two each), and Ludhiana, Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur (one each).
19-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Dispute between contractor, officials causes glut in Fazilka||Fazilka, October 18There has been glut in the grain market in the district following a dispute between a contractor and government officials over paddy lifting. Official sources said 4.5 lakh bags of paddy are yet to be lifted from the grain market.After the cancellation of cartage contract of Nishant Gumber by the District Food and Supplies Controller (DFSC) on October 14 on the allegation of tardy lifting, the process has come to a standstill in the grain market during the peak season.Gumber challenged the cancellation of the orders in the Punjab and Haryana High Court on October 16. The court stayed the impugned orders of the DFSC.The respondents in the case include the Secretary and Director, Food and Supply and Consumer Affairs, Fazilka; MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya and his father Sher Singh Ghubaya; DC; SSP and the DFSC.Ghubaya and his father had staged a protest to get the contract cancelled and finally, their demand was acceded, but the court stayed the proceedings.“I shall restart lifting only after getting protection from the police as some truck operators who had come to lift paddy a few days ago were allegedly assaulted by the president of the Truck Operators Welfare Society,” said Gumber.
19-10-2020||Abohar||Notice to arhtiya for bringing paddy from Rajasthan||The market committee today issued a notice to an arhtiya for transporting paddy from other states.Sources said he had purchased 350 quintals of paddy from Rajasthan below the minimum support price (MRP). It is learnt that Punjab-based traders purchase hundreds of tonnes of paddy, wheat and mustard from neighbouring markets of Sadulshehar and Sriganganagar at lower prices and then sell the same to state and Central agencies at the minimum support price. Though nakas are laid on the Abohar-Sriganganagar and Abohar-Hanumangarh highways to prevent the movement of trucks coming from other places, link roads connecting Abohar with Rajasthan defeat the purpose. — OC
19-10-2020||---||Crackdown on illegal transportation of paddy in Punjab||Patiala, October 18Cracking the whip against those transporting paddy from other states for illegal sale in Punjab, the police have filed 13 FIRs, arrested 20 persons, and impounded over 32 vehicles carrying about 8,225 tonnes of paddy in the past two days.SSP, Patiala, Vikram Jeet Duggal said they had received information that a number of trucks carrying paddy from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were entering Punjab through various inter-state routes.Vikram Jeet Duggal, SSP, PatialaLoss to excheque The illegal practice not only burdens the state exchequer but also causes a huge amount of indirect loss to the farmers of Punjab. Most heavy vehicles carrying paddy come from UP and Bihar. “We identified various in-bound routes across the Punjab-Haryana border such as Shambu, Pehowa, Balbera, Cheeka, Dhabbi Gujjran and Patran in Patiala district, and set up nakas to check the movement of such trucks. Teams consisting of police, revenue and mandi officials have been formed to check the illegal practice,” Duggal said.“Preliminary investigations revealed that this paddy is first purchased at lower prices in other states and then transported to Punjab, where it is sold at a much higher price, thereby giving a huge price margin to the seller. This practice not only burdens the state exchequer, but also causes a huge amount of indirect loss to the farmers of Punjab. Most heavy vehicles carrying paddy come from UP and Bihar,” he said.“The authorities have done nothing to stop the practice. A number of traders are buying paddy from other states. This is illegal as paddy grown in Punjab can only be sold in the local mandis. Also, the buyer has to pay fee to the market committee on every purchase. This is clearly a case of tax evasion,” member of a farm union said.“There is a huge difference between the MSP in Punjab (Rs 1,888 per quintal) and states like UP, Bihar and Rajasthan. Farmers in these states are selling their crop to Punjab traders at Rs 900-1,000 per quintal. After paying the freight charges (Rs 150-160 per quintal), it costs the traders Rs 1,150 per quintal. This means they make a profit of nearly Rs 700 per quintal,” he alleged, adding that strict action should be taken against dealers buying paddy from other states.
19-10-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Farm bodies gherao paddy trucks from UP||Members of farm organisations today gheraoed four trucks transporting paddy from UP near Sirhind town.A large number of farmers, led by Baljit Singh Bhutta, former chairman, Zila Parishad, reached the spot and started raising slogans. They alleged their worst fears had come true with paddy from other states being transported to the state mandis. “Rice millers and traders in connivance with officials have started bringing paddy from other states by evading taxes. Only state farmers should be allowed to sell the crop in mandis,” the farmers said. — OC
19-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||At Shambhu, 2 stirs, different agenda||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18At Shambhu village, which is located at the border with Haryana, a small motley group of persons led by a Punjabi actor (a close associate of an MP from the Majha region) sits in make-shift tents, right next to the police barricades from Punjab and Haryana. The protest site is important as it is the entry point to Punjab from Haryana and Delhi. Posters of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and Akali leader Simranjit Singh Mann adorn the pandals, as the speakers address the gathering, talking of autonomy for the state. Speaker after speaker, wearing black ‘saropas’, highlight the “historical injustices” meted to Punjab, even as a few cops stationed there sit uninterested.Intelligence officer‘Keeping watch’We are monitoring several handles on the social media that are promoting separatist ideologies. Hardeep Singh from Shahwala Andresa village of Sultanpur Lodhi, who has been camping here since October 5, says they will not stop their fight till the farm laws are withdrawn. “Hun khudmukhtiyari chahidi hai (we need autonomy). The target of the Centre is to enslave Punjabi farmers. We won’t allow this,” he says. Seconding Hardeep, Vir Dhillon, who hails from Raike Kalan in Bathinda, refrains from talking of autonomy.Intelligence Bureau reports have indicated more such protests across the state, highlighting a separatist agenda.Close to the protest pandal on the main GT road, a larger gathering of farmers squats on the railway tracks against the farm Acts. Harjit Kaur from Ghanaur, who has been camping here, asks farmers not to get swayed or let politicians take over their more serious agenda of fighting the new farm laws.Prem Singh Bhangu, president, All India Kisan Federation, said, “We, farmers, understand the games being played out by political forces. We won't let the focus shift.”
19-10-2020||  ||Diary Piece||A team or solo player?  Gurdaspur: The knives are out for Navjot Singh Sidhu, following his verbal spat with Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, a known loyalist of CM Capt Amarinder Singh. The former’s verbal volley, directed at the minister at Rahul Gandhi’s Moga rally, has not gone down well with the CM and his men. There have been long debates, as to how and why this happened. A minister said: “Despite the fact that for a major part of his life he remained a cricketer, a team game, Sidhu has never been a team player. If your Captain (pun unintended!) changes your fielding position in a match, will you leave the team in the lurch? This is clearly what happened when the CM changed his portfolio from Local Bodies to Power. Instead of playing ball, the man ditched his team and preferred to run solo.” Some of Sidhu’s opponents also recount how he jumped ship during the 1996 tour of England, following a spat with captain Mohammad Azharuddin, leaving the cricketing fraternity in a state of shock.   Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal
19-10-2020||    ||Diary 3||Singing sensation brings laurels to district, state Fatehgarh Sahib: Gurkirat Singh (14), son of a truck driver, has brought laurels to Fatehgarh Sahib district as well as the state by getting the second runners-up position in “SA-RE-GA-MA-PA” Little Champs competition of ZEE TV. A student of Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Mandi Gobindgarh, he got inspiration to sing from his maternal grandfather, a ragi at a gurdwara in Ludhiana. Sensing his talent for music, his family got Gurkirat trained in Punjabi folk music at Tejwant Kittu Academy in Ludhiana and in classical music from Rajiv Kumar Malik from Assam. This was perfected with continuous practice at home. Surprisingly, he did not even have a harmonium of his own and the judges of the show were so impressed by his talent that they gifted him a harmonium. Recognising his achievement, Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh honoured him at his residence along, with many other NGOs. Contributed by Surinder Bhardwaj    Photo Attached
19-10-2020||  ||Dairy 2||Giving back to society  Abohar: Indian American Shree Saini, who has roots here in Abohar, was last week selected as Miss World America “Beauty with a Purpose” (BWAP) National Ambassador. The organisers have created the title in many countries and Indian American representative from Washington Shree Saini has been selected as the American National Ambassador of the programme. BWAP is the service aspect of the Miss World organisation and has fundraised $1.3 billion for thousands of charities around our world. “I’ve dedicated my life to service and BWAP inspired me to start creating positive change 10 years ago by serving over 100 non-profits. All thanks to Julia Morley, who started the BWAP service aspect of the pageant in over 150 countries. I will continue to be a vessel of change every day for the rest of my life,” says Shree Saini.    Contributed by Raj Sadosh  Photo: Shree Saini
19-10-2020||  ||Dairy 4||Abohar: For the service and treatment of stray bulls and cows, some social activists had developed a small gaushala near Daulatpura village on Abohar-Sriganganagar highway a few years ago. Shri Krishna Gau Samiti has earned the support from farmers, who were upset at the damage to their fields by these stray bulls. Those having religious or spiritual reverence for “gauvansh” visit the complex to make contributions in cash or kind. The management has hired services of private veterinary surgeons to treat the cattle. A farmer, Prabhpreet Singh Gill, visited the gaushala on Friday to contribute Rs 1.11 lakh to help construct a shed, keeping in view the upcoming winter. He also announced to pay Rs 36,000 monthly salary to the two doctors. The stray bull menace could be tackled well by opening such gaushalas in rural areas, where green fodder was easily available, he opined. Contributed by Raj Sadosh  Photo:  Prabhpreet Singh Gill donates Rs 1.11 lakh to Daulatpura village gaushala management to take care of stray animals. Tribune Photo
19-10-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Capt Amarinder Singh hints at exemplary action, says all eyes on Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18At a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting held here on Sunday, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is reported to have hinted at “exemplary” action during the Punjab Assembly session that begins on Monday. Sources said the Congress MLAs told the CM that it was imperative to take on the Modi government on the new farm laws, irrespective of the consequences.They were unanimous in their opinion that the minimum support price (MSP) and ‘mandi’ system must be protected at all costs and the “unconstitutional laws, which were against federalism” had to be countered.“This fight will go on. We will fight this till the Supreme Court,” Capt Amarinder is reported to have told the MLAs.“The Centre may ‘dismiss’ the Congress government if it wants, but we will do everything possible to protect the farmers,” state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said after the meeting.The Council of Ministers, which met after the CLP meeting, authorised the Chief Minister to take any legislative/ legal decision that he deemed fit to protect the farmers’ interests. Stressing that the “whole world is watching Punjab with a lot of expectations”, the Chief Minister sought the opinion of his ministers as well as MLAs on a draft legislation to be tabled on the second day of the session which could be extended till Wednesday (October 21).A decision in this regard would be made at a Business Advisory Committee meeting on Monday.
