20-06-2020||Amritsar||Code violation: Bihar policemen camp in city to meet Navjot Singh Sidhu; Congress leader remains elusive||Two Bihar policemen have been unsuccessfully trying to meet former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh to deliver a notice regarding to an election code violation.Sub-inspectors Javed Ahmad and Janardan have been camped in Amritsar for two days, spending many hours outside his residence in an attempt to meet the Congress leader. The policemen require his signature on the delivery, but so far their attempts have been unsuccessful.The policemen don’t know how long they’re going to have to be in the city.“It depends on senior officials,” they said.The case pertains to Sidhu’s controversial remarks made last year, when he was campaigning for Congress candidate Tariq Anwar in Bihar’s Katihar district for the 2019 general election.  Sidhu has been accused of making a provocative speech during the campaign. The Election Commission of India had imposed a 72-hour ban on him. He also faces criminal charges for the speech under the Representation of the People Act and the India Penal Code.
20-06-2020||---||India-China face-off: Soldiers should be allowed to open fire in self-defence, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, June 20A day after the all-party meeting in which all national political parties extended support to the Government of India on the issue of Galwan Valley face-off, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday urged the Centre to change its policy and allow soldiers at the borders to open fire in their defence and for protecting the nation’s territorial integrity.Making it clear that he did not support sending soldiers to the LAC without weapons, the Chief Minister in his Facebook Live edition of #AskCaptain said the Government of India policy should be that “if they kill one of ours, we should kill 5 of theirs”.It was absolutely wrong to send soldiers unarmed or not to allow them to defend themselves, he said, adding that when he and his Army colleagues used to go patrolling, during his posting along the LAC for two years, they carried all kinds of weapons.“We are in the nuclear era and we are carrying and being beaten by dandas!” quipped the Chief Minister, expressing shock at the fact that 20 Indian soldiers, including four from Punjab, had lost their lives in an attack by lathi wielding and stone throwing Chinese, who he asserted simply could not be trusted.Lamenting the demise of four Punjabi soldiers in the Galwan Valley barbarism, the Chief Minister said it was extremely unfortunate, even though “as army men we are always prepared to take the bullet”.Besides increasing the compensation for their next of kin from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 50 lakh, Punjab Government has decided to name schools after the martyrs, said Captain Amarinder, adding that he had spoken to two of the families so far.‘Pannu promoting terrorism’On the issue of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) lawyer Gurpatwant Singh Pannu extending support to China, the Chief Minister said he was not only propagating but actively involved in promoting separatism and terrorism in India.Asserting that he would not allow Pannu to succeed in his divisive agenda and disturb the state’s peace at any cost, Captain Amarinder dared the pro-Khalistani propagandist to come to Punjab instead of hiding out in other countries to spread his vicious campaign.Declaring his commitment to sustaining Punjab’s peace at all costs, the Chief Minister said in the absence of peace, no industry would come to the state, and there would no jobs for our children.The state’s economy will be in a shambles if forces inimical to peace are allowed to spread their fangs, he added.
20-06-2020||Shimla||Monsoon may hit HP, Punjab, Haryana on June 24||Monsoon may hit most parts of Himachal Pradesh and parts of neighbouring Punjab and Haryana on June 24, a weather official said here on Saturday."Conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of monsoon over some more parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh during June 22-23," Manmohan Singh, director of the meteorological department told IANS here.He said it is likely to cover Uttarakhand, most parts of Himachal Pradesh and parts of Haryana and Punjab on June 24-25. --- IANS
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM calls all-party meet on ordinances related to farm sector||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has called an all-party meeting on June 24 over the issue of three ordinances related to the agriculture sector recently passed by the Centre, state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said on Saturday.“Views of all the parties will be taken to arrive at the consensus that these ordinances were against the interest of the farming community and we should approach the Centre and the prime minister over this issue,” Jakhar said.He said farming communities were up against this ‘Kala Kanoon’ (black law) and they have vehemently opposed these ordinances.“Under these laws, the efforts are being made to hand over the rights of farmers to the multinationals and big corporates,” he alleged and expressed fear that the Narendra Modi government had decided to “disband” the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism with these ordinances under a “planned move”.The Centre recently passed three ordinances—the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance.The Centre had said these would transform the farm sector and help raise farmers’ income.However, the Congress government in Punjab had said these ordinances were completely against farmers and would badly hit the agrarian state.The chief minister has already appealed to Prime Minister Modi to review three ordinances and also warned that it could pave the way for disbanding the MSP regime as well as the foodgrain procurement regime, triggering unrest among the state’s farmers.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020 allows barrier-free trade in agriculture produce outside the notified APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees) mandis.Whereas, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020 empowers farmers to engage with processors, aggregators, wholesalers, large retailers and exporters through advanced agreements on pre-agreed prices.The amendment to the Essential Commodities Act was meant to deregulate food items, including cereals, pulses and onion. PTI
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temperatures hover close to normal in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures hovered close to normal limits in most parts of Haryana and Punjab on Saturday.Narnaul in Haryana recorded a high of 39.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees below the normal, according to the Meteorological Department here.Hisar recorded a high of 40.5 degrees Celsius. Ambala recorded a maximum of 38 degrees Celsius, while Karnal recorded a high of 37.4 degrees Celsius.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded near normal maximum temperatures of 39, 38.1 and 38.7 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, registered a high of 36.8 degrees Celsius, which was one notch below normal limits. PTI
20-06-2020||Ashok KauraPhagwara||Phagwara police station, CID office sealed as seven test COVID-19 positive||The Phagwara police station and CID office were sealed on Saturday as seven people tested COVID-19 positive. The Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Phagwara, Pawitra Singh, ordered the premises to be sealed. The Station House Officer City, his gunman, his driver, one constable, an industrialist of local Hargobind Nagar, and a local of New Patel Nagar and a villager from Bhularai village are the five people who tested COVID-19 positive.   Assistant District Commissioner cum Municipal Corporation Commissioner Phagwara, Rajeev Verma in conversation with The Tribune confirmed that 42 policemen, including CID employees, and all close contacts of the positive patients—including their family members—have been quarantined.   Their samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing. Out of the five infections, four have been home quarantined. The fifth case—an industrialist—has been sent to a hospital in Jalandhar.The close contacts were advised to self-quarantine. ADC Verma also ordered an immediate sanitization of the police station, Hargobind Nagar locality, village Bhularai and New Patel Nagar.Superintendent of Police Phagwara, Manwinder Singh, who rushed to the city police station for boosting the morale of the cops, told the correspondent that Senior Superintendent of Police Kapurthala, Satinder Singh, has appointed inspector Malkiat Ram as in-charge of Police Control Room (PCR) Phagwara as the officiating city police station SHO till the recovery of the current SHO. Now, the city police station would be operational from PCR office at Banga Road.However, the medical examination and the test of their close contacts and other policemen in the police station was also being taken. Deputy Commissioner Kapurthala Deepti Uppal has instructed all the employees and officers of all the departments to take preventive measures while performing their duties..The policemen, along with the health staff, are among the frontline warriors. Besides performing their duties at checkpoints on city roads and chowks, the policemen were also working in the police stations for day-to-day public dealings. Therefore, they are also at risk of contracting the deadly virus which has claimed thousands of lives across the world.There is panic among cops who have been working day and night fighting the coronavirus. The COVID-19 pandemic is close to reaching the community transmission stage, and the police have no clue if the person coming to the police station is infected or not.  “All we can do is to take precautions and measures to control its spread,” said a police official.
20-06-2020||---||Miffed over power shortage, farmers make 2 PSTCL employees do squats||Jalandhar, June 20Miffed over shortage of power supply in the ongoing paddy season, leaders of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Qadian, on Friday made two employees of the PSTCL do squats in their office at a power house in Kartarpur.About 100 farmers had gone to the PSPCL office in Kartarpur to complain that they were not getting even eight hours of power supply. They met XEN, PSPCL, SP Sondhi and handed over a memorandum. As the XEN countered them by saying that he was ensuring full eight-hour supply, they insisted that the SE of the department be called from Kapurthala for a meeting.Sondhi said, “I told them that it will take about 30 minutes for the SE to reach office and they can wait outside. I thought that they were waiting outside but they instead went to a power house 100 metre from my office and made two employees present there – a sub-station attendant and an assistant lineman — do squats. After this, they again came to my office, met the SE and left. It was later in the evening that a video of their act — which they shot themselves — went viral. It was then that we got to know about the incident. This morning, we got an FIR lodged.”A case has been registered against Jasbir S and others under Sections 188, 341, 353 and 186 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at Kartarpur Police Station. In the video, the farmers led by BKU Qadian president Jasbir S Littan is seen threatening the PSTCL employees of dire consequences if they snapped connection before giving a supply for eight hours. Before asking them to do five squats each, he and other farmer union members even reprimanded them for not allegedly taking phone calls from farmers.
20-06-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab reports 6 deaths, 120 COVID-19 positive cases; state toll at 98||Punjab reported six deaths and 120 coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the state's death toll to 98. The highest number of infections surfaced in Jalandhar.With 47 COVID-19 positive cases, the district tally crossed the 500-mark. The majority of the cases reported in Jalandhar came positive as a result of random sampling carried out in various areas by health teams.Notably, the district has also witnessed a rapid increase in cases since the lockdown was relaxed and containment zone norms revised.On the other hand, Amritsar recorded 21 COVID-19 infections, while Sangrur and SAS Nagar reported 14 and 11 cases respectively.   Both Ludhiana and Patiala recorded seven cases each.
20-06-2020||Ashok KauraPhagwara||Orders assigning 40 Punjab govt teachers to check illegal sand mining withdrawn||To stop illegal sand mining, around 40 Punjab government teachers were asked to stand guard at prominent checkpoints in Phagwara between 9 pm and 1 am, said the state government.The order comes a month after the state revoked a similar order that deployed 24 school teachers to guard distilleries in Gurdaspur.Phagwara's Sub-Divisional Magistrate and senior officials of civil and police administration—in a communication exchange—were informed that the teachers will be posted at the checkpoints between 9 pm and 1 am and that they would be accompanied by a police team.Calling the order "shameful", Government Teachers Union Punjab and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have slammed the Congress government in the state for involving government teachers in non-teaching activities.Union District President Karnail Phillaur and General Ganesh Bhagat urged the Chief Minister of Punjab to take care of the interests of the teaching community.However, SDM Phagwara, Pawitra Singh, told the correspondent on Saturday that keeping in view of the demands of the teachers, he (SDM) has withdrawn his orders regarding teacher's deployment to curb sand mining. He continued that the government had instructed to appoint the teachers having Rs 5000 plus grades as special executive magistrates to stop illegal sand mining.SDM added that no sand mining was observed in and surrounding Phagwara as he withdrew these orders three days back.
20-06-2020||---||Online classes a burden for parents||Amritsar, June 19With most private schools sending online and offline study material and assignments, the parents of wards studying in primary and pre-primary classes are feeling stressed and overburdened.Harjot Kaur, an Assistant Professor with Sri Guru Ram Das College of Nursing, said, “It has become a challenging task for me to help my child complete assignments, perform activities listed by teachers and then make videos and send back to them.”She had just got her four-year-old daughter Harnaaz enrolled in Nursery in a private school here when the lockdown was announced in March. Harjot, a single parent, said she delivered online lectures to her students in the morning while in the evening she helped her daughter complete her lessons. “Now the school has planned online assessment exams for the children and it is stressing me out,” said Harjot.Harjot said the parents seemed to be competing with each other in posting activity videos and homework sheets in the online groups formed by teachers. A teacher herself, she feels that the parents cannot don the hat of a teacher entirely. “Some do not have time, others do not have required skills and some do not know how to start. As parents, everyone teaches or tries to teach new things and life lessons to children. But formal school and college education is different and the present situation has hampered it,” she said.In a suggestion to parents, Harjot said, “Apart from helping children do school assignments, the parents should also teach children what they know best. Be it painting, dancing, a sport or even cooking. It is more important to spend time with the child as they are not able to go outside for playing.”
20-06-2020||---||Mansa village bids tearful adieu to martyr||Mansa, June 19The mortal remains of Galwan martyr Sepoy Gurtej Singh, 22, were consigned to flames today at his native Birewala Dogran village in the Budhlada sub-division of the district. Gurtej’s father and brothers lit the pyre. A contingent of the Army played ‘The Last Post’ and a gun salute followed.Manpreet Badal, Finance MinisterSalute all mothersI salute all mothers who send their brave sons to serve the nation.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal laid the wreaths on behalf of the state government. “I am here to pay homage to Gurtej on behalf of the Punjab Government and the people of the state. I salute all mothers who send their brave sons to serve the nation,” said Manpreet.On being asked about compensation, he said the government would provide Rs 50 lakh ex gratia to the family and a government job to the next of kin of the deceased.Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also paid homage to Sepoy Gurtej Singh at Birewala Dogran village by offering floral tributes. She said his sacrifice would not go in vain. Harsimrat also interacted with people, who requested her to establish a college in the village. She assured them that their demand would be pursued.A large number of people from different parts of the district were present at the cremation. They bid a tearful adieu to the martyr.Mansa DC Mohinder Pal, Budhlada MLA Budh Ram and MLA Najjar Singh Mansahia among others paid homage to the martyr. Congress leader and Member of Parliament Rahul Gandhi also sent a written message to the martyr’s family.
20-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Hundreds pay last respects to Sangrur braveheart||Tribune News ServiceTolawal (Sangrur), June 19The mortal remains of Sepoy Gurbinder Singh (22), who attained martyrdom in the Galwan valley, were consigned to flames today at his native Tolawal village. Hundreds of people were present to pay their last respects to the martyr.Gurpreet Singh, Martyr’s elder brotherProud of himWe were waiting for Gurbinder to come home, but not like this. I am proud of himEarlier, emotions ran high and ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ reverberated in the air when his body reached the village in an Army vehicle. The family members of the martyr, who were planning to get him married during his next vacation, were inconsolable. “We were waiting for him to come home, but not like this. I am proud of him,” said Gurpreet Singh, martyr’s elder brother.Education and PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla, former Finance Minister Parminder Dhindsa, Sunam MLA Aman Arora, national vice-president of the BJP Avinash Rai Khanna, Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir and SSP Sandeep Garg among others were present at the cremation.“We have issued a notification to name government schools after the four Galwan martyrs from Punjab. Construction of sports complexes is also under consideration at their native villages. All help will be extended to their families,” said Singla.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal visited the family of the martyr. He urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh not to play politics on the sensitive issue. “Army Generals know what needs to be done in the present situation. No one should advise them,” said Sukhbir, referring to the CM.
20-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Georgian coach ‘adopts’ Indian judoka amid lockdown||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, June 19A top Georgian coach, who guided compatriot Zurab Zviadauri to a gold medal win in the 2004 Athens Olympics, has ‘adopted’ Indian judoka Jasleen Saini, currently ranked 56th in the world, during the ongoing lockdown period. Apart from giving him work and accommodation in his native village in Georgia, coach Mamuka Kizilashvili, is also acting as his trainer.Had the Tokyo Olympics been held on time, Saini would have qualified by virtue of having secured a place in the continental quota from Asia. The International Judo Federation (IJF) was to announce his name on June 29, but has now decided to keep it on hold following the postponement of the Quadrennial games.He would have been the second Olympian from Gurdaspur, the first being Avtar Singh, who took part in the Rio games. Just four Indian judokas have taken part in the Olympics in its 124-year history. Saini, who has won gold medals in the 66-kg weight class in the Commonwealth championships, World Police Games and South Asian championships, all held in 2019, arrived in Georgia on March 8 to train for the international grand prix judo championships scheduled to be held in the capital city of Tbilisi. The tourney, which was to commence from March 25, was cancelled following which the Punjab Police constable found himself stranded in a foreign land with not much money in his pocket. Mamuka, one of the highest paid coaches of his country, offered the youngster work, board and lodging at his native village of Akhmeta, from where Zviadauri is the incumbent Member Parliament (MP).“Once Georgia announced the shutdown, training halls across the country were closed. The coach asked me if I was willing to train with him. Left with not many options, I replied in the affirmative and both of us travelled to his village, a two-hour drive from Tbilisi,” said Saini while speaking to The Tribune.He is in touch with Indian embassy officials. “They have told me they cannot do much in the absence of International flights. They have assured me they would make efforts to ensure I board the first available flight whenever air travel resumes. Akhmeta is the native place of two other judokas training for the Olympics,” Saini said.
20-06-2020||andigarh||Time to call China’s bluff, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Advocating aggressive steps to take back the Galwan valley territory seized by the Chinese army, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday urged the Centre to issue an ultimatum to Beijing to vacate the occupied land immediately. While India would also have to suffer some consequences, it could no longer afford to allow such intrusions into its territory, said Capt. The Chief Minister, who had gone to the Chandigarh airbase to pay tributes to three soldiers whose mortal remains were flown in from the Galwan valley, said he was against following an appeasement policy with China, maintaining that past experience showed that when faced with aggression, the Chinese had always backed off. It was time to call their bluff, he asserted, reiterating that every Indian wanted a befitting response to be given to the Chinese, he said. “China, with its salami-slicing tactics, has been nibbling into the Indian territory since 1962,” said the CM, demanding an end to these intrusions, which 60 years of diplomacy had failed to stop. Meanwhile, reacting to SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s tweet accusing him of playing politics on the Galwan valley issue, Capt Amarinder said as an ex-Army man, he had every right to express his opinion on the matter. “With 20 soldiers dead, no soldier, in fact no Indian, can remain unaffected,” he said. — TNS
20-06-2020||GS Paul||Exorbitant fares dissuade Canadian PRs from flying back||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 19Gurpal Singh, who is a permanent resident (PR) of Canada, has put his reunion with his family in Vancouver on hold, as he is waiting for the international flights from India to resume normal operation.The Canadian Government had arranged a special repatriation flight, but with a priority to fly back its citizens first, leaving permanent residency cardholders in a limbo.Later, it did make provisions to bring back PR holders, but travel fares were unreasonably high.The air ticket from New Delhi to Canadian cities normally costs between $700 and $1,200. The fare forthe special repatriation flight, on the other hand, was around $3,430.In April, a group of affected PRs had arranged a chartered flight to Vancouver and Toronto for $1,550 and $1,700, respectively, but they failed to obtain permission from the Canadian authorities.Gurpal had come to India in December with his family. His wife and children went back to Vancouver before the Covid lockdown.The Canadian authorities have been flying back PRs from other countries like the Philippines, Nepal and Pakistan without charging exorbitant fares.Hailing from Fatehgarh Sahib, another Canadian PR had approached the Canadian PM’s Office and High Commission, but to no avail.Another Delhi-based MBA professional settled in Edmonton has a similar story. He had come to Amritsar to see his parents in January, but got stuck here due to the nationwide lockdown.
20-06-2020||Saurabh Malik
||HC stays suspension of sarpanch||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 19 The working of democracy at the grassroots level has come under judicial scanner with a sarpanch alleging that his services were placed under suspension on the allegations of funds’ embezzlement seven years ago during his previous tenure. Dubbing it as illegal, the sarpanch has contended that action could be taken at the most within four years. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the operation of the impugned order. The direction by Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal came on a petition filed by Harinderpal Singh against Punjab and other respondents. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, the counsel for the petitioner contended that Harinderpal Singh had served as  a sarpanch from 2008 to 2013. He was re-elected as a sarpanch in 2019, but a complaint was made against him by the defeated candidate alleging embezzlement of funds, which allegedly took place in 2011. The counsel said no complaint was lodged against the petitioner with regard to any misconduct during his previous tenure. The present complaint was made with ulterior motive in 2019. Referring to Section 216(4) of the Punjab Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, the counsel added action could not be taken after the expiry of four years from the date of occurrence or two years from ceasing to be a member, whichever was later. He said the petitioner had now been suspended by the order dated June 26, 2019, in an illegal manner and his appeal against suspension had been dismissed by the competent authority on February 20.
20-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Seed ‘sourced’ from PAU: Report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19The DNA report of seeds seized from a shop opposite Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has clearly established that seeds being sold to farmers without approval and certification had a similar genetic composition as the seed developed by the agricultural university.The report establishes that the seed was sourced from the PAU, multiplied elsewhere and then sold to farmers by claiming that it had high-yielding properties similar to PAU 201. The PAU has been denying that it had sold the source seed to any private firm.The scam came to light after a raid was conducted at Brar Seed Store in Ludhiana last month to check hoarding of paddy seeds. The raid led to recovery of PR 128 and PR 129 seeds at the store. Both varieties have been recently developed by the PAU, but are yet to be notified by the State Seed Sub Committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary (Development), or the Central Committee. Only the Punjab State Varietal Approval Committee had given its report on the properties of the seed, which allowed the university to prepare the seed and give it to a section of farmers for trials. These seeds have also failed the germination test conducted by the Agriculture Department. “This could be because the seeds were used immediately after these were harvested and packed with high-moisture content,” said Sutantar Kumar Airi, Director Agriculture .He said another DNA test of the seeds seized from Brar Seed Store was being done and the report would be available within 10 days.The Tribune has learnt that the PAU had formed a group of farmers under the Seed Producers and Nursery Growers’ Association (SPANA), for a three-year trial of the seeds.This was the first time that the seeds were given for trials, but these were neither ‘breeder seeds’ nor ‘foundation seeds’. “These were ‘truthfully labelled seeds’ of the two above mentioned varieties, meant to be tried by the farmers in the SPANA group only. It is believed that a member of the group got a large quantity of these seeds and then started breeding and multiplying it in South India and in those areas of the North East, which receive high rainfall (where three paddy crops are available in a year),” said a senior government official .The firm marketing the seeds (Karnal Agri Seeds), realised that there was panic among farmers due to shortage of labour. Even farmers thought that direct seeding would require a larger quantity of seeds. As a result, the unscrupulous dealer started releasing PR 128 and PR 129 in the market.
20-06-2020||Our Correspondent||BSF seeks probe into Rs 1 crore land scam||Ferozepur, June 19Officers of the BSF from 136 Battalion have demanded a probe into the land record fraud case worth Rs 1.11 crore that allegedly took place in this sector.Bring guilty to bookIn a letter to the Chief Secretary, the BSF has sought a high-level probe into the entire scam and said the amount recovered should be deposited in the Central Government treasury, besides stern action should be taken against erring officials involved in the case.Earlier, the BSF had lodged a complaint with the then Deputy Commissioner Chander Gaind, who following an enquiry conducted by the ADC ( General), had ordered dismissal of Kanoongo Balkar Singh. As per information, Balkar had allegedly transferred 23 kanal land to his brother-in-law and remaining 23 kanals to Amritvir Singh.The ADC had also indicted other senior administrative and revenue officials as well who have seemingly gone scot-free.
20-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Invoice fraud: 2 arrested||The State GST Department today arrested two more persons for involved in issuance of fake invoices. The suspects have been identified as Abhishek Modgil and Sahil Sharma, both from Mandi Gobindgarh. Showkat Ahmad Parray, Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner-1, said during investigation it came out that a network of firms were engaged in issuance of fake invoices and passing bogus input tax credit to various firms to the tune of Rs 45 crore.  Parray said the department would identify all those beneficiaries who had received fake invoices and tax would be recovered from them.  He said those beneficiaries who utilised the input tax credit above the prescribed limit, prosecution proceedings will be initiated against them. — OC
20-06-2020||---||2 Khalistani operatives held||Chandigarh, June 19The Punjab Police on Thursday night busted another terror module with the arrest of two alleged Khalistani operatives, who were preparing to carry out a series of terror attacks and targeted killings at the behest of their Pakistani mentors and handlers.Acting on a tip-off, an Amritsar rural police team raided a spot near Gurdaspuria Dhaba on GT Road and apprehended Gurmeet Singh and Vikram Singh. A German-made MP5 sub-machine gun, a 9-mm pistol with four magazines and two mobile phones with a host of incriminatory conversations, messages and photographs were seized from the duo.The mobile phones revealed suspicious transactions with Pakistan-based elements, including photographs, voice messages as well as coordinates of a particular geolocation, DGP Dinkar Gupta said on Friday.A large number of posts and web links connected with the Khalistan movement were also found on the mobile phone of Gurmeet Singh, who has been in regular touch with the ISI and anti-India elements sponsored by the Pakistan establishment. A case has been registered under the IPC, Arms Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The DGP said Gurmeet Singh, 44, of Amritsar admitted that the photographs and voice messages had been shared with them by their Pakistan-based handlers to locate and pick up sophisticated weapons kept at that location by their accomplices. He said he had visited Pakistan about three years ago to meet his handlers.
20-06-2020||---||Covid19: Two more deaths in Amritsar||Chandigarh, June 19The state today recorded the highest single-day death toll of nine. The number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases too was high at 217.Amritsar and Jalandhar recorded two deaths each, while one death each was reported from Moga, Barnala, Sangrur, Patiala and Tarn Taran. With 217 cases, the tally rose to 3,832 (1,104 are active cases).A media bulletin said Amritsar had 733 confirmed cases and 30 deaths. Jalandhar, with 79 new cases, now has the same number of positive cases as Ludhiana – 489. The number of Covid-19 deaths in Jalandhar are 14 and those in Ludhiana are 13.The health authorities in Amritsar claimed four deaths, including one of a 107-year-old due to Covid-19, besides 42 fresh cases. The deceased have been identified as Kamal Kishore (68) of Katra Khazana area, Sawarn Singh (107), a resident of a locality near Golden Temple, Sharanjit Kaur (53) of Uttam Nagar on the Sultanwind road and Pappu (64), a resident of Suraj Wali Gali. Of the 42 positive cases, 27 had influenza-like illness and 15 were contacts of positive patients.
20-06-2020||Amritsar||Bihar cops in Amritsar to serve notice on Navjot Singh Sidhu||The Bihar Police today reached the residence of Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu to serve a notice on him in connection with a case registered a year ago.It is learnt that the Bihar Police wanted to meet Sidhu in a case involving violation of election code of conduct during the 2019 Lok Sabha election campaign in favour of Congress candidate Tariq Anwar in Katihar district. Sidhu had allegedly made a provocative appeal to the Muslim community on April 16, 2019. — TNS
20-06-2020||Moga||Gusty winds leave trail of destruction||The Dharamkot subdivision witnessed thunderstorm accompanied by high-velocity winds today morning that brought respite from the scorching heat, but left behind a trail of destruction. The winds left trees uprooted at some places and branches fell on roads leading to blockades. However, no loss of life has been reported so far. Tin sheds of many rice mills on the Lohgarh-Indgarh link road in Dharamkot were blown away. The boundary walls of some rice mills also collapsed.  Jaspal Singh and Gursharan Singh, owners of rice mills, said they had suffered huge losses. Even tractors and trailers parked under tin sheds were damaged, they said. According to reports, they both  suffered losses to the tune of Rs 2 crore.  Some rice mill owners said gunny bags stored by them to deliver custom-milled rice to the Food Corporation of India were also damaged in the thunderstorm. — TNS
20-06-2020||Faridkot||‘Improve vet clinic or hand it over to NGO’||Claiming that stray animals are ending up becoming an unforeseen casualty of the lockdown, a “hard-hitting” letter from Maneka Gandhi, MP, to the district administration here has left the administration and the Animal Husbandry Department shaken on Friday.Maneka Gandhi, MPAmbulance in the clinic has never been used. A senior functionary is using surgical table as desk.Dubbing the veterinary clinic run by the Animal Husbandry Department in Faridkot a scam, the MP has alleged that machines in the clinic were all rusted and it was overgrown with weed. “The clinic is simply full of junk and most of the rooms have broken windows and doors,” she said.The clinic does not have medicines or even a doctor to sit there.Asking the Deputy Commissioner, Faridkot, to improve the condition of the local vet hospital after she received a complaint about the poor condition of the hospital from a voluntary organisation, Maneka Gandhi said either the condition of this clinic be improved or it be handed over to NGOs.Last week Roving Animals’ Society, an NGO, made a complaint to the state government and Maneka Gandhi about the poor working condition of the vet clinic.“Suggesting two options to the district administration — handing over the clinic building to the NGO and letting them make the best veterinary hospital themselves or the department should manage the clinics properly. Let the NGOs tie up with the municipality for dog sterilisation,” wrote the MP.Vimal Kumar Setia, DC, said she had issued directions to set up a control room in the vet clinic here to render medical help in case of emergency to any animal.” — TNS
20-06-2020||Ropar||11-year-old dies of ‘mysterious’ fever||A boy (11) died under mysterious circumstances after suffering from fever at Shampura village near here today. The deceased’s father has been home quarantined for the last six days after he returned from UP.Ropar Civil Surgeon HN Sharma said the boy had been suffering from fever for the past few day, but he was not taken to hospital. Instead, he was taken to a quack. Today, on being brought to hospital, he was found dead. — TNS
20-06-2020||Balwant Garg||Baba Farid University to set up separate exam centre for Covid candidates||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 19Amid Covid scare, 8,500 candidates will appear for nursing exam at 84 centres in the state on Sunday. The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), which is conducting the written test, has decided to set up separate exam centre for those who are confirmed or suspected positive case.84 Covid centresIn one such case, the university has already announced to set an exam centre in the isolation ward of a hospital where a positive candidate is under treatment.The medical university on Thursday sent a message to the exam centres that any candidate having any symptom of Covid-19 will not be allowed entry into the exam centre. Rather a separate exam centre will be established for such candidate.“Due to Covid-19 we will not allow any candidate to miss the chance of writing the test under any circumstances,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences.However, candidates cannot exchange pens and other instruments with others. Adhering to the strict compliance of social distancing norms, the medical university has deputed one supervisory staff for every 12 candidates in place of 24 candidates.“There are 84 exam centres and every centre will have about 100 candidates. To ensure social distancing, we are making about double expenditure in conducting this test by engaging about 700 supervisory staff against 350,” said an officer associated with conducting of test.Wearing of masks by all candidates is mandatory during examination. Social distancing of minimum 4-6 feet is compulsory. Candidates are allowed to carry drinking water during the examination as it will not be provided at the centre.“Every candidate with mild flu-like symptoms will be seated in a separate room and all candidates will be sanitised as some candidates may come from hotspots and other states. There will be less interaction between candidates and supervisory staff and the exam canters and furniture will be disinfected,” he said.All candidates need to download e-pass from the state government COVA app to reach their exam centres.
20-06-2020||
||5,500 litres of hooch seized in fortnight||Muktsar, June 19 If one goes by the record procured from the police, hardly a day has passed when recovery of hooch has not been made in the last fortnight. In June, 5,425-litre hooch has been recovered and around 38 people have been booked under the Excise Act. Perusal of the data showed that 530-litre hooch was recovered from three persons on June 17, 50 litre was recovered on June 16, 515-litre hooch was recovered from six persons on June 15, three persons were held with 310 litre of hooch on June 14, 75-litre hooch was recovered from two persons on June 12, 370-litre hooch was recovered and two booked on June 11, 300 litre was recovered and two persons were booked on June 10, 40-ltire of hooch was recovered from two on June 9, 50-litre from a person on June 8, 100-litre hooch was recovered from a man on June 7, 640-litre was recovered from four persons on June 5, 1,350-litre was recovered from five persons on June 3, 130-litre hooch was recovered from two persons on June 2 and 965-litre hooch was recovered from four persons on June 1.
20-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Congress sees hidden agenda behind Centre’s farm reforms||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), chief, Sunil Jakhar today launched the statewide “Jan Andolan” to educate the masses, especially farmers, commission agents and small traders about consequences of anti-farmer ordinance introduced by the Central Government by declaring them farm reforms.'One nation, one market ordinance anti-farmer'Farmers expressed concern over the Central Government’s “One nation, one market” ordinance and said it would not only deprive them of minimum support price (MSP), but would also put additional burden for transporting produce. Farm unions have decided to launch an indefinite stir against the Central Government in the next couple of days.Jakhar called upon the Congress leaders and workers to expose Prime Minister Narendra Modi and SAD chief Sukhbir Badal by explaining in detail the provisions of ordinances and how both these parties want to eliminate the MSP in a planned manner to benefit big corporates.Jakhar said basic purpose of bringing these ordinances was to dismantle the MSP.He asked the Prime Minister Narendra Modi what was the emergency to bring these ordinances, when the entire nation was fighting a war against Covid pandemic.He said the BJP has a hidden agenda, which has been exposed by the statement of Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, who had stated that the Central Government would procure only subsidised foodgrains on the MSP.He added that Gadkari said the Central Government has foodgrain stock for three years, which reflects that they don’t want to procure produce of farmers.He said the Punjab Government procured record 1.27 lakh MT of wheat and made payment to the tune of Rs 26,000 crore to farmers. Jakhar said if the MSP gets eliminated then 8 Lakh MT of foodgrain for the PDS will be procured and remaining produce will be at the mercy of corporates. He said the ordinance also undermines the existing mandi system, which is the backbone of agriculture.Lashing out at the SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, he said his support for the ordinance was right as he is a big trader and transporter.Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Minister for Food and Civil Supply, MLA Kuljit Nagra, and MP Dr Amar Singh, among were present. — OC
20-06-2020||
||Verdict in fee case reserved||Chandigarh, June 19 Less than a week after the State of Punjab was asked to clarify whether it was in favour of deferring or waiving charges other than the tuition fee, the government today submitted that the waiver was till the normalisation of the situation. In an additional affidavit placed before Justice Nirmaljit Kaur, the government said the prohibition was, in fact, till the physical reopening of the schools. The government added the schools would be permitted to accept the “other charges” from the parents on a pro rata basis till the schools opened for the remaining months. Quoting an example, the state said in case the schools remained physically shut till August 1, the annual charges/other charges would be waived from April to August. Justice Nirmaljit Kaur also reserved verdict on the petitions in the matter. In one of the petitions, Independent Schools’ Association through counsel Aashish Chopra had contended the directives on charging only the tuition fee were illegal arbitrary, without jurisdiction and rationale. Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda, on the other hand, claimed there was no question of financial hardship since schools conducting online classes would continue to charge fee “in respect of such classes”. Representing no less than 3,500 schools, senior advocate Puneet Bali had meanwhile submitted the cases of parents in genuine distress would be considered on individual basis for fee waiver, reduction and deferment. Appearing on behalf of the parents, advocate Charanpal Singh Bagri argued that averments by the schools regarding their helplessness to meet expenditure such as staff salary was “entirely in air, baseless having no force in eyes of law...”
20-06-2020||Our Correspondent||445 kg poppy husk, 4 lakh tablets seized||Abohar, June 19The police intercepted two trucks carrying bags of salt from Rajasthan and seized 445 kg of poppy husk and 4 lakh sedative tablets from its occupants.Driver Gursewak Singh, assistant Karnail Singh of Lakho-ke-Behram and Satpal Singh of Panjgarain (Nakodar) were arrested under the NDPS Act. The trio was sent to police remand for five days.SP Manjit Singh said three occupants of a truck were nabbed, while staff of the other truck escaped from the spot after halting the vehicle at a distance.Sadar Police Station in-charge Gurwinder Singh intercepted a truck near Alamgarh bypass along the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway. Reportedly, the driver claimed that he was transporting salt. However, during search, 220 kg of poppy husk packed in 11 bags and 4 lakh sedative tablets packed in 8 boxes were seized.From the other truck, a seizure of 225 kg of poppy husk packed in nine plastic bags was made.
20-06-2020||---||HC stays order on fee structure for Adesh varsity||Chandigarh, June 19The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the operation of a corrigendum notifying reduced fee structure for Adesh University. The varsity has been asked to file an affidavit before the second counselling, undertaking to refund excess fee charged from students with 7 per cent annual interest in case its petition failed.The directions by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came on the petition against the State of Punjab and another respondent by Adesh University and another petitioner through senior advocates Gurminder Singh and Jatinder Singh Gill.The varsity had challenged an amendment vide notification dated April 17, whereby private universities like the petitioner-varsity were included in the definition of “Private Health Sciences Educational Institutions” to regulate the fee structure in supersession of the fee fixed by it.The varsity had also challenged corrigendum dated May 19, whereby fee structure determined by it was deleted. In its place, reduced fee structure notified for other colleges/institutions was extended to the petitioner-varsity for admission to post-graduate courses. Its counsel pointed out that second counselling schedule had been notified and the last date fixed for expressing willingness to participate was June 24.The Bench observed the counsel for the respondents was praying for additional time to file its affidavit, even though he was well aware of the urgency and strict time schedule to be adhered to and also the issuance of notice regarding interim directions.The Bench added it was not in dispute that the petitioner being a private university created under an enactment by the State Legislature had been fixing fees in terms of the Adesh University Act, 2012. The “rates” were also approved by the State in each year of admissions to PG courses.The Bench added the government could have objected to fees fixed by the university before the first Counselling, wherein concededly some admissions had been made on fee structure earlier approved by the State government and duly notified in the prospectus. The government ought not to have interfered/altered the conditions of the prospectus to the disadvantage of the parties/stakeholders.“It would be just and proper that the admissions to PG courses be permitted to be made on the strength of the prospectus laying down the fee structure, which had been notified, advertised, adopted and followed, in the first counselling. Accordingly, operation of the corrigendum dated May 19 qua the petitioner-university is stayed,” the Bench ruled.
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar medical college gets nod to use plasma therapy||Patiala patient donates plasmaChandigarh: Ramping up the efforts to equip medical fraternity with latest techniques to cure Covid patients, the Department of Medical Education and Research, Punjab, is coordinating with the PGI and initiated a multi-centric studies on the role of steroids and plasma therapy in patients. A patient from Patiala was motivated to donate plasma for Covid-19 patients. This team-based approach has gone a long way in saving lives of patients. A group was formed in Punjab wherein the experts in managing Covid-19 patients have been regularly discussing the cases on phones and on video-conference. TNSPolitical outfit within a month: DhindsaMuktsar: Rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Friday said he would announce the name of his political outfit within a month. "I will announce name of our party within a month. A number of SAD activists are in contact with me," said Dhindsa during his visit to Muktsar. He said he would never form an alliance with the SAD or the Congress and repeatedly targeted Sukhbir Singh Badal. Dhindsa said there should be no interference with the minimum support price (MSP) of crops. On a query about forming an alliance with the BJP in future, he said, "I appreciate Prime Minister Narendra Modi and criticise him as well." TNSRs 1,037 cr okayed under industrial policyChandigarh: Fiscal incentives under the Industrial & Business Development Policy 2017 to the tune of Rs 1,037.66 crore have already been approved till date. This is in addition to Rs 3,522.41 crore worth of power subsidy extended by the government during the same period. Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said under the Industrial Business & Development Policy 2017, state-level and district-level committees had been constituted to consider and approve the fiscal incentives for MSMEs and large-scale industrial units. TNSNakodar2 travel agents bookedThe police have booked two travel agents from Amritsar for allegedly duping a Nakodar resident, Jagmit Singh, of Rs 4.22 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad. They have been identified as Joey Pal and his wife Suman. Navjot Singh Mahal, SSP (R), said the accused neither sent him abroad nor returned his money. He said a case under the Travel Profession Regulation Act had been registered against the couple. OCNakodar2 booked for suicide bidTwo residents of Vehran village attempted to commit suicide by cutting their veins with a blade on Friday. Identified as Gurdip Singh and Balwant Singh, both men were admitted to the Civil Hospital. SSP (R) Navjot Singh Mahal said the men had threatened to kill themselves in the hopes of dissuading the officials from deploying policemen in the area in the wake of levelling of road in the area. Both of them have been booked. OCBathindaPharmacists protestRural Health Pharmacy Officers' Association members staged a protest at the Zila Parishad office in Bathinda on Friday. The protesting officers raised slogans against the state government and the Rural Development and Panchayat Department and demanded regularisation of jobs and salary hike. Shubham Sharma, a union leader, said, "Rural pharmacists rendered their services on frontline at quarantine facilities, isolation wards and flu corners amid Covid crisis, but the government has adopted an indifferent stance with regard to regularisation of their jobs."OC
20-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu welcome to rejoin Cabinet: Punjab affairs chief||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19The re-induction of cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu in the Punjab Cabinet seems unlikely in the near future. The party high command is keen on assigning a key role to Sidhu, either in the government or the party organisation. But the latter is yet to give his mind on the matter, it is learnt.AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Asha Kumari, in Chandigarh to hold discussions with the CM and PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar on recasting the state unit, said: “Sidhu is welcome to rejoin the Cabinet. It was he who had resigned.” She dismissed reports of a Cabinet reshuffle as mere speculation.Senior party leaders in the AICC want to see Sidhu as Punjab Congress president, say sources. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has said that state leaders have held informal discussions on Sidhu’s return on several occasions. “Sidhu is very much a part of the party and he has been touch with the central leadership. He is always welcome to discuss issues with me,” he had said recently.The CM is learnt to have broadly discussed the recasting of the PPCC with Jakhar and Asha Kumari. “Once finalised, the names will be sent to the party president for approval,” the latter said. Jakhar said efforts were being made to “adjust” new faces in district units.
