20-08-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Punjab reports biggest daily spike of 1,741 cases||Punjab saw its biggest single-day spike of 1,741 coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the COVID-19 tally to 37,824 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.Thirty-seven more fatalities were also recorded in the state and the death toll now stands at 957, it said.The record jump in the caseload came on a day when the state government announced extension of night curfew by two hours in all cities from August 21.    On August 17, the state had reported a maximum daily increase of 1,704 cases.    Of the fresh fatalities, 10 deaths were reported from Ludhiana, five each from Mohali, Patiala and Sangrur, three from Jalandhar, two each from SBS Nagar, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur and one each from Gurdaspur, Kapurthala and Muktsar, as per the medical bulletin.    One death case reported from Amritsar on Wednesday was deleted as it was counted twice, it said. Among the districts which reported new cases were Ludhiana (398), Jalandhar (242), Mohali (169), Bathinda (148), Ferozepur (133), Moga (94), Patiala (81), Amritsar (75), Barnala (58) and Fazilka (46), the bulletin said. Four districts –Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and Amritsar—account for 55 per cent of the total coronavirus cases and 63 per cent of the total fatalities in the state, it said.The bulletin said that a total of 334 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far, 23,037 people have been cured of the infection.     There are 13,830 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.   Thirty-nine patients are critical and are on ventilator support while 345 are on oxygen support, it said.    With a collection of 20,290 more samples for COVID-19 testing, the figure of total samples taken so far for testing has reached 8,39,947 in the state, the bulletin said. — PTI
20-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC extends stay on final examinations by PU||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday made it clear that the stay on holding the “final examinations” by Panjab University would continue till the Supreme Court verdict on the issue.As the issue came up for resumed hearing through videoconferencing, the Bench of Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu was told that similar controversy had already been argued before the Supreme Court and the judgment stood reserved.Adjourning the matter sine die, Justice Sindhu asserted: “Let the matter be re-listed as and when the pronouncement is made by the Supreme Court. Interim orders in respective cases will continue.”The Bench, on the previous date of hearing, was told that the issue regarding guidelines issued by the UGC to conduct examination was pending before the Supreme Court. The developments took place during the hearing of a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Yatin Mehta and other petitioners.They were seeking the quashing of orders and notifications issued between May 26 and June 19, whereby final year students were directed to appear for their end-semester examinations.Their counsel had referred to the notification dated June 19 before submitting that the university was to conduct the final semester examinations in July.He had also referred to the judgment passed by the Delhi High Court in this regard.He had further referred to another notification dated March 18 passed by Symbiosis International (Deemed University), whereby they had taken a decision not to conduct the final examinations. The students were to be given grades on a pro-rata basis on their current semester’s internal continuous assessment.The Bench had earlier asserted that the university could consider and examine the issue of conducting final year examination, keeping in view the decisions taken by the Government of Maharashtra and the Central University of Tamil Nadu, whereby “they decided to pass the students on the basis of previous semesters' performance”.Referring to a related petition, Justice Ritu Bahri had then observed some of the students would have to travel from far off places like Ladakh to take the final semester examination.
20-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar Cantt rated top cantonment area in Swachhta Survekshan||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 20From the 12th rank among 62 cantonments across the country last year, Jalandhar cantonment has sprung a surprise by jumping to the top in the Swachhta Survekshan – 2020 conducted by Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.The Cantonment Board managed to score 3,670 points with strict implementation of eco-friendly initiatives like segregation of waste at source, use of compost, rainwater harvesting and plastic ban.A Government of India team had visited various pockets of the 15.2 sq km cantonment area in November last year and verified all factors and parameters set for the survey.Jyoti Kumar, CEO, Jalandhar Cantonment, attributes the recognition to the hard work of the sanitation staff, the joint efforts of the residents, and NGO Green Hearts.“Our sensitisation programme on waste segregation was carried out in a very effective manner. All those residents, who could not understand how segregation was to be done, were demonstrated the same outside their house,” Kumar informed.“The garden waste was managed within the garden with aerobic and anaerobic pits of green and dry foliage created in the compound,” he said.In the cantonment area, there is strictness over the use of plastic bags. Even awareness drives had been carried out in the entire residential area. Jute handbags have been distributed and the residents have been urged to carry them to market places. Even fines had been imposed for the violators, said the CEO.Kumar further said all the residents here had been given blue and green colour dustbins and they had been ordered to hand over the green waste separately to the safai karamcharis engaged in the door-to-door collection of waste.As the sale of compost could not be possible, the same was used in hospitals, schools and government buildings, he mentioned.Also, all government buildings got rainwater harvesting systems installed for recharging of groundwater, said Kumar.While Jalandhar Cantt rose to the top, Jalandhar city secured a disappointing 119th position.
20-08-2020||GS Paul||Pak’s first Sikh turbaned news anchor now represents community in National Press Club||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 20In a first, a minority community member has been elected as governing body member of National Press Club, Islamabad. Harmeet Singh bagged 75 votes in the poll the result of which was declared today.The National Press Club is a representative body of journalists based in Rawalpindi and Pakistani federal capital Islamabad. This body represents more than 2,500 journalists.Harmeet (30) had hit the headlines after he was offered break as new anchor with “Public News”, a 24X7 Urdu channel in 2018. At a time when the minorities in Pakistan fought for their rights, it was an apt opportunity that came his way to represent his community at the global level.Talking to The Tribune over phone, Harmeet told that he intends to make his family, his community in Pakistan proud by being in the mainstream with a positive approach, despite constraints.“The Islamabad Press Club is a prime platform from where I could raise minority issues with Pakistan ministry. After scripting the history on being the first turbaned Sikh as news anchor, I am happy again to be the first Sikh to be elected in the press club now from Azad Journalist panel,” he said.A Masters in Journalism from Urdu University, Karachi, it is not his religious identification but Harmeet’s flamboyant looks and voice pitch that leave an impression.Harmeet started sporting turban at a very later stage. He wants his two-year-old son Harmanveer Singh practise Sikhism from very beginning.“The turban not only enhanced my personality, but also makes me feel special and stand tall in the crowd. I sometimes feel that why my parents did not give me ‘Sikhi saroop’ from my childhood,” he said.He has a regret that due to visa restrictions, he could never get a chance to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. “This is one wish that I want to be fulfilled soon along with my family,” he said.Hailing from the city of Chakesar, a town of the Shangla district in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwah province of Pakistan, Harmeet has proficiency in speaking Pashto, besides Punjabi, Urdu, Hindi and English.  His father was a dispenser in a government hospital and he is the only one in his family who chose journalism as a profession.In January, he lost his 25-year-old brother Parvendar Singh who was murdered in Peshawar due to personal reasons. However, with efficient police action the culprits were put behind the bars.
20-08-2020||---||Punjab CM orders increase in testing amid rise in Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh, August 20In a bid to ramp up the state’s preparedness against rising Covid-19 cases, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered an increase in testing to 30,000 per day, with at least 10 persons in the immediate circle of every positive patient to be screened.Reviewing the situation, through video conference, with top health and medical experts and various other officials, the Chief Minister also directed the Health Department to supply ventilators, free of cost, to medical colleges and private hospitals.He also asked the Health Department to provide manpower, such as anesthetists, to those hospitals, which had witnessed an increase in Covid patients in the wake of the cap on treatment rates by the government.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan informed the meeting that tenders had been floated for the procurement of nine more RT-PCR machines and the same was expected by next week.She also stressed on increasing rapid antigen testing, as well as augmentation of level 3 bed capacity.Also read: Punjab Chief Minister: Covid crisis grave, Opposition playing politics Mahajan said one private hospital had to stop taking in patients after their anesthetist tested positive, while most others had anesthetists in the vulnerable age group of 55-60 years.The IMA had met the state Health Minister to discuss the issue, she said, adding that to maintain continuity of Covid treatment and care in private hospitals the anesthetists would need to be replaced with younger ones.Also read: Weekend lockdown, daily night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am in all Punjab cities, towns from FridayCaptain Amarinder agreed, saying: “We have to take them on board and extend all help while being strict in the enforcement of the fee cap and other restrictions.”The Chief Minister thanked the eight recently cured PCS officers who had offered, in writing, to donate their plasma to save other lives.Earlier in his presentation, Dr KK Talwar pointed out that the last three-four days had witnessed 300+ patients at Level 3, with 48 on ventilators, up from just 27 about 10 days ago.Though deaths per million in Punjab, at 30.8, was lower than the national average of 39.9, the situation was grim as 920 people had lost their lives to Covid and the state’s recovery rate at 62.9 per cent was lower than the national rate of 73.9 per cent.The percentage of co-morbid patients was higher in Punjab as compared to Haryana, explaining the greater number of deaths here, said Dr Talwar.With the four districts of Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Ludhiana accounting for a majority of the 36,000 plus cases in the state, contact tracing in these regions needed to be stepped up, he added.Secretary, Health, Hussain Lal, in his presentation, said while the number of tests had gone up to nearly 20,000, the positivity rate had come down slightly to 8.05 per cent for the week from August 11 to August 18, as against 9.31 per cent from August 3 to August 10.
20-08-2020||---||Weekend lockdown, daily night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am in all Punjab cities, towns from Friday||Chandigarh, August 20Calling for 'war-like preparedness' to deal with the massive Covid spike in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a series of emergency measures, including extension of weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am in all  the 167 cities and towns in the state from Friday.Enough is enough...we need to be tough without affecting the state’s economic activity. Each death pains me, and the projections for the coming weeks are grim.Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMHe has also ordered a total ban on all gatherings except weddings and funerals across the state till August 31. Government and private offices will work at 50% capacity till the end of this month, as per the directives issued by the Chief Minister during a video conference meeting with top officials to review the Covid situation in the state, which is witnessing a massive increase in daily cases and an increase in deaths. Amarinder also directed the officials concerned to restrict public visitors in government officials and to encourage the use of online grievance redressal system, which has been significantly strengthened by the state government to minimise in-person contact with hassle-free online engagement.In the five worst affected districts of Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and SAS Nagar (Mohali), restrictions on vehicular capacity have been imposed again, with buses and other public transport to operate with 50% capacity and private four-wheelers not allowed to carry more than three passengers per vehicle.The Chief Minister has also directed the DCs in these five districts to allow only 50% of the non-essential shops to open on a daily basis to check crowding. These five districts are currently accounting for 80% of the active case load in the state.The Chief Minister directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to strictly enforce compliance of rules with regard to the number of persons allowed to attend weddings and funerals, and also to ensure total ban on political gatherings till August 31, when the situation will be reviewed. He also asked the DGP to crack the whip on all political protests and gatherings, and asked his own party, Punjab Congress, leadership to enforce the ban strictly.“Enough is enough,” said Capt Amarinder, adding that “we need to be tough without affecting the state’s economic activity.” Pointing to the 920 Covid deaths reported in the state so far, he said “each death pains me, and the projections for the coming weeks are grim”.Underlining the need to promote public participation in creating awareness on the measures to check the spread of Covid, the Chief Minister asked the Health department to promote public participation (lok sanjheydari) by involving all other departments, NGOs and local politicians to educate the people.The Chief Minister said the state was in an `health emergency’ situation, necessitating harsh measures, which might have to be further intensified in the coming days to curb the Covid spread.  Though the cases were currently concentrated mainly in urban areas, rural areas were also witnessing an increase, he said, adding that if needed, travel restrictions may have to be imposed.
20-08-2020||---||27.7 pc in Punjab’s containment zones found sero-positive for Covid||Chandigarh, August 20A total of 27.7% of the people in Punjab’s containment zones are found to be positive for Covid antibodies, indicating that they have already been infected and recovered from the Coronavirus.The survey findings, submitted to Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh during a Covid review meeting on Thursday, showed the SARS-CoV2 antibodies prevalence in the containment zones to be the highest at 40% in Amritsar district, followed by 35.6% in Ludhiana, 33.2% in SAS Nagar, 19.2% in Patiala district and 10.8% in Jalandhar.This was Punjab’s first exclusive survey, and was conducted in five containment zones from August 1 to 17, in a systematically selected random sample population of 1,250. The earlier surveys were more generalised and were conducted by the state government in coordination with ICMR.The survey report came on the day when Delhi released its second Sero Survey findings, which showed 29% sero-prevalence in the national capital.For this exclusive Punjab survey, the selected containment zones, which had reported the highest number of Covid cases, were located, one each, in Patiala, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar districts. The sample included 250 people from each zone, and from each of the selected households, one adult above the age of 18 was randomly chosen for the survey. Overall, the sero-prevalence of SARS CoV-2 antibodies was found to be 27.8% in the containment zones where the highest number of Covid-19 cases had been reported. However, in the remaining parts of the cities, prevalence of SARS CoV-2 would be lower, and in the rural areas the prevalence would be much lower than the urban areas, as per the report of the survey, which was aimed at finding out the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies (IgM/IgG) using Rapid Antibody Testing kits. Giving details, the state government’s Health Advisory Expert Group head Dr KK Talwar said a team of trained Field Assistants and Laboratory Technicians collected the data under the supervision of a Medical Officer. ASHA/ANM facilitated the survey by identifying the households in the zone.After explaining the purpose of survey, written informed consent was obtained. After the interview, Laboratory Technician collected venous blood sample under aseptic conditions. The blood samples were taken to the district public health laboratory for testing where rapid antibody tests were performed.
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rajiv Gandhi's dream of modern India propelled rising aspirations of Indians: Punjab CM Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday remembered former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversary, saying his dream of a modern India propelled the rising aspirations of all Indians.    "Remembering former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi Ji on his 76th birth anniversary. His dream of a modern India propelled the rising aspirations of all Indians. Let us remember him today with the promise of translating his vision into a shared reality,” Singh said in a tweet.Remembering former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi Ji on his 76th birth anniversary. His dream of a modern India propelled the rising aspirations of all Indians. Let us remember him today with the promise of translating his vision into a shared reality.Born on this day in 1944, Gandhi served as prime minister between 1984 and 1989. PTI
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Distribute oximeters to curb spread: AAP||Also read: Experts favour use of pulse oximeter at Covid centres
20-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||A promise Pandit Jasraj couldn’t keep with Jalandhar residents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Pandit Jasraj — the great classical vocalist — had promised to perform at the world’s oldest and reputed classical music event — Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan — this year, too, but sadly, he could not honour it.The maestro passed away on Monday and had a strong Jalandhar connection. Jalandharites has had the fortune of listening to him several times. He has performed at the Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan for 15 times and the audience was left mesmerised every time he performed on stage.Deepak Bali, general secretary of Sri Baba Harivallabh Mahasabha, said he started coming here in the 1960s and used to perform after every 3 to 4 years.“We had contacted him to perform at the sammelan last year, too, and everything was finalised, but he could not make it at the last moment because of his health,” Bali shared.He said although he couldn’t come last year, he had promised to make a visit this year.“He had assured that he would definitely perform at the sammelan this year, but that was not meant to be,” Bali said.Started in 1875, Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan, is the world’s oldest music festival dedicated to Indian classical music.Baba Harivallabh started it in memory of his guru Swami Tulsagiri and hermits would attend it then. Baba Harivallabh ran the event for 10 years till his death in 1885, after which it was renamed after him.
20-08-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar-based mechanic turns e-rickshaw into vintage car||Pollution-free environment experienced during the lockdown lead a city-based family to search for a battery operated vintage looking car.Danish Talwar said his family had realised the dangerous levels of pollution, which were prevalent in the state before the lockdown.Jasbir Singh Bhola, along with his welder Nishan Singh and his sons Jasjit Singh and Inderjeet Singh, assembled and fabricated the e-car for the Talwar family. It’s the third fabricated e-car, which rolled out of Bhola’s small automobile workshop. Earlier, he had fabricated a vintage car for BM Singh, who is a blood donor, and Tarn Taran-based commission agent. Bola said this e-car works on the same principle as that of e-rickshaw.He said, “The entire body is fabricated with iron sheet. It has four batteries of 12 volts each. We fix the seats and use motorcycle’s tyres.”He said, “Like e-rickshaw, it does not require any clearance from the Road Transport Authority.” The e-car drives at a speed of up to 70 km per hour to 80 km per hour with four persons. It takes around four to five hours to charge and can be driven for around 80 km.The e-car also has a button, which puts the motor in reverse. The retro looking e-car costs around Rs1.50 lakh. — TNS
20-08-2020||---||Amritsar's Khalsa College Charitable Society launches web-based TV||Amritsar, August 19With a view to promote education, rich Punjabi culture and heritage, the Khalsa College Charitable Society (KCCS) on Wednesday launched Khalsa College Governing Council Television-KCGC TV here. The web-based TV will be first of its kind 24/7 channel by educational institution to stream activities online relating all 18 colleges and schools under the society.In a brief and low-scaled programme organised in view of Covid-19, the web TV was inaugurated online on the occasion of Parkash Purb of Guru Granth Sahib. “The day when whole world is celebrating the first installation of holy Guru Granth Sahib is most conducive to launch the public TV. We all take inspirations from the holy message from the Granth Sahib,” said KCGC secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina.The day when whole world is celebrating the first installation of holy Guru Granth Sahib is most conducive to launch the public TV. We all take inspiration from the holy message from the Granth Sahib.  —Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, KCGC secretaryKCGC president Satyajit Singh Majithia gave a televised message from national capital highlighting how the web-based TV will focus on educational seminars, conferences, cultural and spiritual heritage of integrated Punjabi culture. “Alumni of the college is spread all over the world and they all will also be connected with the platform,” said Majithia adding that taking blessings from Guru Granth Sahib, they dedicate the TV to the public.“The KCGC society, which is running 13 colleges and five schools throughout Punjab including the 128 years old iconic Khalsa College Amritsar (KCA), will involve all the principals, teachers and students from PG department of journalism and professional journalists to air programmes,” informed Chhina adding that the opening of the channel unveils the new chapter in the history of the Khalsa College Society.Khalsa College principal Dr Mehal Singh, who is also consulting editor of the TV, said the platform would help in the online studies of the students also. “It would be entirely non-political web-based TV, which would be available on YouTube and would be accessed by the teachers and students for holding online classes during Covid-19 times. The educational conferences, webinars, seminars, cultural and spiritual programmes would be available live and recorded,” said executive editor, KCGC TV, DS Rataul.
20-08-2020||Amritsar||2 more deaths in Tarn Taran||Amid investigations into the illicit liquor trade, two more lives have been lost in the past 24 hours. Hira Singh (30) and Dilbagh Singh (32) of Pandori Gola village in Tarn Taran district died allegedly after consuming spurious liquor on Tuesday.Dhruman Nimbale, SSP, said a case had been filed against Joga Singh and Karanbir Singh, from whom the two had procured the liquor. Hira Singh’s brother Dhira Singh and his friend Rampal are in hospital. The latter said he had bought a bottle of liquor for Rs 50 from Joga Singh. “It had a pungent odour.”The kin of the deceased claimed that illicit liquor was freely available in the village. Dilbagh Singh’s mother, in her statement to the Sadar police, reiterated the same. — TNS
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab makes GPS must in trucks carrying ethanol||The Punjab Excise Department on Wednesday said it had made GPS-enabled tracking devices mandatory in vehicles carrying ethanol, spirits and other items to check their pilferage for making spurious liquor.The move comes in the wake of the recent spurious liquor tragedy that claimed more than 120 lives in three Majha districts.“From September 5, no vehicle will be allowed to transport such products without tamper-proof sealing and GPS-enabling,” said Excise Commissioner Rajat Agarwal. The GPS coordinates will have to be preserved by the unit for at least 15 days from the date of completion of delivery of a consignment.The measures are aimed at providing checks on the transportation of extra neutral alcohol, ethanol, specially denatured spirit, by the distilleries. —TNSTamper-proof sealing
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Police seize pistol from realtor’s flat in Zirakpur||The UT police have seized another .32 bore pistol and 10 cartridges from the flat of a property dealer in Zirakpur, who was nabbed with a gangster.Gangster Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, an accomplice of gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, and property dealer Firoz Khan were nabbed in Sector 17 with a country-made pistol and five cartridges.Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO, Sector 17 police station, said during investigation, it was found that Firoz owned a flat in Zirakpur, from where a .32 bore pistol and cartridges had been recovered. The police said the call detail records of both suspects were being scrutinised to establish their contacts with gangsters active in Punjab.Gopi is also an accomplice of gangster Harvinder Singh, alias Rinda, who is wanted in a murder case and an attempt to murder case in Chandigarh, besides several cases in other states. “Rinda is absconding for the past several years; we suspect he was in touch with Gopi,” said police sources. — TNS
20-08-2020||---||Local Government Department plans affordable housing scheme||Chandigarh, August 19Days after Punjab’s Housing Department tweaked its ‘Affordable Housing Policy’, giving additional incentives, including allowing more flats, increased saleable area, less parking and better floor area ratio (FAR), the Punjab Local Bodies Department has come up with its own affordable housing projects.The urban local bodies would identify land for raising affordable housing and divide it into two categories — 60 sq metre apartments for economically weaker section (EWS) and 110 sq metre apartments for middle income group (MIG). A senior government functionary said the total applications received and availability of land would determine the cost of the project. Those applying for apartments under EWS should have an annual household income of less than Rs 3 lakh.The department has allowed floor area ratio of 3.50 for project area between 1 acre and 5 acre. A density of 900 persons per acre or 225 units per acre has been allowed with maximum coverage of 65 per cent. Under the scheme, Rs 155 crore has been released for construction of 96,738 houses.On the other hand, the Punjab Housing Department has allowed residential and mixed land use zones in master plans as well as up to an area of 3 km around municipal limit, situated outside master plan. A minimum of 5 acres is required for plotted/mixed plotted colony, while for the purpose of developing group housing, two acres is required.
20-08-2020||Muktsar||Demand for FIR cancellation||Members of the Punjab State Ministerial Association on Wednesday demanded cancellation of an FIR registered against employees of the DC office for protesting outside the District Administrative Complex in violation of the Covid safety norms.They said if the FIR was not cancelled, they would launch a massive stir. — TNS
20-08-2020||---||No coercive step against mining contractor: High Court||Chandigarh, August 19The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the state of Punjab not to initiate coercive steps against a mining contractor saddled with “huge liability” of more than Rs 65 crore. The order by the Bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma came on a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by Harsimran Singh through senior advocate Gurminder Singh, counsel RPS Bara and Sanya Gill.Referring to Rule 85 (5) of the Punjab Minor Mineral Rules, the counsel submitted that the petitioner was saddled with the liability without assessment. The Bench was told that the petitioner was awarded the contract of excavation of minor minerals from a quarry in Ropar district. The yearly permissible quantity the be excavated by the petitioner was 29,500 tonnes and the total contract value of the annual royalty for the quarry was Rs 12,68,500.The impugned demand notices were issued to the petitioner stating that the petitioner had excavated material to the extent of 32.64 lakh tonnes. On the basis of the said quantity, the demand of Rs 65 crore was raised without even passing assessment order as required under the law.
20-08-2020||Abohar||Will engage inmates in economic activity: Minister||State Minister of Cooperation and Jails Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today said the Punjab Prisons Development Board would engage prisoners in gainful economic activities to bring about a correctional change in them.In March, the Vidhan Sabha had passed the Punjab Prisons Development Board Bill of 2020. he minister said the board would help in achieving the goal of reducing crimes in prisons, while generating revenue by keeping the prisoners busy in various activities undertaken by the board. — OC
20-08-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Probe: Accused bought spirit on pretext of making sanitiser||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19The denatured spirit used to make spurious liquor that led to over 110 deaths in Majha was purchased by a Ludhiana-based paint shop owner from an industrial dealer in Delhi. The substance was bought for making paint, but it was instead sold to a Moga-based businessman.This has been brought to light by the Punjab Excise Department in the course of its probe into the spurious liquor tragedy.The denatured spirit was sold (three drums of 200 litres each) to a Moga-based businessman, who bought it on the pretext of using the substance for making hand sanitisers. He, however, further sold the substance to illicit liquor manufacturers in Tarn Taran. The role of a Delhi-based firm in the sale of chemical compound containing methyl alcohol is now under the scanner.Excise officials say provisions of the Punjab Poisons Possession and Sales Rules specify that permission is required from the local authorities for the sale or manufacturing chemicals, including methanol.However, the spirit that claimed lives in Majha does not classify as pure methanol, as only part of the spirit is methyl alcohol. “It is used for making thinners and hand sanitiser. It has a high concentration of alcohol and is unfit for human consumption. Law does not prohibit its sale,” a senior official told The Tribune.While the government has made distilleries responsible for the pilferage of Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA) during its transportation, which was smuggled and used by illegal distilleries unearthed in Rajpura and Khanna in June this year, restrictions on its transportation from distilleries have been issued.“We are trying to make distilleries accountable and have made it mandatory for the transport vehicles not to stop anywhere,” Rajat Aggarwal, excise commissioner, said.‘Explain steps taken’
20-08-2020||chandigarh||Rights panel seeks report on cow cess collection, its use||The Punjab State Human Rights Commission (PSHRC) has asked the state government to report how much cow cess has been collected and how it has been used.Taking up a complaint filed by former MP and BJP national vice-president Avinash Rai Khanna, the PSHRC members, Ashutosh Mohunta and Avinash Kaur, have asked the Punjab Government, through the Local Bodies Department, to also inform the panel about the number of stray cattle in the state, accidents involving the cattle and how much loss they had caused to the farmers.The Commission has directed the deputy commissioners to report the steps taken in their respective districts to protect life and livelihood from stray cattle and whether any official committee had been constituted regarding stray animals, including names of officials and the constitution of the body. They were also asked whether cattle pounds had been constructed at government allocated places or not.Khanna had moved the PSHRC, seeking mandatory directions to implement different notifications/ letters issued by the Government of Punjab concerning welfare of cow and other stray animals as “non action was causing violation of human rights in terms of road accidents, crop damage, physical injuries etc”. He mentioned that it was indicative of glaring stances of human rights violation.“Notification imposing cow cess was issued by the Punjab Government on May 4, 2015, to aid the 472 existing gaushalas of the state. But till today, not even a single penny has been disbursed/ spent on the purpose. The non -disbursement is resulting in violations as proper care, which is possible with the collection so made, has not been ensured till date,” Khanna stated in his complaint.The next hearing is scheduled for October 9. — TNS
20-08-2020||Ropar||Former Anandpur Sahib SHO suspended for ‘torturing’ soldier||After a delay by over a month, Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary today suspended Bharat Bhushan, former Anandpur Sahib SHO, in a harassment case. A Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) soldier, Hardeep Singh, posted in Kashmir, had lodged a complaint that Bharat Bhushan had tortured him at the Anandpur Sahib police station on March 9.No action has been taken against the two other cops whose names were also mentioned in the complaint. The SSP said SP (Headquarters) has been asked to conclude an inquiry into the matter within a month. — TNS
20-08-2020||---||Sumedh Singh Saini case hearing on August 26||Chandigarh, August 19Less than a week after state’s former Director-General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court for declaring the probe against him to be “non est” and in violation of the Supreme Court order in a 1991 abduction case, the Bench today fixed the matter for August 26.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Manoj Bajaj through video-conferencing, Special Public Prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula objected to the petition on grounds of availability of alternative remedy under Section 482 of CrPC. Narula was appearing on behalf of the Special Investigating Team (SIT) probing the matter.The objection came as Saini has filed a civil writ petition under Article 226. The High Court, under Section 482 of the Code, has inherent power to quash the criminal proceedings even in those cases which are not compoundable. Interference by the High Court under Section 482 is primarily to prevent the abuse of process of court or to secure the ends of justice.The High Court asked counsel for the petitioner to satisfy the court on maintainability of the writ petition under Article 226.Saini was also seeking directions for transferring the investigation to any other independent agency outside the state, or if permissible, to the CBI. The FIR in the matter was registered on May 6 for abduction and other offences under Sections 364, 201, 344, 330, 219 and 120-B of the IPC at Mataur police station in Mohali.
20-08-2020||Sangrur||Drive against stray cattle a  stunt: Opposition||The district administration has launched a campaign to catch stray cattle after directions from Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla. During the last 10 days, 100 stray cattle have been shifted to government gaushala at Jhaneri. However, Opposition leaders claimed that the campaign was launched as Nagar Council (NC) elections were approaching.Sources said the NC authorities had given a contract of Rs 2.10 lakh for three months to catch stray cattle from Sangrur city and send them to Jhaneri Gaushala.“Special teams have been formed to catch stray cattle and the city will become cattle-free soon,” Rajinder Batra, ADC, Development, said.Singla said: “We keep launching such campaigns to make the city cattle-free,” he said. — TNS
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Kapurthala man who ran car over dog arrested||A 26-year-old man, who allegedly ran his car over a dog, was arrested from Kapurthala district, the police said today.His arrest came a day after BJP MP Maneka Gandhi shared a video on social media in which he could purportedly be seen running his vehicle over the dog.Gurjinder Singh has been arrested, Kapurthala DSP Sarwan Singh said.The police said 12 dogs had also been recovered from his house. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the IPC on the complaint of a representative of the People for Animals, the police said.On Monday, Maneka had posted a video on Twitter, saying: “He is a breeder and seller of dogs for dog fights. This is what he does to dogs when they are no longer useful. This dog died after 30 minutes of being in excruciating pain.” — PTI
20-08-2020||---||Punjab Chief Minister: Covid crisis grave, Opposition playing politics||Chandigarh, August 19Hitting out at the Opposition for “playing dirty politics” at a time when Punjab was going through a critical period, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said the one-day session convened by his government was a Constitutional requirement, as clearly mentioned in the official announcement.Contrary to the SAD allegation, the “cruel joke” on the people was not by his government, but by SAD president Sukhbir Badal, whose “pathetic record” in attendance in the Assembly as an MLA showed how little importance he gave to the House and its sessions, alleged the Chief Minister. From March 2017 to May 2019, when he was the MLA, Sukhbir attended the House for only 16 of the 40 days in session, he pointed out.Focus on safety Both SAD and AAP seem bent on playing with the sentiments of the people whose only concern at present is to protect themselves from the pandemic, which is peaking in Punjab and can play havoc with the state before stabilising.— Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterHe said both the SAD and AAP seemed bent on playing with the sentiments of the people whose only concern at present was to protect themselves from the pandemic, which was peaking in Punjab and could play havoc with the state before stabilising.Pointing out that several ministers, MLAs and officials were currently either Covid-positive or in quarantine, the Chief Minister said either Sukhbir was ignorant of the ground situation or simply did not care. With 34,400 people in the state tested positive so far and 898 deaths, the situation was grim, he noted. His government, said Capt Amarinder, was more interested in dealing with this grave problem at the moment.
20-08-2020||---||Surge continues, Ludhiana worst hit||Chandigarh, August 19In the continuous surge in Covid cases, Punjab reported 1,693 cases, including 24 deaths, on Wednesday.The districts which reported new cases included Ludhiana (462), Jalandhar (208), Patiala (117), Mohali (114), Ferozepur (111), Amritsar (86), Sangrur (68), Moga (64), Bathinda (62) and Fatehgarh Sahib (59) among others.A total of 941 Covid patients were discharged after recovering from infection on Monday. So far 22,703 people have been cured of the infection.There are 12,460 active Covid-19 cases in the state as of now, according to the Health Department. Thirty-six patients are critical and on ventilator support, while 362 are on oxygen support.A total of 8,19,657 samples have been taken for testing so far in the state, it said.As far as the deaths are concerned, eight persons succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana, followed by six deaths in Patiala. Jalandhar reported three and one death each was reported in Amritsar, Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Mansa and Pathankot.In Ropar, a total of 112 cases have been reported in the past four days, a majority from Ropar town where three areas have been declared micro containment zones.The labour room of the local Civil Hospital has also been sealed after a nurse working there tested positive yesterday. The driving test centre has also been lying closed since Monday after a clerk was found infected. Ropar Civil Surgeon HN Sharma said of 29,295 tests, reports of 802 patients were yet to be received, while a total of 583 people had been tested positive. The district has so far reported 10 casualties.
20-08-2020||---||Don’t compromise on state waters: Sukhbir||Chandigarh, August 19SAD president and former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal today warned Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh against “compromising on Punjab’s consistent and principled stand on the Riparian Principle with regard to the unsustainable demand for distribution of Punjab’s river waters.”The Akali leader said the SYL issue stood closed forever after Parkash Singh Badal-led government had returned the acquired land to farmers.The SAD president said Amarinder should have categorically told the Union Water Resources Minister, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, that massive injustice had been done to Punjab by the successive Congress governments by looting Punjab’s waters and giving it to Rajasthan and Haryana, unjustly.The Akali leader said building a canal without determining the quantum of water, if any, to flow through it was a “patently absurd idea” . “Never in human history has a canal ever been built without first ascertaining the availability of the water,” he said.He reiterated that Punjabis and SAD would never accept the construction of the SYL nor allow it to be built.
20-08-2020||Vishav Bharti||Health staff not paid July salary||Tribune News ServicesChandigarh, August 19While the state is seeing a surge in Covid cases, frontline health workers, including a large number of doctors, are not being paid salaries on time at many places.Even the Principal Secretary, Health, Hussan Lal, has written a letter to the Principal Secretary, Finance, KAP Sinha, informing him that in several districts, the treasuries had not paid salaries to doctors and other health officials.The similar problem is being faced by doctors working under the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats.In his letter, Hussan Lal said: “It has been brought to my notice that the salaries for the month of July of Group-A and Group-B officers/officials posted in the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, have not been released by the District Treasury Office, Punjab, Chandigarh. As you are aware that in view of the ongoing pandemic disease, the medical staff are working day and night and putting all their efforts in tackling the pandemic.”He requested for the immediate release of the salaries on priority.Lal said he had spoken to the Principal Secretary, Finance, over the phone as well. “There was an issue of delay in submitting of utilisation certificate of Rs 7.5 crore spending on sewerage treatment plants. The issue will be settled soon,” he said.The situation is not much different for the doctors working under the Rural Development Department. Dr JP Narula, president, Rural Medical Services Association, said the July salary of the rural doctors in Ludhiana, Patiala, Amritsar, Ropar, Bathinda and Barnala districts had not been paid. “At several places, we had contacted finance officials in various districts, who claimed that the delay was not at their end,” he said.
20-08-2020||---||Punjab Government warns private hospitals against overcharging||Chandigarh, August 19Taking a note of overcharging by some private hospitals and labs for the treatment and test of Covid-19, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today instructed the civil surgeons to ensure all such services to be availed as per capped rates decided by the Punjab Government. If anyone found violating the instructions, immediate action would be taken against them under the Epidemic Disease Act, he warned.The minister said all government health centres were offering the test and treatment free of cost. To check profiteering by private hospitals, the government had fixed rates in July, he said.It has been brought to his notice that even now, some private hospitals had been charging exorbitantly from patients, he said, adding that he appealed to the managements of private hospitals to serve the humanity for the sake of safe future of the country during this tough time and stop fleecing patients.The Health Minister said for getting tested in government hospitals no prescription from a doctor was required and those testing positive and were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic need not be admitted to hospitals and could opt for home isolation, if they had the facilities.
20-08-2020||Balwant Garg||Masks to be part of uniform||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 19When government schools reopen in the coming days, face coverings will be part of the uniform for classes I to VIII students.A budget of Rs 77.45 crore has been allocated for providing uniforms to 12,90,840 students. The School Education Department has directed the management committees of all government schools to supply two face masks to each pupil with the uniform.“Face masks are likely to make our schools safer. There is a great risk of close contact among students within school premises,” said a senior functionary in the department. Under the plan, the department has fixed Rs 600 per student for the purchase of uniform.Among the 12,90,840 students set to get uniforms, 7,38,701 are girls, 4,92,748 SCs and 59,391 are from the BPL category.The state project director of the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan has asked all school heads to procure uniforms at their own level.
20-08-2020||---||‘False’ report scam exposed, probe on||Moga, August 19Allegations of graft against the district health authorities have come to light, with reports of NRIs paying Rs 3,500 each to get a false Covid negative report doing the rounds.Om Parkash, a local, in an affidavit filed before the district magistrate, alleged that Balwinder Kaur from Hong Kong had paid Rs 2,000 to a local doctor in July to get a Covid-negative report. She again had to pay Rs 3,500 to the health authorities after she missed her flight. After the health authorities failed to give her the test report on time, she went to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot to get the test done. Subsequently, after getting Covid test report declaring her negative, she returned to Hong Kong.In the affidavit, Parkash said: “I had paid Rs 1,70,000 to a local doctor to get negative reports for 48 persons, but the doctor never kept his word. Subsequently, all 48 persons got their tests done from different places.”In an affidavit, Charanjit Singh, a resident of Dehrka in Ludhiana, said nine NRIs had paid Rs 31,500 to an agent to get the negative reports.Dr Amarpeet Kaur Bajwa, CMO, said the DM had asked the SSP to probe the matter.
20-08-2020||Faridkot||Probe sought into MGNREGA fund ‘misuse’||Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal wrote to Union Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday seeking a probe by Central agency into alleged misappropriation of MGNREGA funds in Faridkot.  Harsimrat urged Tomar to pass the orders for immediate stopping of the payment till the completion of inquiry. — TNS
20-08-2020||Patiala||Bhagwant Mann joins protesting Punjabi University staff||Aam Aadmi Party state president Bhagwant Mann today said he would raise the matter of financial crunch being faced by Punjabi University in Parliament. The Sangrur MP today visited the campus and joined the teaching and non-teaching staff in their protest over delay in disbursal of salary, pension and other matters.He said: “The university authorities should take this matter seriously. The party MLAs will raise the issue in the Vidhan Sabha during the upcoming monsoon session.”Dr Gurnam Singh Virk, secretary, PUTA, said the university authorities had failed to deposit the GPF amount of the employees in their respective accounts. — TNS
20-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps child welfare panel over minor’s custody||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the intent, approach and an order passed by Patiala Child Welfare Committee, whereby a minor was removed from her father’s custody before being given in foster care, lacked bona fides.The admonition by the Division Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came about a month after a Single Judge rapped the committee for “colourable exercise of powers” in the nine-year-old child’s custody matter.The Judge had observed that the committee’s order dated June 5 relating to the child’s foster care placement with a family was passed with an incomplete quorum and that also on a gazetted holiday.The matter was initially brought to the HC’s notice after the child’s father, an Army officer, filed a habeas corpus petition. Among other things, the father alleged that an aunt and uncle, to whom the child’s custody was handed over, were influential persons of the area. The uncle was, in fact, related to a sitting MLA from the ruling party.After hearing arguments on an appeal filed against the Single Judge order by the uncle and aunt, the Bench asserted the Army officer, being the biological father of the minor, was her natural and legal guardian in terms of Section 6 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956.On the contrary, the appellant uncle and aunt failed to show whether they had any authority or lawful right to detain the minor. “In the given circumstances, the only and the inevitable conclusion we could reach is: she was in illegal detention of the appellants”.The Bench added habeas corpus filed by the father for release of minor daughter in unlawful detention was fully maintainable. In the present proceedings, the father never claimed custody, but its restoration. The Bench said the position would be viewed from a different perspective in case of competing claims between biological parents or where parties to the disputed claimed authority or lawful right to retain or claim the child’s custody — something that required evidence and full-scale inquiry.
20-08-2020||Patiala||Patiala jail inmates attack staff, DSP injured||A DSP and two jail warders were injured when inmates attacked them at the Patiala Central Jail on Wednesday.The inmates reportedly attacked the officials after two mobile phones were recovered from their barrack. It has been learnt that jail officials, including DSP (security), were attacked with bricks when they conducted the raid. The DSP, who received a head injury, has been admitted to a local hospital.A case has been registered against nine jail inmates at Tripuri police station.Tripuri SHO Harjinder Singh Dhillon said they had registered the case on the complaint of jail officials and had started the investigation. — TNS
20-08-2020||Fazilka||Youth gets  jail for harassing sisters||Tarsem Mangla, District and Sessions Judge, Fazilka, has awarded three-year imprisonment to a youth for harassing two sisters.The victims had lodged an FIR in 2018, stating Vikram Singh of a village in Fazilka had hit their scooter with his bike. They had also accused him of harassment. — OC
20-08-2020||Amritsar||Nagar kirtan to mark installation of Guru Granth Sahib||2 accused escape from Ferozepur hospitalFerozepur: Two accused admitted to the Civil Hospital here after testing positive for Covid managed to escape on Wednesday. They have been identified as Tinku and Bachhitar Singh. Amarinder Singh, SHO, Sadar police station, said the accused were arrested on August 11 in two separate cases. Before sending them to the jail, their swab samples were collected. After they tested positive, they were admitted to the Civil Hospital on August 17. Pardeep Mohindra, SMO, said despite the presence of security guards, the duo managed to flee. OCMore health packages under insurance schemeChandigarh: To ensure the maximum benefits of Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna (SSBY) to people of the state, the Punjab Government has decided to increase the health packages from 1,393 to 1,579 being offered to the eligible beneficiaries. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said "At least 767 hospitals have been empanelled by the state in the first year of this scheme. Secondary and tertiary care treatments are being provided free of cost to the beneficiaries in these hospitals." TNSOnline programme on disaster response heldChandigarh: To sensitise the administrative authorities and other stakeholders on disaster management, the Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration in collaboration with the National Institute of Disaster Management organised a three-day online training programme on "Incident Response System: Basic & Intermediate". Launching the event, KBS Sidhu, Special Chief Secretary, stressed the need for coordination at individual, societal and institutional levels to undertake preparedness measures to minimise the effect of any kind of disaster and ensure a swift response to reduce losses. TNS
