20-11-2020||Ravneet Singh||RGNUL begins process for selection of new VC||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 20Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) here is set to get a new Vice-Chancellor.The university’s executive council on Friday shortlisted Prof Faizan Mustafa, Vice-Chancellor, National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR), University of Law, Hyderabad, as its nominee.The other two names will be nominated by the UGC Chairman and RGNUL Chancellor.The current VC, Dr Paramjit Singh Jaswal’s tenure is set to end on February 6, 2021.Members of the executive council said the name of the NALSAR VC was finalised.The RGNUL will get a new VC after 10 years of Dr Jaswal’s tenure. He was first appointed in January 2011 and later given a five-year extension on orders of then RGNUL Chancellor and acting Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court Justice SJ Vazifdar from February 7, 2016.According to the RGNUL Act section 22, sub-section 5, the term of office of the Vice-Chancellor shall be five years from the date on which he enters upon his office, or until he attains the age of 70 years.The VC is eligible for reappointment for further terms till the age of 70.The act also mentions that the Chancellor may require the Vice-Chancellor to continue in office after his term has expired “but such period shall not exceed in any case the period of one year”.
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 16 more COVID-19 deaths, 819 fresh cases||Sixteen more fatalities due to COVID-19 pushed the death toll in Punjab to 4,572, while 819 new cases took the infection tally to 1,44,995 on Friday, according to a medical bulletin.Among the new deaths, four were reported from Jalandhar, three from Mohali, two each from Ferozepur and Mansa and one each from Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Muktsar and Patiala.Of the fresh COVID-19 cases, Mohali registered 195 infections, Ludhiana 96 and Jalandhar 95.According to the bulletin, Punjab has 6,504 active COVID-19 cases.As many as 492 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the viral infection in a day, taking the number of recoveries to 1,33,919.Twelve critical patients are on ventilator support while 141 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said, adding a total of 29,70,682 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state. PTI
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Withdrawal of Majithia’s Z-plus security cover by Centre politically motivated: SAD||Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday lashed out at the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for allegedly withdrawing the Z-plus security cover to former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia.“The SAD condemns the arbitrary, dictatorial and politically motivated decision of the BJP-led Central government to withdraw the Z-plus category security cover of former minister and senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia,” SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said.In a statement, Cheema, also a senior SAD leader, alleged that Majithia’s security cover had been withdrawn because the party had “stood firmly with farmers” against the Centre’s farm laws and the denial of the official language status to Punjabi in Jammu and Kashmir.He said the SAD had voted against the Centre’s farm laws in Parliament besides quitting the Union Cabinet and the National Democratic Alliance over the issue.“It is clear that Mr Majithia is a victim of political vendetta. The SAD, however, will not be cowed down by such tactics and will continue to stand with farmers and Punjabis against the central laws as well as any other issue which weakens the federal structure or is intrinsically anti-Punjab.“The SAD has a 100-year-old history of standing up to safeguard the rights of the farmers and the poor and downtrodden. It will never shirk away from this responsibility,” he said.Majithia is the brother of former Union Minister and SAD’s Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and brother-in-law of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal.Speaking about Majithia’s security issue, the SAD leader said, “Z-plus category security cover had been given to him in 2010 during the UPA rule on the basis of threat perception”.“The case was cleared by the then Home Minister P Chidambaram who was known to be a hard taskmaster. We would like to know what has changed suddenly that the ten-year-old cover was withdrawn on a single-line order.“Mr Majithia continues to be targeted by Pakistan-based anti-national elements and gangsters who have openly threatened to eliminate him. Even Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has recently talked about increased attempts by Pakistan’s ISI to revive terrorist activity in Punjab, particularly in the Majha belt of the state which shares a border with Pakistan,” he said.Majithia is from the Majha area.Stating that such kind of politics does not augur well for peace in the state, Cheema said, “We have already seen how a senior Left leader and Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu was murdered in Tarn Taran recently after his security cover was withdrawn.”   Warning that the Union Home Ministry would be held responsible for any untoward incident after the withdrawal of Majithia’s security cover, the SAD leader said, “This kind of action, which is designed to browbeat opponents, is a new low in Indian politics.”He said while the security cover of Majithia, who has often been targeted by anti-national elements, has been withdrawn, the Central government has given Y-plus category security to film actor Kangana Ranaut.“Security should not be given on the whims and fancies to people who sing the government’s tune. It is incumbent on the Home Ministry to explain on what grounds Mr Majithia’s security cover has been withdrawn suddenly after the SAD stood up against the Centre in support of the farming community,” he said. — PTI
20-11-2020||New Delhi||Canada visa application centres to reopen on November 25||Canada visa applicants who have submitted online applications for family class priority—spouses, partners and children category—can enroll biometrics at the Canada Visa Applications Centres in six cities from November 25, it was announced by VFS Global on Friday.The cities are Delhi, Jalandhar, Chandigarh, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru.As per the directive, limited visa services will resume across India.An appointment is mandatory to visit the visa application centre to enroll biometrics. Appointments can be booked online from Friday by filling in the web form available.Effective from December 2, visa applicants who have submitted online applications for student category and family class priority can enroll their biometrics at the visa applications centres.Customers who have already submitted their applications for these categories will receive a biometric instruction letter from Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada to enroll their biometrics.This letter must be carried for their appointment.For all other categories, biometric enrolments are not being accepted until further notice. If you have booked an appointment for categories other than student and family class priority, you will be turned away and your biometrics will not be enrolled, said the statement.For emergency applications, customers can write to delhiimmigration@international.gc.ca Due to increased health and safety measures, enquiries, walk-in requests for appointments, and visitors accompanying applicants will not be permitted inside the visa application centres. IANS
20-11-2020||Amritsar||25-year-old woman gangraped by six men in Amritsar, two arrested||A 25-year-old woman, who had come here from Fazilka earlier this week, was allegedly gangraped by six men, police said on Friday.Two men have been arrested for the sexual assault that took place on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, a police official said.The survivor said in her complaint that she had arrived alone from Fazilka on Tuesday and paid obeisance at a gurdwara here.A stranger, who came into contact with her and won her trust, took her to a house in an isolated area where five more men reached and raped her through the night, the official said.   In the morning, they took her to the outskirts of the city and fled.She approached the police on Wednesday evening with her complaint.A case has been registered against six men, including the main accused identified as Yugraj Singh. While two of the accused have been arrested, the other four would be nabbed soon, police said. PTI
20-11-2020||GS Paul||Akal Takht raises questions over transportation of ‘saroop’ by father-son duo||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 20A day after the father-son duo was held at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport for carrying Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ in a suitcase, the Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh directed Baba Kulwant Singh of Gurdwara Nanaksar Samadh Bhai, Moga, to clarify his stance over the issue.Meanwhile, the police have procured a two-day remand of Jawala Singh and his son Jasveer Singh, who had disclosed the name of Baba Kulwant Singh during the preliminary investigation.Rajinder Singh, SHO, Airport Police Station, said Baba Kulwant Singh had also been included as an accused in the FIR. The trio have been booked under sections 295-A, 120-B and 34 of the IPC, he said.Also read: 2 held for carrying ‘saroop’ in suitcase at Amritsar airportOn the other hand, in a communication sent to Baba Kulwant Singh, the Jathedar has asked him to reveal the source through which he had procured the saroop and the motive behind it.Jaspal Singh, PA to Jathedar, said Kulwant Singh was given five days to furnish his reply to the Akal Takht Secretariat.Jwala Singh and his son Jasvir Singh were taken into custody for violating the ‘Sikh Rayat Maryada’. The two were to take a flight to New Delhi and from there to Pune when they were held at the airport here.The father-son disclosed the saroop was to be delivered to one Gurbaksh Singh, who is a sewadar at Gurdwara Nanaksar in Pune.It was learnt that they didn’t possess any authorisation letter to carry the ‘saroop’, and defying ‘maryada’ they had kept the ‘saroop’ in a suitcase.Before they could board the flight, an auto-rickshaw driver raised suspicion and informed the police. The SGPC team too reached the airport and took the ‘saroop’ in their possession which was then placed at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib in Amritsar.Protocol for transportation of ‘saroop’The ‘saroop’ cannot be transported in a suitcase, closet or cupboard.Within India, SGPC reserves all rights to transport the ‘saroops’ in a special bus with ‘maryada’.Whilst the saroop is on the move, five Singhs (a minimum of three) are mandatory to accompany the ‘saroop’ all the  time.If travelling by domestic flight, the attendant must possess an authorisation letter from the SGPC which ensures that ‘maryada’ was being followed, like for long distance travel an extra seat has to be reserved alongside the attendant.The ‘saroop’ must be covered, and placed on a cushion or cloth draping on the seat when travelling.For a shorter distance by a private vehicle, the saroop has to be carried on the head or in the lap.For overseas journey, Akal Takht had in 2014 directed that the ‘saroops’ could be transported by air only through chartered flights while observing ‘maryada’.The directions were issued following a row over disrespect to the ‘saroop’ while being dispatched in containers through sea route to gurdwaras in the US, the UK and Europe as there was no printing facility there.
20-11-2020||Bathinda||Prominent Dera member and father of sacrilege accused shot dead in Bathinda||A prominent dera follower, Manohar Lal, who is a member of 25 members committee of Dera Sacha Sauda and is father of Jatinderbir Singh Jimmy, who is an accused in a sacrilege incident, was shot dead by two unidentified persons in Bathinda on Friday.Even after passing of many hours, the police are unable to trace the attackers. Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said Manohar Lal was present at his money changer shop near the bus stand at Bhagta Bhaika along with two workers, when two unidentified persons came and started firing on Manohar Lal.Later, the seriously injured victim was taken to Adesh Hospital, where he was declared dead.The SSP said police teams have started a probe and are working on all angles, so far the identity of the accused is not ascertained but hope that soon police would arrest the accused.In 2018, Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police had arrested Jimmy from Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, while he was returning from Malaysia and was accompanied by his wife.Later, he was sent to jail after police remand but these days he was out on bail.On June 2, 2015, an FIR was registered at Baja Khana police station after a “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.On October 12, torn pages of the “bir” were found in Bargari. During the protests that followed, two Sikh men died in police firing at Behbal Kalan village on October 14.Later on October 20, around 157 pages of Guru Granth Sahib were found scattered at different places in the village and as per the police, these pages were of the same “bir” that was stolen from gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot.Both Jimmy and his father are prominent members of Dera Sacha Sauda.
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Weathermen predict cold wave conditions in region during next week||Cold wave conditions are likely to occur over isolated pockets of northwest India during the next week with the overall temperature over most parts of the region very likely to be below normal by 2-6 degree Celsius, according to latest meteorological forecasts.A fresh Western Disturbance will very likely affect northwest India during 22-25 November and cause light isolated to scattered rainfall over Western Himalayan Region during this period, according to a statement issued today by the Ministry of Earth Science.Rain or snow activity is very likely to be near normal over the Western Himalayan Region, the statement added.While the preceding week had witnessed heavy precipitation in most parts of the region, rains are deficient for the overall season so far.As predicted earlier, due to an active Western Disturbance during the past few days, rainfall over northwest India was massively above the Long Period Average (LPA) with large excess rainfall over all the sub-divisions of northwest India except West Rajasthan.According to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) rains were surplus in Haryana and Punjab by 1,266 per cent and 1,078 per cent respectively for the week from November 12-18. In Himachal Pradesh, the surplus was 330 per cent.IMD data also shows that in the current autumn season beginning October 1, rains have been deficient by 53 per cent in Haryana and 41 per cent respectively in Himachal and by 12 per cent in Punjab.
20-11-2020||New Delhi||On World Toilet Day, felicitation of districts from Haryana and Punjab||Two districts of Haryana and one from Punjab were among a total of 20 districts of the country which were felicitated by the Union Jal Shakti Ministry for their work towards cleanliness on the occasion of "World Toilet Day" on Thursday.The three districts are Bhiwani and Rewari (Haryana) and Moga (Punjab).The function was presided over by the Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat through video-conference and was attended by district officials across the country.Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria also addressed the function and hailed the districts and individuals who were selected for the felicitation.The authorities of the districts concerned received the felicitation from Shekhawat.Shekhawat interacted with the authorities, who pledged to work with greater determination in implementing the Swachh Bharat Mission-Rural.The Mission include the construction of toilets and kindred activities in villages regarding cleanliness.The programme to provide every rural household with tap water connection under Jal Jeevan Mission(JJM) through the agency of National Jal Jeevan Mission, Jal Shakti Ministry, was to substantiate the cleanliness drive.After having accomplished the Mission of ODF status( open defecation-free) in the country on October 2, last year, the Ministry has embarked on "ODF Plus" mission which includes treatment of liquid and solid wastes in villages.The ODF mission was launched on October 2, 2014, under which 60 crore toilets were constructed in the states with the financial help of the Centre.The construction of toilets under Seachh Bhararr Mission was visualised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.In his address, Shekhawat praised Haryana for treatment of cow dung in villages for producing bio-gas fuel which is a clean source of energy, and fertiliser.
20-11-2020||New Delhi||Income Tax dept conducts searches at 16 locations in Ludhiana, Delhi, UP||The Income Tax Department started a search and survey action in the case of a leading cattle feed producer in Northern India.The search and survey actions are being carried out at 16 locations in Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Noida, Delhi and Ludhiana.The I-T department said that the main allegations against the group are that it has taken accommodation entries of more than Rs 100 crore in the form of non-genuine unsecured loans from certain Delhi-based shell companies; unusually high sundry creditors; suppression of net profit; and also that a related group chit fund company had received unsecured loans of several crores of rupees from unknown sources.During the course of search action, the department said it has been established that the shell companies from which loans had been taken exist only on paper and have no real business and credit worthiness.Directors of these shell companies are dummy, non-filers and individuals of no means.One of the Directors of these companies has been found to be a taxi driver, having 11 bank accounts, showing huge routing of funds.Therefore, it has been established that the accommodation entries of more than Rs 121 crore in the form of unsecured loans from these shell companies are bogus and actually represent the unaccounted income of the group, the department said giving an account of its investigations.During the search, I-T department further gathered that one of these shell companies is a chit subscriber in the group's chit fund concern, which is a violation of the provisions of the Chit Funds Act, 1982.Search has also revealed huge unaccounted investment in the construction of the residences of the main persons of the group.The same is being verified and will be referred for valuation later.Till now gold and diamond jewellery to the tune of Rs 52 lakh has been seized. The sources of acquisition of the remaining jewellery are being verified. The source of total cash found amounting to Rs 1.30 crore is being further verified. A total of seven lockers have been found, which are yet to be operated.Further investigations are going on, the department said. IANS
20-11-2020||Peshawar||1,300-year-old Hindu temple discovered in Pakistan||A Hindu temple, believed to have been constructed 1,300 years ago, has been discovered by Pakistani and Italian archaeological experts at a mountain in Swat district of northwest Pakistan.The discovery was made during an excavation at Barikot Ghundai.Announcing the discovery on Thursday, Fazle Khaliq of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Department of Archaeology said that the temple discovered is of God Vishnu.It was built by the Hindus 1,300 years ago during the Hindu Shahi period, he said.The Hindu Shahis or Kabul Shahis (850–1026 CE) was a Hindu dynasty that ruled the Kabul Valley (eastern Afghanistan), Gandhara (modern-day Pakistan), and present-day northwestern India.During their excavation, the archaeologists also found traces of cantonment and watchtowers near the temple site. The experts also found a water tank near the temple site which they believed used by the Hindus for bathing before worship.Khaliq said that Swat district is home to thousand-year-old archaeology sites and the traces of the Hindu Shahi period have been found for the first time in the area.Dr Luka, the head of the Italian archaeological mission, said this the first temple of the Ghandhara civilisation discovered in Swat district.Swat district is among the top 20 sites in Pakistan which is home to every kind of tourism like natural beauty, religious tourism, cultural tourism and archaeological sites.Several worship places of Buddhism are also situated in Swat district. PTI
20-11-2020||New Delhi||Farmers gear up for November 26 ‘Delhi Chalo’||Even as Punjab farm unions today announced that thousands of protesters would participate in the “Delhi Chalo” march on November 26, the Supreme Court today restored a PIL against the Centre’s three farm laws that it had dismissed earlier.Also Read:Sukhbir Badal, SADFarming and farmers are sacred to us. The SAD will stand by farmers and follow their leadership. We want no credit. Our support is unconditional.The Supreme Court restored the petition after the petitioner, advocate ML Sharma contended that Parliament didn’t have the legislative competence to make laws on agriculture as it was a state subject under the Constitution’s Seventh Schedule .“We will restore and keep the matter for admission after two weeks,” said the Bench after Sharma submitted that he couldn’t argue his case on the last date of hearing.A Bench led by CJI SA Bobde had on October 12 dismissed Sharma’s PIL even as it issued notices to the Centre on several other petitions against the farm laws that have triggered protests in various parts of the country, particularly Punjab.Dr Darshan Pal of the Joint Kisan Morcha said on the occasion of the Constitution Day (November 26), the country would witness the beginning of a historic struggle of farmers. “The movement has reached a decisive phase. Farmers from across the country are arriving in Delhi… We have the support of over 500 farmer unions,” he claimed.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, meanwhile, urged the Centre to “show magnanimity and not link the restoration of freight services with the movement of passenger trains”.He said the Centre should back the state’s efforts towards ending the agitation, which had grave repercussions for Punjab and the nation. — TNS
20-11-2020||New Delhi||Special Sikh jatha to Pakistan on Gurpurb: MEA||India will send a special Sikh jatha to Gurdwara Janam Asthan in Nankana Sahib (Nov 27- Dec 1) on the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava announced here on Thursday. However, there is no move yet to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor, he indicated.The visit of a truncated jatha will be as per the 1974 bilateral protocol between India and Pakistan. There is, no confirmation yet from the Pakistan side. Pakistan had in June unilaterally reopened the Kartarpur Corridor to commemorate Maharaja Ranjit Singh`s death anniversary, but India had rejected the offer owing to the pandemic.Officials say it has been over a year but Pakistan is yet to construct a bridge over the Budhi Ravi channel. — TNS
20-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Cannot marry first cousin, it’s illegal, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that first cousins cannot marry. The Bench also ruled that a youth’s claims of marrying his first cousin, with whom he was in a live-in relationship, were by itself illegal.‘Prohibited Sapinda’“The submission in the present petition that they will perform marriage as and when the girl attains the age of 18 is per se illegal,” Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan ruled.The assertion came after the youth moved the High Court against the State of Punjab for grant of anticipatory bail in a case registered for kidnapping and another offence on August 18 under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC at Khanna City-2 police station in Ludhiana district.His counsel told Justice Sangwan’s Bench that the petitioner had also filed a criminal writ petition, along with the girl, for protection of life and liberty. Taking a note of the submission, Justice Sangwan summoned the criminal writ petition’s court file before observing that the girl was stated to be 17.Justice Sangwan also took note of the fact the youth, in the petition, had submitted that both of them were in a live-in-relationship. In a representation annexed with the petition, the girl had stated that her parents had love and affection for their sons and she was ignored by them.Opposing the bail plea, the state counsel contended that the girl was a minor. Her parents lodged an FIR as she and the youth were first cousins and their fathers were real brothers.
20-11-2020||Tribune News ServicveChandigarh||Help Punjab govt end rail blockade: CM to Centre||Stepping up efforts to resolve the crisis, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Central Government to show magnanimity and not link restoration of freight services with movement of passenger trains, and to support the state government in creating a congenial environment for ending the prolonged farmers’ agitation, which had grave repercussions for the state and the nation.He said it was the joint responsibility of both, the state and Centre, to provide a conducive environment for resolving the current crisis resulting from the suspension of train services. The Chief Minister said he intended to hold discussions with the farmers’ representatives, and also to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the issue, which is resulting in massive losses to the state exchequer every day, while causing irrevocable damage to industry and agriculture. He would urge both sides to take proactive steps to find an amicable solution to the problem, he added.The continued suspension of the rail movement was hurting not just Punjab but also the neighbouring states, he noted, adding that even the armed forces in Ladakh and Kashmir had been hit hard as their supplies had been seriously affected by the prolonged interruption of services.The situation needed to be resolved urgently, said Captain Amarinder, requesting the Central Government to show generosity in the matter in the light of the farmers’ decision to consider lifting blockade of passenger trains too, once freight services are resumed in Punjab. At the same time, he said the farmers should also ease their blockade of passenger trains to enable the state government, which had extended its full support in their fight against the farm laws to restore normalcy.Neither Punjab nor the nation could afford to allow the situation to continue indefinitely in this manner, he stressed, pointing to the crores of rupees in losses being suffered by the industry and economy in the state. The agriculture sector was also badly affected as the movement of foodgrain, fertilisers, urea, etc., had been hit hard due to the rail blockade, he added.
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Thousands to march on Nov 26: Unions||Farmer unions today announced that thousands of farmers will march to Delhi through five national highways on November 26.Dr Darshan Pal of the Joint Kisan Morcha said on Constitution Day, i.e. on November 26, the country would witness a historic struggle of farmers. “The movement against the anti-farmer laws has now reached a decisive phase. Farmers across the country are arriving in the national capital for an indefinite struggle under the call of “Delhi Chalo”. This “Samyukta Kisan Morcha” has the support of more than 500 farmer organisations of the country.He said on November 26, farmers from neighbouring states would reach Delhi from five national highways. Farmers will march toDelhi, assembling on the Amritsar-Delhi National Highway (Kundli Border), Hisar-Delhi highway (Bahadurgarh), Jaipur-Delhi highway (Dharuhera), Bareilly-Delhi highway (Hapur), Agra-Delhi highway (Ballabhgarh). The farmers hope that they will get a chance to raise their voice by entering the national capital. However, if they are stopped at any place, the peasants will stage a peaceful dharna. Farmers will take their tractors and travel towards Delhi.Announcing participation in the programme, the coordination committee of 30 farmer organisations demanded the lifting of the economic blockade of Punjab and the resumption of goods trains immediately. It also demanded lawsuits against farmers filed in any part of the country during the ongoing protests to be immediately withdrawn.
20-11-2020||Bathinda/Sangrur||Protesters stage dharna at BJP’s new office sites||Scores of farmers under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) staged a dharna near Mittal Mall in Bathinda where BJP leaders reportedly were to lay the foundation stone of a new office on Thursday.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Harjinder Singh said: “When we came to know that BJP national president JP Nadda was to lay the foundation stone of a new office in Bathinda, we asked farmers to gather at the site to lodge the protest against the party. We won’t let the BJP leaders and workers to step foot in the state.”Following the farmers’ stir, the BJP postponed the foundation stone-laying ceremony of 10 district offices in the state, including in Barnala, Mansa and Bathinda. Later, the union members carried out a protest march in the city and raised slogans against the Centre. In Sangrur too, farmer organisations organised a protest march from the Sangrur railway station to Uppli road, where BJP wanted to open an office.Moga farmers up the anteFarmers on Thursday stepped up their protest against the farm laws in Moga district. A group of farmers protested outside a silo (foodgrain store) constructed by Adani Agro-Logistics at Dagru village.Another group of activists of the Kirti Kisan Union, BKU (Krantikari), BKU (Lakhowal) and Hind Kisan Sabha held a sit-in near the railway station.Two other groups protested at a toll plaza on the highway in Chand Purana village and a petrol pump owned by the Reliance Group at Rajeana village.
20-11-2020||Farming and farmers are sacred to the Shiromani Akali Dal and they are one with the community||‘No agenda, support to farmers unconditional’: Sukhbir Badal||I have openly declared the SAD will stand by farmers and follow their leadership. We want no credit. Our support is unconditional. I can’t speak for other parties. They (parties) know why they don’t speak in one voice for the farmers.We recognise farmers’ platform as the common front. There are no differences between farmers and the SAD to sink. Our support is unconditional. We will do whatever farmers ask of us. Surely at one point there was a misunderstanding and we were even charged with sabotaging the farmers’ stir. But we understood the sensitivity and stopped all separate protests. We openly declared that we will only follow farmers.No one should dictate terms to farmers. They know where they stand. For us, the issue is not political. We are with them in one voice. We wanted assured minimum support price for all 26 crops, which has been announced. We fail to understand why CM Capt Amarinder Singh is not declaring Punjab a principal marketing area to make Central laws irrelevant in the state.No one can give us a message that is against our conviction, particularly on farmers’ issue. To understand Akalis’ stand, it is important to know the SAD is the largest farmer organisation in the world. Every Akali is a farmer and every farmer is an Akali at heart. Our support is unequivocal.
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||SAD mulls returning to Panthic cause||The Akal Takht Jathedar’s call to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to return to Panthic issues has put a new challenge in front of the party amid the ongoing confrontation of Punjab with the Centre and preparations for the 2022 Assembly elections.If the party follows the Panthic issues, it fears losing the Hindu vote and if it does not, then the need to consolidate Sikh votes in a likely multi-cornered political contest will not be achieved. The call by Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on the occasion of 100 years of formation of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is at the same time being seen as an admonishment to the Akalis for straying from the Panthic issues in the past three decades.The shift from the Panthic agenda in 1996 had coincided with the Akalis forming an alliance with the BJP. The re-focus sought by the Jathedar also coincides with the SAD parting ways with the BJP.While the SAD leadership insists it never left the Panthic cause, experts believe the Akalis had taken a lot of anti-Sikh stances in the past two-and-a-half decades. Some leaders said the party had to obey the Akal Takht Jathedar and would take up Sikh issues with renewed vigour.Ex-journalist and author Jagtar Singh said the party had moved to Punjabiyat and subsequent alliance with the BJP on the 75th SGPC anniversary function. “Now, on the 100th, there is a call to go back to the Panthic cause. The Akalis had left the main demand of the Sikh community of action against police officials who had misused authority during the terrorism era. It had not followed the demand for Punjabi speaking areas, safeguarding the Punjabi language, the Sikh identity and transfer of Chandigarh to Punjab with the same intensity as earlier. The statement by the Jathedar reflects the political compulsion of the Akalis to consolidate Sikh votes. The Akalis can only regain the faith of the community if they apologise for the mistakes they have committed in the past two decades or so.”Prem Singh Chandumajra, senior Akali leader, said the party had been raising Panthic issues but after the call by the Jathedar, the issues would have to be pursued with more vigour. “We will obey the Jathedar but for us, Punjab and Panth are the same,” said a senior Akali leader.
20-11-2020||Ludhiana||Trains’ cancellation extended till November 21||With the deadlock over the resumption of rail traffic continuing, the Railways has announced that all passenger trains to and from Punjab or even those passing through the state would remain fully or partially cancelled till November 21.Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division of Northern Railway, Rajesh Aggrawal has said as and when the directions are issued the passenger and freight trains will resume normal operations. The trains which have been fully cancelled include New Delhi-Jammu Tawi Express, New Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat Express, Dibrugarh-Amritsar Express, New Delhi-Katra Shri Shakti Express, New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express, Ajmer-Jammu Tawi Express, Lucknow-Chandigarh Express, New Delhi-Katra Express, Ajmer-Amritsar Express, Gorakhpur-Chandigarh Express and Bhagalpur-Jammu Tawi Express among others. — OC
20-11-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||SGPC razes museum walls, MLA protests||Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra today staged a dharna and blocked traffic on the Sirhind-Chandigarh road in protest against the demolition of boundary walls of a beautification project near Gurdwara Jyoti Saroop Sahib by the manager of Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib and other SGPC employees on the pretext that the land on which the projects were undertaken belonged to the SGPC.The beautification project was initiated by the Tourism Department at a cost of Rs 15 crore to highlight Sikh history at an open museum-cum-theme park. The foundation stone was laid by Tourism Minister Charanjit Singh Channi last month. The dharna was lifted after the police filed an FIR. — OC
20-11-2020||Sangrur||Trees axed from park, DC orders probe||Many trees have been axed from a local city park to put up hoardings. This has angered the residents. Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner (DC), Sangrur, has ordered an inquiry.Parminder Singh, a senior citizen, who comes to park for walk, alleged that axing of trees had taken place with the connivance of some officers.“Trees on the front side of the park have been axed, which shows that there is no fear of the law among the wrongdoers. Unipoles can be put up in front of trees without axing them,” said Sarjiwan Jindal, former BJP Municipal Councillor, Sangrur.Three unipoles have been erected in the park after axing trees from the top. This has also endangered many full grown trees whose branches have got entangled in the unipoles. The axing could have been avoided if the unipoles were installed on the front side of the park, towards the outer wall.“The park is not a private property of anyone, but it belongs to the state government and the residents. The Nagar Council has not taken any action in this regard. We will start a protest if the administration fails to act,” said Avtar Ealwal, AAP leader.Ramvir, Deputy Commissioner, Sangrur, said, “I have ordered an inquiry and sought a detailed report from the officers concerned.”
20-11-2020||Jalandhar||Raninder questioned by ED for six hours||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh appeared before the Enforcement Directorate in the alleged Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violation case today. He was questioned for over six hours.FEMA violation caseRaninder, who arrived at the ED office at 11 am, was accompanied by Congress spokesperson and lawyer Jaiveer Shergill.This is the third time Raninder has been summoned by the ED this year. On October 27, he failed to appear before the ED owing to a meeting in the Rajya Sabha and again on November 6 (in the same case) citing health reasons. He last appeared before the ED on July 21, 2016.“I am a law-abiding citizen and have appeared before the ED today. I am ready to appear whenever summoned by the ED or any government agency, subject to inquiry. We will continue to cooperate with the authorities in the inquiry,” Raninder told mediapersons after emerging out of the ED office.While key Congress leaders have time and again alleged political vendetta in the timing of his summoning by the ED, Raninder said: “I can’t comment any further on the issue as the case is subject to inquiry. I leave this to your judgment.”While commenting on the long duration of the questioning, Shergill said: “That is the standard operating procedure of the ED. He has earlier, too, been questioned for five hours. We are extending all cooperation.”The ED probe concerns an investigation into assets acquired abroad and movement of funds, a case first investigated by the Income Tax Department.The IT probe alleged there were discrepancies in the full disclosure of assets — a charge denied by Raninder.
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Now, report excise-related crimes on helpline||In line with its commitment to curb the trade of banned liquor, the Excise Department has set up helpline number 9875961126 to rein in liquor smugglers. People can call this number and report complaints relating to excise crimes such as smuggling of liquor, lahan or operation of illegal liquor manufacturing units.A spokesperson for the department said any person could give information on the number by voice call, SMS or WhatsApp message. A total of 265 complaints had been received since August 8, and action had been taken on 250 of these. On the basis of these complaints, 22 FIRs had been lodged and two persons had also been arrested. — TNS
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||792 fresh infections, 16 more die of Covid in Punjab||The state reported 792 cases and 16 deaths on Thursday.As per the media bulletin released on Thursday, the total number of cases has reached 1,44,177 and the number of deaths stood at 4,556.In the district-wise breakup of cases, SAS Nagar topped the chart with 135 cases, followed by Jalandhar (122), Ludhiana (108), Patiala (71) and Amritsar (66). The number of active cases also increased and reached 6,194.At present, 139 patients are on oxygen support and 13 are critical on ventilator support.The state reported 16 deaths in the last 24 hours. Jalandhar reported five deaths, followed by Patiala with four deaths, Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur with two deaths each, and Sangrur, Pathankot and Bathinda with one death each. — TNS
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 2,000 cap on CT-scan charges to stop fleecing||Taking a major step towards stopping the fleecing of Covid patients by doctors, the state government today decided to cap the charges of CT-scan at Rs 2,000 in private hospitals and diagnostic centres.As per an order issued by the Director, Health Services, the state government, in exercise of the powers vested under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (Covid-19 Regulations-2020), has directed that no private diagnostic center should charge any amount of more than Rs 2,000 for CT-scan/IRCT chest scan, inclusive of GST/taxes, documentation and reporting, in the state. The diagnostic centres conducting the CT-chest scan must share their data with the district civil surgeons. — TNS
20-11-2020||Sangrur||Under pressure to ensure 100% attendance in survey: Teachers||Government teachers have alleged their senior officers have been pressuring them to ensure 100 per cent attendance of students for the Punjab Assessment Survey (PAS).Members of the Democratic Teachers Front (DTF) along with two other organisations have written to senior authorities in this regard.“Senior officers have been putting pressure on teachers in the state to ensure 100 per cent attendance in the PAS, which is not possible. Being a teacher, we cannot commit a fraud with students’ parents,” said Balvir Chand, district president of the DTF, after a meeting here today.“The authorities should not try to tamper with the figures and take required steps to bring improvement in the education system,” said Chand.The members have further urged senior authorities seeking fulfilment of long pending demands, including implementation of the 6th pay commission report and regularisation of contractual staff. Members of 6060 teachers union and ETT 6505 union also attended the meeting.
20-11-2020||Patiala||Abhi killer attends mother’s last rites||On the orders of the Supreme Court, a death row convict was today allowed to walk out of jail after almost a decade of his arrest following the death of his mother.After the court permitted the convict to attend the last rites and related ceremonies of his mother under police escort, the convict was allowed to go out of the prison for a few hours.2008 student murderVikram Singh, alias Vicky Walia, and Jasvir Singh were convicted and sentenced to death for kidnapping Abhi Verma, alias Harry, a school student, in Hoshiarpur, and killing him with anesthesia overdose. The crime had sent shock waves across the state.The Central Jail superintendent confirmed Vicky was taken for the last rites of his mother. “He will again be taken to his parent’s house for the bhog ceremony on November 21,” he said. The convict was taken out under tight security and was brought back to jail in the afternoon, he said. — TNS
20-11-2020||Balwant Garg||Middle school teachers told to take higher classes||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, November 19After over 2,000 teachers in high and senior secondary government schools in the state were mandatorily retired on September 30 and many of these schools were facing shortage of teachers, the School Education Department has asked all district education officers (DEOs) to assign the job to teachers from the adjoining middle schools.All high and senior secondary schools in the state were re-opened from Classes IX to XII this month. However, primary and elementary schools are still closed for offline classes. As there was no teacher for some subjects in many high and senior secondary schools after the mandatorily retirement of over 2,000 teachers on September 30, as a stopgap-arrangement, the department today asked the DEOs to put middle school teachers on duty in high and senior secondary schools.In March this year, the state government had ended the policy of optional extension in service period after retirement/superannuation. A large number of teachers in government schools were working on one or two-year extension after their superannuation in the state.As the elementary schools are still closed, it is better to take the services of many of these teachers for high and senior secondary schools for the time being, reads a letter of the Secretary, School Education Department, to all DEOs (Secondary) and heads of high and senior secondary government schools.
20-11-2020||Patiala||Punjab Govt to take call on VC’s resignation in day or two||Punjabi University Vice Chancellor Dr BS Ghuman’s resignation is likely to be accepted by the state government, media adviser to CM Raveen Thukral said today. He said the file submitted by Dr Ghuman to the Governor’s office had now reached the state government. “The decision will be taken in a day or two,” he added.Financial burden on Punjabi VarsityThe university spends Rs33 crore a month on paying salaries to 3,344 non-teaching and 935 teaching employeesWith this, speculation has started over who will be given the university’s charge. While sources claim Secretary, Higher Education, Rahul Bhandari may be tasked with the job, the name of another educator and administrator who has served on a senior position at Panjab University, Chandigarh, has also cropped up for the additional charge.The adviser said Dr Ghuman had cited personal and health-related reasons for quitting the post. On the other hand, reluctance of some senior administrators and academics over taking over the charge is attributed to the fact that the university, which is in CM’s home town, is reeling under a huge financial burden, much of which results from its staff count.As per the current year’s estimates, the university, which faced a deficit of Rs 97 crore when Dr Ghuman joined the post in 2017, has a current budget shortage of Rs 291 crore. This year, the government provided Rs 30 crore as a special grant apart from the monthly grant of Rs 8.7 crore. However, this is of little help as the university has a monthly expenditure of over Rs 33 crore on salaries alone. During a meeting held under the chairmanship of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal in July, it was revealed that the major expenditure goes towards the salaries of employees — 3,344 non-teaching and 935 teaching staff. This year, the university is expected to spend Rs 425 crore on salaries and the expected income is pegged at Rs 384 crore.In a statement in October, the university said it had demanded Rs 140 crore after the VC met the Finance Minister and Higher Education Minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, among others.The university has also been marred by protests by employees and students, most of which have centered around finances. Dr Ghuman has been incommunicado since Wednesday when he submitted the resignation.Meanwhile, former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa termed Dr Ghuman’s resignation as unfortunate. Dhindsa said no financial support from the state government to the university during such a crisis had disappointed academics and educationists.
20-11-2020||Amritsar||2 held for carrying ‘saroop’ in suitcase at Amritsar airport||The Amritsar police nabbed a father-son duo carrying a Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ in a suitcase at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport today.Jwala Singh and his son Jasvir Singh were taken into custody for violating the Sikh ‘Rehat Maryada’. They were said to be associated with the Gurdwara Nanaksar Samadh Bhai sect. Both were to board a SpiceJet flight heading to New Delhi from where they were to take another flight for Pune. The police booked the duo under Section 295 of the IPC. — TNS
20-11-2020||Amritsar||Civil surgeon gets notice for photo op in operating theatre||A publicity stunt by the Health Department highlighting a civil surgeon’s commitment to clinical duties has landed him in soup as the Punjab State Commission for Women has served a notice on him and four others for allegedly “violating a woman’s privacy”.The department had on November 17 circulated a press note with pictures and a video highlighting how Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh had performed four C-sections in a day. Dr Singh had been performing surgeries at the Civil Hospital ever since his posting here.It’s a common practice for civil surgeons not to perform clinical duties citing preoccupancy with administrative works. However, a video of him standing in the operating theatre with a woman patient on the table was circulated in the media, prompting the women commission to take suo motu cognisance.Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati said the way the video was released was wrong. The woman patient’s privacy should have been protected. She said officials should have taken permission from the patient and her family, adding no complaint from the kin had been received so far.A department employee present at the time of the shooting of the video said a verbal consent was taken from the patient’s father-in-law. Dr Navdeep Singh could not be contacted for a comment.
