20-10-2020||Chandigarh||8 deaths, 520 fresh virus cases in Punjab||The Punjab health authorities on Tuesday reported eight more coronavirus deaths as 520 fresh infections took the state’s case tally to 1,28,590.So far, the infection has claimed 4,037 lives in the state, according to a medical bulletin.The places which reported new coronavirus cases included Hoshiarpur (109), Bathinda (57) and Ludhiana (46), the bulletin said.There are 4,895 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, it said. A total of 891 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,19,658, the bulletin added.Twenty-seven critical patients are on ventilator while 115 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 23,59,842 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
20-10-2020||---||Punjab BJP MLAs showed political cowardice: Chidambaram||New Delhi, October 20Congress veteran P Chidambaram on Tuesday slammed BJP lawmakers of Punjab as political cowards for not showing up to oppose the state assembly bills nullifying central farm laws.“Why did the BJP MLAs stay away from the Punjab Assembly when the House was considering the Bills introduced by the state government? If the BJP MLAs supported the Centre’s policy and the Farm Acts passed by Parliament, they should have participated in the Assembly proceedings and opposed the state government’s Bills,” said Chidambaram.He noted, “What the Punjab BJP MLAs did can be aptly described as political cowardice.”
20-10-2020||Mukesh Ranjan||NIA files chargesheet in Hizb-ul-Mujahideen narco-terror case||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, Oct 20The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday said it had filed a 14,000-page chargesheet against 10 accused in the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) narco-terror case in a Special Court at Mohali in Punjab.The accused include Hilal Ahmed Shergojri, Bikram Singh, Maninder Singh, Ranjit Singh, Jaswant Singh, Ranjit Singh, Gagandeep Singh, Iqbal Singh, Zafar Hussain Bhat and Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo.They have been charged under various sections of IPC, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and Indian Passports Act.Out of the charge sheeted persons, two accused Iqbal Singh and Zafar Hussain Bhat are absconding while Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo was killed in an operation by the security forces, the NIA said in an official statement.The NIA took over the investigation in the case on May 8, 2020. The case was initially registered at Sadar police station in Amritsar on April 25 this year following the arrest of one Hilal Ahmed Shergojri and recovery of Rs 29 lakh from his possession by the Punjab Police.During investigation, it was revealed that Hilal, who had come to Amritsar to collect the amount of Rs 29 lakh, was a member of proscribed terrorist organisation Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and a close associate of Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo, the then commander of the terror outfit in Kashmir Valley.“Hilal’s arrest led to busting of a major narco-terror module involved in smuggling and selling of heroin in India and channelising of drug-proceeds to Pakistan through hawala and to the HM terrorists based in Jammu and Kashmir,” the NIA said in the statement.Investigation also revealed that the conspiracy was hatched by Pakistan-based HM commanders and their associates and terrorist gangs in Punjab to support and augment the terror infrastructure of HM in India by raising money through drug smuggling, it said.During investigation, the NIA carried out searches at 15 locations belonging to the suspects and accused in Punjab, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir, and so far, Rs 98.5 lakh, eight vehicles and 3 kg of heroin have been seized from them, read the statement. It added that investments worth many crores have also been identified.The NIA probe also revealed that that the accused had received at least six consignments of heroin through Attari Indo-Pakistan Border in the garb of importing rock salt granules from Pakistan and proceeds of these were partly sent back to Pakistan through hawala operators while a substantial portion was channelised to HM terrorists in J&K through a network of overground workers and other associates.In July 2019, the sixth consignment of around 532 kg of heroin was seized at Attari border and a separate case was registered, which was investigated and charge sheeted by the NIA, the probe agency said, adding that further investigation in the case has been under progress.
20-10-2020||Vibha Sharma||Centre will examine Punjab laws, take steps in best interest of farmers: Tomar||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 20Reiterating that the Narendra Modi government remains committed to the interests of farmers, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday said the Centre will examine the Bills cleared by Punjab Assembly and take a decision in best interest of farmers.Tomar said the Narendra Modi government is committed to farmers’ interests and has taken several measures in this direction. “I have come to know that the Punjab Assembly has passed certain farmers reform legislations.”“When these are sent to the Centre, the government will examine them and take steps for benefit of farmers,” he said.The Punjab Assembly on Tuesday unanimously passed three Bills to counter the Centre’s contentious farm laws.Government officials said the Punjab laws will follow the ascribed protocol for legislations passed by the State Assemblies on matters that are on the concurrent list.Whenever any Assembly passes such laws they are sent to the Home Ministry for scrutiny, as per the procedure subjects on the concurrent list. The judicial wing of the MHA consults the Law Ministry after which they are sent for the President's assent, they said.Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan said, “I have not seen the three farm bills passed by the Punjab Assembly. If the State’s bills are covered under Entry 14 of the State List under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, then the State is entitled to enact such a law. However, if Punjab is claiming its legislative competence under Entry 33 of Concurrent List under the Seventh Schedule, the three laws passed by the Punjab Assembly will have to be sent to the President for assent.”While Entry 14 of the State List under the Seventh Schedule deals with Agriculture, Entry 33 of Concurrent List covers trade and commerce in, and production, supply and distribution of foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils, besides a host of other subjects on which both the Centre and states can enact laws.
20-10-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Vidhan Sabha session's live telecast stops the moment Navjot Sidhu begins his speech||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20In an interesting observation, only the Live telecast of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was aired on the Day Two of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha special session.The moment Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, who spoke after the Chief Minister, stood up to speak, the Live telecast ended abruptly on the Facebook page and other social media platforms of the Punjab government.As per sources, the Live telecast was restricted to the Chief Minister’s speech only.Sidhu’s admirers said they wanted to hear the speech of the Congress MLA on the subject and the government should have aired his Live proceedings of the entire day as it was historic for the state.People wanted to know the views of other MLAs as well, including the Opposition benches, they added.
20-10-2020||---||BSF nabs Pakistani national near Ferozepur’s Hussainiwala barrage||Ferozepur, October 20A Pakistani national has been nabbed by the BSF near Hussainiwala barrage on Tuesday.The erring intruder has been identified as Javed Anwar.Pakistani currency worth Rs 5,510 and some visiting cards were also recovered from him, a BSF official said.Details are awaited.
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu celebrates birthday; fans see him as future Punjab CM||Social media was agog with greetings to cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Sidhu on his 57th birthday on Tuesday with many seeing him as the future Chief Minister of Punjab.As entering politics, Sidhu devoted 19 years to cricket and is widely acclaimed as 'Sixer Sidhu'."Happy birthday to the Tiger of Punjab—Navjot 'Sixer' Sidhu!" tweeted fan Rob Moody."Here he is obliterating Shane Warne with some monster sixes!" he said.Sidhu's finest moment in Tests was his 201 against West Indies in 1996-97.In politics, his fans wished him success in life.One of his admirers Harpreet S. Chawla wrote on Sidhu's Facebook page 'Jittega Punjab (Punjab will Win)': "Happy birthday Sidhu sahib ji. Keep rocking, aim is not far away. Pray to Waheguru for your success as next CM (Chief Minister) of Punjab. Love you.""Parr je CM bananaa ta congress chadd De (If you want to become the Chief Minister and then leave the Congress," wrote Jagjit Singh Batth.Another follower Meetinder Mann said: "A very very happy birthday. Praying for your good health and a shining political career. My firm belief that you and only you can take Punjab out of muck to its previous glory."Sidhu, who earned wrath for hugging Pakistan's army chief General Javed Bajwa during his visit to Pakistan for the oath-taking ceremony of his friend and Prime Minister Imran Khan, got greetings from Pakistan too.Posting his photo with his namesake spouse, the administrator of his Jeetega Punjab Facebook page wrote, "Happy birthday Navjot; May God bless you with the strength and foresight to help your brethren because that is closest to your heart. You will win in your path of (service to humanity and love for all) because it has no self goals."A day earlier, Sidhu slammed his own party's government in Punjab for its crop procurement model and "lack" of storage and marketing ability.Coming out of political hibernation after quite some time, he also flayed the Central government by accusing it of handing over the agriculture sector to the capitalists whom, he said, it wanted to rule.Favouring continuation of the minimum support price on his YouTube channel to make connection with the people, especially the protesting farmers against the three Central laws, the Congress leader said that the (state) government should procure lentils, oilseeds, vegetables and fruits also. IANS
20-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna ||Punjab Assembly unanimously passes 3 Bills to counter Centre’s farm laws; session extended by a day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20The Punjab Assembly on Tuesday unanimously passed three Bills to counter the Centre’s farm laws.The official resolution moved by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the three laws countering the Centre’s farm laws, were passed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha unanimously.The Vidhan Sabha session has also been extended by a day.Amarinder also appealed to the protesting farmer unions to lift their ‘rail roko’ protests as it was bleeding Punjab.“Losses to the industry are of Rs 40,000 crore and the 170 lakh tonnes of paddy being procured this year can be accommodated only if the trains are allowed to transfer the previous year’s stocks,” he said.Earlier, the two-day Punjab Vidhan Sabha special session resumed on Tuesday with Amarinder addressing the House and moving a resolution rejecting the three farm laws passed by Parliament.Also read: Punjab Vidhan Sabha session's Live telecast stops the moment Navjot Sidhu begins his speechDemanding draft of new farm law, Punjab AAP MLAs spend night in Assembly buildingPunjab Vidhan Sabha session's Live telecast stops the moment Navjot Sidhu begins his speechThe resolution mentioned that the three laws were "anti-farmer". The Vidhan Sabha had earlier passed a resolution rejecting these laws."We reject the three agriculture laws as well as the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020. These laws are against the interests of the farmers of Punjab, Haryana and western UP. The House unanimously rejects these three laws and the proposed amendment,” he says.The CM then tabled three Bills in the House.The three Bills are The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020.As per The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment Bill no sale of paddy and wheat in Punjab will be valid unless it is paid equal to or over MSP. Imprisonment of three years and a fine in case anybody compells a farmer to sell his agricultural produce below MSP.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance (special provisions and Punjab amendment) Act, makes it mandatory for those entering into contract farming with farmers too will have to pay the MSP or over the MSP. Punishment of three years if the Act is violated.Essential Commodities (Spl Provisions and Pb Amendment) Bill keeps all powers to fix stock limits of food grains with state. Rejects Centre’s powers to fix stock limits. Imprisonment of three years and a fine in case anybody compells a farmer to sell his agricultural produce below MSP.The Aam Aadmi Party, however, objected to the Bills being introduced without the MLAs being given time to go through them.The MLAs staged a protest in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha since Monday noon till 5.30 am on Tuesday over the issue.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal introduced Bill seeking Amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.The Bill seeks to protect the farmers of Punjab from attachment of farm land in any recovery proceedings.Land holding below 2.5 acres shall not be attached in any recovery proceeding by any court in Punjab.MLAs meet GovernorMeanwhile, cutting across party lines, the Congress, SAD and AAP legislators led by Capt Amarinder Singh met the Punjab Governor and demanded approval to the Bills before sending these to the President. All the Punjab Vidhan Sabha MLAs will meet the President between November 2 and November 5.Earlier, Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu also spoke on the Bills in the Assembly. He said that Punjab made the country food surplus and fed 80 crore people.He also spoke of discrepancies in the rise of incomes of other sections of society and farmers, saying that that, “Our Constitution is being violated by the Centre-Punjab naal dhakka ho riha hai, he thunders.”“It is a conspiracy to make Punjab helpless when corporates enter the trade of agriculture products,” he said.Sidhu alleged: “You (referring to the BJP) want to hand over the agriculture to Ambani and Adani.”Parliamentary Affairs Minister Brahm Mohindra, meanwhile, proposed to extend the session by one-more day, to which Speaker Rana KP Singh said: “Will consider later.”Punjab Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa criticised the two BJP MLAs - Arun Narang and Dinesh Babbu- for abstaining from the House proceedings today. He said: “It shows that the two BJP MLAs are not with Punjab.”
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Sunny Deol celebrates birthday with Dharmendra and Bobby; pictures go viral||Actor-politician Sunny Deol turned 64 on Monday, and his father, veteran actor Dharmendra, and brother, actor Bobby Deol, wished him on social media.Dharmendra posted a video comprising throwback pictures of Sunny from his younger days. The video was made by a fan of Sunny."Remembering Sunny on his Birthday," Dharmendra tweeted.Younger brother Bobby shared a photo where Sunny flashes his trademark grin. "Happy birthday to the greatest soul! A brother! A Father! A Friend," wrote Bobby.With his great blessings 🙏 We celebrated Sunny‘s BIRTH DAY 🥳 Deol Style ....need your good wishes 🙏A post shared by  Dharmendra Deol (@aapkadharam) on Oct 19, 2020 at 5:02pm PDT  Bobby's Instagram posted has garnered a lot of birthday wishes for Sunny.Happy birthday to the greatest soul! A brother! A Father! A Friend! ❤️ @iamsunnydeolA post shared by  Bobby Deol (@iambobbydeol) on Oct 18, 2020 at 12:20pm PDT  "A very happy birthday to bhaaiji," actor Darshan Kumaar commented.Sunny's elder son Karan Deol, who made his Bollywood debut last year, also wished the actor. "Happy birthday papa. Love you," wrote Karan, with a picture of him sitting next to Sunny.Sunny Deol made his debut as a Bollywood actor in 1983 with Rahul Rawail's musical superhit "Betaab". He established his space as an action superstar with Rajkumar Santoshi's "Ghayal" (1990), which was produced by Dharmendra, and later went on to entertain the audience in numerous films including "Border", "Damini", "Gadar: Ek Prem Katha", "Ghatak", "Ziddi", "Yateem" and "Dacait" and "Arjun".His power-packed performances were often highlighted by heavy-duty dialogues, memorably "Dhai kilo ka haath" and "Tarikh pe tarikh".Sunny also gave direction a shot with "Dillagi" (1999), "Ghayal Once Again" (2016) and "Pal Pal Dil Ke Paas" (2019).In April 2019, Sunny joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and went on to win the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha seat in last year's general elections. IANS
20-10-2020||Tribune Web Desk ||Demanding draft of new farm law, Punjab AAP MLAs spend night in Assembly building||Chandigarh, October 20 Unhappy over the Capt Amarinder Singh government not sharing details of the new legislation it plans to introduce to counter the Centre's three farm laws, members of the Opposition Aam Aadmi Party spent Monday night in the state Assembly building in protest.The visuals released by the protesting MLAs show them lying down on sofas and mattresses inside the Assembly building.The Congress government plans to introduce the new law in the Assembly on Tuesday.Demanding copies of the draft Bill, several AAP MLAs had staged a sit-in in the well of the House till late on Monday.The Punjab Government is looking to negate the effects of the new farm laws passed by Parliament in the state through its own laws
20-10-2020||---||Police not verifying British national’s claims, allege kin||Amritsar, October 19The family members of the accused in the British national harassment case on Monday accused the local police of acting in a biased manner. They alleged that the police did not hear them or hold any investigation before lodging an FIR against their kin.Addressing mediapersons, Vishakha Sharma, Rubina Sharma, Sargun Khurana and Rupneet Sandhu, residents of Rani Ka Bagh, said the police did not verify the claims of harassment by the victim with the CCTV camera footage of the restaurant. They claimed that on October 10, all the family members also accompanied the accused to the restaurant for dinner when the NRI woman allegedly entered into a verbal duel with their men.After listening to their grievance, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill has ordered Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh to probe the matter. The police have also reportedly suspended a head constable in the case.The police had booked Sahil Sharma, Saurabh, Sahil Arora, Shikhan Khurana, Ritu Khurana and Gurpartap Sandhu for allegedly passing objectionable comments and assaulting the British woman. She had also accused the police of not arresting the suspects.
20-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar: Smart City is a dream & false hope||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, OCTOBER 19The dreams of turning the centuries old city into a Smart City are all but far-fetched. The belief is solidified even more upon seeing the entrance road to the Bhai Gurdas Ji Nagar, known as the New Amritsar locality, which is teeming with craters.About 2 km of stretch joining the locality -- housing over 10,000 homes -- with the GT road is in dire need of mending. This is the only way in and out of the locality which is amply wide.Rashpal Singh Chauhan, president of the New Amritsar Residents Welfare Association and a resident, blamed a private contractor for damaging the road. “About five years ago, the contractor had gained entry for his equipment and vehicles on the premises for a year,” he recalls. Five years on, his equipment is still there and heavy vehicles containing construction material plied, which allegedly have been the protagonist in the decaying of the said road.“Even numerous complaints to the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) had not brought desired results,” he says.Kulvinder Singh, a resident of the locality, has been living her for years now. According to him, a number of roads and inside streets are in a seemingly good condition, though a bit of repairing is required at some places. But the main access road has to be taken care of. “A number of roads and internal streets have hardly been repaired but are in good condition; though at some points it needs repair. However, the main access road developed big potholes and erosion of the topmost crust.”“The situation becomes worse during rain. The government pays no attention. Worsening the matters was a company laying gas pipes as the works damaged the potable water lines,” he adds.Fear of accidents always looms large, but officials are least bothered. “We had raised the matter about the poor condition of the road many times, but to no avail. The condition deteriorated during the rainy season. Every time excuses are made by the civic body and there seems no sign of relief,” Singh tells.Dinesh Bassi, chairman of Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), said the road would be constructed after the undergoing process of laying gas pipes is completed.
20-10-2020||---||No breakthrough in talks, protests on||Chandigarh, October 19A meeting between a three-member Punjab Cabinet ministerial panel and the leadership of the state’s largest farmer union,Farmers had planned to gherao Vidhan SabhaBhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), remained inconclusive today.The protesters said they would continue with their agitation until they were satisfied effective steps had been taken to counter the three agriculture laws passed by Parliament. At the meeting, the 15 representatives from the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) demanded that the Montek Singh Ahluwalia report, submitted in August, be disregarded.Ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria arrived at Punjab Bhawan for the meeting immediately after the obituaryreferences got over in the Vidhan Sabha. The aim of the meeting was to convince the farmers to scale down their agitation. The union had earlier threatened to gherao the Vidhan Sabha, but after receiving calls for talks, they cancelled the gherao.Union president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said their protests would continue until the farmers were satisfied with the action taken by the government to counter the Central Government’s agriculture laws. “We also want the Congress government to withdraw the amendments made by the state government in 2017 to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, and monetary compensation for those who died in the agitation,” the union president said.Earlier, the protesting farmers had threatened to gherao the Vidhan Sabha.Later, the three ministers told The Tribune they had accepted the union’s demand for getting all cases registered against farmers cancelled before Diwali.
20-10-2020||---||3 legislations to counter farm laws||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Apart from tabling a resolution rejecting the three laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — the Punjab Government is likely to bring three legislations to counter anti-farmer provisions in the three laws.Huge Social media outreach plannedIn a bid to reach out to farmers and get their feedback as soon as the farm legislations are tabled in the Assembly and CM’s speech is flashed, the government is planning apt use of the social media.The amended legislations will, however, require the assent of the President of India. Sources said since the lifting of ‘rail roko’ by farmers was directly linked to their demand for rejection of the three Central legislations and bringing amendments to the laws to ensure minimum support price (MSP) for farmers, the government was incorporating these in the legislations.Congress MLAs have demanded inclusion of a provision in the legislation that provide for action against those buying foodgrain below the MSP. Ferozepur (Urban) MLA Parminder Singh Pinki, Bagha Purana legislator Darshan Brar and Zira MLA Kulbir Zira have urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to include the provisions in the legislation to be tabled in the Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday. They said protecting the MSP was central to the agitation by farmers.
20-10-2020||---||Navjot Sidhu ends House exile||Chandigarh, October 19Ending his self-imposed exile, former Cabinet Minister and Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Singh today made an appearance on the opening day of a two-day special session of the Vidhan Sabha.‘Act against mafia’It is not about MSP of wheat and rice alone, there is no procurement model for other crops…. The state should act against the sand and liquor mafia to generate more revenue to give MSP on vegetables and cereals.-  Navjot Singh Sidhu, CongressBefore arriving at the Assembly, Sidhu, in a video on his YouTube channel ‘Jitega Punjab’, congratulated the state government on calling the session, but also cautioned that a lot more needed to be done to uplift the farmers.Sidhu had been abstaining from the Assembly after he resigned from the Council of Ministers in 2019. He had recently made a public appearance at Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally in Moga.Supporting dark brown Pathani kurta and a black turban, the cricketer-turned-politician arrived at the Assembly along with Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh. Sidhu immediately drew attention as he was greeted by most of the ministers and MLAs, with some even walking up to him to exchange pleasantries.However, seated in a rear row, Sidhu did not exchange pleasantries with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.In his conversation with some of the MLAs, he said ‘silence’ was his biggest weapon. He, however, preferred not to interact with mediapersons. In political circles, Sidhu’s presence in the Assembly is being seen as a positive sign for reconciliation between him and the Chief Minister. Some MLAs met Sidhu at the residence of Pargat Singh before the former left the place.Sources close to Sidhu said he was fully prepared to be a part of the historic day when the Chief Minister is set to table a resolution rejecting the Central legislations. Punjab affairs in charge and AICC general secretary Harish Rawat is expected to reach the city tomorrow, to work further on rapprochement between the Chief Minister and Sidhu.
20-10-2020||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Protesting farmer dies in road mishap||A farmer, who had played a pivotal role in organising dharnas at the Lehra toll plaza and Jagera petrol pump during the ongoing agitation, died in an accident in Pohir village on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla Road near here on Sunday night.Ropar sarpanch dies of heart attackRopar: A 69-year-old farmer sitting on a dharna at the Solkhian toll plaza against the farm laws died of a heart attack on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Capt Dilbar Hussain, sarpanch of Mianpur village. TNSGurpreet Singh Rangi, 33, was a resident of Gopalpur village in Dehlon block of Ludhiana. Rangi had an outstanding debt running into lakhs of rupees. Farmers demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation and loan waiver for his family.Saudagar Singh Ghudani, general secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said Rangi had lost his life after his motorcycle collided with another when he was returning home after a campaign for the next day’s dharna. Paramdeep Singh Deepa and Jasvir Singh Dehlon, farmers of the area, said the deceased was a marginal farmer and owned less than 2 acres of land. He is survived by his wife, a five-year-old son and seven-year-old daughter. — OC
20-10-2020||---||Mansa DC’s house gheraoed||Mansa, October 19Farmers belonging to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) and family members of deceased Tej Kaur, who had died during a protest against farm laws in Mansa district recently, continued their sit-in outside the Deputy Commissioner’s residence today, seeking compensation and job to the next to kin.Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, president, BKU district unit, said: “The government has not yet given any consideration to release Rs 10 lakh compensation, debt waiver and a government job to kin of Tej Kaur. We will not tolerate this indifference.”He further said: “We will continue our sit-in at the DC’s residence and office for an indefinite period until the state government provides compensation to the family of deceased.”Meanwhile, farmers unions continued to lay siege to all three petrol pumps of a private company in the district and stage protest in front of BJP leaders’ residences in in Budhlada block. There is also no let-up in the protest at the Banawali thermal plant.
20-10-2020||Muktsar||Cancel FIR over protest against Raja Warring: Farmers||A large number of people, including farmers, today lodged a protest outside the DSP office at Gidderbaha, demanding that the case registered for showing black flags to MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring should be cancelled else they would intensify their stir.The protesters raised slogans against Warring and the police. The cops booked a local scribe and 15-20 unidentified persons on October 16.Later, they handed over a memorandum to the DSP. Earlier, some farmers and farm labourers had taken out a protest march in Gidderbaha town in this regard. — TNS
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||BJP to adopt aggressive posture on farmers' stir||The Punjab BJP has decided to adopt an aggressive posture against the ongoing protests by intensifying its public outreach plan. The party’s core committee that met on Monday decided to depute senior leadership for district-level public meetings despite various incidents of attack on BJP leaders and protests outside their houses and offices in the state.A delegation of the party leadership led by senior leader Madan Mohan Mittal also submitted a memorandum to DGP Dinkar Gupta asking him to take immediate steps in controlling the law and order situation, especially attacks on BJP leaders.Mittal said the killing of Balwinder Singh Bhikhiwind and attacks on BJP leaders besides ‘provocative’ statements by Congress leaders posed a serious question mark on the deteriorating law and order situation.According to a spokesperson, BJP leaders would travel across the state and hold meetings with farmers even if they were attacked. — TNS
20-10-2020||---||Wary of backlash, RSS connects with state BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Alarmed at the backlash over the farm laws, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) — the parent body of the Sangh Parivar that includes the BJP — is taking feedback from the state BJP leadership over the gravity of protests.Takes feedback from Sikh leadersSources said top RSS functionaries, including Manmohan Vaidya, visited Chandigarh last week and held meetings with state BJP leaders, especially Sikh functionaries.The feedback might help the RSS decide BJP’s future course of action on the laws, said a senior BJP leader. It is not usual for senior RSS functionaries to visit the state for such an exercise.Sources said Malwinder Kang, who quit the BJP on Saturday, had attended one such meeting and given feedback against the farm laws.Kang, who was Punjab BJP’s general secretary, confirmed that he attended the meeting, but refused to share details. “I raised my voice at various platforms, including meeting with the RSS functionaries, before resigning from the party,” he said.Sources said the RSS leadership was gathering feedback from its own cadre separately. It is feared the farmers’ stir against the farm laws may turn into a violent agitation going by the sensitive socio-religious and political situation of Punjab.While the BJP earlier rested on its alliance partner SAD to help maintain harmony, with the Akalis now out of the picture, the RSS is more actively getting feedback to prevent the situation from getting ugly.Sources said the party might bring in new faces in the state leadership to counter the ongoing protests. The RSS had been at the receiving end in the past with targeted killings in the state. While its state vice-president Brig Jagdish Gagneja was shot dead in Jalandhar, shot were fired at its Ludhiana unit also.
20-10-2020||---||Schools reopen, most students stay home||Tribune ReportersJalandhar, October 19While schools in the state today reopened after a gap of nearly seven months following the Covid-19 outbreak, the attendance in most of the schools here remained dismally low.Of 400 pupils, only one turns upTeachers, who had made all arrangements as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Education Department, were surprised to see only a limited number of students. Out of 400 students at Government Senior Secondary Smart School (GSSSS), Maqsudan, only one student today attended class.Deepak Thakur, a Class X student, who was the lone student in his class at GSSSS, Maqsudan, said all his excitement got over when he was told that all his classmates were absent and he was the only student present in the school.The principal of the school, Arvinder Kaur, said though she was expecting a good response from the students today, nobody came. “One of the reasons behind the low attendance was speculated that the parents of most of the students were not willing to send their wards to the school and didn’t sign the consent forms,” she added.Baljit Kaur, principal, Government High School For Girls, Gandhi Camp, said only 12 out of 146 students turned up today. Apart from the unwillingness of the parents, migrants who have moved to their native states during the lockdown and are still there was considered another major reason behind low attendance. Out of 1,200 students from Classes IX to XII, only 30 turned at Nehru Garden Girls School and 15 out of 78 at Government Secondary School, Lidhran.Patiala: Though most schools registered low count on the first day, some schools went ahead to organise a small ceremony to welcome the students.School officials said they registered low count of students as they were supposed to get consent letters from parents. Some were misinformed that the schools were opening on a later date. “We have strength of 650 students in Classes IX-XII of which a little over 200 students reached the school on the first day,” said Principal Tota Singh of Government Co-ed Multipurpose Senior Secondary School, Passi Road.Government Girls’ Multipurpose Senior Secondary Smart School, Model Town, welcomed students with garlands. Balbir Singh Jaura, principal of the school, said, “About 100 students out of 900 reached the school today. We organised a small ceremony and welcomed the students.”About 10 per cent students of Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Kalyan, reached the school. Sukhwinder Kumar Khosla, Deputy District Education Officer, said, “There are around 109 senior secondary and 94 government high schools in the district. All were opened, but most witnessed low count of students as it was the first day.”Abohar: Gurdeep Kumar, principal of a school, said at present the lockout was almost over and many activities were going on as usual. Just as precautions were being taken for other activities, care would be taken in schools as well.Students from various villages said they had been eagerly waiting for the schools to reopen.
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||473 infections take tally to 1.28L in Punjab||The downswing in the daily Covid count continues, with the state having reported 473 cases and 17 deaths in the last 24 hours.The tally has risen to 1,28,103 and toll has reached 4,029. In the district-wise breakup of cases, Hoshiarpur topped the chart with 97 cases, followed by Jalandhar (51), SAS Nagar (42), Ludhiana and Amritsar (28 each), Gurdaspur (25), Patiala and Bathinda (24 each).The number of active Covid cases has further declined to 5,307. At present, 117 patients are on oxygen support and 27 on ventilator support. Of the deaths reported, Amritsar and SBS Nagar have topped the chart with three deaths each, followed by Gurdaspur, SAS Nagar, Pathankot and Patiala (two each), and Bathinda, Ferozpur and Ludhiana (one each). — TNS
20-10-2020||---||Farmers block road, say cotton agency not paying MSP to poor||Our CorrespondentAbohar, October 19Raising voice against the alleged discriminatory behaviour of the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) against farmers on the issue of minimum support price (MSP), farmers today staged a dharna at the Gobindgarh terminal on the Abohar-Malout highway.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders Subhash Godara, Vinod Doodi, Resham Kundal, Sukhmander Singh and Gurtej Singh said the central agency was discriminating against farmers by denying them the MSP. Citing an incident which took place today, the leaders said the central agency procured cotton from a poor farmer at Rs 5,608 per quintal claiming that it had 7 per cent moisture content, whereas an influential farmer was offered Rs 5,665 perquintal despite his produce having a moisture content of 12 per cent.They alleged that farmers in the cotton yard were being harassed, as the purchase process, which was to start at 9 am, was deliberately delayed by two hours. Around 400 cotton-laden vehicles reach the yard every day, but not all produce was soldtill evening due to late start of the bidding process. As a result, farmers faced problems while moving the goods to the factory, the leader added.The BKU warned that if the CCI did not mend its ways, the farmers would be forced to intensify the stir.CCI official Rajeev Sharma said the allegations were baseless. There was no discrimination at the time of bidding in the market. The agency had so far purchased 6,000 bales of ‘narma’ cotton in the local market, he said.
20-10-2020||---||Effigy makers’ plans go up in smoke||Anirudh GuptaFerozepur, October 19Effigy makers, who wait around for Dasehra every year, are in distress as this time no effigies will be burnt in the wake of restrictions on mass gatherings due to Covid.In the past 32 years, this will be the first time when no effigy burning will take place. The pandemic has indeed dampened the festive spirit, dashing the hopes of the effigy makers.Craftsmen Rajesh Kumar and Sunil Kumar said they had been making effigies for several years. “I learnt the craft from my father and grandfather. During this time every year, we used to make good money. But now, we will be out of work. This has never happened before. Even during insurgency days, people used to come to Dasehra grounds to celebrate the victory of good over evil,” said Rajesh.Sunil said he would make a good profit by selling one effigy for around Rs 70,000. “We will suffer a heavy loss this year. We even met with officials and some influential persons in the hope of finding a solution, but in vain. Nevertheless, we still have hope that the administration will allow gatherings for Dasehra celebrations at a small level,” he said.Moreover, with the state government giving its nod for staging ‘Ramlila’ only last week, the clubs which organise ‘Ramlila’ in the border town say it won’t be possible for them to make arrangements at the last moment.Even artistes, who perform in the ‘Ramlila’, are in despair. Some would take part in the ‘Ramlila’ out of devotion while others would do so to make extra money. “I hope with the blessings of Lord Ram, everything will be alright soon,” said Puggal, an artiste. Vijay Monga of Siyaram Dramatic Club said for the past 23 years, the club had been organising the event to mark Dasehra, but this time, the club had decided to give it a miss.
20-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur RTA office under lens over ‘fraud’||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 19The functioning of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) office here has come under the scanner as following questioning of senior officials, a special task force (STF) from New Delhi has summoned two employees of a private firm posted there in connection with a fraud case registered in South-East Delhi. The FIR pertains to registration of stolen luxury vehicles on forged documents.Two employees summoned BY STFThe police have registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery), 471 (use as genuine forged document), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC after getting information that a lifters’ gang had sold stolen luxury vehicles in various parts of Delhi after getting these registered by changing their engine numbers. Since two vehicles were found to be registered at the Sangrur RTA office, its working has come under the scanner.“We have decided to take up the matter with the higher authorities for a CBI inquiry as we suspect many vehicles have been registered at the Sangrur RTA office using forged documents,” said advocate Dasvir Singh Dalee, who wrote to the Transport Minister on Monday.Sources say for getting a vehicle registered, one has to approach the employees of a private company, hired by the Punjab Government due to shortage of staff.“The private company employees are responsible for checking online bills of vehicles, however, they are not doing their job properly. The staffers deliberately helped gang members in getting stolen vehiclesregistered,” alleged Karnvir Singh Chhina, secretary, Sangrur RTA.He said senior officials at the office were questioned by the STF on October 6 over the registration of stolen vehicles.“We appeared before the STF. It has now summoned two employees of the private company, who were terminated for their involvement in the scam on October 9, besides two others. We have done nothing wrong and are open to inquiry. The private company’s employees are, however, evading the STF signalling their role in the wrongdoing,” Chhina said.
20-10-2020||---||SC asks Maha Govt to take call on religious events in Hazur Sahib||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 19The Supreme Court today left it to the Maharashtra Government to take a final call on holding Dashera, Takht Isnan, Deepmala and Gurta Gaddi events as per the three-centuries-old custom of Sikhs in Nanded.Board wants to hold Dasehra functionA Vacation Bench, headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, asked the Nanded Sikh Gurdwara Sachkhand Shri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib Board to approach the Maharashtra State Disaster Management Authority by Tuesday for permission to hold Dashera, Takht Isnan and Deepmala events amid the Covid pandemicA Vacation Bench, headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, asked the Nanded Sikh Gurdwara Sachkhand Shri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib Board to approach the Maharashtra State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) by Tuesday for permission to hold the events amid the Covid pandemic.The Bench, which specifically assembled to hear the case, directed the Maharashtra SDMA to take a decision on the representation taking into account the ground situation.If it was not satisfied with the SDMA’s decision, the gurdwara management board could move the Bombay High Court, the top court said. The board had approached the top court seeking permission to carry out the customary procession with certain conditions.Describing Gurdwara Takht Shri Hazur Abchalnagar as a pious place of world fame and for being the last place of Guru Gobind Singh, the petitioner said it was here that he anointed the holy book Guru Granth Sahib as the eternal Guru of Sikhism.Petitioners’ counsel Praveen Chaturvedi contended the Centre had issued guidelines and the state had not raised objections while granting permission to a Jain temple in the past to conduct certain religious ceremonies.On behalf of the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the Bench that the Centre had been unlocking the country since May 30 and religious functions had been allowed since September 21.However, the Maharashtra Government opposed the petition. It said allowing the Nanded gurdwara to hold a Dashera procession as per the custom wouldn’t be a “practically feasible option” during the Covid pandemic. The state government had taken a conscious decision of not allowing religious functions to check the spread of the virus, it added.
20-10-2020||---||Several traders booked for illegal paddy inflow||Bathinda/Muktsar, October 19In four separate cases, the Bathinda police have arrested one person and impounded four of the five trucks and two tractors transporting over 122 tonnes of paddy from other states for illegal sale in Punjab.138 tonnes seized, 5 held in SirhindSeveral traders have also been booked, who, as per the preliminary investigation, purchased paddy at lower rates in other states to sell it at a much higher price in grain markets across the state.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said: “Eight police posts have set up on roads bordering Haryana in Bathinda district. Teams have been instructed to keep tabs on vehicles laden with paddy coming from the neighbouring states.”In Muktsar, farmers today intercepted a paddy-laden truck near Gidderbaha. The police have registered a case against a rice mill which is owned by SAD’s Muktsar district (Urban) president Amit Bansal, alias Shimpy, a local broker, Nishant Mittal, and a Kanpur-based firm, which allegedly supplied the paddy here. The farmers alleged the illegal practice was going on unabated despite the fact that they had alerted the administrationlong ago. Nearly 15 trucks and some tractor-trailers have been intercepted in Gidderbaha so far.160 quintals seized, 2 heldAbohar: The police today arrested drivers of two vehicles and seized 160 quintals of paddy that was being illegally transported from Rajasthan to the new grain market here. The Market Committee yesterday served a notice to a firm over paddy bought from neighbouring states. — TNS
20-10-2020||Fazilka||Arhtiyas block highway over non-lifting of paddy||A large number of commission agents, led by Arhitya Association president Om Setia, blocked the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway near a flyover here today to protest against the non-lifting of paddy from the Fazilka grain market.Former Congress MLA Dr Mohinder Kumar Rinwa, along with his supporters, also joined the protest, which began at 10 am and continued till late evening. Hundreds of vehicles were seen stranded on the highway.Dr Rinwa said it was a fight of dominance as leaders of the ruling party wanted that the contract should be allotted to their supporters, causing inconvenience to arhtiyas and farmers. It was the duty of the leaders at the helm and the administration to make arrangements for hassle-free procurement, he added.Setia said: “Our repeated meetings with the officers concerned and Fazilka DC in this regard have proved futile.” — OC
20-10-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur AAP secretary quits||The appointment of Mahinder Singh Sidhu as AAP district in charge has caused a division within the ranks in Sangrur. Two days after being appointed district secretary of the party, Avtar Ealwal quit the post today.Ealwal claimed he along with other party workers had worked hard for the party. “But Sidhu’s appointment has once again proven that senior leaders of district do not want hard-working leaders,” he alleged. “I request Arvind Kejriwal to look into this,” he said. — TNS
20-10-2020||Jalandhar||Man arrested for UCO bank robbery-murder||The Jalandhar rural police have arrested a suspect involved in the UCO Bank robbery at Kalra village in Adampur and recovered Rs 39,500 from his possession.SSP Dr Sandeep Kumar Garg said Surjit Singh, alias Jeeta, a resident of Adamwal, Hoshiarpur, was arrested by the Jalandhar rural police and the CIA staff from Neher Puli Khurdpur on October 18.On October 15, Surjit along with three of his associates had robbed Rs 5.97 lakh from the bank before gunning down 50-year-old guard Surinder Pal Singh.The police have found three recent incidents — two bank robberies and a snatching — linked to the gang. The gang members have over 25 cases registered against them. They had looted Rs 17 lakh in the heists at Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar between September 4 and October 15. Days before the Adampur robbery, they had snatched a bike from the highway.The SSP said while the gang had five members, only four were present during the UCO robbery. The gang looted Rs 10.8 lakh from Indian Overseas Bank at Hoshiarpur, snatched a Pulsar bike from a highway at Tanda Urmur 3-4 days before the Adampur robbery, and looted Rs 5.69 lakh from Punjab and Sindh Bank at Bhagowal village in Hoshiarpur on September 4.During investigation, Surjit Singh said they robbed nearly Rs 6 lakh out of which he got a share of Rs 45,000. The police have recovered Rs 39,000 from him. The police also recovered a new Activa scooter bought from the heist money. — TNS
20-10-2020||---||2 students killed as car rams into tree||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, October 19Two students of Mandi Gobindgarh town were killed on the spot and two others seriously injured when their car rammed into a tree on the Fatehgarh Sahib-Chandigarh road near Bhaironpur chowk. The injured were taken to the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, for the first-aid after which they were referred to the Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.Kewal Singh, Sub-Inspector, said four students of Mandi Gobindgarh were going to Chandigarh to take admission in Chandigarh University. He said as their car reached near Bhaironpur, the driver lost control and the car rammed into a roadside tree. Two students identified as Jashanpreet Singh (22) of Tooran village and Kewal Bansal (21) of Kukar Majra, Mandi Gobindgarh, died on the spot, while Gagandeep Singh and Navjot Sandhu received injuries.
20-10-2020||Fazilka||Arrest those behind attack on Hans Raj Golden: CPI||Almost 10 days after Hans Raj Golden, secretary, CPI district unit, was assaulted, the CPI has announced to launch a state-level agitation demanding arrest of the accused.CPI state secretary Bant Singh Brar and senior leader Hardev Arshi during a press conference held here today alleged that the main accused in the assault, Aman Kamboj Skoda, who had been facing several criminal cases and declared a proclaimed offender, had not been arrested as he had been enjoying patronisation from senior ruling party leaders and police officers.Brar claimed that there had been a total collapse of law and order in the state which was evident from the murder of Shaurya Chakra winner Balwinder Singh in Tarn Taran. — OC
20-10-2020||---||2 cops held for running drug racket||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, October 19The district police have arrested two senior police personnel, one posted in the anti-narcotics cell of the Ludhiana police, for allegedly running a drug racket in the state since 2015 with the recovery of 1 kg opium and 7 kg poppy husk, besides vehicles purchased from drug money, from their possession.One posted with anti-narcotics cellAddressing mediapersons today, SSP Amneet Kondal said during a special drive, the police busted a drug racket allegedly being run by some “men in uniform”, which was a matter of concern. She said a police team led by of Khamano SP (Investigation) Jagjit Singh Jallah set up a checkpoint near a dhaba on the Chandigarh-Ludhiana road at Khamano.Around 11 pm, the police signalled the driver of a Breeza car to pull over but he sped away. After a chase, the police nabbed the driver, who identified himself as Navjot Singh, a senior constable and a resident of Samrala, Ludhiana.On search, the police recovered opium and poppy husk from the vehicle. During preliminary interrogation, the constable revealed he used to get the supply from a relative, Ranbir Singh, a senior constable in the anti-narcotics cell of Ludhiana police, she said. He too was arrested.Another name, Harchand Singh, alias Chand, had cropped up in the investigation and raids were on to arrest him, said the SSP.During interrogation, both suspects confessed to their involvement in the sale of drugs since 2015, she added.A car, bike and scooter have been recovered from their possession.
20-10-2020||Jalandhar||Intoxicants worth Rs2 crore seized||Following the interrogation of the two Ludhiana residents from whom cops had seized 27,000 intoxicant tablets and capsule on October 14, the Jalandhar Police Commissionerate seized a huge cache of intoxicant capsules and tablets.The recovery includes 4.65 lakh Buprenorphine tablets, 3.61 lakh Tramadol tablets, 58,000 Alprazolam tablets, 4.19 lakh Clonazepam tablets, 1.17 lakh Tramadol capsules and 1,149 Codeine syrups taking the total to 13.85 lakh tablets, 1.17 lakh capsules and 1,149 bottles. The intoxicants cost around Rs 2.01 crore. — TNS
20-10-2020||---||Takht opposes same sex marriage in US||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 19With no room for ‘same sex’ marriage in Sikhism, the Akal Takht has taken notice of a wedding of two homosexual persons solemnised under the patronage of a Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ in the US.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has issued directions to US couple Sarbjeet Singh Neel and Leela, who allegedly got the “unholy” ceremony conducted recently in Sacramento in the presence of a ‘saroop’ which was in their possession.Giani Harpeet Singh directed the North American Sikh Gurdwara Management to take the ‘saroop’ from their possession immediately and place it in a gurdwara. The personal assistant of Giani Harpreet Singh said a strongly worded letter had been posted to the ‘erring’ US couple as the Sikh code of conduct did not allow such marriages. “It was a blasphemous act of accomplished marriage of two males performed in the presence of the ‘saroop’. It was also a violation of the Akal Takht’s directions,” he said.
20-10-2020||---||Bhoa Congress MLA threatens to tear cops’ uniforms, faces flak||Bhoa (Pathankot), October 19Bhoa Congress MLA Joginder Pal’s video clip in which he asked people to “hang the Pathankot DC and SSP upside down if they fail to redress their grievances” has shocked residents and officials of the police and civil administration.Land dispute Tell your SSP that by virtue of being a ruling party MLA, I am the government. Also tell him I will not allow the village to be used as a dumping ground.- Joginder Pal, MLA, BhoaHe also threatened to tear the clothes of police officers, including the women constabulary, if they entered Bhoa. A direct fallout of this is that senior officers of Pathankot district have decided not to take his calls “fearing if he can publicly hurl abuses at officers of the rank of DC and SSP, he can insult them too”.Officials are alarmed at the sheer audacity and impudence with which he dared to tear into the officialdom. DC Sanyam Aggarwal and SSP Gulneet Khurana refused to comment on the issue.“By remaining silent, both officers have maintained their dignity. They do not want to stoop to the abysmally low levels of public discourse to which the legislator slip. They have set certain standards of decency for themselves and follow them assiduously. Things could have gone out of control had they reacted,” said a Cabinet Minister, preferring anonymity. Irked at the Pathankot Municipal Corporation’s decision to use 300 acres lying vacant in Deriwal as a garbage dump, residents approached the legislator. Joginder Pal visited the site with a group of locals and unleashed his fury at women constables present there. In no uncertain terms, he directed the cops “to go away and never come again, and if they did, he will get their uniforms torn”.“Tell your SSP that by virtue of being a ruling party MLA, I am the government. Also tell him I will not allow the village to be used as a dumping ground,” he said. Joginder Pal could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
20-10-2020||---||No relief for doctors as dengue cases spiral||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 19Before health workers could breathe a sigh of relief in the wake of downward turn being witnessed with respect to Covid cases, a sudden spike in dengue and malaria cases has health officials back on their toes.Rising infectionsAs per the records of the Health Department, this year, as many as 416 dengue cases have been reported in Bathinda and Mansa districts, with 199 cases in Bathinda and the remaining in MansaThere seems to be no respite in the offing for the workers, who have been slogging beyond their working hours to make up for the staff crunch.As per the records of the Health Department, as many as 416 dengue cases have been reported in Bathinda and Mansa districts this year, with 199 cases in Bathinda and the remaining in Mansa.With more than 65 staff members having retired in Bathinda recently, the existing staff members are sharing the added burden.A senior Health Department official said in Mansa, the actual number of dengue cases outweighed the number of cases recorded by the officials. The department needed to take adequate measures to curb the spread of dengue in the district, he said.Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said, “A total of 199 dengue cases have been reported in Bathinda district so far. We are trying to utilise our workforce and available resources optimally so that both Covid and dengue spread are brought under check effectively. The higher authorities have started the recruitment process after we apprised them about the problem.”He said residents of the district, especially those living in urban areas, needed to take precautionary measures and not let water get accumulated, as maximum cases had been reported from the urban areas.
20-10-2020||Abohar||Drug peddler, 2 bootleggers held||The police arrested Sukhsagar Singh of Nanak Nagari near the new grain market and seized 5 gm heroin from him.ASI Sahib Singh said the arrested peddler was booked under Sections 21,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. Another team of the police seized 140 bottles of illicit liquor in a raid near a juice factory and arrested Ashok Kumar of Seed Farm Colony. However, his accomplice Paramjeet Singh managed to flee. ASI Bhagwan Singh said a case had been registered against the accused. In another incident, an excise team seized 13 litre lahan and 750 ml illicit liquor which was allegedly being prepared in a house in Indira Nagari. The accused, identified as Kashmir Singh, was arrested. — OC
20-10-2020||Ludhiana||PAU alumnus part of food programme team||An alumnus of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Bishow Parajuli, United Nations World Food Programme Representative and Country Director to India, has won laurels for his alma mater with the World Food Programme (WFP) winning the Nobel Peace Prize-2020.The Norwegian Nobel Committee had decided to award the Nobel Peace Prize to the World Food Programme for its effort to combat hunger.Parajuli did his BSc in Agriculture, Agriculture Operations and Related Sciences, from PAU; MBA in Marketing and Personnel Management from Kurukshetra University, Haryana, and master’s degree in Rural Development from Imperial College, London.Parajuli recently said, “In the past few decades, India has made commendable progress in agricultural development. I recall my time at an agricultural university in Punjab in the 1970s. The efforts these universities put in and the thirst of farmers in Punjab to access new crop breeds was inspiring. Since then, there has been commendable progress leading up to self-sufficiency in food production.” Dr Harjit Singh, one of the team members of the WFP, is also an alumnus of PAU. — TNS
20-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court to examine if death by heart attack after assault is ‘natural’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19In a significant order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the constitution of a board of senior doctors to examine whether myocardial infarction or heart attack would amount to natural death in cases where assault was alleged.About the caseThe victim was allegedly beaten up and death occurred at subsequent stageHC wants a board of doctors to examine if heart attack amounted to natural death in such casesThe court has called for adoption of more scientific medical investigationCalling for adoption of the more scientific medical investigations, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted the cause of death of elderly persons, inflicted injuries following fist and kick blows on their abdomen, chest or back, was reported as myocardial infarction in a number of cases.Such type of injuries, being internal, were not visible and went unreported in medico-legal report (MLR) or post-mortem report, if death occurred at a subsequent stage. As such, it was difficult for the courts to form an opinion despite eyewitnesses levelling specific allegation of injuries inflicted following fist or kick blows.Justice Sangwan said the FIR in some cases was registered at the instance of an injured, who gave the “history of assault” before he died. But injury was not noticed while preparing the MLR and conducting the post-mortem examination. It was simply observed external injury was not visible.Justice Sangwan asked Punjab Director-General, Health Services, to constitute the board of senior doctors, experts on the subject matter, to also suggest whether ultrasound scan or any other scientific investigation could be conducted to find out internal injury while conducting MLR/post-mortem examination.The directions came in a case where a cancellation report was prepared and submitted by the police in the trial court after the post-mortem report described the cause of death as myocardial infarction ante-mortem in nature and sufficient to cause death. The victim in the case was allegedly beaten, resulting in injuries on his head and back.Justice Sangwan also asked the board to give opinion on chemical examiner’s report describing the cause of death as myocardial infarction.
20-10-2020||New Delhi||Stubble: Kejri for monthly meets with Punjab, Haryana||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday requested Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to hold monthly meetings with the CMs of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP to curb air pollution in the National Capital.He said there was a lack of political will at the level of the states to address the problem of stubble burning.In a virtual press briefing, he said the affected states had been unable to find a solution to stop stubble burning and prevent air pollution. The crop residue could be biodegraded or converted into biogas, coal and even cardboard.Kejriwal said he agreed with Javadekar that air pollution was not limited to one state.He, however, added that Javadekar had said it would take at least four years to control pollution, but he believed if all states and political parties "work honestly by keeping aside their political differences then we can check air pollution in much less than four years".He said: “Although scientists and engineers have come out with solutions to reduce the incidents of stubble burning, there is no political will to adopt these methods.” — PTI
20-10-2020||---||Efforts on to check extortion of Himachal scrap dealers by Punjab gangsters||Solan, October 19The police have stepped up efforts to check extortion of scrap dealers by Punjab-based gangsters after a case of firing upon a dealer’s shop in Nalagarh sub-division had come to fore last month.As many as 25 scrap dealers are operational in the Nalagarh industrial belt alone while several others operate from Marrawala in Haryana. Being a lucrative trade, they have become easy target of the criminal gangs operational in the neighbouring Punjab.Motor-cycle borne miscreants had fired upon a scrap dealer’s shop at Rajpura village in Nalagarh on September 22 in a bid to intimidate him. He had complained that these miscreants had earlier too tried to intimidate him with the intent to extort money.The miscreants conducted a thorough recci of the trader’s shop before opening fire and they soon disappeared. They were arrested by the Punjab police on October 12.SP Baddi, Rohit Malpani, said all scrap dealers operating in the Nalagarh belt have been directed to install CCTVs at the exit and entry points to keep vigil on the passersby.They have also been directed to report information about suspicious persons and also about intimidation from any miscreant. A meeting was conducted with the 25 dealers operating in Nalagarh today and they have been directed to adhere to these guidelines.
20-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Tractors, black capes & dharnas, high drama in and outside Vidhan Sabha||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19There was high drama both within and outside the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on the first day of the special session convened by the Capt Amarinder Singh government to counter the Centre’s new farm laws. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a dharna inside the House and the Shiromani Akali Dal outside the Punjab Bhavan.Punjab proposes 3 legislations to counter Centre’s farm lawsIt may bring three legislations to counter ‘anti-farmer’ provisions in these Acts. The legislations will require Prez nod.foodgrain below the MSP, emphasising that protection of MSP is one of the key demands of farm unions.Ahead of the session, Opposition MLAs were stopped from entering the Vidhan Sabha — AAP legislators because they were in black capes as a mark of protest against the agriculture laws and Akali MLAs for trying to enter the Vidhan Sabha on tractors with “rosh” stickers. The AAP MLAs, who burnt copies of the controversial farm laws, were allowed inside the House later. So were the Akali MLAs.The session began with obituary references. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh led the House in paying homage to the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing agitation against the farm laws.Akali legislators staged a sit-in outside the Punjab Bhavan where Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria were holding talks with BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders. The Akalis planned to gherao the ministers but they quietly left from the rear gate.There was acrimony at the Business Advisory Committee meeting with the Opposition members insisting that they be provided copies of the Bill that the government proposed to table in the House on Tuesday to counter the Centre’s farm laws. However, Manpreet said that legal experts were still on the job.Sources said while central laws could not be nullified by states, Punjab could make the minimum support price (MSP) mandatory and penalise the violators. Leader of the Opposition Harpal Cheema, furious at being denied copies of the proposed Bill, led a protest in the well of the House. The AAP members refused to budge even as Speaker Rana KP Singh urged them to vacate the House so that it could be sanitised for the House sitting on Tuesday. Led by Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Majithia, the Akali MLAs too held a protest in the well of the House just before it was adjourned. Special session extended by a dayThe Business Advisory Committee of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Monday decided to extend the special session by another day, till October 20. The committee will meet on Tuesday again to decide on further extension of the session, till October 21.Talks with farmers end in stalemate, stir to continueA meeting between a three-member Punjab Cabinet ministerial panel and representatives of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) on Monday remained inconclusive. The farmers said they would continue with their agitation till they were convinced about the steps taken by the state to counter the new farm laws.CM, Sidhu share cold vibesCongress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, who ended his self-imposed political exile by attending the Assembly session on Monday, and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh did not exchange pleasantries.
