21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Congress MP Bajwa questions Punjab govt’s move to set up civil services board||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday questioned the Punjab Government’s move to set up a board to ensure a fixed term at a post to IAS officers, saying it will make them “less answerable and accountable” to legislators.The state government decided to set up the board to provide a fixed two-year tenure to an IAS officer at a posting. Any decision to cut short the term will be examined by the board.In a letter to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Bajwa said the June 2 order of the state government has sent a “disturbing and negative signal to already demoralised elected representatives”.Referring to the last month’s face-off between two state ministers and the chief secretary during a meeting, Bajwa said the timing of the move is “ominous”.“Just when your Cabinet ministers have been recently humiliated by the chief secretary, you have now set up an all-powerful civil services board headed by the chief secretary, with a few bureaucrats as its members, to ensure that the bureaucracy becomes much less answerable and accountable to elected representatives,” Bajwa said.Bajwa claimed that several ministers and MLAs had many a time complained against the “overbearing, unresponsive and intemperate” behaviour of many officers because of “undue importance and support” they enjoy from the CM.“This move of assuring them of a fixed tenure of postings and other immunities under the umbrella of the civil services board has tilted the scale decisively against the elected representatives,” Bajwa said.“The bureaucracy in the state has staged a coup through your June 2 orders to render the ministers and MLAs helpless in raking up neglected issues of public importance and timely planning and execution of development works,” he alleged.Bajwa further claimed that a healthy working relationship between ministers, MPs, MLAs and civil servants is critical for good governance, which has been “compromised” in Punjab at the moment.Bajwa urged the CM to look into the prevailing state of affairs and take necessary steps to “restore the sagging morale of the political class” in Punjab. PTI
21-06-2020||---||Amid Covid scare, over 7,300 appear in test for nursing staff posts across Punjab||Faridkot, June 19Amid Covid scare, 7,381 candidates appeared in the written test for nursing staff posts at 84 exam centres in the state on Sunday. For these nursing staff posts in the government hospitals, 1,166 candidates, out of total 8,547 applicants, failed to appear.In the test, conducted by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), it was mandatory for all candidates to wear masks, undergo thermal screening at entry point of their exam centres.BFUHS set up a separate exam centre for two candidates in Government Rajindra Medical College and Hospital in Patiala as both were Covid-19 positive. Wearing masks, all candidates maintained social distancing of minimum 4-6 feet at the exam centres, said Dr Raj Bahadur, vice chancellor, BFUHS.
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 122 COVID-19 cases, tally crosses 4000-mark||Punjab reported 122 positive coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the state's tally to 4,074.With 54 infections, Ludhiana recorded the highest number of infections in the state. However, Pathankot reported 16 COVID-19 positive patients. While six cases surfaced in Jalandhar.  Amritsar and SAS Nagar reported four cases each.
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Below normal day temp at most places in Punjab, Haryana||The day temperature at most places in Punjab and Haryana hovered below normal limits on Sunday, the meteorological department said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 33.7 degrees Celsius, which was four notches below the normal during this part of the season, it said.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a maximum temperature of 35 degrees Celsius, down three notches against the normal.While the day temperature in Hisar was three degrees below normal at 37.9 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded below normal maximum temperatures at 37.1, 36.2 and 34.6 degrees Celsius, respectively, the MeT department said. PTI
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab SC commission member suspended||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has approved the suspension of Poonam Kangra as a non-official member of the state commission for Scheduled Castes following the registration of abetment to suicide case against her.Following the CM's clearance, the state government has placed Kangra's membership under suspension with immediate effect, said an official release here.The CM had also ordered an inquiry against Kangra, who was arrested along with her husband and son by the Sangrur police a few days ago.A man in Sangrur had allegedly committed suicide on June 4 after his daughter allegedly eloped with Kangra's son.The Sangrur police then registered a case of abetment to suicide against Kangra and her family members. PTI
21-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Amarinder Singh shares father Maharaja Yadavindra Singh’s photo to mark Father’s Day||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh shared a photo of his father to mark Father’s Day.Capt Amarinder, whose father Maharaja Yadavindra Singh was the last maharaja of the princely state of Patiala, said in his tweet: “My father, Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Ji, always inspired me to put the nation first. On Father’s Day, sharing a memory from my wedding reception of a salver presented by CO of Skinners Horse in the presence of my father, who was Hony. Colonel of the Regiment, and my father-in-law”..My father, Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Ji, always inspired me to put the nation first.On #FathersDay, sharing a memory from my wedding reception of a salver presented by CO of Skinners Horse in the presence of my father, who was Hony. Colonel of the Regiment, and my father-in-law. pic.twitter.com/EORsNttDk5
21-06-2020||As India and China are engaged in a stand-off in the Galwan Valley||‘China uses border issue as tool to build pressure on India’||China considers it opportune to push its agenda regarding disputed areas as the world is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. Further, President Xi Jinping is under pressure due to slowing down of the Chinese economy. Also, China does not want India to develop infrastructure in Ladakh. —Maj Gen GG Dwivedi (retd)Can you explain the difference between the LoC and the LAC?A: There is a tendency to compare the Line of Control (LoC) and the Line of Actual Control (LAC) but these are two distinct terms. We have International Border and LOC with Pakistan and LAC with China in Jammu and Kashmir. LoC is like a de facto border and manned by troops deployed on the either side. In contrast, LAC is neither delineated nor demarcated. It is based roughly on the positions held by both sides towards the end of 1962 war. As a result, both sides have their own interpretation. In the Ladakh region, it generally corresponds with the Chinese claim line as China captured most of the Aksai Chin area in the 1962 war. However, there are a number of contested points where the two sides have a varying perception. In the middle sector and eastern sector (Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh), the LAC is by and large aligned with the McMahon Line.Can you give a brief overview of the border issue between India and China?Though no official boundary has been negotiated between India and China, the Indian Government considers a line similar to the Johnson Line of 1865 as the boundary, according to which Aksai Chin is a part of India. The Chinese Government, however, considers a line similar to the McCartney-MacDonald Line of 1899 as the boundary which is well to the west of Johnson Line. The 1913-14 Shimla Convention between Great Britain, China and Tibet defined the boundary between Tibet and British India, which later came to be known as McMahon Line. But China declined to sign it. After China annexed Tibet in 1951, the two countries started sharing boundary. China initially did not raise the border issue as surreptitiously it was constructing a highway from Kashgarh in Xinjiang to Lhasa in Tibet in the 1950s which passed through Aksai Chin. When India learnt of this in 1959, it raised the matter with the People’s Republic of China (PRC). This is how the border problem started, ultimately leading to the 1962 Indo-China war. Incidentally, the opening shots of the war were fired from the Galwan Valley.Why do you think that the LAC has not been defined as yet?Chinese has kept dragging their feet on the issue as it is not in their interest to resolve the boundary imbroglio. The PRC has often used the border issue as a tool to build pressure on India.Why has China created the trouble amid the pandemic?China is known for creating problems when it is confronted with internal and external issues. At present, China considers it opportune to push its agenda regarding disputed areas with Taiwan, South China Sea and the LAC, as the world is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. Further, President Xi Jinping is under pressure due to slowing down of the Chinese economy and a global outcry holding China responsible for the pandemic. Also, China does not want India to develop infrastructure in Ladakh as presently they have a definite edge over us. The Galwan Valley is important because from there, China can dominate Durbuk- Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) road that India constructed recently. China also has high stakes in the Pakistan-Occupied-Kashmir (POK), too, as the China Pakistan Economic Corridor traverses through the region. It has also invested in various projects in the POK, including the proposed $9 billion Daimer-Bhasha Dam.What are the options before India in present situation?Our aim is to restore the status quo ante that existed in April which implies that the PLA has to pull back. To ensure this, adequate pressure has to be built on China through various means, including military, political, diplomatic and economic.Why has not the Chinese media reported on casualties suffered by their troops?China has an authoritarian rule and a state-controlled media. The communist leadership employs media as an instrument to spread its propaganda and fight an information war.
21-06-2020||Vishav Bharti||Deaths rising, Punjab to house high-risk patients in hotels||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20Concerned over the increasing mortality rate in the state due to coronavirus, the Punjab Government has decided to keep high-risk persons away from containment and micro-containment zones.Optional facilityIn a communication to civil surgeons, Additional Chief Secretary Anurag Aggarwal has asked them to identify decent accommodation in local hotels or lodges to house such individuals. The high-risk persons include those aged over 60 years, pregnant women and the ones suffering of co-morbid or immune-compromised conditions. The health officials have been told to prepare an online list of the aforementioned category of people and offer them accommodation outside the containment zones till their area is declared safe.The facility will be optional and those opting for it will be allowed one caretaker from home. Medicines and consumables figuring on the Health Department’s essential drug list will be provided. Diagnostic services, as per government norms, and medical care will be made available too.A senior medical officer of nearest government facility will ensure morning and evening rounds at these hotels, as per the duty roster. Nursing staff and helpers or any other category of paramedical manpower, if required, may also be provided at a fixed honorarium of Rs 25,000 per month (any category of paramedic).These workers will be covered for health insurance under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package.
21-06-2020||Amritsar||Bihar cops fail to deliver notice to Navjot Singh Sidhu||HC notice of motion on ‘virtual screens’Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion on a petition to the State of Punjab and other respondents to constitute a panel of experts to determine feasibility and extent of imparting education by “virtual mode” to school students. In his petition against the State of Punjab and other respondents, Puneet Bansal through counsel Viren Jain, suggested the panel could comprise specialists in the field of ophthalmology, child psychology, paediatrics, academicians, child welfare experts and other stake holders, including parents. TNSPPCB uses new tech to treat wastewaterKapurthala: With many of the sewage treatment plants non-functional in Doaba, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) is now banking on new technology to treat wastewater in the effluent-ridden drains and rivers. The first in-situ remediation project has been set up for the Bhulana drain in Kapurthala. Carrying wastewater of 27 colonies and Rawal village, it converges into the Kali Bein near Hussainpura village. To treat wastewater in the drain, the PPCB has developed a low-cost model of in-situ remediation, based on combination of bioremediation and phyto-remediation. TNSSikh farmers wont’ be displaced: UP CMChandigarh: UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday assured a three-member delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal that no Sikh farmer would be displaced in the state. After having a detailed meeting with the UP’s Chief Minister, former MP Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra said Yogi Adityanath announced that the state government would earmark an alternative site for the Armed Forces Centre, which was proposed to come up on the land, which Sikhs had been tilling in Champatpur Chakla in Bijnore. He said the CM has formed teams to conduct surveys at four places where Sikhs fear displacement and find out ways and means to give them rights to the land they are tilling. TNS
21-06-2020||Moga||Moga man is Chief Superintendent of Surrey police||Hailing from Rajeana village in Moga, Sharanjit Singh Gill has been promoted as Chief Superintendent and posted as Senior Operations Officer for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in Surrey in British Columbia province in Canada.Gill was posted as Community Services Officer, before being promoted to the post of Chief Superintendent, early this week. Congratulating him, the Surrey police tweeted, “His 31-year experience is a huge asset to our frontline, investigative and community service”. — TNS
21-06-2020||Ferozepur||7.7-kg heroin seized, 4 held||The police and officers of the BSF from 136 Battalion in a joint operation today seized 7.7-kg heroin worth Rs 36 crore along with Rs 2.60 lakh and an SUV.Bhupinder Singh, SSP, said the accused had been identified as Rajinder Singh, Gurmit Singh, Rukmandeep Singh and Arshdeep Singh, all residents of Muktsar.He said during the investigation, the accused admitted to having links with Pakistan-based smugglers and informed about the consignment they had received from across the border. — OC
21-06-2020||Amritsar||10-day police remand for 2 of terror module||Two alleged Khalistani operatives, who were arrested on Friday, were produced before a local court today. They were sent to 10-day police remand. The accused were identified as Gurmeet Singh and Vikram Singh.The police had claimed that the duo was preparing to carry out a series of terror attacks and targeted killings at the behest of their Pakistan-based handlers. Probe revealed that Gurmeet came in contact with his handlers through social media. He even visited Pakistan with a religious jatha in 2017.The police were trying to identify those who had dumped weapons in fields near Gurdaspuria Dhaba on the GT Road. As the duo was trying to retrieve the weapons, some persons informed the police. — TNS
21-06-2020||Barnala||Contractor dies, kin cry foul||A liquor contractor died after his vehicle was allegedly hit by a car driven by a smuggler near Ghunas village on Friday.The family of the deceased, Sewak Singh, alleged that the smuggler deliberately rammed his car into Sewak’s vehicle, but the police were claiming that it was an accident.Kamaljit Singh, SHO, Rureke Kalan, said: “The accused, Ravi Kumar was smuggling liquor in his Swift car. Sewak and his friends tried to stop him by parking their Bolero vehicle in the middle of the road. Ravi failed to stop his vehicle and hit Bolero, causing serious injuries to Sewak.” — TNS
21-06-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab farmers make officials squat over power cuts||Irked over erratic power supply in the ongoing paddy season, leaders of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Qadian, allegedly made two employees of the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) squat at their office in Kartarpur last evening.SP Sondhi, executive engineer, alleged: “Nearly 100 farmers went to a power house and made two employees, a sub-station attendant and an assistant lineman, squat. Later, a video of the incident went viral. We got an FIR lodged today.”In the video, the farmers, led by union president Jasbir Singh Littan, are reportedly seen threatening the PSTCL employees of dire consequences if they failed to ensure power supply for eight hours. — TNS
21-06-2020||---||Punjab CM calls all-party meet to discuss Centre’s ordinances||Chandigarh, June 20Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has convened an all-party meeting on June 24 to evolve a consensus on the Union Government’s agriculture-related ordinances, which he said were totally unacceptable to the state as they were against the interests of the farmers.Describing the ordinances as a precursor to the end of the MSP regime, which the Centre was clearly aiming to do, the Chief Minister said based on the meeting consensus, a letter would be sent to the Union Government, demanding immediate rollback of the ordinances.Disclosing this during his Facebook live programme, the Chief Minister expressed confidence that all parties of the state were united on the issue and would seek the rejection of these ordinances.He said that the Centre’s move to end the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) monopoly through an ordinance will result in huge losses to the Mandi Board, which currently earns Rs 3,500-3,600 crore annually in the form of market fee and rural development fund.He said any decline in these collections would adversely affect development in rural areas as this money was spent by the board for the improvement of roads and other infrastructure projects, aimed at improving the lives of state farmers.Earlier this week, the CM had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking reconsideration of the three ordinances.Allow soldiers to open fire in self-defenceCapt Amarinder on Saturday urged the Centre to change its policy to allow soldiers at the borders to open fire in their own defence and for protecting the nation’s territorial integrity. He said it was wrong to send soldiers unarmed or not to allow them to defend themselves. When he and his Army colleagues used to go patrolling, during his posting along the LAC for two years, they carried all kinds of weapons, he said.
21-06-2020||---||Another arrest in Behbal Kalan firing incident||Faridkot/Chandigarh, June 20Probing the fabrication of 18 bullet marks on the escort Gypsy vehicle of former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Saturday evening arrested Pankaj Bansal, owner of Pankal Motors, who had an automobile workshop in Faridkot at the time of the incident in October 2015.Bansal is accused of helping the cops, including a former SSP and an SP-level officer, in creating a fake defence theory in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.It is the third arrest linked to the fabrication of evidence in the incident that occurred on October 14, 2015. Four days ago, the SIT had arrested Sohail Singh Brar, an advocate and son of a late Akali leader here. Earlier, Sharma was arrested in the case. He is presently on interim bail on health grounds.Inspector General of Police and SIT chief investigator Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh said, “We will produce the accused in the court tomorrow and will share further details.”The SIT probe found that Bansal had played a key role in creating the fake evidence in the case.As per the SIT investigation, when the firing took place on October 14, 2015, the protesters were sitting peacefully on a dharna after a series of incidents of sacrilege at Bargari and other places. The cops responsible for the firing hatched a conspiracy theory of self-defence. They allegedly fabricated evidence by creating fake bullet marks on the pilot Gypsy vehicle of the then Moga SSP to support their theory.Owned garagePankaj Bansal, who ran a garage in Faridkot in 2015, has been arrested for aiding the culprits in firing gunshots on the Gypsy vehicle of the then Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma.
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Life not a movie: HC to runaway couples||Life is not like 1973 Bollywood blockbuster “Bobby”. “When happy ending is not the script, the same very intimacy and affection turns into hostility” culminating into allegations of rape or fear of honour killing, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted, while warning the youngsters that reel life was different from real life. “It is time that the youth learn their lesson from the harsh reality of life,” the High Court asserted.Describing the cases of runaway couples as “Bobby-like”, Justice Arun Monga observed such matters appeared to be rampantly happening in the society. Adolescents took a liking for each other, resulting in affection beyond social limits. “And next, starts their scheming for fairy tale dreamland. But, real life is different from reel life.” The end result was hostility, when either one of the partners tried to call it off or parents “disapprovingly pressed the button too hard on the legal options under criminal law”.Justice Monga added the High Court was daily witnessing such kind of cases being filed. — TNS
21-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Kapurthala Sainik School alumnus bags Chief of Air Staff Trophy at IAF Academy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 20It was a yet another proud moment for Sainik School, Kapurthala, as its three former students passed out of the Indian Air Force (IAF) Academy, Dundigal (Telangana) on Saturday. What made the event special for the school was that two of the students also won trophies during the parade.While Jasnoor Singh got the Chief of Air Staff Trophy and was declared the ‘Best in Flying’, Jagdeep Singh was declared the ‘Best in Aerobatics’. The third cadet was Rishab Chandel. On Saturday last, seven ex-students from the school had passed out from the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, with one cadet getting the coveted ‘Sword of Honour.Jasnoor’s mother Narinder Kaur, who teaches English at Sainik School, said, “I have been serving in the school for the past 25 years. My son was born and brought up here. Since his childhood, he dreamt of joining the IAF.”“Unfortunately, we could not attend the passing out parade. We saw it on the TV. For us, the biggest moment came when we got to know he had won the Chief of Air Staff Trophy and declared the ‘Best in Flying’ among the 123 cadets passing out today,” she said.She said, “Our son was not allowed to keep a mobile phone, but he got it today. We managed to talk to him. In a day or so, he will be leaving for Bidar to join duty.”Jagdeep’s father Subedar Jasbir Singh (retd) served the Army for 28 years. Talking on phone from the academy, Jagdeep said he was in the fighters’ fleet in the academy. “I owe my success to my training in Sainik School,” he said.Rishab’s father Sergeant Ravi Chandel (retd), who served the IAF for 20 years, said his son had today fulfilled his dream. “Since his childhood, I kept on telling him that becoming a pilot was always my dream. He got inspired from my stories and chose to join the Sainik School,” he said.
21-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC questions state on use of term ‘mistress’ for teachers||Tibune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20The age-old practice of christening women schoolteachers as mistresses in Punjab has come under the judicial scanner. Taking cognisance of the use of the not-so-dignified expression for teachers, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the state to specify steps for changing the nomenclature for referring to them in a more distinguished and dignified manner.“The Secretary of the Education Department, Punjab, shall file a separate specific affidavit in this regard, as to what steps can be, and/or, are proposed to be taken, in accordance with law for the change of designation,” Justice Arun Monga directed.Fixing the case for further hearing in July second week, Justice Monga made it clear that the affidavit in the matter was required be filed by then.Justice Monga in his order apparently took into consideration the use of the term in its contemptuous sense, while looking at the larger issues affecting the dignity of the profession.Taking up a petition filed by against the state government and other respondents by Maan Singh and other petitioners through counsel Sunny Singla, Justice Monga noticed that nomenclature “mistress” for women teachers to be appointed in a school was used yet again in an advertisement issued on February 21.
21-06-2020||---||Punjab Education Department names government schools after Ladakh martyrs||Patiala, June 20To pay tributes to martyrs, who were killed in a clash with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh earlier this week, the Education Department has decided to rename government schools in their native villages.In Patiala’s Seel village, Government Primary School has been named as Martyr Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh Primary School, while in Gurdaspur’s Bhojraj village, Government Middle School has been rechristened Martyr Naib Subedar Satnam Singh Middle School. Besides, the department renamed Government Middle School at Birewala Dogran village in Mansa after Sepoy Gurtej Singh and a high school at Tolawal village in Sangrur after Sepoy Gurbinder Singh.Amarjeet Singh, District Education Officer (DEO), said it was small gesture to pay tributes to the soldiers for their sacrifice and bravery. He said he had already conveyed the message to the Block Primary Education Officer (BPEO) and village sarpanches to make the necessary changes. The signboards of all these schools would be changed by next week, he added.
21-06-2020||---||Capt: Punjab Government will cap cost, shut erring hospitals||Chandigarh, June 20The Punjab Government will cap treatment charges for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals, and those not adhering to the same will be shut, said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday. The fee structure for private hospitals is expected to be finalised by Monday, the Chief Minister said during his #AskCaptain session on Facebook.Talking about exorbitant fee being charged by private hospitals, Capt Amarinder termed their actions as “anti-people and anti-national”. He said private health institutions would not be allowed to indulge in such shameless profiteering. “If these hospitals do not agree to the government rates, we will close them down,” he said.Expressing concern over the spike in positive cases, the Chief Minister said he had sought permission from the Centre to allow the state to make Covid-test certificates mandatory for all those entering Punjab.Around 87,000 cars have entered Punjab from Delhi alone in recent days, and the spike in cases is due to outsiders, said the Chief Minister.He said he had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow entry of only those with valid Covid-free certificates. In fact, those leaving Punjab should also carry similar certificates to check the spread of Covid-19, he said. For the first time, there has been an increase in the number of people on oxygen and ventilator, he said, adding that the situation was explosive, with cases rising around the world.
21-06-2020||---||Six more deaths in Punjab, 20 Jalandhar cops +ve||Chandigarh, June 20With six more deaths reported today, the count of Covid-19 casualties in the state has reached 98.Four deaths were reported from Amritsar and one each from Kapurthala and Ludhiana. A 70-year-old female from Dehlon, Ludhiana, who was admitted at Guru Teg Bahadur Charitable Hospital on June 16, died today. She had tested positive for Covid. She had co-morbid conditions including coronary artery disease.In Amritsar, with the district health authorities reporting more deaths of Covid patients, the toll has reached 31. One of the deceased has been identified as Satpal of the Katra Dullo area in old city.In Patiala, a 55-year-old patient died at Rajindra Hospital. He belonged to Sangrur district. The patient was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He was admitted to the hospital on June 15. The spike in Covid-19 cases continued with another 120 cases coming to the fore today. The number of cases in the state has reached 3,952.As per the media bulletin, 47 cases were reported from Jalandhar, 21 from Amritsar, 14 from Sangrur, 11 from SAS Nagar, seven each from Patiala and Ludhiana, four from Kapurthala, two each from Pathankot, Tarn Taran and Fatehgarh Sahib and one each from Barnala, Mansa and Moga. Jalandhar has reported over 300 cases within two weeks. The new cases include 20 police personnel and 11 migrants who had come from Ghaziabad and Ooty.In Amritsar, the new patients include three cops. The health authorities revealed that an official at Mohkampura police station, a cop on PCR duty and another posted at the police lines have tested positive.
21-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Follow norms or face action, Rajindra Hospital Patiala staff warned||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 20In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases among medical staff, the Health Department has written a letter to the authorities of Government Rajindra Hospital here to strictly follow the safety guidelines. Sources said there were reports that the staff had not been adhering to the norms.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said they had directed the hospital authorities to take necessary steps to stop the virus spread among the medical staff.Following this, the hospital authorities directed the staff to follow the safety protocol else strict disciplinary action would be taken under the Disaster Management Act.Dr Paras Pandove, Medical Superintendent, said, “We have issued strict directions to the entire staff to follow the guidelines. Any negligence by them will not be tolerated.”The sources, meanwhile, said that staffers had not been wearing face masks in an appropriate manner despite the fact that a large number of Covid patients were admitted to the hospital.The sources claimed that staff nurses and attendants at emergency ward were often seen sharing meals, disregarding social distancing norm.A health official said, “Many staffers are only wearing cloth masks at duty. Social distancing is also not being maintained.”At least 13 staff members have already tested positive and nearly 100 of their contacts are waiting test results. Earlier during the initial days of the pandemic, the staff members were applauded for strictly following the guidelines.Stop virus spread
21-06-2020||Manav Mander||Rural pharmacists in Punjab boycott Covid duty||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 20After rural medical officers lodged a protest over the alleged bias in postings, rural pharmacy officers are now at loggerheads with the government. They have decided to boycott the Covid duty for an indefinite period.They have returned to the dispensaries where they were posted. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, rural pharmacists across the state have been given frontline duties.They, however, say they don’t have job security as they are working on a contractual basis. Demanding regular jobs, many of them today staged a protest outside the Civil Surgeon’s Office in Ludhiana.Jot Singh, president, Rural Pharmacy Officers Association of Punjab, said they were doing their duty by risking their lives that too without any job security. “There are 1,186 dispensaries in the state and rural pharmacy officers are getting a meagre amount of Rs 10,000 as salary. In 2006, the government brought rural dispensaries under the panchayats. Even after 14 years, we are still working on a contractual basis,” said Jot Singh.Another member of the association said they had been assigned duties in isolation wards, containment zones, flu corners for taking samples and visiting door to door. “Our counterparts in Amritsar and Mohali are deployed at airports as well. Our families remain worried about our well-being as we have not even given PPE kits and other safety gear,” he said.Jot Ram said for the past two months, they had been urging Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa to give them benefits under the Disaster Management Act, but in vain.The Cabinet had proposed 600 new posts of rural pharmacists, but nothing is being done on ground.
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Minister: Punjab Government to appoint doctors directly||Hoshiarpur, June 20Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today said the government has come up with a proposal to recruit doctors directly instead of routing the selection process through the Punjab Public Service Commission.Long processAs the process of selection of doctors is taking time, the department has opted for direct recruitment through a test. — Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health ministerTalking to reporters here after inaugurating the new building of the Dasuya maternity hospital, he said as the process of selection of doctors was taking time, the department had opted for direct recruitment through a test. “The recruitment of doctors and other medical staff will be done in about a month,” he said, adding that a proposal in this regard would be tabled in the next Cabinet meeting.The minister said the services of 7,000 personnel, including doctors and other medical staff who were due to retire, had been extended till September 30 as health staff were needed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. “Now we have time till September 30 to make the new recruitment,” he said.Talking about the Dasuya facility, he said the long-standing demand of the locals had been fulfilled with the 20-bed maternity hospital being dedicated to the public. The minister said under the Mission Fateh, launched by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, people were supporting the awareness campaign for the elimination of Covid-19.
