21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 381 new coronavirus cases, two deaths; state numbers inch closer to 11K||Punjab reported 381 cases of coronavirus and two deaths with 24 hours, the state’s evening bulletin said---a development that takes the state’s cases to 10,889.Ludhiana and Patiala each reported a new death, taking the state’s death toll to 263.Sangrur reported 74 new coronavirus cases---the highest of any district in the state on Tuesday.  Patiala (68), Ludhiana (65), Amritsar (56), Jalandhar (33) and SAS Nagar (25) also continued reporting an alarmingly high number of cases: the six districts together accounted for 84 per cent of Tuesday’s COVID-19 cases, Punjab’s COVID bulletin showed on Tuesday.Ropar (14), Gurdaspur (10), Fatehgarh Sahib (8), Tarn Taran (5), Bathinda (5), Hoshiarpur (2), Ferozepur (2), Kapurthala (1), Barnala (1) and Mansa (1) all reported new cases.  Thirty policemen and 16 troopers of the Border Security Force were among those testing positive.In Sangrur, 27 policemen and 26 millworkers tested positive. OF the rest, six were OPD patients, three were healthcare workers, eight were positive cases, two were classified as ILI (influenza-like illness), and two were interstate travellers.   Forty-four of Patiala’s 74 cases were contacts of previously diagnosed cases.  Nineteen were categorised as new cases, which means that there was neither any known contact nor travel history, and six were interstate travellers.Sixteen of Ludhiana’s 63 cases were classified as ILI (influenza-like illness), one was a contact of a previously diagnosed case, three were healthcare workers, and two were preoperative patients.Ludhiana now stands only a few short cases of 2,000.Three policemen were among the 25 people who tested positive in SAS Nagar. Of the rest of the district’s cases, thirteen were classified as new cases, two were ILI, and seven were contacts of known cases.Of Jalandhar’s 33, 18 were contacts of known cases and 15 were new cases.Sixteen of Amritsar’s 56 were BSF personnel. Of the rest, 22 were contacts of already diagnosed patients and 10 were classified as ILI.Hoshiapur reported 80 more positive cases later in the evening. District officials said sixty-seven of these were BSF troopers from BSF Sub-Training Centre at Kharkan Camp. The rest were from Garhshankar.  These, however, have yet to be added to the official tally.Sixty-one people are on oxygen support and 10 people are critical and on ventilator support, the bulletin says.Punjab’s cases have been steadily rising in July--- 48.8 per cent of state’s 10,889 cases (5,321 cases) have been reported in this month alone.For comparison, Punjab reported 3,305 coronavirus cases in June.Almost a quarter ---3.237--- of the state’s cases are still active.Four districts---Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala---have over 1,000 cases, and account for 56 per cent of Punjab’s cases.  District-wise breakup of cases now stands thus: Ludhiana (1989), Jalandhar (1736), Amritsar (1348), Patiala (1081), Sangrur (827), SAS Nagar (574), Gurdaspur (322), Pathankot (291), SBS Nagar (265), Hoshiarpur (288), Tarn Taran (234), Ferozepur (234), Fatehgarh Sahib (225), Faridkot (212), Moga (225), Bathinda (199), Muktsar (184), Kapurthala (158), Ropar (177), Fazilka (154), Barnala (84), and Mansa (81).Death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (48), Jalandhar (33), Amritsar (64), Sangrur (22), Patiala (16), Gurdaspur (12), Pathankot (10), SAS Nagar (12), Hoshiarpur (10), Kapurthala (8), Tarn Taran (6), Moga (5), Bathinda (4), Ferozepur (4), Fatehgarh Sahib (2),  Muktsar (1), Barnala (2), SBS Nagar (2), Ropar (1) and Fazilka (1).
21-07-2020||Karam Prakash||Rajindra Hospital gets Punjab’s first plasma bank, only few donors turn up||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 21Punjab’s first plasma bank for the coronavirus patients was inaugurated at Government Rajindra Hospital, here on Tuesday. However, only a few donors turned up at the hospital to donate the plasma.Donors are said to have been little ‘apprehensive’ for their safety to donate the plasma. Notably, only people who have already recovered from the virus can donate.Of the seven donors, who have agreed to donate, only two came forward to donate the plasma, on Tuesday. It has been learnt that 15 donors had agreed for donation, but only seven had antibodies in their plasma.A 51-year-old of Punjab police officer, who was the first to donate plasma, said, “People should come forward and donate plasma. It is a service to society. I have donated the plasma and I am absolutely healthy.”   Medical Education and Research Minister O P Soni, who participated in the inauguration of plasma bank through video conference, said that it was a big achievement for the state to have its own Plasma Bank with a facility of two machines for the purpose.Meanwhile, Dr Harjinder Singh, principal, Government Medical College, said the newly set up Plasma Bank has been equipped with two Plasma Therapy machines. “For antibody testing, we have plenty of antibody testing kits with Alisa Reader Machine. Apart from that, a latest and advanced version of chemiluminescence’s testing equipment would soon be available,” said Harjinder Singh.The processThe doctors first identify the positive patients who have recovered from the coronavirus. Thereafter, only healthy people, who do not have any other diseases and are below the age of 60 years, are selected for the antibody test to see if the patient has sufficient antibodies in the plasma. If the patient has required antibodies then only plasma is taken.The doctors store the plasma in a bank at -30 degrees Celsius, but, before that, they have to freeze it at -80 degrees.Dr Rajni Bassi, Nodal officer, Plasma Bank, said shelf-life of plasma would be one year—if stored at the required temperature. She said there was a myth that blood was taken from the donor, but that is not the case. In fact, only plasma (a component of blood) would be taken from the patient, he added.Who can donate?Dr RPS Sibia, in charge, Medicine Department, explained that a healthy person, who was symptomatic of coronavirus, could donate plasma—after 28 days of the recovery. However, people with co-morbidity and pregnant women cannot donate the plasma. He said that the donor could again donate after 15 days of the first donation. He said that plasma therapy is given to only to mild and critical patients.
21-07-2020||London||Family of 3-year-old British Sikh girl killed in car crash raise over 2,700 pounds||The family of a three-year-old British Sikh girl who died after being hit by a car have raised over 2,700 pounds for the children's hospital in Birmingham that tried to save her life.Briya Kaur Gill suffered serious head injuries when the car collided with her last Friday in the town of Leamington Spa in Warwickshire. Emergency services rushed her to the Birmingham City Children's Hospital where she died on Saturday.A 32-year-old woman was arrested at the scene on suspicion of causing serious injury by dangerous driving and released on bail as Warwickshire Police said a thorough investigation into the collision remains ongoing."We truly appreciate the outpouring of love, for now, please respect our privacy and give us time to grieve. Our world has lost its colour and our lives will never be the same," Gill's family said in a statement released via the police force."Our beautiful girl has become the most beautiful angel. Briya touched the hearts of every person she met and she lived a lifetime within her three years," they said.They have set up an online 'Just Giving' fundraiser page in memory of the toddler, which reads: "Thank you to all of the staff at Birmingham City Children's Hospital, the care and overwhelming support they provide is not repayable and we cannot express our gratitude to them." Superintendent Emma Bastone of Warwickshire Police urged witnesses to come forward to help the police with inquiries."Our thoughts remain with the family of the little girl following this terrible incident. We have launched a thorough investigation into how the collision occurred and we're keen to speak to anyone who witnessed the incident or saw the child or the car in the moments leading up to the collision," said Bastone."We're also keen to speak to the driver of a silver or blue Mazda we believe was driving behind the Skoda at the time of the collision but left the scene. We'd like anyone in the area with CCTV or dashcam footage from the time of the incident to get in touch with us as soon as possible so we can check it for evidence," she said. PTI The family of three year old Briya Kaur Gill who died after a car collided with her in Brunswick Street, Leamington on Friday 17 July have issued a tribute to her https://t.co/sb91CCnZBj pic.twitter.com/uVapvE1mXp
21-07-2020||Agartala||Tripura CM apologises for his remark on Punjabis, Jats; says proud of these communities||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Tuesday apologised for his statements comparing Punjabis and Jats with Bengalis, and said he did not intend to hurt sentiments.Deb had stirred a controversy by saying Punjabis and Jats are physically strong but less brainy while Bengalis are known to be very intelligent.In a series of tweets in Hindi on Tuesday morning, the chief minister sought forgiveness for his remarks and said many of his friends were Punjabis and Jats, and he is proud of people hailing from the two communities."I always salute the contributions of the Punjabi and Jat communities in the freedom struggle of the country. And I can never imagine raising questions on the role played by these two communities in advancing India," Deb tweeted."I had expressed the views some people have about them. I am proud of Punjabi and Jat communities. I have lived among them for quite some time... If my statement has hurt anyone's feelings, I apologise for that," the chief minister said on Twitter.Addressing a programme at the Agartala Press Club on Sunday, Deb had said every community in India is known for its certain type and character.A video clip of the chief minister's statement had gone viral on social media."For Bengal or Bengalis, it is said that one should not challenge them when it is regarding intelligence. Bengalis are known as very intelligent and it is their identity," Deb was heard saying in the clip.Punjabis and Jats are known for their physical strength, the BJP leader had said."When we talk about the people of Punjab, we say he's a Punjabi, a Sardar. They may have less intelligence but are very strong. One can't win them over by strength but with love and affection. A large number of Jats live in Haryana. So what do people say about Jats? Jats are less intelligent but are very healthy. If one challenges a Jat, he will bring a gun from his house," he had said.Reacting to his remark, Pijush Biswas, the Congress state unit chief, said Deb should be more cautious while making a statement."His remarks are unacceptable. He is holding a very responsible post and should not make such comments. He should be careful while making a statement," Biswas told reporters.On Monday, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had said that Deb, with his controversial remark, has insulted the "Sikh brothers" of Punjab and the Jat community of Haryana."This is the BJP's lowly mindset. Why are Khattar ji and Dushyant Chautala silent? Where are Modi ji and Naddaji? Apologize, take action," Surjewala had tweeted.Earlier, too, Chief Minister Deb had courted controversies on multiple occasions.In 2018, he said internet and satellite television existed in the time of the Mahabharata.He had questioned the crowning of Diana Hayden as "Miss World" in 1997 and alleged that international beauty pageants were a farce.Last year, he claimed that Mughals intended to destroy the cultural wonders of the state by "bombing" its arts and architectures. PTIदेश के स्वतंत्रता संग्राम में पंजाबी और जाट समुदाय के योगदान को मैं सदैव नमन करता हूं। और भारत को आगे बढ़ाने में इन दोनों समुदायों ने जो भूमिका निभाई है उसपर प्रश्न खड़ा करने की कभी मैं सोच भी नहीं सकता हूं।
21-07-2020||Amritsar||Portrait of semi-naked women removed from Jallianwala Bagh gallery||Following criticism, the portrait of two semi-naked women, striking poses identical to those in Ajanta and Ellora caves, placed on one of the walls of the under-renovation gallery of Jallianwala Bagh, has been removed.Apart from this being against the spirit of the site, another blunder made was that the objectionable picture was placed adjacent to the portraits of Guru Nanak and Maharaja Ranjit Singh.Former MP Tarlochan Singh, who is one of the members of PM-led Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, said: "Before opening the monument for the public, I propose that all the members and other stakeholders should make a prior visit to the site to make sure that nothing objectionable should be there which does not commensurate with the spirit of the place”, he said.The under-renovation site has been closed for the public since February 15.Claiming to maintain its 'historic composition', the work is being executed under the supervision of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).The Centre has allocated Rs 20 crore for the first phase of the project aimed to be completed by July 31. The Bagh is expected to be opened by August 15.Tarksheel Society head Sumit Singh said that though the portrait was removed, this lapse demanded stern action against those responsible for it.On Monday, the International Sarv Kamboj Samaj had shot off separate complaints to the Akal Takht and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the chairman of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust.Shinder Pal Singh alias Bobby Kamboj, president of Kamboj Samaj said that it was a matter of national shame to install such obnoxious portraits.An official confirmed that the portrait has been removed following objections from several quarters.Following this, the SDM Amritsar-1 Vikas Hira had paid a visit to the site on Monday evening. Though he avoided talking about the controversial portraits, he assured the issue would be resolved after the intervention of higher authorities.In a hard-hitting statement issued here, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Punjab, Akshay Sharma demanded a thorough probe to ascertain how and who approved the obnoxious images to be put up at Jallianwala Bagh.“Don't you know the historical significance of this monument and its role in Indian freedom history? This clearly shows the attitude and respect the BJP, that commands the Jallianwala Bagh Trust, has for our martyrs. The BJP has always used sacrifices of our martyrs for advancing their political agenda”, he said.
21-07-2020||---||Govt schools show better pass percentage as Punjab board announces Class 12 result||Chandigarh, July 21The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Tuesday declared Class 12 board examination results on the basis of the best performing subject formula.While elaborating the details, School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said of the total 2,86,378 students who appeared for the examination, 2,60,547 students — 90.98 per cent — passed this year.The minister said this is for the consecutive second year that government schools continued to be ahead of affiliated and associated schools in terms of pass percentage as 94.32 per cent students of government schools passed the examinations while 91.84 per cent and 87.04 per cent students of affiliated and associated schools, respectively, passed. He added that 92.77 per cent regular students excelled the Class 12 examinations.Vijay Inder Singla said: “After the formation of Congress government in Punjab, we are working tirelessly to uplift the standard of education under the able guidance of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Our efforts have started showing fruitful results as every year, we register growth in the pass percentage of board examinations.”He added that in 2017, the pass percentage of Class 12 was below 63 per cent, which registered slight growth in 2018 by rising up to 65.97 per cent. He also said that in the 2019 results, 86.41 per cent students passed the exams, which was notably higher than in previous years.The state School Education Minister said as examinations of some subjects got cancelled, the PSEB had adopted the best performing subjects formula.Elaborating the formula, he said if any student had appeared in exams of four subjects, then the average of the best three subjects would be awarded to him in the subjects for which exams got cancelledHe also said the same formula had been implemented on those students who had appeared in exams for division improvement in more than one subject. He added that last chance compartment students had been declared pass on the basis of the average of already passed subjects.The School Education Minister also informed that the result of those students, who had applied for improvement or additional subject in only one subject, had not been declared as they would be given another chance to appear in the examinations once the situation got normal.The cabinet minister informed that the pass percentage of students belonging to the rural areas was also higher than urban area students. The rural areas recorded 93.39 pass percentage while the urban areas accounted for 91.96 pass percentage.He added that this year, 68.26 per cent students of open-school category passed the Class 12 exams.
21-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Meet Jahnavi, a Class XII student who runs an NGO||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 20A Class XII girl from the city has set up an NGO ‘Word Builders’ that has been imparting courses for dropouts and slum children of not only Jalandhar, but Bihar, Mumbai and Bengaluru as well. She is helping them improve their employability skills.A commerce student of Cambridge International School for Girls, Jahnavi Mahajan, has already imparted six types of 12-hour courses to 300 students, including those on improving speech and writing skills in English, using email, making power point presentations, HTML coding, appearing for interviews and honing business skills.“They are all children who have studied in Classes VI to XII, who wanted to continue with their studies but were deprived of any such opportunity. We used the ‘Tribe for Good’ programme to help identify such children, who were keen on learning but were awaiting some help. We specially designed short-term courses for them and started one-to-one, one-hour learning sessions for them through Zoom or Whatsapp,” says Jahnavi, who has set up a team of 25 teenagers like her.Daughter of sports goods exporter Ashish Mahajan, Jahnavi said when she started the project in August 2019, she asked those interested in her NGO to apply for joining.“About 50 youths applied and on the basis of their seriousness to continue in the long run, I selected 25 of them who are studying in Classes X to XII. Having set up a team, we collaborated with renowned NGOs such as Tara in New Delhi, Oscar Foundation in Mumbai, Sakshi in Bihar, New Hope in Bengaluru and Saraswati Sanstha Niketan in Jalandhar. Having initially developed links with slum communities through these NGOs, we now have our own network of slum dwellers and children in six states,” she says.Jahnavi adds: “While we started this project last year, it took a new pace from mid-March onwards in the lockdown, when we got a lot of time to improve our set up because of the lockdown. We named our courses in a very innovative way so as to connect with the children – we call English language programme as ‘Angrezi medium’, business skills as ‘Mann ki Baat’, coding and technology programme as Digiwave.”While Jahnavi is herself the curator of Computorian programme and makes sure that she spends 9-10 hours a week on it, she has in her team Apeejay School student Harsahib Sodhi as curator for Angrezi Medium and Digiwave programme, Aaliah Janeja as curator for socioholic and Mann ki Baat programmes besides other 23 members. Having herself designed her NGO portal, she says she had learnt coding and developed a mobile application too.“Next year, I plan to go to the US and take admission to an undergraduate course, which will help me in reaching my goal to launch a technological set up that can have an impact on society,” she said, adding that it was really satisfying working with the underprivileged kids, especially when they send back a voice message to you telling you to send them another project assignment.Having done some exercises for fund raising for slum kids as well, she says at least one of the parents had a smart phone, which was made available to children at least for an hour on Saturdays and Sundays, through which the entire programme was carried on.
21-07-2020||---||Soldier among 4 held by Punjab Police for peddling||Chandigarh, July 20The Punjab Police have arrested an Army soldier and three others for their involvement in illegal arms and drug smuggling. The racket was busted last week in which a BSF jawan and three others were nabbed by the Jalandhar (Rural) police.Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said Ramandeep Singh, who is a soldier, was apprehended from Bareilly in UP, on the basis of disclosures made by BSF Constable Sumit Kumar.He said three aides of Ramandeep, including Taranjot Singh alias Tanna, Jagjit Singh alias Laddi and Satinder Singh alias Kala would be brought on production warrants. Around Rs 10 lakh has been recovered from Kala thus taking the total amount seized to Rs 42.30 lakh.Gupta said Sumit had revealed during interrogation that Ramandeep lured him into peddling. The duo was lodged together in Gurdaspur jail after murdering a person.Gupta said Kala was lodged in Amritsar jail for sometime where he had come in contact of Maulvi alias Mulla, a Pakistani national, who had introduced him to smugglers. He said Kala was shifted to Kapurthala jail where he befriended Tanna.The DGP said Sumit used to send photographs of fencing and drug-delivery locations to Tanna and Kala. After delivery of the consignment at a pre-determined spot, his accomplices used to collect it and Laddi used to provide his car to transport the contraband. “The accused have smuggled 42 packets of heroin and a 9 mm pistol (with 80 live rounds and two live rounds of .12 bore gun),” the DGP said.He said out of Rs 39 lakh received as drug proceeds from Pakistan-based smugglers, Rs 32.30 lakh was to be distributed between Sumit and Ramandeep.
21-07-2020||Abohar||Drugs seized near Indo-Pak border||The 124 Battalion of the BSF today seized three packets of contraband, weighing over 3 kg, in Abohar sector near the Indo-Pak border. The contraband is suspected to be heroin. A spokesperson said the BSF had seized over 328 kg of heroin on the Punjab border so far this year. —OC
21-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Amloh MLA: Have taken up waiver issue||Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh today said industrialists in Mandi Gobindgarh should not worry about the circular of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission regarding reversing government decision of waiving fixed charges. He said he had taken up the matter with Chief Secretary Seema Jain, Principal Secretary to CM Tejvir Singh and the CMO. —OC
21-07-2020||---||Gangster Neeta Deol tries to hang self inside Nabha jail, booked||Patiala, July 20Case against wifeNeeta Deol, his wife were booked a few days back when a mobile phone was recovered from himThe Nabha police have registered a case against Kulpreet Singh, alias Neeta Deol, the main accused in the 2017 Nabha jailbreak case, for allegedly trying to commit suicide after a case was registered against his wife for trying to hand over a mobile phone to the gangster inside the jail. He has since been re-arrested.Lodged in the New Nabha jail, Deol was rescued by Constable Sukhchain Singh, who was on a vigil inside the barracks when he saw the gangster trying to hang himself from the ceiling fan on Sunday. “He raised an alarm and the gangster was rescued,” a jail official said.A case has been registered against Deol under Section 309 of the IPC in Nabha. A couple of days ago, he was booked by the police after a mobile phone was recovered from him. His wife was also named in that FIR.“We have registered a case against the jailed gangster for trying to commit suicide after receiving a complaint from the jail officials,” said Nabha DSP Rajesh Chibber. “A separate probe is on to ascertain how the mobile phones reached the jail to a gangster who is already part of a jailbreak case,” he said.Meanwhile, intelligence agencies are already probing the role of jail officials after mobile phones were recovered from inside Punjab jails and that too from high-profile criminals.
21-07-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Rs 6.34 cr spent in 9 years, training centre hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Project aided by World BankIn March 2012, the Centre upgraded the project and its cost was revised to Rs9.90 croreThe Centre released Rs4.25 crore and the project was to be completed by October 2014Later, more funds were released, but the state Finance Department failed to utilise theseClose on the heels of state Accountant General pointing out the wastage of Rs 75 crore in upgrading infrastructure in seven polytechnics, the audit department has flagged the failure of the state government in timely utilisation of the Central grant for constructing a regional instructors’ training institute.The institute could not be made operational despite spending Rs 6.34 crore in the past nine years.Under a World Bank-assisted scheme, the institute for the training of craft instructors was approved in 2011 at a cost of Rs 3.50 crore, which was to be shared between the Centre and the state in the ratio of 75:25.The Centre released the first instalment of Rs 81 lakh to be utilised within a year. Adding a matching grant of Rs 18 lakh, the state Technical Education Department gave approval for the construction of a hostel block at cost of Rs 2.81 crore to be completed by October 2012. But due to non-release of remaining Rs 1.19 crore, the work remained suspended.In March 2012, the Centre upgraded the scheme and approved a revised proposal of the state to set up a bigger institute for trainers under the vocational training improvement project. The project cost was revised to Rs 9.90 crore and the Centre released Rs 4.25 crore. The project was to be completed by October 2014.After two years, the state released Rs 4.50 crore (including its share) for the construction of a workshop block, parking and roads. The building was handed over to the department in October 2018. But for the want of additional funds of Rs 5.70 crore for supplementary civil works, machinery and furniture, the building could not be put to use so far.In March 2018, the state released Rs 1.13 crore against the requirement of Rs 1.19 crore for completing the pending work of the hostel block. The work is still not complete.In September 2018, the Centre released Rs 2.24 crore for completing the institute. But the state Finance Department utilised just Rs 47 lakh. As a result, the training institute could not be made functional.
21-07-2020||
||Suicide abetment case: Arrest panchayat members, says women panel||Jalandhar, July 20  Taking cognisance of the news reports of a woman ending her life at Bajuha Khurd village after being allegedly humiliated by the village panchayat, the Punjab State Commission for Women has ordered the suspension of all members of the panchayat and filing of FIRs against them who saw the woman being beaten up. The commission has written to the DGP, Punjab, to suspend and arrest all nine members of the Bajuha Khurd panchayat (instead of the three already booked). The commission has sought a report on action taken in the case within 15 days.  An FIR had been filed against four persons (three panchayat members and a neighbour of the deceased) under Section 306 of the IPC at the Sadar police station Nakodar. So far, only one member has been arrested, while the rest are absconding.  Notably, days after being allegedly humiliated during a panchayat hearing of a dispute, the 35-year-old mother of three children had committed suicide.  Speaking to The Tribune, Manisha Gulati, Chairman of the commission, said: “The entire panchayat should be booked. Even the 45 people who watched the incident are equally responsible. We have called for a detailed inquiry and immediate arrest of those absconding. The woman was publicly embarassed and driven to suicide. She was chased and people’s homes were searched to locate her. The woman had tried to approach the police for action. We have also recommended that in future, officers who delay listening to complaints, especially from women, be dealt with strictly.”
21-07-2020||---||Mystery shrouds granthi’s death, kin demand probe||Sangrur, July 20Six days after the death of a 21-year-old Sehjada village gurdwara granthi under mysterious circumstances at a Mohali gurdwara, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema today met the family members of the deceased.The family members claimed that the victim, Lovpreet Singh, was summoned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), a day before his death.Sukhpal Khaira, president, Punjab Ekta Party (PEP), who also met the family, alleged misuse of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to implicate poor Sikh youngsters. Cheema demanded a thorough investigation by a High Court judge.The family members claimed that Lovpreet did not have any criminal record. They said cops from Lehra police station came to their house on July 11 and issued a notice to him to appear before the NIA in Chandigarh on July 13.His father Kewal Singh said: “Since my son was innocent, he met NIA officials. The next day, his body was found from a room at a Mohali gurdwara. He could never commit suicide and we demand a thorough investigation into his death.”Sangrur SSP Dr Sandeep Garg said: “I have directed the SP (D) to conduct a thorough investigation to ascertain the reasons behind Lovpreet’s death.”
21-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Can include biological mother’s name in passport||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20The Punjab and Haryana HC has made it clear that passport manual merely contained guidelines and alterations could be made in a passport at a subsequent stage even though the manual said a child had the option to change the particulars while applying for passport after attaining maturity.Justice BS Walia also directed the Regional Passport Officer to process an applicant’s request and issue a fresh passport reflecting her biological mother’s name instead of her stepmother. For the purpose, Justice Walia set 10-day deadline.The applicant had moved the HC against the Union Government and other respondents for the issuance of a fresh passport. Among other things, she stated that her biological mother’s name was mentioned in the birth certificate, educational certificates and Aadhaar card.The Bench was told that the petitioner-applicant’s biological mother expired in May 2002, after which her father remarried. The passport was issued to the petitioner in July 2004, reflecting her stepmother’s name after her father applied for the same on her behalf.The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the petitioner was only seeking incorporation of her biological mother’s name instead of the stepmother to avoid difficulty during travel or in studies abroad.Justice Walia asserted her biological mother’s name was mentioned in other documents, and prejudice would not be caused to either of the parties in the eventuality of her biological mother’s name being mentioned in the passport.
21-07-2020||---||Punjab Agriculture Department starts drive to check  fake pesticides||Moga, July 20The Agriculture Department has launched a drive to keep a tab on sale of spurious fertilisers and pesticides in the state. The department’s move to check bills and collect samples of pesticides from farmers had proved beneficial during the Rabi season.Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary (Agriculture), has issued directions to all the Deputy Commissioners and field officials to strictly implement the Insecticides Act, 1968, and the Fertiliser Control Act, 1985, which makes it mandatory for dealers and cooperative societies to issue bills with regard to the sale of fertilisers and pesticides to farmers.Moga CAO Dr Balwinder Singh has constituted various teams of agro-scientists who check packaging of pesticides, besides, collecting samples from farmers.“We have been asked to ensure compliance of the Insecticides Act, 1968, and the Fertiliser Control Act, 1985, to stop the sale of fertilisers and agrochemicals without billing,” said Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, Plant Protection Officer, Moga.
21-07-2020||---||Bathinda zone Powercom staff threaten protest, seek regular jobs||Bathinda, July 20Members of the Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Committee (Powercom zone Bathinda) have threatened to launch demonstrations against the state government over non-fulfillment of their long-pending demand to regularise their services.In a press release, Gurvinder Singh, president of the union, said: “Despite rendering their services on meagre salaries for the past many years in the powercom department, their jobs were not regularised by the state government. During the previous SAD-BJP government, the Welfare Act, 2016, was framed, but never implemented owing to the model code of conduct ahead of the election.”“Besides regularisation of jobs, we demand that the government ensures that every contractual worker has a health insurance cover in the wake of Covid-19. If the government fails to fulfil our demands, we will intensify our stir in the coming weeks,” added Singh.
21-07-2020||Mohali||CBI court adjourns hearing in Bargari case to July 29||A special CBI court here directed the state, complainant and accused to share the copies of replies filed by them with each other on the application filed by the CBI for restraining the SIT from probing the Bargari sacrilege case.  The Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, GS Sekhon while adjourning the case to July 29,  warned all counsels that “the party who will not argue the matter on the next date of hearing will be presumed to be not interested party and the court will proceed as per law.”  The reply filed by district attorneys Sanjiv Batra and RK Salwan assisted by Sarabit Singh, AIG, for Director Bureau of Investigation, Punjab, for the state alleged that the CBI had in an illegal and unjustified manner withheld the handing over of the case files. They prayed before the court that in view of the orders passed by the SC and the HC till date, the CBI had no jurisdiction over the present matter and had in an illegal and unjustified manner withheld the handing over of the files relating to the case. They submitted that the said actions of the CBI clearly amounted to contempt of the orders passed by the SC, HC and the state reserves its rights to take action with regard to the same. — TNS
21-07-2020||Mohali||Spat over Rs 40 to beggar led to Fortis staffer’s murder in Mohali||A day after a Fortis Hospital staff nurse was strangled to death in front of a liquor shop in Sector 68 here, the police arrested two suspects in this connection today. They have been identified as Kamaldeep Grewal (29) and Rinku (19).The duo was staying in a paying guest (PG) accommodation at Kumbra village here. Kamaldeep hailed from Jaito in Punjab and was working as a photographer, while Rinku was a migrant, said the police. The duo was produced before a court, which remanded them in three-day police custody.Cops yet to nab suspects in gardener’s murderThe police are yet to arrest the suspects involved in the murder of a gardener, Raja Ram (30). The victim was allegedly attacked with the handle of a hand pump near the YPS chowk here on June 30.According to the police, three more suspects involved in the murder case are yet to be arrested. DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal said: “Other suspects will be arrested soon. We have already rounded up some persons on suspicion and we are confirming their role in the matter.”The incident took place late on Saturday night when the victim, Arun, was returning home after his duty at Fortis Hospital. He had stopped in front of a liquor shop in Sector 68 near the Forest Complex.The suspects allegedly thrashed the victim and strangled him to death. Later, they fled from the spot, leaving Arun in a pool of blood. Bystanders shifted the victim to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.According to the police, Arun and the suspects were standing in front of the liquor vend. Meanwhile, a beggar came there seeking alms. One of the suspects gave him Rs40. Arun objected to it, saying there was no need to give him money as he would waste it in buying liquor. This led to heated arguments between both parties. Later, the suspects, who were already under the influence of liquor, thrashed Arun and strangled him to death.
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab says no to Chandigarh’s weekend curfew move||The Punjab Government has not accepted the UT Administration’s proposal for imposing weekend curfew in the tricity.Keeping in view the sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration was planning to impose a total curfew on weekends from 7 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said he had written to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab and Haryana to agree to the UT’s proposal for a curfew in the tricity on weekends.“Weekend curfew only in Chandigarh will not be effective, unless it is simultaneously imposed in Mohali and Panchkula,” he said. Confirming the development, Parida said the Punjab Government had turned down its proposal, whereas a response from the Haryana Government was still awaited. During a review meeting, there was a view after discussion with doctors that since there was a lack of adequate compliance about social distancing and wearing a face mask, there was no option but to go for a total curfew on weekends in the tricity. It has become unavoidable to break the chain and check the sudden surge in Covid cases in the tricity. However, the final decision would be taken by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday.Badnore directed the Director General of Police to conduct more flag marches in various colonies and sectors to create awareness among people regarding precautions to be taken against Covid-19. He also directed to tighten security in various hospitals so that health workers feel fearless.The Administrator directed that special care should be taken to locate and examine the vulnerable population, particularly senior citizens, who are likely to have co-morbidities. Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, stated that they had completed second round of door-to-door screening in Mani Majra. They would now start third round of door-to-door screening in Sector 45. —TNS
21-07-2020||Balwant Garg||70K ‘fake’ pensioners in Punjab pilfer Rs 162 cr, recovery ordered||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 20Large-scale pilfering of funds has come to light in Punjab with the Department of Social Security and Development of Women and Children identifying 70,137 “fake” pensioners drawing Rs 162.35 crore in old-age pension illegally.The Special Secretary in the department today wrote to all deputy commissioners directing them to initiate the process of recovery from such beneficiaries.A bulk of these pensioners is from Sangrur district (12,573), where Rs 26.63 crore has been siphoned over eight years, i.e. from 2009 to 2017. The least number of cases have been found in Pathankot (116).Sources in the department said the government had issued a notification in June 2017 to investigate and identify dubious pensioners. The department has now asked the DCs to constitute district-level panels led by district social security officers to review the recovery process every 15 days. Each officer concerned will constitute a team for the purpose.In cases where young individuals have been found to have received pension, the committee will check their proof of age and relevant documents before making the recovery. The recovery will start immediately in cases where beneficiaries have concealed their source of income at the time of applying for pension. For individuals who have withheld details of landholding, the amount will be recovered by way of land revenue arrears.
21-07-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||COVID-19: Violations lead to spike in 5 districts, Punjab Government reworks strategy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Violating rulesThere is little compliance on wearing of masks or adhering to the norms laid down for social gatheringsWedding ceremonies and social gatherings are held within micro-containment zonesWith Punjab cities driving up the number of Covid cases, the state government has now reworked its strategy for controlling the spread. The biggest hindrance, however, is clearly the unwillingness of people to follow the rules.There is little compliance on wearing of masks properly, maintaining social distancing or even adhering to the norms laid down for social gatherings. On Saturday, a wedding was held within a micro-containment zone where neither the hosts nor the 100 guests invited for the function wore masks or maintained social distancing. Several other such incidents are being reported regularly.Over the past one week, nearly 70 per cent of all fresh cases were reported from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali. As the number of daily cases seems to be hovering around 300, the state has formed technical committees with representation from the World Health Organisation (WHO) in all these districts.The administrative officials in these districts have been asked to speed up testing, with a daily limit of 10,150 tests each. Dr Rajiv Bhaskar, spokesperson for the state government on Covid-19, said rapid antigen testing had started in all these districts.Hospitals in Ludhiana, which has the highest number of 1,926 cases (640 active), are finding it difficult to accommodate patients. Civil Surgeon, Dr Rajesh Bagga said they were using a three-pronged strategy to deal with the pandemic – maximum sampling, campaign to persuade people to get tested and marking micro-containment and containment zones.Mohali too is seeing another wave of infections. Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, said their strategy was to ensure that the people cooperate in following the rules. “We are tracking patients with co-morbid conditions and referring them to tertiary care hospitals,” he said.
21-07-2020||---||25 policemen test positive in Sangrur||Chandigarh, July 20The state reported 411 Covid-19 cases, including 25 policemen from Sangrur, in the last 24 hours.According to sources, 25 policemen posted in the Lehra sub-division of the district have tested positive for Covid-19, but the Health Department authorities did not share the details till late evening. The cops who have tested positive include a DSP.“I have ordered the sampling of all cops to prevent further spread of infection,” said Ramvir, DC, Sangrur.With these cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases has reached 10,510 in the state. Apart from that, 58 patients are on oxygen support and 10 are not ventilator support.With eight deaths in the last 24 hours, the state count of causalities has reached 262. Two deaths were reported from Gurdaspur, one each from Moga, Ludhiana, Sangrur, Pathankot, Amritsar and SAS Nagar.Patiala again reported an alarming number of positive cases. The district reported 94 cases on Monday, thereby taking the district tally to 1,046. The number of positive cases in Patiala has doubled in 10 days. In Ludhiana, one Covid positive patient lost his life and 83 more tested positive. A 62-year-old patient died in Amritsar.
21-07-2020||---||Three-pronged plan to combat spread in jails of Punjab||Chandigarh, July 20The Prisons Department has chalked out a three-pronged strategy to effectively combat the Covid-19 situation in prisons across the state.A state-level monitoring team and district-level teams have already been constituted to monitor the situation and address the problems being faced by the staff as well as prisoners in their day-to-day functioning at the ground level.Editorial:Decongesting prisons: Pandemic demands considerate approachIn compliance with the directions of the Supreme Court, around 11,500 prisoners have been released on parole/interim bail since March as per the recommendations made by the high-powered committee constituted by the apex court.In wake of maximum Covid-19 cases coming from Ludhiana, the District Jail, Sangrur, has been vacated to further quarantine all prisoners of the Special Jail, Ludhiana, for 14 days, re-test them for third time and then send them to regular jails.As many as 1,362 officials have been tested, of which reports of 564 have been received and seven found positive and reports of 821 personnel are still pending.Nearly 70 prisoners have been found positive in jails across the state. However, as per results so far, none of the prisoners seem to have contracted Covid inside jails. Almost 5,479 prisoners have been tested and reports of 4,287 have come out negative, while the reports of the rest of them are awaited.Fazilka DC office closed for publicFazilka: Panic spread at the District Administrative Complex on Monday after father of an employee posted in e-Governance branch in the Deputy Commissioner office tested Covid-19 positive. Sources said the employee has not reported to work from the last one week. Public dealing has been banned at the administrative complex, which houses around 24 departments. Staff of various departments has been asked to sit at a main gate to address quarries of visitors. An official claimed that routine works were being carried by employees inside their respective offices. OC
21-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Sons allege father alive, handed over woman’s body||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Two brothers today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging that the body handed over to them after their father’s purported Covid death was actually that of a woman and he was still alive and undergoing treatment at an Amritsar hospital.Taking cognisance of the matter, Justice Vivek Puri asked the state counsel to verify the facts before filing a detailed response in the matter. Justice Puri also put the state and other respondents on notice before fixing July 22 as the next date of hearing.The matter was brought to the court’s notice after a petition was filed by Gurcharanjit Singh and another petitioner. Among other things, it was contended by the petitioners that their father, Pritam Singh, tested Covid-positive on July 1. He was admitted to Rayat Bahra University (an isolation centre) at Hoshiarpur the next day. But he was shifted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, on July 5. The Bench was also told that one of the brothers was also admitted to the same ward.“On July 18, a message was received that the petitioners’ father has breathed his last at 11 pm on July 17. The petitioners received the mortal remains, reported to be that of their father, at Mukerian, which was transported in an ambulance. However, the mortal remains were found to be that of a woman,” it was added.The petitioners further contended that the woman’s body was shifted to a mortuary at Mukerian. They were hopeful that their father was still alive and admitted as a Covid patient at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar. Referring to the standard operating procedure, their counsel added the patient’s face was, in any case, required to be shown to the relatives before cremation.
21-07-2020||---||Moosewala again, FIR filed for glorifying guns||Chandigarh, July 20Previous cases against singerOn May 4, a video surfaced showing Moosewala firing at a shooting range in Badbar of Barnala districtFollowing this, the Dhanauala police registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against himAnother FIR was registered at Dhuri on May 5, after a new video showing him firing at Laddai Kothi shooting range surfacedThe state police are set to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking cancellation of the anticipatory bail granted in an Arms Act case to singer Sidhu Moosewala, against whom the Crime Branch filed another case on the charges of promoting violence and gun culture with his latest song “Sanju”, which was released on the social media a couple of days ago.Moosewala has been booked under Sections 188, 294, 504 and 120-B IPC at Phase 4 police station in Mohali.ADGP and Director, Punjab Bureau of Investigation, Arpit Shukla, said the singer had been booked as his latest song blatantly glorified the use of weapons. “The singer even boasts about the various FIRs, including the one under the Arms Act, registered against him. The police will soon file a petition for the cancelation of the anticipatory bail granted to Moosewala by the High Court,” he said.Shukla said in the new song, Moosewala makes explicit references to the case registered against him and news reports of Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt having been convicted and sentenced for similar offences.The ADGP said the High Court had already directed the police in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to ensure that no songs glorifying liquor, drugs and violence were played at live shows.Even CM Capt Amarinder Singh has expressed deep concerns over the propagation of violence and gun culture in Punjabi songs and has given clear directions to the police not to show any relaxation or concession towards such singers, he added.
21-07-2020||---||Amid curbs, farmers protest Centre’s ordinances in Bathinda||Bathinda, July 20Arhtiyas shut shopsAbohar: Over 300 offices of arhtiyas remained closed here on Monday, while farmers organised a tractor rally at Sadhuwali village to protest against the three farm ordinances.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti district president Amar Singh Bishnoi said the rally was organised as part of nationwide agitation against the ordinances.“We demand withdrawal of the farm ordinances passed by the Modi government as they are anti-farmers,” he said.Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today took out a tractor march outside the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner office against farm ordinances introduced by the Centre.Besides ordinances, farmers have been up in arms against the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill and hike in fuel prices.Dara Singh, a BKU leader, said, “Farm ordinances introduced by the Centre will abolish minimum support price (MSP) of crops and the existing marketing structure in Punjab. Farmers and labourers will suffer at the hands of private companies.”Another BKU leader, Sarup Singh, said the Centre should waive debt of farmers at the earliest.Navdeep Singh Jeeda, district chief, AAP, said, “At a time when the country is grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre introduced anti-farmer ordinances.” The AAP workers said the proposed Electricity Bill would put financial burden on farmers and Below Poverty Line (BPL) families.Meanwhile, farmers also took out a tractor march in Fazilka district. Gurbhej Singh Virk said the Essential Commodity Ordinance passed by the Central government would ruin farmers.Farmers said prices of produce should be given as per the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission and the Centre should slash rates of diesel and petrol.
21-07-2020||---||Sukhbir pretending to care for farming community: CM||Chandigarh, July 20Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday asked SAD chief Sukhbir Badal to stop “pretending to be concerned over the plight of the farmers, whose very existence was threatened by the farm ordinances passed by the Centre with the support of his party”.He alleged that having given its full backing to the ordinances, which was clearly the first step towards the elimination of the MSP regime, the SAD had lost the locus standi to even pretend to care about the farmers.Sukhbir should not forget that as Union Minister, his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, was part of the Cabinet meeting that stamped its approval on the ordinances that would “totally destroy” the Punjab’s farming community, he alleged.Ridiculing the SAD president’s offer to lead a delegation of farmer organisations to seek clarification from the Centre on MSP, the Chief Minister said it was evident that Sukhbir was unaware of the ground situation.The Chief Minister pointed out that the ordinances, which were against the India’s federal structure, were in line with the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, which had also suggested dismantling the MSP regime.Having implemented the recommendation on the ordinances, the inference was logical that the MSP elimination would soon follow, he said, adding that Sukhbir was conveniently choosing to ignore that in order to protect the interests of the SAD.Restore arhtiya commission to 2.5%Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has urged Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan to restore the commission of arhtiyas to the statutory norm of 2.5 per cent of the MSP. — TNSAAP slams sad chiefAAP has ridiculed the proposal of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to lead an all-party delegation to seek clarification from the Union Minister of Agriculture over the “anti-famers” ordinances being brought by the Modi government at the Centre.
21-07-2020||---||Capt misleading people, claims SAD||Muktsar, July 20SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today said both Union Minister for Agriculture and Home Minister have assured him that the farm ordinances will bring about no change in the existing MSP system in the state.False campaignThe Congress is misleading people to hide its government's failure in the last three and a half years. I appeal to the people to not fall into the trap of false campaign of both Congress and AAP. — Sukhbir Badal, SAD chiefHe urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to accompany him to Delhi to get clarification on the ordinances, and to stop “misleading” people.In a video message, Sukhbir today said, “The Union Minister for Agriculture has told us that he will make an announcement in the Parliament, wherein he would assure people that the ordinances will not put an end to the MSP regime. Besides, the state government’s tax and commission of arhtiyas will not be affected. Thus, I appeal to the Congress and AAP leaders to stop misleading people, and I urge them to come with me to Delhi and seek clarification from the Central Government on the farm ordinances under my leadership.”
21-07-2020||---||Can’t delist pupils over fee: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, July 20Issuing notice of motion on an appeal filed by the state of Punjab in school fee matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that students would not be struck off the school rolls due to non-payment of fee.The relief, however, came with a rider. It would be applicable only to students and parents, who filed an application before the school and the state regulator, showing financial difficulty.The direction, by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, is in sync with the Single Judge order, against which the state had filed the appeal. Justice Nirmaljit Kaur, in her order, had made it clear that no child would be deprived of attending the schools and online classes subject to the parent moving an application claiming financial hardship.The Bench, during the course of hearing, observed that not a single document, where an individual was facing hardship, was shown to it. Appearing before the Bench for private unaided schools, senior advocate Puneet Bali and Aashish Chopra contended that the process of lifting the lockdown started on June 8 and the plea of facing financial hardship had little force in it now.After hearing the parties, the Bench questioned the state on the number of parents employed in the public sector, where the salaries remained unaffected.The state had filed the appeal before the Division Bench after the Single Bench allowed the schools to charge fee irrespective of offering online education and to charge the actual expenses incurred.
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 381 new coronavirus cases, two deaths; state numbers inch closer to 11K||Punjab reported 381 cases of coronavirus and two deaths with 24 hours, the state’s evening bulletin said---a development that takes the state’s cases to 10,889.Ludhiana and Patiala each reported a new death, taking the state’s death toll to 263.Sangrur reported 74 new coronavirus cases---the highest of any district in the state on Tuesday.  Patiala (68), Ludhiana (65), Amritsar (56), Jalandhar (33) and SAS Nagar (25) also continued reporting an alarmingly high number of cases: the six districts together accounted for 84 per cent of Tuesday’s COVID-19 cases, Punjab’s COVID bulletin showed on Tuesday.Ropar (14), Gurdaspur (10), Fatehgarh Sahib (8), Tarn Taran (5), Bathinda (5), Hoshiarpur (2), Ferozepur (2), Kapurthala (1), Barnala (1) and Mansa (1) all reported new cases.  Thirty policemen and 16 troopers of the Border Security Force were among those testing positive.In Sangrur, 27 policemen and 26 millworkers tested positive. OF the rest, six were OPD patients, three were healthcare workers, eight were positive cases, two were classified as ILI (influenza-like illness), and two were interstate travellers.   Forty-four of Patiala’s 74 cases were contacts of previously diagnosed cases.  Nineteen were categorised as new cases, which means that there was neither any known contact nor travel history, and six were interstate travellers.Sixteen of Ludhiana’s 63 cases were classified as ILI (influenza-like illness), one was a contact of a previously diagnosed case, three were healthcare workers, and two were preoperative patients.Ludhiana now stands only a few short cases of 2,000.Three policemen were among the 25 people who tested positive in SAS Nagar. Of the rest of the district’s cases, thirteen were classified as new cases, two were ILI, and seven were contacts of known cases.Of Jalandhar’s 33, 18 were contacts of known cases and 15 were new cases.Sixteen of Amritsar’s 56 were BSF personnel. Of the rest, 22 were contacts of already diagnosed patients and 10 were classified as ILI.Hoshiapur reported 80 more positive cases later in the evening. District officials said sixty-seven of these were BSF troopers from BSF Sub-Training Centre at Kharkan Camp. The rest were from Garhshankar.  These, however, have yet to be added to the official tally.Sixty-one people are on oxygen support and 10 people are critical and on ventilator support, the bulletin says.Punjab’s cases have been steadily rising in July--- 48.8 per cent of state’s 10,889 cases (5,321 cases) have been reported in this month alone.For comparison, Punjab reported 3,305 coronavirus cases in June.Almost a quarter ---3.237--- of the state’s cases are still active.Four districts---Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala---have over 1,000 cases, and account for 56 per cent of Punjab’s cases.  District-wise breakup of cases now stands thus: Ludhiana (1989), Jalandhar (1736), Amritsar (1348), Patiala (1081), Sangrur (827), SAS Nagar (574), Gurdaspur (322), Pathankot (291), SBS Nagar (265), Hoshiarpur (288), Tarn Taran (234), Ferozepur (234), Fatehgarh Sahib (225), Faridkot (212), Moga (225), Bathinda (199), Muktsar (184), Kapurthala (158), Ropar (177), Fazilka (154), Barnala (84), and Mansa (81).Death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (48), Jalandhar (33), Amritsar (64), Sangrur (22), Patiala (16), Gurdaspur (12), Pathankot (10), SAS Nagar (12), Hoshiarpur (10), Kapurthala (8), Tarn Taran (6), Moga (5), Bathinda (4), Ferozepur (4), Fatehgarh Sahib (2),  Muktsar (1), Barnala (2), SBS Nagar (2), Ropar (1) and Fazilka (1).
21-07-2020||Karam Prakash||Rajindra Hospital gets Punjab’s first plasma bank, only few donors turn up||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 21Punjab’s first plasma bank for the coronavirus patients was inaugurated at Government Rajindra Hospital, here on Tuesday. However, only a few donors turned up at the hospital to donate the plasma.Donors are said to have been little ‘apprehensive’ for their safety to donate the plasma. Notably, only people who have already recovered from the virus can donate.Of the seven donors, who have agreed to donate, only two came forward to donate the plasma, on Tuesday. It has been learnt that 15 donors had agreed for donation, but only seven had antibodies in their plasma.A 51-year-old of Punjab police officer, who was the first to donate plasma, said, “People should come forward and donate plasma. It is a service to society. I have donated the plasma and I am absolutely healthy.”   Medical Education and Research Minister O P Soni, who participated in the inauguration of plasma bank through video conference, said that it was a big achievement for the state to have its own Plasma Bank with a facility of two machines for the purpose.Meanwhile, Dr Harjinder Singh, principal, Government Medical College, said the newly set up Plasma Bank has been equipped with two Plasma Therapy machines. “For antibody testing, we have plenty of antibody testing kits with Alisa Reader Machine. Apart from that, a latest and advanced version of chemiluminescence’s testing equipment would soon be available,” said Harjinder Singh.The processThe doctors first identify the positive patients who have recovered from the coronavirus. Thereafter, only healthy people, who do not have any other diseases and are below the age of 60 years, are selected for the antibody test to see if the patient has sufficient antibodies in the plasma. If the patient has required antibodies then only plasma is taken.The doctors store the plasma in a bank at -30 degrees Celsius, but, before that, they have to freeze it at -80 degrees.Dr Rajni Bassi, Nodal officer, Plasma Bank, said shelf-life of plasma would be one year—if stored at the required temperature. She said there was a myth that blood was taken from the donor, but that is not the case. In fact, only plasma (a component of blood) would be taken from the patient, he added.Who can donate?Dr RPS Sibia, in charge, Medicine Department, explained that a healthy person, who was symptomatic of coronavirus, could donate plasma—after 28 days of the recovery. However, people with co-morbidity and pregnant women cannot donate the plasma. He said that the donor could again donate after 15 days of the first donation. He said that plasma therapy is given to only to mild and critical patients.
21-07-2020||London||Family of 3-year-old British Sikh girl killed in car crash raise over 2,700 pounds||The family of a three-year-old British Sikh girl who died after being hit by a car have raised over 2,700 pounds for the children's hospital in Birmingham that tried to save her life.Briya Kaur Gill suffered serious head injuries when the car collided with her last Friday in the town of Leamington Spa in Warwickshire. Emergency services rushed her to the Birmingham City Children's Hospital where she died on Saturday.A 32-year-old woman was arrested at the scene on suspicion of causing serious injury by dangerous driving and released on bail as Warwickshire Police said a thorough investigation into the collision remains ongoing."We truly appreciate the outpouring of love, for now, please respect our privacy and give us time to grieve. Our world has lost its colour and our lives will never be the same," Gill's family said in a statement released via the police force."Our beautiful girl has become the most beautiful angel. Briya touched the hearts of every person she met and she lived a lifetime within her three years," they said.They have set up an online 'Just Giving' fundraiser page in memory of the toddler, which reads: "Thank you to all of the staff at Birmingham City Children's Hospital, the care and overwhelming support they provide is not repayable and we cannot express our gratitude to them." Superintendent Emma Bastone of Warwickshire Police urged witnesses to come forward to help the police with inquiries."Our thoughts remain with the family of the little girl following this terrible incident. We have launched a thorough investigation into how the collision occurred and we're keen to speak to anyone who witnessed the incident or saw the child or the car in the moments leading up to the collision," said Bastone."We're also keen to speak to the driver of a silver or blue Mazda we believe was driving behind the Skoda at the time of the collision but left the scene. We'd like anyone in the area with CCTV or dashcam footage from the time of the incident to get in touch with us as soon as possible so we can check it for evidence," she said. PTI The family of three year old Briya Kaur Gill who died after a car collided with her in Brunswick Street, Leamington on Friday 17 July have issued a tribute to her https://t.co/sb91CCnZBj pic.twitter.com/uVapvE1mXp
21-07-2020||Agartala||Tripura CM apologises for his remark on Punjabis, Jats; says proud of these communities||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Tuesday apologised for his statements comparing Punjabis and Jats with Bengalis, and said he did not intend to hurt sentiments.Deb had stirred a controversy by saying Punjabis and Jats are physically strong but less brainy while Bengalis are known to be very intelligent.In a series of tweets in Hindi on Tuesday morning, the chief minister sought forgiveness for his remarks and said many of his friends were Punjabis and Jats, and he is proud of people hailing from the two communities."I always salute the contributions of the Punjabi and Jat communities in the freedom struggle of the country. And I can never imagine raising questions on the role played by these two communities in advancing India," Deb tweeted."I had expressed the views some people have about them. I am proud of Punjabi and Jat communities. I have lived among them for quite some time... If my statement has hurt anyone's feelings, I apologise for that," the chief minister said on Twitter.Addressing a programme at the Agartala Press Club on Sunday, Deb had said every community in India is known for its certain type and character.A video clip of the chief minister's statement had gone viral on social media."For Bengal or Bengalis, it is said that one should not challenge them when it is regarding intelligence. Bengalis are known as very intelligent and it is their identity," Deb was heard saying in the clip.Punjabis and Jats are known for their physical strength, the BJP leader had said."When we talk about the people of Punjab, we say he's a Punjabi, a Sardar. They may have less intelligence but are very strong. One can't win them over by strength but with love and affection. A large number of Jats live in Haryana. So what do people say about Jats? Jats are less intelligent but are very healthy. If one challenges a Jat, he will bring a gun from his house," he had said.Reacting to his remark, Pijush Biswas, the Congress state unit chief, said Deb should be more cautious while making a statement."His remarks are unacceptable. He is holding a very responsible post and should not make such comments. He should be careful while making a statement," Biswas told reporters.On Monday, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had said that Deb, with his controversial remark, has insulted the "Sikh brothers" of Punjab and the Jat community of Haryana."This is the BJP's lowly mindset. Why are Khattar ji and Dushyant Chautala silent? Where are Modi ji and Naddaji? Apologize, take action," Surjewala had tweeted.Earlier, too, Chief Minister Deb had courted controversies on multiple occasions.In 2018, he said internet and satellite television existed in the time of the Mahabharata.He had questioned the crowning of Diana Hayden as "Miss World" in 1997 and alleged that international beauty pageants were a farce.Last year, he claimed that Mughals intended to destroy the cultural wonders of the state by "bombing" its arts and architectures. PTIदेश के स्वतंत्रता संग्राम में पंजाबी और जाट समुदाय के योगदान को मैं सदैव नमन करता हूं। और भारत को आगे बढ़ाने में इन दोनों समुदायों ने जो भूमिका निभाई है उसपर प्रश्न खड़ा करने की कभी मैं सोच भी नहीं सकता हूं।
21-07-2020||Amritsar||Portrait of semi-naked women removed from Jallianwala Bagh gallery||Following criticism, the portrait of two semi-naked women, striking poses identical to those in Ajanta and Ellora caves, placed on one of the walls of the under-renovation gallery of Jallianwala Bagh, has been removed.Apart from this being against the spirit of the site, another blunder made was that the objectionable picture was placed adjacent to the portraits of Guru Nanak and Maharaja Ranjit Singh.Former MP Tarlochan Singh, who is one of the members of PM-led Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, said: "Before opening the monument for the public, I propose that all the members and other stakeholders should make a prior visit to the site to make sure that nothing objectionable should be there which does not commensurate with the spirit of the place”, he said.The under-renovation site has been closed for the public since February 15.Claiming to maintain its 'historic composition', the work is being executed under the supervision of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).The Centre has allocated Rs 20 crore for the first phase of the project aimed to be completed by July 31. The Bagh is expected to be opened by August 15.Tarksheel Society head Sumit Singh said that though the portrait was removed, this lapse demanded stern action against those responsible for it.On Monday, the International Sarv Kamboj Samaj had shot off separate complaints to the Akal Takht and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the chairman of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust.Shinder Pal Singh alias Bobby Kamboj, president of Kamboj Samaj said that it was a matter of national shame to install such obnoxious portraits.An official confirmed that the portrait has been removed following objections from several quarters.Following this, the SDM Amritsar-1 Vikas Hira had paid a visit to the site on Monday evening. Though he avoided talking about the controversial portraits, he assured the issue would be resolved after the intervention of higher authorities.In a hard-hitting statement issued here, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Punjab, Akshay Sharma demanded a thorough probe to ascertain how and who approved the obnoxious images to be put up at Jallianwala Bagh.“Don't you know the historical significance of this monument and its role in Indian freedom history? This clearly shows the attitude and respect the BJP, that commands the Jallianwala Bagh Trust, has for our martyrs. The BJP has always used sacrifices of our martyrs for advancing their political agenda”, he said.
21-07-2020||---||Govt schools show better pass percentage as Punjab board announces Class 12 result||Chandigarh, July 21The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Tuesday declared Class 12 board examination results on the basis of the best performing subject formula.While elaborating the details, School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said of the total 2,86,378 students who appeared for the examination, 2,60,547 students — 90.98 per cent — passed this year.The minister said this is for the consecutive second year that government schools continued to be ahead of affiliated and associated schools in terms of pass percentage as 94.32 per cent students of government schools passed the examinations while 91.84 per cent and 87.04 per cent students of affiliated and associated schools, respectively, passed. He added that 92.77 per cent regular students excelled the Class 12 examinations.Vijay Inder Singla said: “After the formation of Congress government in Punjab, we are working tirelessly to uplift the standard of education under the able guidance of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Our efforts have started showing fruitful results as every year, we register growth in the pass percentage of board examinations.”He added that in 2017, the pass percentage of Class 12 was below 63 per cent, which registered slight growth in 2018 by rising up to 65.97 per cent. He also said that in the 2019 results, 86.41 per cent students passed the exams, which was notably higher than in previous years.The state School Education Minister said as examinations of some subjects got cancelled, the PSEB had adopted the best performing subjects formula.Elaborating the formula, he said if any student had appeared in exams of four subjects, then the average of the best three subjects would be awarded to him in the subjects for which exams got cancelledHe also said the same formula had been implemented on those students who had appeared in exams for division improvement in more than one subject. He added that last chance compartment students had been declared pass on the basis of the average of already passed subjects.The School Education Minister also informed that the result of those students, who had applied for improvement or additional subject in only one subject, had not been declared as they would be given another chance to appear in the examinations once the situation got normal.The cabinet minister informed that the pass percentage of students belonging to the rural areas was also higher than urban area students. The rural areas recorded 93.39 pass percentage while the urban areas accounted for 91.96 pass percentage.He added that this year, 68.26 per cent students of open-school category passed the Class 12 exams.
21-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Meet Jahnavi, a Class XII student who runs an NGO||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 20A Class XII girl from the city has set up an NGO ‘Word Builders’ that has been imparting courses for dropouts and slum children of not only Jalandhar, but Bihar, Mumbai and Bengaluru as well. She is helping them improve their employability skills.A commerce student of Cambridge International School for Girls, Jahnavi Mahajan, has already imparted six types of 12-hour courses to 300 students, including those on improving speech and writing skills in English, using email, making power point presentations, HTML coding, appearing for interviews and honing business skills.“They are all children who have studied in Classes VI to XII, who wanted to continue with their studies but were deprived of any such opportunity. We used the ‘Tribe for Good’ programme to help identify such children, who were keen on learning but were awaiting some help. We specially designed short-term courses for them and started one-to-one, one-hour learning sessions for them through Zoom or Whatsapp,” says Jahnavi, who has set up a team of 25 teenagers like her.Daughter of sports goods exporter Ashish Mahajan, Jahnavi said when she started the project in August 2019, she asked those interested in her NGO to apply for joining.“About 50 youths applied and on the basis of their seriousness to continue in the long run, I selected 25 of them who are studying in Classes X to XII. Having set up a team, we collaborated with renowned NGOs such as Tara in New Delhi, Oscar Foundation in Mumbai, Sakshi in Bihar, New Hope in Bengaluru and Saraswati Sanstha Niketan in Jalandhar. Having initially developed links with slum communities through these NGOs, we now have our own network of slum dwellers and children in six states,” she says.Jahnavi adds: “While we started this project last year, it took a new pace from mid-March onwards in the lockdown, when we got a lot of time to improve our set up because of the lockdown. We named our courses in a very innovative way so as to connect with the children – we call English language programme as ‘Angrezi medium’, business skills as ‘Mann ki Baat’, coding and technology programme as Digiwave.”While Jahnavi is herself the curator of Computorian programme and makes sure that she spends 9-10 hours a week on it, she has in her team Apeejay School student Harsahib Sodhi as curator for Angrezi Medium and Digiwave programme, Aaliah Janeja as curator for socioholic and Mann ki Baat programmes besides other 23 members. Having herself designed her NGO portal, she says she had learnt coding and developed a mobile application too.“Next year, I plan to go to the US and take admission to an undergraduate course, which will help me in reaching my goal to launch a technological set up that can have an impact on society,” she said, adding that it was really satisfying working with the underprivileged kids, especially when they send back a voice message to you telling you to send them another project assignment.Having done some exercises for fund raising for slum kids as well, she says at least one of the parents had a smart phone, which was made available to children at least for an hour on Saturdays and Sundays, through which the entire programme was carried on.
21-07-2020||---||Soldier among 4 held by Punjab Police for peddling||Chandigarh, July 20The Punjab Police have arrested an Army soldier and three others for their involvement in illegal arms and drug smuggling. The racket was busted last week in which a BSF jawan and three others were nabbed by the Jalandhar (Rural) police.Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said Ramandeep Singh, who is a soldier, was apprehended from Bareilly in UP, on the basis of disclosures made by BSF Constable Sumit Kumar.He said three aides of Ramandeep, including Taranjot Singh alias Tanna, Jagjit Singh alias Laddi and Satinder Singh alias Kala would be brought on production warrants. Around Rs 10 lakh has been recovered from Kala thus taking the total amount seized to Rs 42.30 lakh.Gupta said Sumit had revealed during interrogation that Ramandeep lured him into peddling. The duo was lodged together in Gurdaspur jail after murdering a person.Gupta said Kala was lodged in Amritsar jail for sometime where he had come in contact of Maulvi alias Mulla, a Pakistani national, who had introduced him to smugglers. He said Kala was shifted to Kapurthala jail where he befriended Tanna.The DGP said Sumit used to send photographs of fencing and drug-delivery locations to Tanna and Kala. After delivery of the consignment at a pre-determined spot, his accomplices used to collect it and Laddi used to provide his car to transport the contraband. “The accused have smuggled 42 packets of heroin and a 9 mm pistol (with 80 live rounds and two live rounds of .12 bore gun),” the DGP said.He said out of Rs 39 lakh received as drug proceeds from Pakistan-based smugglers, Rs 32.30 lakh was to be distributed between Sumit and Ramandeep.
21-07-2020||Abohar||Drugs seized near Indo-Pak border||The 124 Battalion of the BSF today seized three packets of contraband, weighing over 3 kg, in Abohar sector near the Indo-Pak border. The contraband is suspected to be heroin. A spokesperson said the BSF had seized over 328 kg of heroin on the Punjab border so far this year. —OC
21-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Amloh MLA: Have taken up waiver issue||Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh today said industrialists in Mandi Gobindgarh should not worry about the circular of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission regarding reversing government decision of waiving fixed charges. He said he had taken up the matter with Chief Secretary Seema Jain, Principal Secretary to CM Tejvir Singh and the CMO. —OC
21-07-2020||---||Gangster Neeta Deol tries to hang self inside Nabha jail, booked||Patiala, July 20Case against wifeNeeta Deol, his wife were booked a few days back when a mobile phone was recovered from himThe Nabha police have registered a case against Kulpreet Singh, alias Neeta Deol, the main accused in the 2017 Nabha jailbreak case, for allegedly trying to commit suicide after a case was registered against his wife for trying to hand over a mobile phone to the gangster inside the jail. He has since been re-arrested.Lodged in the New Nabha jail, Deol was rescued by Constable Sukhchain Singh, who was on a vigil inside the barracks when he saw the gangster trying to hang himself from the ceiling fan on Sunday. “He raised an alarm and the gangster was rescued,” a jail official said.A case has been registered against Deol under Section 309 of the IPC in Nabha. A couple of days ago, he was booked by the police after a mobile phone was recovered from him. His wife was also named in that FIR.“We have registered a case against the jailed gangster for trying to commit suicide after receiving a complaint from the jail officials,” said Nabha DSP Rajesh Chibber. “A separate probe is on to ascertain how the mobile phones reached the jail to a gangster who is already part of a jailbreak case,” he said.Meanwhile, intelligence agencies are already probing the role of jail officials after mobile phones were recovered from inside Punjab jails and that too from high-profile criminals.
21-07-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Rs 6.34 cr spent in 9 years, training centre hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Project aided by World BankIn March 2012, the Centre upgraded the project and its cost was revised to Rs9.90 croreThe Centre released Rs4.25 crore and the project was to be completed by October 2014Later, more funds were released, but the state Finance Department failed to utilise theseClose on the heels of state Accountant General pointing out the wastage of Rs 75 crore in upgrading infrastructure in seven polytechnics, the audit department has flagged the failure of the state government in timely utilisation of the Central grant for constructing a regional instructors’ training institute.The institute could not be made operational despite spending Rs 6.34 crore in the past nine years.Under a World Bank-assisted scheme, the institute for the training of craft instructors was approved in 2011 at a cost of Rs 3.50 crore, which was to be shared between the Centre and the state in the ratio of 75:25.The Centre released the first instalment of Rs 81 lakh to be utilised within a year. Adding a matching grant of Rs 18 lakh, the state Technical Education Department gave approval for the construction of a hostel block at cost of Rs 2.81 crore to be completed by October 2012. But due to non-release of remaining Rs 1.19 crore, the work remained suspended.In March 2012, the Centre upgraded the scheme and approved a revised proposal of the state to set up a bigger institute for trainers under the vocational training improvement project. The project cost was revised to Rs 9.90 crore and the Centre released Rs 4.25 crore. The project was to be completed by October 2014.After two years, the state released Rs 4.50 crore (including its share) for the construction of a workshop block, parking and roads. The building was handed over to the department in October 2018. But for the want of additional funds of Rs 5.70 crore for supplementary civil works, machinery and furniture, the building could not be put to use so far.In March 2018, the state released Rs 1.13 crore against the requirement of Rs 1.19 crore for completing the pending work of the hostel block. The work is still not complete.In September 2018, the Centre released Rs 2.24 crore for completing the institute. But the state Finance Department utilised just Rs 47 lakh. As a result, the training institute could not be made functional.
21-07-2020||
||Suicide abetment case: Arrest panchayat members, says women panel||Jalandhar, July 20  Taking cognisance of the news reports of a woman ending her life at Bajuha Khurd village after being allegedly humiliated by the village panchayat, the Punjab State Commission for Women has ordered the suspension of all members of the panchayat and filing of FIRs against them who saw the woman being beaten up. The commission has written to the DGP, Punjab, to suspend and arrest all nine members of the Bajuha Khurd panchayat (instead of the three already booked). The commission has sought a report on action taken in the case within 15 days.  An FIR had been filed against four persons (three panchayat members and a neighbour of the deceased) under Section 306 of the IPC at the Sadar police station Nakodar. So far, only one member has been arrested, while the rest are absconding.  Notably, days after being allegedly humiliated during a panchayat hearing of a dispute, the 35-year-old mother of three children had committed suicide.  Speaking to The Tribune, Manisha Gulati, Chairman of the commission, said: “The entire panchayat should be booked. Even the 45 people who watched the incident are equally responsible. We have called for a detailed inquiry and immediate arrest of those absconding. The woman was publicly embarassed and driven to suicide. She was chased and people’s homes were searched to locate her. The woman had tried to approach the police for action. We have also recommended that in future, officers who delay listening to complaints, especially from women, be dealt with strictly.”
21-07-2020||---||Mystery shrouds granthi’s death, kin demand probe||Sangrur, July 20Six days after the death of a 21-year-old Sehjada village gurdwara granthi under mysterious circumstances at a Mohali gurdwara, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema today met the family members of the deceased.The family members claimed that the victim, Lovpreet Singh, was summoned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), a day before his death.Sukhpal Khaira, president, Punjab Ekta Party (PEP), who also met the family, alleged misuse of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to implicate poor Sikh youngsters. Cheema demanded a thorough investigation by a High Court judge.The family members claimed that Lovpreet did not have any criminal record. They said cops from Lehra police station came to their house on July 11 and issued a notice to him to appear before the NIA in Chandigarh on July 13.His father Kewal Singh said: “Since my son was innocent, he met NIA officials. The next day, his body was found from a room at a Mohali gurdwara. He could never commit suicide and we demand a thorough investigation into his death.”Sangrur SSP Dr Sandeep Garg said: “I have directed the SP (D) to conduct a thorough investigation to ascertain the reasons behind Lovpreet’s death.”
21-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Can include biological mother’s name in passport||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20The Punjab and Haryana HC has made it clear that passport manual merely contained guidelines and alterations could be made in a passport at a subsequent stage even though the manual said a child had the option to change the particulars while applying for passport after attaining maturity.Justice BS Walia also directed the Regional Passport Officer to process an applicant’s request and issue a fresh passport reflecting her biological mother’s name instead of her stepmother. For the purpose, Justice Walia set 10-day deadline.The applicant had moved the HC against the Union Government and other respondents for the issuance of a fresh passport. Among other things, she stated that her biological mother’s name was mentioned in the birth certificate, educational certificates and Aadhaar card.The Bench was told that the petitioner-applicant’s biological mother expired in May 2002, after which her father remarried. The passport was issued to the petitioner in July 2004, reflecting her stepmother’s name after her father applied for the same on her behalf.The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the petitioner was only seeking incorporation of her biological mother’s name instead of the stepmother to avoid difficulty during travel or in studies abroad.Justice Walia asserted her biological mother’s name was mentioned in other documents, and prejudice would not be caused to either of the parties in the eventuality of her biological mother’s name being mentioned in the passport.
21-07-2020||---||Punjab Agriculture Department starts drive to check  fake pesticides||Moga, July 20The Agriculture Department has launched a drive to keep a tab on sale of spurious fertilisers and pesticides in the state. The department’s move to check bills and collect samples of pesticides from farmers had proved beneficial during the Rabi season.Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary (Agriculture), has issued directions to all the Deputy Commissioners and field officials to strictly implement the Insecticides Act, 1968, and the Fertiliser Control Act, 1985, which makes it mandatory for dealers and cooperative societies to issue bills with regard to the sale of fertilisers and pesticides to farmers.Moga CAO Dr Balwinder Singh has constituted various teams of agro-scientists who check packaging of pesticides, besides, collecting samples from farmers.“We have been asked to ensure compliance of the Insecticides Act, 1968, and the Fertiliser Control Act, 1985, to stop the sale of fertilisers and agrochemicals without billing,” said Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, Plant Protection Officer, Moga.
21-07-2020||---||Bathinda zone Powercom staff threaten protest, seek regular jobs||Bathinda, July 20Members of the Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Committee (Powercom zone Bathinda) have threatened to launch demonstrations against the state government over non-fulfillment of their long-pending demand to regularise their services.In a press release, Gurvinder Singh, president of the union, said: “Despite rendering their services on meagre salaries for the past many years in the powercom department, their jobs were not regularised by the state government. During the previous SAD-BJP government, the Welfare Act, 2016, was framed, but never implemented owing to the model code of conduct ahead of the election.”“Besides regularisation of jobs, we demand that the government ensures that every contractual worker has a health insurance cover in the wake of Covid-19. If the government fails to fulfil our demands, we will intensify our stir in the coming weeks,” added Singh.
21-07-2020||Mohali||CBI court adjourns hearing in Bargari case to July 29||A special CBI court here directed the state, complainant and accused to share the copies of replies filed by them with each other on the application filed by the CBI for restraining the SIT from probing the Bargari sacrilege case.  The Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, GS Sekhon while adjourning the case to July 29,  warned all counsels that “the party who will not argue the matter on the next date of hearing will be presumed to be not interested party and the court will proceed as per law.”  The reply filed by district attorneys Sanjiv Batra and RK Salwan assisted by Sarabit Singh, AIG, for Director Bureau of Investigation, Punjab, for the state alleged that the CBI had in an illegal and unjustified manner withheld the handing over of the case files. They prayed before the court that in view of the orders passed by the SC and the HC till date, the CBI had no jurisdiction over the present matter and had in an illegal and unjustified manner withheld the handing over of the files relating to the case. They submitted that the said actions of the CBI clearly amounted to contempt of the orders passed by the SC, HC and the state reserves its rights to take action with regard to the same. — TNS
21-07-2020||Mohali||Spat over Rs 40 to beggar led to Fortis staffer’s murder in Mohali||A day after a Fortis Hospital staff nurse was strangled to death in front of a liquor shop in Sector 68 here, the police arrested two suspects in this connection today. They have been identified as Kamaldeep Grewal (29) and Rinku (19).The duo was staying in a paying guest (PG) accommodation at Kumbra village here. Kamaldeep hailed from Jaito in Punjab and was working as a photographer, while Rinku was a migrant, said the police. The duo was produced before a court, which remanded them in three-day police custody.Cops yet to nab suspects in gardener’s murderThe police are yet to arrest the suspects involved in the murder of a gardener, Raja Ram (30). The victim was allegedly attacked with the handle of a hand pump near the YPS chowk here on June 30.According to the police, three more suspects involved in the murder case are yet to be arrested. DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal said: “Other suspects will be arrested soon. We have already rounded up some persons on suspicion and we are confirming their role in the matter.”The incident took place late on Saturday night when the victim, Arun, was returning home after his duty at Fortis Hospital. He had stopped in front of a liquor shop in Sector 68 near the Forest Complex.The suspects allegedly thrashed the victim and strangled him to death. Later, they fled from the spot, leaving Arun in a pool of blood. Bystanders shifted the victim to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.According to the police, Arun and the suspects were standing in front of the liquor vend. Meanwhile, a beggar came there seeking alms. One of the suspects gave him Rs40. Arun objected to it, saying there was no need to give him money as he would waste it in buying liquor. This led to heated arguments between both parties. Later, the suspects, who were already under the influence of liquor, thrashed Arun and strangled him to death.
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab says no to Chandigarh’s weekend curfew move||The Punjab Government has not accepted the UT Administration’s proposal for imposing weekend curfew in the tricity.Keeping in view the sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration was planning to impose a total curfew on weekends from 7 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said he had written to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab and Haryana to agree to the UT’s proposal for a curfew in the tricity on weekends.“Weekend curfew only in Chandigarh will not be effective, unless it is simultaneously imposed in Mohali and Panchkula,” he said. Confirming the development, Parida said the Punjab Government had turned down its proposal, whereas a response from the Haryana Government was still awaited. During a review meeting, there was a view after discussion with doctors that since there was a lack of adequate compliance about social distancing and wearing a face mask, there was no option but to go for a total curfew on weekends in the tricity. It has become unavoidable to break the chain and check the sudden surge in Covid cases in the tricity. However, the final decision would be taken by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday.Badnore directed the Director General of Police to conduct more flag marches in various colonies and sectors to create awareness among people regarding precautions to be taken against Covid-19. He also directed to tighten security in various hospitals so that health workers feel fearless.The Administrator directed that special care should be taken to locate and examine the vulnerable population, particularly senior citizens, who are likely to have co-morbidities. Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, stated that they had completed second round of door-to-door screening in Mani Majra. They would now start third round of door-to-door screening in Sector 45. —TNS
21-07-2020||Balwant Garg||70K ‘fake’ pensioners in Punjab pilfer Rs 162 cr, recovery ordered||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 20Large-scale pilfering of funds has come to light in Punjab with the Department of Social Security and Development of Women and Children identifying 70,137 “fake” pensioners drawing Rs 162.35 crore in old-age pension illegally.The Special Secretary in the department today wrote to all deputy commissioners directing them to initiate the process of recovery from such beneficiaries.A bulk of these pensioners is from Sangrur district (12,573), where Rs 26.63 crore has been siphoned over eight years, i.e. from 2009 to 2017. The least number of cases have been found in Pathankot (116).Sources in the department said the government had issued a notification in June 2017 to investigate and identify dubious pensioners. The department has now asked the DCs to constitute district-level panels led by district social security officers to review the recovery process every 15 days. Each officer concerned will constitute a team for the purpose.In cases where young individuals have been found to have received pension, the committee will check their proof of age and relevant documents before making the recovery. The recovery will start immediately in cases where beneficiaries have concealed their source of income at the time of applying for pension. For individuals who have withheld details of landholding, the amount will be recovered by way of land revenue arrears.
21-07-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||COVID-19: Violations lead to spike in 5 districts, Punjab Government reworks strategy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Violating rulesThere is little compliance on wearing of masks or adhering to the norms laid down for social gatheringsWedding ceremonies and social gatherings are held within micro-containment zonesWith Punjab cities driving up the number of Covid cases, the state government has now reworked its strategy for controlling the spread. The biggest hindrance, however, is clearly the unwillingness of people to follow the rules.There is little compliance on wearing of masks properly, maintaining social distancing or even adhering to the norms laid down for social gatherings. On Saturday, a wedding was held within a micro-containment zone where neither the hosts nor the 100 guests invited for the function wore masks or maintained social distancing. Several other such incidents are being reported regularly.Over the past one week, nearly 70 per cent of all fresh cases were reported from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali. As the number of daily cases seems to be hovering around 300, the state has formed technical committees with representation from the World Health Organisation (WHO) in all these districts.The administrative officials in these districts have been asked to speed up testing, with a daily limit of 10,150 tests each. Dr Rajiv Bhaskar, spokesperson for the state government on Covid-19, said rapid antigen testing had started in all these districts.Hospitals in Ludhiana, which has the highest number of 1,926 cases (640 active), are finding it difficult to accommodate patients. Civil Surgeon, Dr Rajesh Bagga said they were using a three-pronged strategy to deal with the pandemic – maximum sampling, campaign to persuade people to get tested and marking micro-containment and containment zones.Mohali too is seeing another wave of infections. Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, said their strategy was to ensure that the people cooperate in following the rules. “We are tracking patients with co-morbid conditions and referring them to tertiary care hospitals,” he said.
21-07-2020||---||25 policemen test positive in Sangrur||Chandigarh, July 20The state reported 411 Covid-19 cases, including 25 policemen from Sangrur, in the last 24 hours.According to sources, 25 policemen posted in the Lehra sub-division of the district have tested positive for Covid-19, but the Health Department authorities did not share the details till late evening. The cops who have tested positive include a DSP.“I have ordered the sampling of all cops to prevent further spread of infection,” said Ramvir, DC, Sangrur.With these cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases has reached 10,510 in the state. Apart from that, 58 patients are on oxygen support and 10 are not ventilator support.With eight deaths in the last 24 hours, the state count of causalities has reached 262. Two deaths were reported from Gurdaspur, one each from Moga, Ludhiana, Sangrur, Pathankot, Amritsar and SAS Nagar.Patiala again reported an alarming number of positive cases. The district reported 94 cases on Monday, thereby taking the district tally to 1,046. The number of positive cases in Patiala has doubled in 10 days. In Ludhiana, one Covid positive patient lost his life and 83 more tested positive. A 62-year-old patient died in Amritsar.
21-07-2020||---||Three-pronged plan to combat spread in jails of Punjab||Chandigarh, July 20The Prisons Department has chalked out a three-pronged strategy to effectively combat the Covid-19 situation in prisons across the state.A state-level monitoring team and district-level teams have already been constituted to monitor the situation and address the problems being faced by the staff as well as prisoners in their day-to-day functioning at the ground level.Editorial:Decongesting prisons: Pandemic demands considerate approachIn compliance with the directions of the Supreme Court, around 11,500 prisoners have been released on parole/interim bail since March as per the recommendations made by the high-powered committee constituted by the apex court.In wake of maximum Covid-19 cases coming from Ludhiana, the District Jail, Sangrur, has been vacated to further quarantine all prisoners of the Special Jail, Ludhiana, for 14 days, re-test them for third time and then send them to regular jails.As many as 1,362 officials have been tested, of which reports of 564 have been received and seven found positive and reports of 821 personnel are still pending.Nearly 70 prisoners have been found positive in jails across the state. However, as per results so far, none of the prisoners seem to have contracted Covid inside jails. Almost 5,479 prisoners have been tested and reports of 4,287 have come out negative, while the reports of the rest of them are awaited.Fazilka DC office closed for publicFazilka: Panic spread at the District Administrative Complex on Monday after father of an employee posted in e-Governance branch in the Deputy Commissioner office tested Covid-19 positive. Sources said the employee has not reported to work from the last one week. Public dealing has been banned at the administrative complex, which houses around 24 departments. Staff of various departments has been asked to sit at a main gate to address quarries of visitors. An official claimed that routine works were being carried by employees inside their respective offices. OC
21-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Sons allege father alive, handed over woman’s body||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Two brothers today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging that the body handed over to them after their father’s purported Covid death was actually that of a woman and he was still alive and undergoing treatment at an Amritsar hospital.Taking cognisance of the matter, Justice Vivek Puri asked the state counsel to verify the facts before filing a detailed response in the matter. Justice Puri also put the state and other respondents on notice before fixing July 22 as the next date of hearing.The matter was brought to the court’s notice after a petition was filed by Gurcharanjit Singh and another petitioner. Among other things, it was contended by the petitioners that their father, Pritam Singh, tested Covid-positive on July 1. He was admitted to Rayat Bahra University (an isolation centre) at Hoshiarpur the next day. But he was shifted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, on July 5. The Bench was also told that one of the brothers was also admitted to the same ward.“On July 18, a message was received that the petitioners’ father has breathed his last at 11 pm on July 17. The petitioners received the mortal remains, reported to be that of their father, at Mukerian, which was transported in an ambulance. However, the mortal remains were found to be that of a woman,” it was added.The petitioners further contended that the woman’s body was shifted to a mortuary at Mukerian. They were hopeful that their father was still alive and admitted as a Covid patient at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar. Referring to the standard operating procedure, their counsel added the patient’s face was, in any case, required to be shown to the relatives before cremation.
21-07-2020||---||Moosewala again, FIR filed for glorifying guns||Chandigarh, July 20Previous cases against singerOn May 4, a video surfaced showing Moosewala firing at a shooting range in Badbar of Barnala districtFollowing this, the Dhanauala police registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against himAnother FIR was registered at Dhuri on May 5, after a new video showing him firing at Laddai Kothi shooting range surfacedThe state police are set to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking cancellation of the anticipatory bail granted in an Arms Act case to singer Sidhu Moosewala, against whom the Crime Branch filed another case on the charges of promoting violence and gun culture with his latest song “Sanju”, which was released on the social media a couple of days ago.Moosewala has been booked under Sections 188, 294, 504 and 120-B IPC at Phase 4 police station in Mohali.ADGP and Director, Punjab Bureau of Investigation, Arpit Shukla, said the singer had been booked as his latest song blatantly glorified the use of weapons. “The singer even boasts about the various FIRs, including the one under the Arms Act, registered against him. The police will soon file a petition for the cancelation of the anticipatory bail granted to Moosewala by the High Court,” he said.Shukla said in the new song, Moosewala makes explicit references to the case registered against him and news reports of Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt having been convicted and sentenced for similar offences.The ADGP said the High Court had already directed the police in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to ensure that no songs glorifying liquor, drugs and violence were played at live shows.Even CM Capt Amarinder Singh has expressed deep concerns over the propagation of violence and gun culture in Punjabi songs and has given clear directions to the police not to show any relaxation or concession towards such singers, he added.
21-07-2020||---||Amid curbs, farmers protest Centre’s ordinances in Bathinda||Bathinda, July 20Arhtiyas shut shopsAbohar: Over 300 offices of arhtiyas remained closed here on Monday, while farmers organised a tractor rally at Sadhuwali village to protest against the three farm ordinances.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti district president Amar Singh Bishnoi said the rally was organised as part of nationwide agitation against the ordinances.“We demand withdrawal of the farm ordinances passed by the Modi government as they are anti-farmers,” he said.Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today took out a tractor march outside the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner office against farm ordinances introduced by the Centre.Besides ordinances, farmers have been up in arms against the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill and hike in fuel prices.Dara Singh, a BKU leader, said, “Farm ordinances introduced by the Centre will abolish minimum support price (MSP) of crops and the existing marketing structure in Punjab. Farmers and labourers will suffer at the hands of private companies.”Another BKU leader, Sarup Singh, said the Centre should waive debt of farmers at the earliest.Navdeep Singh Jeeda, district chief, AAP, said, “At a time when the country is grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre introduced anti-farmer ordinances.” The AAP workers said the proposed Electricity Bill would put financial burden on farmers and Below Poverty Line (BPL) families.Meanwhile, farmers also took out a tractor march in Fazilka district. Gurbhej Singh Virk said the Essential Commodity Ordinance passed by the Central government would ruin farmers.Farmers said prices of produce should be given as per the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission and the Centre should slash rates of diesel and petrol.
21-07-2020||---||Sukhbir pretending to care for farming community: CM||Chandigarh, July 20Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday asked SAD chief Sukhbir Badal to stop “pretending to be concerned over the plight of the farmers, whose very existence was threatened by the farm ordinances passed by the Centre with the support of his party”.He alleged that having given its full backing to the ordinances, which was clearly the first step towards the elimination of the MSP regime, the SAD had lost the locus standi to even pretend to care about the farmers.Sukhbir should not forget that as Union Minister, his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, was part of the Cabinet meeting that stamped its approval on the ordinances that would “totally destroy” the Punjab’s farming community, he alleged.Ridiculing the SAD president’s offer to lead a delegation of farmer organisations to seek clarification from the Centre on MSP, the Chief Minister said it was evident that Sukhbir was unaware of the ground situation.The Chief Minister pointed out that the ordinances, which were against the India’s federal structure, were in line with the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, which had also suggested dismantling the MSP regime.Having implemented the recommendation on the ordinances, the inference was logical that the MSP elimination would soon follow, he said, adding that Sukhbir was conveniently choosing to ignore that in order to protect the interests of the SAD.Restore arhtiya commission to 2.5%Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has urged Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan to restore the commission of arhtiyas to the statutory norm of 2.5 per cent of the MSP. — TNSAAP slams sad chiefAAP has ridiculed the proposal of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to lead an all-party delegation to seek clarification from the Union Minister of Agriculture over the “anti-famers” ordinances being brought by the Modi government at the Centre.
21-07-2020||---||Capt misleading people, claims SAD||Muktsar, July 20SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today said both Union Minister for Agriculture and Home Minister have assured him that the farm ordinances will bring about no change in the existing MSP system in the state.False campaignThe Congress is misleading people to hide its government's failure in the last three and a half years. I appeal to the people to not fall into the trap of false campaign of both Congress and AAP. — Sukhbir Badal, SAD chiefHe urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to accompany him to Delhi to get clarification on the ordinances, and to stop “misleading” people.In a video message, Sukhbir today said, “The Union Minister for Agriculture has told us that he will make an announcement in the Parliament, wherein he would assure people that the ordinances will not put an end to the MSP regime. Besides, the state government’s tax and commission of arhtiyas will not be affected. Thus, I appeal to the Congress and AAP leaders to stop misleading people, and I urge them to come with me to Delhi and seek clarification from the Central Government on the farm ordinances under my leadership.”
21-07-2020||---||Can’t delist pupils over fee: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, July 20Issuing notice of motion on an appeal filed by the state of Punjab in school fee matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that students would not be struck off the school rolls due to non-payment of fee.The relief, however, came with a rider. It would be applicable only to students and parents, who filed an application before the school and the state regulator, showing financial difficulty.The direction, by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, is in sync with the Single Judge order, against which the state had filed the appeal. Justice Nirmaljit Kaur, in her order, had made it clear that no child would be deprived of attending the schools and online classes subject to the parent moving an application claiming financial hardship.The Bench, during the course of hearing, observed that not a single document, where an individual was facing hardship, was shown to it. Appearing before the Bench for private unaided schools, senior advocate Puneet Bali and Aashish Chopra contended that the process of lifting the lockdown started on June 8 and the plea of facing financial hardship had little force in it now.After hearing the parties, the Bench questioned the state on the number of parents employed in the public sector, where the salaries remained unaffected.The state had filed the appeal before the Division Bench after the Single Bench allowed the schools to charge fee irrespective of offering online education and to charge the actual expenses incurred.
21-07-2020||---||CBI obstructing probe in Balwant Singh Multani case, claim Punjab Police||Chandigarh, July 20The Punjab Police have alleged that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was obstructing the probe being conducted by them in the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani.The police have filed an additional rejoinder before the court of Ravish Kaushik, Special judicial Magistrate, CBI, today.The police had booked former Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and seven other police personnel in the kidnapping case and sought the status report.The police said the court had the jurisdiction to issue directions to provide the staus report as the matter pertaining to preliminary inquiry and subsequent Regular Case (FIR) pertaining to the disappearance and elimination of Multani was under the gaze of this court.The police said the CBI was unnecessarily contesting supply of the record available with them to the SIT, which was hindering the probe being conducted by the applicant.The police further said the Punjab and Haryana High Court had never issued any directions to the CBI not to disclose names of witnesses to another investigating agency.
