21-04-2020||Chandigarh/Jalandhar||Coronavirus: With 11 new cases, Punjab’s tally is now 256||Jalandhar, Mohali and Patiala reported a total of 11 new cases on Tuesday, officials said.The development takes the state’s total number of cases to 256.Patiala reported five cases and Mohali reported one. All were contacts of previously diagnosed cases, the state’s evening bulletin showed.Jalandhar reported five new cases, although these have yet to be added to the state’s official tally.One of the Tuesday’s patients is Jalandhar Mayor's OSD, leading authorities to quarantine the mayor, Jagdish Raja, some councillors and some other employees of the municipal corporation. At 62, Mohali still has the highest number of cases in the state, followed closely by Jalandhar at 53. Patiala has the third highest cases in the state at 31 infections.The state has sent 7,355 samples for testing so far. It has 186 active cases. One person is on oxygen support and another is critical and on ventilator support.The state has reported 16 deaths so far.
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cuts expenses to mobilise funds for Covid-19||The Punjab government on Tuesday announced a series of cost-cutting measures, including an immediate 25 per cent reduction in entitlements for petroleum product expenses of all government departments.However, the frontline health, medical education, police, food and agriculture departments would be exempted.The reduction will remain in force till the Department of Finance resubmits its proposal for review to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.The decision was taken at a virtual meeting of the sub-committee on finance, chaired by Amarinder Singh, who stressed on the need for an exit strategy, pointing out that the state could not be kept under lockdown indefinitely.The report of the 20-member expert committee working on the strategy is expected this week, an official spokesperson told IANS.Amid concerns expressed by Finance Minister Manpreet Badal over the critical fiscal situation in the state in the light of all revenue receipts drying up, the meeting decided that tough decisions are needed to be taken, as an interim measure, to help the state tide over these difficult times.The meeting also decided that the norms and expenditure on security of people not holding public office any longer or have never held public office would be reviewed by May 15 to decide on possible cuts on this count.Earlier, the security of several protected people in the state, including the Chief Minister, was cut down to divert police personnel for the much-needed curfew enforcement and Covid-19 relief duties.The meeting gave its formal approval to the Chief Minister's earlier announcement that dependents or legal heirs of an employee of the state government who contracts the Covid-19 infection on the line of duty would be paid an ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister asked the Health Department to prepare a comprehensive budget for Covid-19 related expenditures. — IANS
21-04-2020||Dharamsala||Bilaspur police book Punjab Police constable for violating curfew||Bilaspur police have booked a Punjab Police constable for violating the nationwide lockdown.Constable Narinder Singh, posted in Sahnewal area of Ludhiana district, was booked for bringing his family from Ludhiana and dropping them in Golthai area.SP Bilaspur Divakar Sharma while talking to The Tribune said the incident pertains to April 19.Narinder Singh came in an Innova car at Golthai barrier of the district. He informed the police constables posted there that he had come from just adjoining Nangal town and going to drop his family in his native village near Golthai. He also misbehaved with the constables posted at Golthai naka of the district. His Innova car had the ‘On Duty’ sticker on it.Later we found that the constable had brought his family from Ludhiana and dropped them in Golthai area. It was also surprising that how a cop had travelled with his family from Ludhiana to Golthai when the inter district movement was banned by both Punjab and Himachal governments.A case under Section 154 of the CrPC was registered against the Punjab Police cop for misusing his uniform, the SP said.
21-04-2020||Our correspondent||Punjab Medical Council allows e-consultation by doctors||Phagwara, April 21Indian Medical Association Punjab, President Dr Navjot Singh Dahiya and Former President Dr S.P.S. Sooch, while encouraging the medical fraternity on Tuesday clarified that Punjab Medical Council (PMC) have already allowed doctors for an e-consultation via “Telephonic or WhatsApp Consultancy” during the lockdown period.The letter of PMC was issued to all the Medical Practitioners of the state.Both Dahiya and Sooch have inspired the doctors to adopt e-consultancy to serve the humanity during curfew and not to believe on rumors at all. They said IMA Punjab have already offered its services in any emergency to save the human lives in this critical period of Covid-19.Meanwhile, IMA Phagwara Unit President Dr Mamta Gautam and Secretary Harjit Kaur said they have circulated the notice of PMC to all IMA members.They also appealed to the doctors to lit candles on April 22 night to express their solidarity against increasing violence against the medical fraternity.They appealed to the doctors to wear “Black Badges” while observing Black Day against the violent attacks upon the doctors at several places.
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder writes to Amit Shah, demands Rs 3,000 cr compensation to fight coronavirus||Pointing to the alarming resource gap between the state’s anticipated receipts and committed expenditure, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday demanded interim compensation to the tune of Rs 3,000 crore for April on account of the COVID-19 national disaster, along with immediate release of Rs 4,400 crore of pending GST arrears.In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Chief Minister also asked for expediting the release of the state’s GST arrears of Rs 4,400 crore for the last four months, to help the state overcome its resource constraint.Citing the lockdown that had substantial fiscal consequences for all states, Captain Amarinder said the Government of India should compensate Punjab for its loss of revenue due to COVID-19.While the Rs 3,000 crore for April was an estimate, he said: “Detailed assessment of loss and requirement of funds for relief and rehabilitation will be submitted in due course.”However, he stressed, “the Government of India should provide interim assistance so that the fight against COVID-19 is not allowed to weaken in any way.”Punjab, said the Chief Minister, was facing a huge stress on State exchequer on account of the required health and relief measures that are being continuously scaled up, “with hardly any revenue receipts accruing to the state during these days due to near complete shutdown of trade, business and industry.”The state government had made a provision of revenue receipts of Rs. 3,360 crore for April, 2020, in the State Budget 2020-21.These included: GST- Rs 1322 crore; VAT on Petroleum products - Rs. 465 crore; State Excise Revenue - Rs. 521 crore, Motor Vehicle Tax - Rs. 198 crore; Electricity Duty - Rs. 243 crore, Stamp duty - Rs.219 crore, and Non-tax revenue- Rs.392 crore.However, Captain Amarinder observed that these receipts are expected to decline sharply as most economic activities in the State remain closed on account of the Lockdown.The receipts on account of SGST, IGST, VAT, Excise, Stamp Duty and Motor Vehicle Taxes are almost negligible and the reduced electricity consumption has resulted in a drop of 60% of the expected revenue from electricity duty during April 2020, he noted.In addition, said the Chief Minister, the GST compensation of approximately Rs 4,400 crore for the last four months—from December, 2019 to March, 2020—was also pending for disbursement by the Union Government.On the other hand, he pointed out, the committed expenditure of the state i.e., Debt servicing, pensions, salaries, relief measures for COVID-19, health care and infrastructure etc., is budgeted at Rs 7,301 crore for April 2020, resulting in the huge resource gap between the anticipated receipts and committed expenditure.Pointing to the critical fiscal situation of the state, the Chief Minister also sought the centre’s permission to allow sale of liquor, in a phased manner, to mop up VAT and Excise revenue.The Ministry of Home, GoI, should “allow the state to take a conscious decision to allow the sale of liquor in certain areas in a phased manner with strict social distancing and other measures to prevent COVID-19,” he said.This, said Captain Amarinder, would help the state immensely in its efforts to scale up the relief and health care measures to combat COVID-19 and meet some, if not all, of its committed liabilities and other day-to-day expenses.The Chief Minister requested the Home Minister for early action, while assuring him of the State's full and continued support in the efforts of the Government of India to overcome the present crisis by effectively managing and containing the COVID-19.
21-04-2020||London||UK's first Sikh emergency doctor Manjeet Singh Riyat dies on coronavirus frontline; Twitter mourns||Tributes have been pouring in for Manjeet Singh Riyat, an Emergency Medicine Consultant who died of coronavirus on the National Health Service (NHS) frontlines at the Royal Derby Hospital in the East Midlands region of England on Monday.Riyat, 52, from the University Hospitals of Derby and Burton, was the first Accident and Emergency (A&E) consultant from the Sikh community in the UK and was well-loved by his colleagues, who described him as the "hugely respected" father of their emergency team."Mr Riyat, known to his colleagues as Manjeet, was a widely respected consultant in emergency medicine nationally," Gavin Boyle, Chief Executive of the hospital, said in his tribute."Manjeet was the first A&E consultant from the Sikh community in the country and was instrumental in building the Emergency Medicine Service in Derbyshire over the past two decades. He was an incredibly charming person and well-loved. Manjeet knew so many people here across the hospital, we will all miss him immensely," he said.Riyat qualified from the University of Leicester in 1992 and went on to train in Emergency Medicine at Leicester Royal Infirmary and Lincoln County Hospital.During this time, and prior to the introduction of paramedics in the region, he acted as team leader for the Accident Flying Squads at both hospitals.Riyat was also one of the first Clinical Research Fellows in the UK and contributed to the birth of Academic Emergency Medicine.Susie Hewitt, Consultant Emergency Medicine, on behalf of the Emergency Department team at Royal Derby Hospital, said: "Despite his many achievements, Manjeet was most at home as a highly visible shop floor Emergency Medicine Consultant. He was consistently generous with his remarkable clinical knowledge to everyone in the team."He had that rare gift of maintaining constant joy in the intellectual challenge of clinical medicine combined with gentle kindness and compassion for his patients. He was a powerful advocate for the sickest patients and was well known for his fair, no-nonsense approach. By contrast, Manjeet could be relied upon to lift the mood with his dry humour and sense of fun."      She described her former colleague as enormously valued and much loved as a colleague, supervisor and mentor as well as for his wise counsel and discreet support in tough times."Manjeet was fiercely proud of his wife and two sons and often shared the achievements and exploits of the boys with equal good humour. He always kept sight of what is really important in life and set an example by living life in keeping with his high standards and strong values. He will be hugely missed," she said. In 2003, Manjeet became one of four Consultants in Emergency Medicine at the Derbyshire Royal Infirmary and was the first person from the Sikh community to be appointed as an Emergency Medicine Consultant in the UK.He became Head of Service for the Emergency Department in 2006 and made contributions to clinical governance and patient safety.His NHS Trust said he also played a significant role as part of the consultant body through his appointment as Deputy Chair and later Chair of both the Medical Advisory and Medical Staffing committees.His passion for teaching and contribution to medical education was said to be a constant thread during his career.As Derby College Tutor for Emergency Medicine, he oversaw the training of junior doctors from multiple specialities in the Emergency Department.He also spent 17 years serving as an educational supervisor to dozens of regional Emergency Medicine trainees and took particular pride in his work supporting trainees in difficulty for the Deanery.Riyat was an active Advanced Life Support (ALS), Advanced Paediatric Life Support and Advanced Trauma Life Support instructor and was instrumental in setting up ALS courses in Derby as Course Director.The UK's Royal College of Emergency Medicine appointed Manjeet as a College Examiner in 2007.Dr Kathy McLean, Chair of the NHS hospital trust, praised his contribution to the NHS in Derbyshire and across the field of emergency medicine across the UK."I had known Manjeet from when he first joined the Trust in the early 2000s, and he very quickly made an impact with his focus on patient care and high standards. It was clear that he was an outstanding emergency medicine doctor and generations of families in this region have benefitted from the care he provided," she said."Manjeet was hugely popular across the hospital and a warm and embracing figure, a person who many of our staff looked up to. I met him again shortly after returning to the Trust as Chair and was greeted with a big hug. This is a terribly sad day for all of those who had the pleasure to have known him and to have worked alongside him. I want to offer our condolences to all his family and friends at this sad time," she added. PTI
21-04-2020||Faridkot||Khalsa Aid International volunteer dies in road mishap on Bathinda-Amritsar highway||A team member of Khalsa Aid International, a UK-based humanitarian relief charity group, died near Bajakhana village of Faridkot on Tuesday in a road mishap. To distribute Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and masks among the doctors and policemen, two members of this group were on the way to Faridkot and Bathinda in a jeep from Patiala.After distributing kits and masks in Faridkot, two members of the team were on their way to Bathinda when the incident took place.After the jeep hit the divider on Bathinda-Amritsar National Highway, Inderjeet Singh—a member of the group—hailing from Dehradun, suffered serious injuries. After giving him first-aid at Civil Hospital Bajakhana, he was shifted to a private hospital in Bathinda where he succumbed to the grave injuries on Tuesday. Other member of the group, Jagpreet Singh has also sustained multiple injuries, but he is out of danger, said Amarpreet Singh, the country head of Khalsa Aid in India.The groups head office at Patiala, with over 100 volunteers is providing support. Khalsa Aid International is known for providing support around the world to victims of natural and man-made disasters such as floods, earthquakes, famine and war.They distribute food, water, clothing, medical and sanitation supplies.
21-04-2020||---||Doctor, 4 others test positive for coronavirus in Patiala||Patiala, April 21Five people, including a doctor, tested positive for coronavirus in Rajpura block of this district on Monday night. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has reached 31. Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said all five positive cases were of Anaj Mandi area of Rajpura. He said all were contacts of the earlier positive cases of the area.He said, "Out of 19 samples, five tested positive. We have already contained the area and there is no need to panic."Of the five, one is daughter-in-law of the Rajpura woman who had tested positive while three are friends of already positive patient, the health department said.Malhotra said a doctor also tested positive for coronavirus.The Rajpura woman had visited the said doctor before she was shifted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital.All five have been shifted to Rajindra Hospital.
21-04-2020||Jupinderjit Singh ||Corona-positive cops keep spirits high in hospital, post inspirational videos||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 21A video of a Punjab Police constable, Prabhjot Singh, who tested positive for corona but doing push-ups next to his hospital bed in Ferozepur even while facing the deadly disease, has gone viral on social media.Another video of corona-positive woman SHO Arshpreet Kaur, giving motivation talk to other police personnel and public from hospital, has also become a hit on social media, showing the fighting spirit of the Punjab Police amid the battle against Covid-19.The police had suffered a setback with the death of Ludhiana ACP Anil Kohli due to coronavirus. There also have been attacks on the force, including the one in Patiala where the hand of an ASI was chopped off.Both Arshpreet Kaur and Prabhjot Singh worked in the ACP's team as an SHO and driver. Undaunted, they are keeping the morale of the force high, telling other personnel they will join the frontline duty soon.Arshpreet can be heard as saying: "Through this video, I want to tell all that despite testing positive, I am asymptomatic so far and feeling normal and healthy. This is a message to my colleagues to continue their brave fight against the disease from the front lines. I will join you soon."Down with coronavirus, Punjab Police Sub-Inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal is still keen on joining her duty after getting cured of the infection.In a motivational video message, she urges police personnel to stay strong and take precautionary measures.                    Her message has earned the praise of state DGP Dinkar Gupta who shared her video clip on his Twitter handle.The 27-year-old Station House Officer of the Basti Jodhewal police station in Ludhiana had contracted the disease after coming in contact with ACP Anil Kohli, who died of the infection on April 18.“I want to say that I am alright and will soon join my duty after being cured,” Grewal said in the video clip.Grewal had tested positive for coronavirus on April 17.She thanked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, DGP Gupta and other senior police officers for their moral support.In a message to police personnel, she said, “I want to give a message to the police force that they should stay strong. We will win the fight against COVID-19.”        She asks them to take precautionary measures while on duty.“Wash your hands regularly, wear mask and use sanitisers. Also take care of your diet. You do not have to skip your meal. Have healthy food and take proper rest,” she advises.In a message for public, the SHO urged people to stay indoors.“Stay home, stay safe. Your lives are precious,” she said.The SHO prayed for speedy recovery of Assistant Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh and the late ACP Kohli’s driver and constable Prabhjot Singh, who also contracted coronavirus.Expressing grief over the ACP’s death, Grewal said she had learnt a lot from him.“His death is a loss to the entire Punjab Police,” she said.DGP Gupta tweeted, “Am absolutely amazed @ how our young Sub-Inspector Arshpreet, SHO Jodhewal, Ludhiana, is coping with the coronavirus. All of 27 yrs& yet so brave, mature& inspiring. She’s raring to get back to her work.Listen to her to find out what’s she made of!”Prabhjot Singh is also asymptomatic and wants to return to duty soon. "I want to remain fit by doing push-ups. I am also telling my colleagues that it is no big deal being tested positive for corona," he told senior officers."We are in mission mode. The morale is sky high. We have suffered big loss in the death of Ludhiana ACP. We are taking more precautions now. The force is raring to take any assignment," said the DGP.
21-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||This cop goes beyond call of duty||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 20When the curfew was imposed, two minor girls, Gurleen Kaur and Harleen Kaur, who had come to visit their grandparents at Walipur village in Tarn Taran got stranded. Their grandparents also could not go to drop them to their home at Muchhal village due to restrictions. For nearly a month, they remained without their parents.The girls then decided to call Jatinder Singh, a head constable and village police officer of their village, who helped them reunite with their parents. Since the lockdown, Jatinder Singh has dedicated his life to the welfare of the needy. He said, “The way the girls requested me, I could not stop myself from helping them. I hired a private vehicle and reunited them with their parents. It was an emotional as well as satisfying moment for me,” he said.In another incident, Jatinder found an elderly man living alone in his house for the past two years. Even villagers did not know about his being alive. He went to his house and found him in a pitiable condition. He gave him a bath and arranged clean clothes for him, besides providing eatables and other necessary items.From his home to Muchhal village, where he is appointed as a village police officer, and then to Chatiwind police station, his place of duty, he travels around 110 km on his bike daily. He starts his day early in the morning and first visits Muchhal village and go house to house to know the problems of residents. The village has nearly 600 families. “I remain in touch with them through the social media,” he said.“I have opened a office in Muchhal and stored ration for about 50 families there. After looking into the needs of the poor and downtrodden, I distribute the same to them,” he said. So far, he has distributed ration to around 250 poor families.Narrating another incident, he said he once received a call from a family of Bania village, 2 km from Muchhal village. A man told him that they were stuck at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital as he had spent all their money on the treatment of his wife, who had to undergo abortion due to medical complications. They did not have money for hiring an ambulance. Jatinder hired a car and helped them return home.VPOs are working as real frontline warriors. The project was started to connect the masses with the police around a month before the total clampdown in view of Covid outbreak.SSP, Amritsar Rural, Vikram Jeet Duggal also recognised his services and appreciated his work during this critical time. He said VPOs like Jatinder were making the Punjab Police proud.
21-04-2020||---||Three held for sneaking phones into Ferozepur jail||Chandigarh, April 20Ferozepur jail officials on Monday unearthed a plot of sending five mobile phones to an ‘A’ category gangster on the pretext of supplying essential material for the medical staff inside the jail.Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said two persons, identified as Sonu Puri and Deepak, today came to the jail along with ASI Rakesh Kumar. They informed the Jail Superintendent that they had come to provide 10 PPE kits, 1,500 masks and 1,000 bottles of sanitisers for the medical staff. They also told the superintendent that they were intended to give protein powder, dumbbells and a carom board to their friend lodged in the jail.The superintendent became suspicious when he came to know that their friend was Deepak, a gangster. On a search, the officials found five mobile phones, two chargers, three earphones and two data cables from the carom board. Action was initiated against the two and the ASI.
21-04-2020||Amritsar||Congress MLA threatens protest over Covid centre at Patti jail||The state government’s move to transform the sub-jail, Patti, into a quarantine centre for inmates who are suspected to have been infected by Covid-19 has triggered panic among medical officials and locals.The sub-jail in Patti falls under Tarn Taran district, a “green zone” area.Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill has launched a crusade against its own government and has declared to stage a ‘dharna’ in front of the jail on Tuesday, demanding roll back of the decision.It is learnt that around 65 inmates from Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur and Amritsar jails have already been lodged in the sub-jail, Patti, without carrying out Covid test on them. Therefore, there’s no certainty of how many among them are ‘carriers’, ‘positive’ or ‘negative’.Health officials said only one medical officer of the Civil Hospital had been given an additional charge of visiting the sub-jail, Patti.“We are bound to lodge the inmates. Since we don’t have equipment, testing facilities and allied staff, we only examine their body temperature. Also, if any one Covid-19 positive inmate comes in, then he will pose a risk to all others. We are helpless,” they said.Gill said he had expressed his displeasure against the decision to the minister concerned and officials, but in vain. He said he was determined to stage a ‘dharna’ in front of the sub-jail Patti on Tuesday at 11 am. — TNS
21-04-2020||Patiala||Teachers ‘forced’ to donate 7-day salary||The teaching staff have accused officials of forcing them to contribute their seven-day salary to the CM relief fund.While the state government has urged its staff to contribute voluntarily, the latter said they were being forced.“We had agreed to contribute our one-day salary, but now we are being directed on WhatsApp to fill in a form and send a photograph, confirming our willingness to contribute seven-day salary. Some of us are on probation and are getting Rs14,000 per month,” a teacher said.The teachers said, “They showed us confirmation messages of other colleges of the department, stating that all of us were supposed to contribute.”Charanjit Singh Channi, Minister, Technical Education Department, said: “Employees of my departments have contributed willingly.”Punjabi University, Patiala, which had earlier urged ist staff to voluntarily contribute their one-day salary, has now asked them to send emails or WhatsApp in case they do not want to contribute. — TNS
21-04-2020||
||Ex-judge writes to President for ‘maha yagya’||Chandigarh, April 20 A former judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has written to the President with a request to perform a “maha yagya” as an answer to the pandemic. Such prayers can bring about miracles,” Justice Pritam Pal has asserted. In his letter for performing “Vishwa Kalyan Maha Yagya”, Justice Pritam Pal has asserted that the Vedas, “shastras” and our holy scriptures make it clear that our kings and rulers would perform “maha yagyas” for the welfare of humanity as and when there was any natural calamity any kind of pandemic. Justice Pritam Pal said the God, after the  “maha yagyas”, had always been kind and merciful to shower the blessings on mankind. “It is evident from the scriptures that Raja Janak had also performed a ‘maha yagya’ when there was a severe drought in his kingdom where upon immediately after the ‘maha yagya’, it started to rain diluting the effect of disastrous ‘akaal’ (famine),” he added. When contacted, Justice Pritam Pal added that he had actually experienced dead trees in an orchid, required to be felled, turning green with the power of yajna.
21-04-2020||Mansa||Cops, VPOs to disburse pension||With an aim to avoid a gathering of pension beneficiaries outside banks, the district police on Monday roped in village/ward police officers (VPOs) to disburse old-age, handicapped or widow pensions on the doorsteps of beneficiaries. Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargav said recently, banks were allowed to continue working in the larger interest of public, which lead to huge rush outside the banks, thus defeating the purpose of social distancing. The SSP said in view of the situation, the Mansa cops had planned to depute the VPOs to help banks in disbursing the pension through biometric system at the villages concerned.  Following the directions of the SSP, Mansa DSP Harjinder Singh on Monday handed over pension to an 87-year-old man on his doorstep at Tamkot village.  SSP Bhargav said the initiative wouldn’t only reduce rush outside the banks, but would also facilitate things for the beneficiaries, as they wouldn’t have to wait in queues for long hours. — TNS
21-04-2020||---||Online counselling for MD, MS seats begins||Faridkot, April 20About a month after suspending the admission process for MD, MS and MDS courses in seven medical and 12 dental colleges in the state for an indefinite time due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Monday resumed the first round of online counselling.The result will be declared by April 29. Selected candidates will be required to send a letter of confirmation by email or in person along with scanned copies of documents and the fee.On March 26, the BFUHS had postponed the counselling for the 2020-21 session till further orders in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The university had withheld the merit list which was to be published on March 28. Now, the provisional merit list will be displayed on Tuesday. All candidates, including NRIs, will have to submit their choices regarding the specialty and colleges online from April 24 to 26.Before the starting of this first round of counselling for seats under the state quota, the counselling for all-India quota seats resumed on April 9. April 24 is the last date for selected candidates to join the college. The schedule for the second round of counselling for seats under the all-India quota has not been announced because of the lockdown.WAS PUT OFF POST OUTBREAK
21-04-2020||Phagwara||IMA seeks law over violence against doctors||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) will observe a ‘black day’ on April 23 if the government failed to enact a law on violence against doctors and hospitals in the country. This was revealed by Punjab IMA chief Dr Navjot Singh Dahiya and former president Dr SPS Sooch while talking to The Tribune here on Monday. They said the acts of violence against health workers were alarming and in view of this, all doctors and hospitals would light candles on April 22 at 9 pm as a mark of protest. The doctors would wear black badges to work to express their resentment.  They said: “Our legitimate need for safe workplaces has to be met.” Dr Sooch said Punjab IMA had dedicated first Covid-19 hospital near Nakodar on Saturday. — OC
21-04-2020|| 
||To ramp up testing, hiring underway||Faridkot, April 20 To ramp up testing for Covid at three government laboratories in Faridkot, Patiala and Amritsar, the Department of Medical Education and Research has started the process to recruit two medical  research scientists, nine non-medical research scientists, six research assistants and 10 lab technicians.   Total remuneration for these 27 posts will entail an expenditure of about Rs 11 lakh per month. Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has started the process to fill these vacancies to meet the manpower requirement. In the last eight days, the newly established VRDL lab at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot has tested 615 suspected persons from different parts of the state.  While 602 of these persons tested negative and five tested positive, eight samples were declared invalid due to some technical snag. The laboratory at Faridkot has tested up to 166 samples in a day. “With the increase in manpower, we can increase the testing capacity to 400 per day,” said a senior doctor.  Other than using its own staff, the microbiology department of the medical college is taking the services of some research scientists from the Central University of Punjab in Bathinda to scale up testing.
21-04-2020||---||Post ACP’s death, 93 cops, 13 gazetted officers tested||Ludhiana, April 20After the Ludhiana police lost its frontline officer ACP Anil Kumar Kohli to Covid-19, as many as 93 cops were tested for the virus. Till now, four positive cases from the district police, including that of the deceased ACP, has come to the fore.After the officer tested positive, samples of 24 of his contacts were taken. A sub-inspector posted as the SHO of the Basti Jodhewal police station and ACP’s gunman tested positive. The samples of Kohli’s family members and relatives were also taken. His wife tested positive. She is admitted to Fortis Hospital.Dr Gurdarshan Singh Mangat, unit head of the hospital, said her condition was stable. The ACP’s gunman, who is from Ferozepur, is admitted to the civil hospital there. His family members have been quarantined. The samples of two contacts of the constable were taken, but were tested negative.The samples of 30 contacts (from the police department) of the Basti Jodhewal SHO were collected. Of them, an ASI posted at the same station tested positive.The samples of 15 office contacts of the ASI were also taken, but none tested positive. The condition of both the cops is stable.Apart from the police personnel, a district mandi officer also tested positive. She was in touch with the SHO regarding the smooth working of the vegetable market. She had also attended a meeting chaired by the deceased ACP.Since the outbreak, Kohli had been posted at the city’s busiest area. He would daily go to the vegetable market around 2 am and stay there for 10 hours. It is said he got infected there, but it was not confirmed.He started feeling unwell in the first week of this month and was admitted to SPS Hospital on April 8. His first test came negative. He was put on ventilator on April 11. Two days later, his report came positive. On April 17, the government decided to treat the ACP through plasma therapy and a donor was arranged, but Kohli breathed his last on April 18 due to multiple organ failure.The samples of 93 cops, who were either in touch with Kohli or the SHO or were posted at the vegetable market, were collected. Besides the 93 cops, 13 gazetted officers underwent the test. In all, 70 cops tested negative and three positive.How the chain started
21-04-2020||---||Jalandhar reports another case, count 48||Chandigarh, April 20There seems to be some relief in the state, as just one case was reported in the past 24 hours. With the new case from Jalandhar, the total count has reached 245.According to the state media bulletin, the condition of one patient is critical and he has been put on a ventilator.With a 35-year-old media personnel testing positive in Jalandhar, the total number of Covid-19 patients in the district has risen to 48. The said person is a member of the same media house from where five cases were reported last evening. A majority of these persons are residents of the inner city areas and Pucca Bagh. These areas have been sealed and the Health Department is carrying out sampling of their close contacts.The 35-year-old man, who tested positive today, is a resident of New Moti Nagar in Maqsudan. As many as six people had tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Sunday, five of them from the same organisation.The first person to get infected was a 40-year-old resident of Raja Garden. His four family members were previously tested positive. They comprised his mother, daughter, sister and a nephew.Meanwhile, a 19-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member, who had tested positive a few days ago in Kapurthala district, was discharged today after his sample tested negative for the second time. A total of 162 out of 163 samples taken from Lovely Professional University have also tested negative.As per the department, so far samples of 6,797 suspected persons were sent for testing. Of these, 6,273 samples were found negative and reports of 279 were awaited.
21-04-2020||
||In high-risk areas, cops to get PPE kits||Chandigarh, April 20 The police personnel fighting the Covid-19 battle on the frontline will now have a “home away from home”, equipped with all essential amenities, which will be used for home quarantining in case of suspected infection. The personnel deployed in high risk areas will be provided full body protective gear, including PPEs, N95 and triple layer masks and gloves, to ensure their protection from the virus. All CPs and SSPs have been directed to put in place effective measures for early detection of any flu-like symptoms among the police personnel to ensure early care, treatment and rest. The decisions were taken during a videoconference meeting of DGP Dinkar Gupta with all district police chiefs, as the second phase of the nationwide lockdown came into effect on Monday.  It was decided that instead of subjecting the families of the police personnel suspected to be infected to any risk by sending them to their homes for quarantine, district quarantine centres be set up. These centres will also be used for very high-risk contacts who are supposed to be quarantined, said the DGP.
21-04-2020||Karam Prakash||Source of infection in 25 +ve persons in Patiala unknown||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20Despite aggressive testing for Covid-19, the Health Department has failed to trace the source of infection in 25 of the total 26 positive cases in the district.3.5 lakh screenedFollowing a sudden spike in cases, the Health Department screened 3.5 lakh people in Patiala. However, none from the screened population was found to be symptomatic, the department said.This has become a cause for concern for the department, especially after 15 cases were reported in a single day, on Saturday.Following a sudden spike, the department screened around 3.5 lakh people in the city. However, none from the screened population was found to be symptomatic, the department said.Authorities cluelessThe social worker, the book trader and sons of the Rajpura woman had met a large number of people. It seems that they got the infection from outside the district as we have already screened and tested their close contacts.— Harish Malhotra, Civil SurgeonThe department is said to be clueless about the source of infection in 25 cases. Only one patient, who has already been discharged, had travelled to Dubai, while the others didn’t have any travel history.The social worker, who had infected three of his family members, and the book trader who infected 13 persons, including his family members, did not have any travel history either. The department stated that the duo had been visiting other cities.Similarly, the source of infection in a gardner, who worked for top bureaucrats, is still a loose end.A Rajpura woman contracted infection from her own sons. The department is still unsure of her sons’ source.The department claimed that it had been successful in containing the spread. It seemed that the source of infection of the book trader, social worker and the sons of the Rajpura woman was from outside the city.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra, said, “The social worker, the book trader and the Rajpura woman’s sons had met a large number of people. It seems that they got the infection from outside the district as we have already screened and tested their close contacts.”
21-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||No case in Sangrur district in seven days||Tribune News Service Sangrur, April 20 To date, Sangrur district has witnessed only three cases, with the last being reported on April 13. Till Monday evening, reports of 360 samples came out negative. Sangrur DC Ghanshayam Thori and SSP Dr Sandeep Garg, who have been monitoring the situation, have been helping residents in containing the spread by sealing all roads. Timely supply of essential commodities has been helping the administration in keeping the residents indoors. The authorities have taken the samples of 363 suspected patients, out of which three have tested positive, while the reports of all remaining persons have come out negative.  Out of the total positive cases, one belongs to Gaggadpur village, one is from Malerkotla and one from New Delhi. They were on a pilgrimage to Dehlij Kalan village and had visited various mosques in the area.  “Both Malerkotla and Dehlij Kalan patients had been attending religious congregations in various mosques and both did not show symptoms. But after we got information that some persons from New Delhi have come to Malerkotla, we detected the first case and then another of his contact tested positive. But I cannot deny that asymptomatic patients pose more danger than symptomatic,” DC Thori told The Tribune. He said each patient had around 70-80 contacts, including high risk and low risk.  The third positive, a 65-year-old resident from Gagadpur village, had come to Ludhiana from New Delhi by air on March 24. A positive patient was on the flight.  With the police help, residents have sealed the entry and exit points to their villages.
21-04-2020||
||Ensure units comply with guidelines, DCs told||Chandigarh, April 20 In line with his decision not to ease the curfew, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday clarified that industrial units permitted to function in non-containment zones would be required to follow the guidelines issued by the state as well as the Ministry of Home Affairs. The MHA guidelines are in consonance with the state government’s decision to allow certain units to function with labourers staying on-site, the CM pointed out, adding that the Centre had accepted Punjab’s suggestion in this regard. He asked the DCs to immediately clamp down on all activities that were contributing to the spread of the Covid-19 in containment zones and other susceptible areas. For opening of the industry, conditions laid down by the state government with regard to the arrangement for stay, transport and food should be strictly adhered to, along with compliance of all health advisories relating to the pandemic, the DCs told. Capt Amarinder said the government was deeply concerned about the plight of labour, including migrants, and of Punjab’s industry, most of which comprised micro and small units.
21-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Won’t take blame for virus spread, say industrialists||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20The state industry has refused to take up the Covid-19 challenge.With the well-being of the labour being “thrust upon them” as a pre-condition to allow them to operate their units, the industrialists have decided not to resume operations.Today was the first day of relaxation in the curfew in non-containment zones. Industries have been allowed to operate provided they make the labour stay inside the premises following social distancing norms and agree to be held liable in case any labourer is found to be infected.In Ludhiana, industrialists have decided against opening their units. Mudit Sood, an exporter of auto parts, said, “We have been clearly told that in case any employee is found positive, an FIR will be registered against the factory owner. How can I guarantee this?”Gurmeet Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations, Ludhiana, said it was unfair to hold them responsible. “It is the time when the industry needs government’s support. Earlier, the industry was asked to pay wages to all employees for April in advance or face legal action. We are ready to face any prosecution, but we strongly oppose such moves,” he said, adding that the onus of containing the virus spread should be on the government.In Jalandhar, which is a hotspot, industrialists say that they won’t be able to pay the wages for the time the labour was not working, nor would they be able to house labour within the premises once the relaxation is announced. Ashok Katyal, a sports goods manufacturer, said “Our orders from Europe and America have been suspended. The future seems bleak as sports goods will be the least priority for customers once the lockdown ends.”In Phagwara, which is home to food processing, textile, and farm equipment industry, industrialists are asking similar questions. AS Kohli, a tractor parts manufacturer, and vice president of Punjab Chamber of Small Exporters, said other than JCT Mills, which had the capacity to house workers, others had decided against opening the industry at least till May 3. “Though the government is trying to revive the economic activity, a lot needs to be done. Interest-free loans, equivalent to 30 per cent of the turnover of the industrial units in 2019-20, should be given for a period of three years,” he said.Address their concerns: SAD
21-04-2020||Amritsar||After facing criticism, Navjot Sidhu sports face mask||Unlike his previous outings during the Covid lockdown, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu came out with his entourage to distribute relief material sporting a mask here on Monday.He was in the news for not adhering to the state government’s directions of wearing a mask in public in view of the Covid-19 threat.Sidhu was seen interacting with doctors, health workers and residents of his constituency without wearing a mask. Even his security guards and supporters were not wearing masks or gloves.In this context, a Chandigarh-based lawyer had lodged a complaint with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and threatened to file a petition in the HC if no action was taken against Sidhu within two to three days.Sources say the CM had forwarded the complaint to Deputy Commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon. He, however, denied any such development. — TNS
21-04-2020||Rajmeet Singh 
||Builders await govt nod to resume work||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 20 Promoters of at least 279 real estate projects in the state, engaging nearly 70,000 construction workers, are awaiting instructions from the state government to go ahead with the construction activity. The State Industries Department, in coordination with the Punjab chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), has conducted an assessment of the availability of the workforce at construction sites and are working out detailed guidelines.  “The Deputy Commissioners have been asked to verify whether workers in any camp want to return to their place of work,” said a government functionary. “The workforce is available. But it may take a few more days before the detailed guidelines on the dos and don’ts are handed out to builders keen on restarting the work,” said president, Punjab chapter of the CREDAI, Jagjit Majha.   Majha said the CREDAI builders were adhering to their corporate social responsibility (CSR) by contributing to the government’s efforts to reach out the poor with dry ration. But many builders are not enthused with the government’s decision to open construction activity.  “The Zirakpur chapter of the builders’ association has decided to wait till May 3. So far, things are not clear. Maintaining social distance at construction sites and sustaining the projects in difficult times is challenging,” said Harish Gupta, a senior member of the CREDAI.
21-04-2020||---||Congress leaders bat for fiscal package||Chandigarh, April 20Days after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking a special economic package for the state, Congress leaders on Monday urged the Centre to come to the rescue of the border state at the earliest.In a letter to Modi, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar pointed out that the state was already trying to steer out of the poor fiscal situation and this pandemic had created bigger challenges before it.Seeking waiver of Rs 31,000 crore food account loan, Jakhar sought directions to the Union Power Ministry to shoulder the burden of paying Rs 10 crore daily to the three private thermal plants despite the fact that the state was not buying any power from these. Drawing the PM’s attention towards the plight of MNREGA workers, he has sought wages of 50 days to be credited to their accounts.Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa said: “The Centre has not released Rs 4,386 crore to the state under the GST pool.” He also sought Rs 400 crore for an advanced virology centre.
21-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Rain spells trouble for wheat farmers||Moga/Jalandhar/Ludhiana, April 20Thousands of tonnes of wheat got soaked in the untimely rain in grain markets across the state, bringing to fore the poor arrangements in mandis and adding to the woes of the farmers.Fields submergedWheat growers are already struggling as harvesting got delayed due to Covid-19. Now, the untimely downpour has added to our woes. Fields are submerged. So, harvesting machines can’t be taken to the fields. —Damanvir Singh, A FarmerThey fear two things: one, the quality of the produce will deteriorate because of the moisture in the grains and, two, the harvesting will be delayed further.Damanvir Singh, a farmer from Phillaur, said: “Wheat growers are already struggling with delayed harvesting because of Covid-19. The untimely downpour has added to our woes. Fields are submerged. So, harvestingmachines cannot enter the fields.Jalandhar Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Amrik Singh, who had sown the staple rabi crop on his 55 acres, said he had suffered a loss of more than 20 per cent.“Some grains came off because of strong winds and some blackened because of accumulated water, deteriorating the quality of the produce,” he said, adding that the grain market in Jalandhar lacked enough tarpaulins to cover the entire produce.Refuting his claim, Davinder Singh Kainth, mandi board officer in Jalandhar, claimed the board had made enough arrangements in mandis to save the produce; the losses were reported only from the fields, he added.In Moga, farmers demanded that the state government must allow relaxation in purchase norms, or else they feared harassment at the hand of procurement agencies and commission agents.“Farmers are already facing problems in bringing the produce to grain markets in a phased manner because of the Covid lockdown. If procurement norms are not relaxed, problems are likely to rise,” a farmer from Moga said.Caught in a tight spot, farmers now cannot harvest the crop for a few days. “There is no hope that harvesting will commence in the next few days,” said Surjit Singh, a farmer at the Moga grain market on Monday.Jinder Singh, a marginal farmer from Ludhiana’s Gorchiyan Kadarbaksh village, said: “The moment it started to rain, I rushed towards my fields only to see flattened crop. At least for the next 10 days, the crop cannot be harvested. The government must compensate us otherwise we will be ruined.”Ajay Sood, a farmer from Moga’s Saleena village, said: “There is no option but to stop harvesting the crop as fields are inundated. It will be impossible to run combine harvesters.” More worrying for farmers is the rain forecast for the next 48 hours.
21-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Lockdown effect: Friends unite after 23 yrs, come up with film||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20Merely a week ago, a set of Bollywood celebrities were searching for Senior Bachchan’s spectacles in a film titled ‘Family’ — Bollywood’s response to the Covid-19 lockdown. While the lockdown has got the creative juices of many flowing, a bunch of women, all 1997-batch passouts from a Jalandhar college, have come up with their own version of a lockdown film. Ten friends who were hostel mates at HMV College Jalandhar, caught up with each other during the Covid-19 lockdown virtually.Virtually togetherWe were hostel mates and had all been together during the hostel days at HMV College. We had glorious happy memories from those days but after leaving college, we got busy with our lives, jobs and families and lost touch. I was talking to only a couple of friends. Rachna Puri, a friend of mine who was also a hostel mate, called me during the lockdown. We talked about a lot of things and she came up with the idea and we decided to give it a go. Beenu Rajpoot, creative filmmakerThe fruit of their nostalgic meeting amid the lockdown is a 5 minute 26 second film titled Reunion – When Hearts Meet! The film is a result of their ‘virtual’ collaboration (without personally meeting each other) 23 years after they left college, and is entirely a product of circumstances arising out of the lockdown.A talk between two friends resulted in an idea of a short film to commemorate their friendship. Directed by a creative filmmaker Beenu Rajpoot, the film was released on Youtube on Sunday. The film has been conceptualised by her hostel mate and friend Rachna Puri, who came up with the idea in the first place. Beenu has previously made films, including ‘Suran Di Malika – Surinder Kaur’, ‘Banaras – Kaba-e-Hindostan’, ‘Born to Dance’, a biopic on kathak virtuoso Shivana Narayan, among others.Pieced together by Beenu, the film comprises independent videos that all friends sent from their respective homes. These were pieced together into a 5 minute 26 second film by Beenu Rajpoot – to whom all friends sent the short videos. The film involves the team work of 10 people and features nine of them – Rachna Puri, Sonika Sharma, Sukhnandan Sandhu, Aarti Gupta, Radhika Sekhri, Karuna Jain, Preeti Handa Vohra, Manju Gandotra and Anjali Gupta.The film was premiered on Zoom on April 18, 2020, to celebrate ‘Punar Milan 2020’ of HMV College Jalandhar. The film was launched online by college principal Dr Ajay Sareen on the official online channel of HMV the same day.Beenu Rajpoot said: “We were hostel mates and had all been together during the hostel days at HMV College. We had glorious happy memories from those days but after leaving college, we got busy with our lives, jobs and families and lost touch. I was talking to only a couple of friends. Rachna Puri, a friend of mine who was also a hostel mate, called me during the lockdown. We talked about a lot of things and she came up with the idea and we decided to give it a go.”All characters featured in the film are Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya’s (HMV’s) 1997 batch pass outs, who caught with each other again during the lockdown.Rachna Puri, who herself features in the film, is founder and director of Vectormob Company in Mumbai.Beenu said: “I studied five years in HMV and all of us were together during that time. The lockdown only made us realise how schedules take a toll over friendships due to busy lives. When we were free, we couldn’t even catch up. And now, we are eager to meet. While it was impossible to see each other personally during the lockdown, we have thus titled the film Reunion. Without the lockdown, we wouldn’t have even thought of the idea. One of the first things we will do after the lockdown is see each other.”
21-04-2020||Vijay C Roy||Punjab demands suspension of toll plazas’ operations till May 3||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20MAJOR NH TOLL PLZASZirakpur-Patiala(Dhareri Jattan)Zirakpur-Patiala (Azizpur)Jalandhar-Amritsar (Dhilwa)Jalandhar-Amritsar(Nizzarpura)After extending suspension of operations at all toll plazas in the state till May 3, the Punjab government wants the Centre to extend the same for National Highways. In a letter written to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the state government has requested to reconsider its decision regarding the resumption of toll operations at all 19 toll plazas in Punjab till the lockdown period.On March 27, the state had halted toll operations at all state highways till April 14, the deadline of first lockdown, but now the toll plazas will remain closed till May 3 as the nationwide lockdown has been extended to control the spread of coronavirus. As many as 23 toll plazas were operational under the state government.“It is mentioned here that in view of Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab has imposed curfew all over the state till May 3, 2020. Also, this office is in receipt of a request from LPG Bulk Transporters Association, requesting exemption of toll on the movement of essential commodities. Punjab has already decided not to resume operations at state-run toll plazas during the curfew or lockdown period up to May 3, 2020,” stated a letter written to the NHAI.On March 25, the Central government had temporarily suspended operations at all toll plazas across the country to ease emergency services because of the coronavirus outbreak. Earlier, the operations were expected to resume from April 15, a day after the end of the first phase of the lockdown. However, the lockdown was further extended till May 3. The toll plazas under the NHAI resumed operations from April 20 following the Home Ministry order.The NHAI instructed all its project directors and regional officers to ensure that toll collection across all toll plazas on the NH network starts from Monday even as truckers and toll operators demanded the extension of toll charge waiver at least till May 3. The truckers and transporters’ associations have said 85% cash-starved small transporters won’t be able to pay the toll amount.In addition to Punjab, the Haryana government has also decided not to start operations till May 3 at all its 15 collection points being run on Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) basis or otherwise in the state. Currently, 15 commercial toll points are being run by the Public Works (Building and Roads) Department in various districts of the state. Out of these, while five toll points operate on BOT basis through concessionaires, six are being run through entrepreneurs and four by the department.
21-04-2020||---||Rain damages wheat crop in fields, mandis||Patiala/ Nabha, April 20The rainfall on Monday added to the woes of Punjab farmers. The rain not only damaged the standing wheat, but also the produce lying in mandis. Farmers who were yet to begin harvesting have been hit the most as moisture content in grain beyond the permissible limit (12 per cent) will be disastrous. Dr Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union has demanded compensation at Rs 200 per quintal to farmers in Patiala, Moga, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib.Harjit Singh Sheru, president of the Arhtiya Association Anaj Mandi, Patiala, said procurement had been halted for a day or two. “We have no choice but to harvest the damaged crop. The wheat grain will swell and then lose water and weight. This will result in losses. We expect the acreage to shrink from 22 quintal per acre to 18 quintal per acre,” said a worried Daljit Singh, a farmer from Rajpura.Pargat Singh, a contract farmer from Raungla village in Patiala, said he had to pay fixed lease money to the landowner. “First the windstorm, then hailstorm and now the rains have ruined the crop,” he said, pointing to the flattened fields. Damanvir Singh, a farmer from Phillaur, said that with the fields inundated, combine harvester could no longer be used. Jalandhar Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Amrik Singh said: “A percentage of grain was lost because of strong winds. Now, accumulated water has turned the grain blackish, deteriorating the quality. Also, the Jalandhar grain market does not have enough tarpaulins to cover the produce.”Refuting the claim, Mandi Board officer Davinder Singh Kainth said they had made adequate arrangements in mandis.“Reports of losses have come only from the fields.”
