22-03-2020||Ferozepur||511 foreign returnees traced in Ferozepur and placed in 14-day home quarantine||The district administration has traced 511 foreign returnees and has placed them under 14-day home quarantine period under the supervision of medical experts, DC, Ferozepur, Kulwant Singh said on Sunday.He asserted that the remaining persons will be traced within 24 hours as special teams have been inducted for this task.The deputy commissioner said a total of 702 people returned from foreign countries as per information received from airport authorities and a mammoth practice was initiated to trace all of them.He added not even a single positive case of coronavirus has been reported in the district so far.He further added that out of these 702 foreign returnees, the district administration has tracked 511 people and remaining 191 people will be traced in next 24 hours.The deputy commissioner stated that all these persons have been put under home quarantine for a period of 14 days as prescribed by the Government of India and under the monitoring of medical experts.During this quarantine period if no symptom of coronavirus surface, they will be free from the home isolation.  He further exhorted people who have returned from abroad to come forward for corona test and inform about their visit and arrival to the district administration on helpline number 104.Kulwant Singh further called upon people to inform about the people who have returned from abroad in their localities as this will help the government in the fight against coronavirus.
22-03-2020||Parvesh Sharma ||Coronavirus outbreak: NRI booked for marrying without completing quarantine period||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, March 22Bhawanigarh police have registered a case against an NRI from New Zealand for getting married on Sunday even as police had directed him to stay in quarantine for 14 days in view of the coronavirus outbreak.The NRI had come on March 10. The police are now looking for him.“Prabhjot Singh had come from New Zealand to his native village Bimbri on March 10 and we had asked him to stay away from others for 14 days, as per the directions of the Punjab government. We had also asked him to get married at his village house after he expressed unwillingness to change the wedding date,” said Ramandeep Singh, SHO, Bhawanigarh.The SHO added that on Saturday evening a police party had conveyed to the family of Prabhjot to convince him to postpone the marriage.“But he along with his relatives went to Fazilika last night to solemnise his marriage in violation of the directions of the government. We have registered a case against him and started investigations,” said the SHO.
22-03-2020||Batala||Coronavirus: Two booked in Gurdaspur for violating govt directions||Two persons were booked here on Sunday for violating government’s directions to contain the spread of coronavirus, police said.Arun Sharma, who recently returned from Brazil, did not quarantine himself at home for 15 days, despite being advised by authorities, they said.A case has been registered against him under IPC section 188 (disobedience of an order), the police said.In another case, Sukhrajpal Singh was booked for holding a religious gathering at his home in Sarchur village, ignoring the government’s directions of not organising mass gatherings.Hundreds of people attended the event at his home, they said.Singh was booked under IPC sections 188 and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). — PTI
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder urges Punjab industrialists to give full pay to workers during lockdown||With the Punjab Government announcing a statewide lockdown till March 31 to check the spread of coronavirus, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday appealed to industrialists in the state not to deduct salaries of their employees for this period.He also lauded industrial groups which have announced that their workers will be given full wages.The lockdown, which was announced earlier in the day, came into force immediately.“I appreciate the decision of Mr @Rajinder_Gupta, Chairman, @TridentGroupInd, to close down their unit and offer full wages, housing and food to his employees during closure. I would urge other Industrialists in the State to do the same and set an example for the Nation,” Singh said in a tweet.Sonalika Tractors also announced to give full wages to its employees during the lockdown period.Ordered statewide lock down till 31st March to check spread of #Covid19All essential Govt services will continue & shops selling essential items such as milk, food items, medicines, etc will be open. All DCs & SSPs have been directed to implement the restrictions immediately. pic.twitter.com/Wa2iqpDChY  I appreciate the decision of Mr @Rajinder_Gupta, Chairman @TridentGroupInd, to close down their unit and offer full wages, housing and food to his employees during closure. I would urge other Industrialists in the State to do the same and set an example for the Nation.  “I appreciate the decision of Hon’ble CM sir to lockdown the state of Punjab till 31st March 2020 to break the chain of Covid-19 disease. We at Sonalika tractors have closed our unit till 31st March with full wages to our employees for the betterment of state and Nation,” said Sonalika Tractors’ Vice Chairman A S Mittal in his message to the state government.Announcing the lockdown on Twitter, Singh had said, “Ordered statewide lock down till 31st March to check spread of Covid 19.”       “All essential Govt services will continue & shops selling essential items such as milk, food items, medicines, etc will be open. All DCs & SSPs have been directed to implement the restrictions immediately,” he said.Novel coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 341 on Sunday. Punjab has reported 13 cases so far, according to the Union Health Ministry. — PTI
22-03-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Follow govt orders on coronavirus restrictions, says Akal Takht Jathedar||Chandigarh, March 22Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday urged all Sikhs to follow orders of the government and health department regarding the required coronavirus restrictions.He also offered gurdwara rest houses/inns to be used as quarantine centres, besides asking Sikhs to stay at home.The Jathedar directed gurdwara managements worldwide to help the needy, especially Indian students.
22-03-2020||Jalandhar||Seven more of Baldev Singh’s family test positive for coronavirus in Nawanshahr||Seven more people from Baldev Singh’s family have tested positive for coronavirus in Nawanshahr on Sunday.Baldev Singh alone is now responsible for 14 positive cases to the state tally.A containment plan similar to Pathlawa village has also been introduced at Chikka and Sujjon villages in Nawanshahr.Those tested positive include Baldev Singh’s two close contacts at the Chikka village in Nawanshahr and five relatives – comprising grandchildren.Previously, seven people – Baldev Singh, his three sons, daughter-in-law, daughter, and 17-year-old granddaughter were already tested positive on Saturday.Also read: 7 people associated with Nawanshahr coronavirus victim test positiveWhile one of the associates of Baldev Singh at Chikka, along with his family had already been placed under isolation on the same day as the rest of the family, the grandchildren of Baldev Singh have been shifted to the Sujjon village, where at least eight members of the family have been placed in an isolation ward at the CHC Sujjon.In all the 17 people whose sampling was carried out at Nawanshahr—14 have tested positive.The administration and the health department are now working to introduce a containment plan at Sujjon and Chikka.Deputy Commissioner, Vinay Bublani said: “We have cordoned off the Sujjon and Chikka villages and a containment plan is being set in place.”While 17 members of Baldev Singh’s family stay at the residence Pathlawa village – those who had tested positive on Saturday, include Baldev Singh’s three sons as well as his 40-year-old daughter-in-law, 36-year-old daughter and 17-year-old granddaughter.Of the 17 samples of Baldev’s family members and close associates taken by the Health Department, seven were taken on Thursday and 11 on Friday.
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab orders state-wide shutdown till March 31 to check spread of coronavirus||The Punjab Chief Minister on Sunday issued orders for shutdown of all non-essential services and businesses with effect from Monday 6 am till March 31 to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Only essential services will be allowed to function. All Deputy Commissioners and SSPs have been directed to issue relevant orders and implement the restrictions immediately, a top government functionary told The Tribune.Ordered statewide lock down till 31st March to check spread of #Covid19All essential Govt services will continue & shops selling essential items such as milk, food items, medicines, etc will be open. All DCs & SSPs have been directed to implement the restrictions immediately. pic.twitter.com/Wa2iqpDChY  On Saturday, seven districts had ordered shutdown till Wednesday. The new order has put in place a shutdown till March 31 all across the state. Live UpdatesNawanshahr reports 7 new coronavirus patients.Total number rises to 14 in the district. One person has died so far.In Gurdaspar, an FIR has been lodged under Section 188 of the CRPC against a man.He had come from Brazil and violated the health department’s quarantine directive.Only essential services such as the police, health, power, emergency transport, supply of milk, food items, medicines, etc, will continue.The government has not called it a "curfew", but a "lockdown". As of now, private transport would be allowed in emergency circumstances, besides essential services. The government is working out the details as well as mode of enforcement to be implemented from 6 am on Monday. (This story will be updated when more clarity is available)An IANS report said the Chief Minister has announced a relief of Rs 3,000 to each registered construction worker in the state. The money would be transferred to their bank accounts by March 23 in a bid to mitigate the hardships being faced by them.A sum of Rs 96 crore would be released for this purpose. The Labour Department has been directed by the Chief Minister to take immediate steps to ensure the transfer.The Chief Minister while appreciating the decision of Rajinder Gupta, Chairman Trident Group, to close down his unit and offer full wages, housing and food to his employees during closure, has appealed to other Industrialists in the state to do the same and set an example for the nation.The following is text extracted from the government order detailing the restrictions till March 31:1.   All shops, commercial establishments, offices and factories, workshops, godowns etc. shall close their operations.2.   No public transport services including operation of taxis/ auto- rickshaws etc. shall be permitted excepttransport of all kinds to and from hospitals, airports, railway stations, bus terminals/ bus stands. Specific routes to be allowed in the districts shall be decided by respective DCs.3.   Strict home quarantine shall be observed by all foreign returnees (who landed in India on or after 09.03.2020) and their contacts/ other persons at risk as decided by the District Administration.4.   All such foreign returnees shall also mandatorily contact the District Administration (104/112) and register themselves for home quarantine (as far as possible the COVA Punjab Mobile App)– failing which they shall be liable for legal action.5.   People are required to stay at home and come out only for essential services and that too one member of a family at a time and strictly following social distancing guidelines issued earlier.6.   Any gathering of more than 10 persons in public places shall be prohibited.7.   All inter-state commercial transport shall be closed.However, these restrictions shall not be applicable on the following essential services:1.   All the essential commodities and services as defined under the Order No. IFD (1455)-2020/855 of Department of Food and Civil Supplies of 21.03.2020 and their manufacturing,supply chains, required transport andother logistics to ensure their availability.2.   Public Offices (including officials and employees) tasked withemergency, law and order and essential functions:a.   DC/SDM/Tehsil & offices subordinate to themb.   Police.c.    Healthd.   Urban local bodiese.   Firef.     Defence Establishments and Central Police/ Paramilitary Organizations including NDRFg.   Any other office as may be notified by the respective DC3.   Rail & Air Transport4.   Local Transport (to be regulated by respective DCs)5.   Electricity, Water and Municipal Services6.   Banks and ATMs7.   Print and Electronic Media including social media8.   Telecom/ Internet and Cableoperators and agencies appointed by them to maintain communication and internet services9.   Postal services10.  E-Commerce and its home delivery11.  Shops of Food, Groceries, Milk, Bread, Fruit, Vegetable, Meat, Fish etc.(including departmental stores and supermarkets)12.  Fair Price Shops under PDS13.  Restaurants/ eateries fortake-away or home delivery only (no dine-in shall be permitted)14.  Hospitals, Chemists including Optical stores and Pharmaceuticals manufacturing15.  Petrol pumps, LPG gas, Oil agencies, their godowns etc16.  Production and Manufacturing Units which require continuous process may continue to function, after obtaining permission from respective DC17.  Other private establishments that support the above services. Any doubt as to whether an establishment is covered under this clause shall be decided by the respective DC.Further, provided that restrictions/ exclusions as per local requirements may be made within by the respective DCs within the district.These orders are to be meticulously complied and violations shall be dealt with severely under relevant provision of the IPC.
22-03-2020||Amritsar/Bathinda||Coronavirus: 'Janata Curfew' gets good response in Punjab; story in pictures||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for 'Janata curfew' to prevent coronavirus spread evoked a good response on Sunday in Punjab.Most of the towns and cities witnessed deserted streets with shops and business establishments closed to mark the pan-India solidarity.Reports of the shutdown of shops and other establishments were received from the Congress-ruled Punjab's Ludhiana, Patiala, Amritsar, Bathinda and other places.With state-run roadways shutting their services, buses were off the roads in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.However, the supply of milk was normal.In Punjab, all establishments in Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur districts have been closed while the partial lockdown has been ordered in Jalandhar from 7 a.m. on March 22 up to midnight of March 25 by the government.Likewise, it has also been advised to close down establishments in the Kapurthala district from March 23 as precautionary measures.Factories engaged in production of essential items like flour mills, cattle feed, food processing and pharmaceuticals would not be closed by enforcing staggering of workers and other preventive safeguards.Barely any devotees at Golden TempleThe footfall of devotees at the Golden Temple fell drastically as they observed the curfew. The SGPC had already announced its support for the shutdown.Only a few staff members have been asked to continue working at the historic gurdwara and others have been granted leave.The heritage street, leading to the Golden Temple and Jallianwala Bagh, wore a deserted look.ISBT looked abandoned as buses services have been suspended.All markets and commercial spaces were closed in the city. Most people abstained from moving out of their houses.Barring the arrival of two long-distance trains, no train movement took place at the Amritsar Railway station.The gates of the Durgiana Temple were also closed due to the curfew.However, daily wagers and small vendors are already facing the heat of the shutdowns as their income came to a nought.Hari Krishan Sahu, a daily wager, said he was unable to earn any money from the past four days.A youth from Naushehra Dhalla village said he did not receive any job calls for past one week as traders told him that transactions came to a halt due to fears over coronavirus.They demanded compensation from the government to support them and their families.Complete shutdown in BathindaAlmost all markets in the district witnessed a deserted look with shops and business establishments closed.With all the buses and train services suspended, both the railway station and the bus stand wore a deserted look, while officials sanitized railway stations, trains and buses.The residents kept indoors as a precautionary measure and all the major markets Dhobi Bazaar, Post office Bazaar, Sirki Bazaar, Amrik Singh road and others remained closed. Even some medicine and grocery shops remained closed on Sunday in the city.Few residents who were roaming on the road were stopped by the police and told to go indoors.-With agencies
22-03-2020||Aparna Banerji||6 of Banga victim’s kin, one contact test positive, Punjab tally rises to 14||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 21Six family members of the 70-year-old resident of Banga village who died after contracting Covid-19 today tested positive for the disease.They include three sons, a 36-year-old daughter, a 40-year-old daughter-in-law and a 17-year-old granddaughter of the victim. As many as 17 members of the victim’s family stay at his Pathlawa village residence. The victim had returned recently after visiting Germany and Italy.Another 60-year-old resident of Maoranwali village, a granthi of Pathlawa village dera, also tested positive for Covid-19 this morning. With this, eight positive cases linked to the victim have been reported and the state tally has risen to 14.In the past two days, the health department has taken 17 samples of the victim’s family members and close associates at Pathlawa. Of these, seven were taken on Thursday and 11 on Friday. Six of these came out positive, while the result of the 11 samples taken yesterday is awaited.Nawanshahr epidemiologist Dr Shyam Veda said: “We are seeking contact history details of the patients and identifying new people every day. Any new suspected patient will be subsequently tested.”Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, state programme officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, said: “Seven new cases tested positive today, including six of the victim’s family and a contact. As per government directions, we have increased testing substantially. So far 181 persons have been tested in the state with 14 turning out positive.”Granddaughter took CBSE class XII exam
22-03-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus: No assembly at Bhagat Singh’s town tomorrow||Amid Covid outbreak, the event to mark Bhagat Singh’s martyrdom day at his ancestral town of Khatkar Kalan on Monday is likely to be a low key affair. The town falls in Banga, where six members of the family of Punjab’s first Covid fatality tested positive today.While no political party is holding any function, even the museum displaying the memoirs of the martyr is likely to remain shut. DC Vinay Bublani accompanied by two or three officials will lay a wreath at the site.A number of schools and colleges annually hold plays, skits and poetry recitations on the occasion, but this time no cultural programme will be allowed at the site. While the administration has issued prohibitory orders on gatherings of more than 20 persons, officials are contemplating more stringent measures by restricting assemblies to not more than five persons at a time.
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Roadways buses not to ply today||4K houses surveyed in Anandpur SahibAnandpur Sahib: No Covid case was found during a door-to-door survey that was conducted in Anandpur Sahib on Friday and Saturday. The town was locked down following reports that a Nawanshahr man, who died due to the disease, had stayed here during the Hola Mohalla. SDM Kanu Garg said 50 Health Department teams surveyed over 4,000 houses in the town to rule out any chance of presence of Covid case in the last two days. The restrictions on sealing of the border and closure of shops, however, continue. TNS30 trains suspended till march 31 Amritsar: A day before Janata Curfew, the entire border district has been locked down, with movement of trains, flights and buses halted. All markets are shut and people preferring staying indoors. The Railways has cancelled 30 trains till March 31. Some of the trains are — New Delhi-Amritsar (12013), Amritsar-New Delhi (12014), Howrah-Amritsar (12053), Amritsar-Howrah (12054), Chandigarh-Amritsar (12241) and Amritsar-Chandigarh (12242). The Railways has simplified refund rules for passengers. TNS24x7 power supply in med institutions Chandigarh: The Punjab Government has issued instructions to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to ensure 24x7 power supply to all medical institutions and sanitise centres in the state. The instructions have been issued by Principal Secretary, Power, A Venu Prasad to the CMD of the PSPCL, BS Sra. The institutions include medical colleges, hospitals and dispensaries. Special helplines have been set up for medical institutions, where cases of snag can be reported. All cash counters of the PSPCL have been closed till March 31. The date for payment of bills up to Rs 10,000 has been extended till March 31. TNS
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||HC admonishes judge, orders examination of his conduct||“God have mercy on the litigants that appear in his court,” the Punjab and Haryana High Court asserted while admonishing a judge belonging to subordinate judiciary. The HC also directed its Registrar-General to get his conduct examined on the administrative side and never to post him in a “Family Court” again as he appeared to lack “judicial temperament and the desired approach”.Describing his orders as terrifying and nasty, the Bench added it was notorious in its unlawful consequences.The damning judicial indictment came on a petition filed by an ex-husband challenging two orders dated October 4, 2019, and November 29, 2019, passed by the Ludhiana Additional Principal Judge, Family Court, vide which warrants of imprisonment were issued in execution proceedings for recovery of maintenance.The court was told a notice was not served on the petitioner, yet warrants of imprisonment were issued twice. “Had he not approached this court, he would have been called an ex-jailbird,” Justice Raina said.The Bench said the “Family Court” acting under the Hindu Marriage Act was not exercising the powers of a Magistrate, who under Section 125 (3), CrPC, could order imprisonment for a month in default of payment of maintenance. “The question of putting the defaulter in prison, to be sent in the proverbial handcuffs, does not arise in the present proceedings in enforcement of arrears of maintenance by the ex-wife.”Justice Raina made it clear no man could be proceeded against and sent to the civil jail straightaway for recovery of debt without due service of notice and show cause.
22-03-2020||Pathankot||714 live cartridges seized in Pathankot||The police have seized 714 live cartridges, two pistols and a revolver from a PO and a convict, who had been on the run after securing bail in an NDPS case. PO Yunus Masih and Balwinder Kumar, who was jailed under the NDPS Act, did not turn up when his bail time-period was over. — TNS
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Those spreading rumours to face action, says DGP||Taking strong note of rumours and fake news regarding the spread of coronavirus, DGP Dinkar Gupta on Saturday warned that those found guilty of indulging in such acts would be penalised and dealt with under relevant provisions of the law.In an advisory issued here, the DGP warned people against spreading rumours and falsehood, with a series of dos and don’ts against using mobile phones and social media platforms to spread mischievous and unsubstantiated information, which could create unnecessary panic and hardships to people all around.These are tools that help keep everyone connected and informed, he said, warning people against just sending forwards, or posting/spreading fake news. — TNS
22-03-2020||Patiala||State warns violators of FIRs, forcible isolation||With limited information about citizens coming from abroad, medical teams are facing a difficulty in tracing tourists, NRIs and even foreigners who are quietly staying in cities and villages without following the Centre’s quarantine guidelines on Covid pandemic.Perturbed, the state has now decided to take “strict legal action” and “forcibly isolate” all such persons and their immediate contacts.Many cases have come to light wherein foreign-returned residents are roaming around and attending functions without basic precautions, putting many at risk. “I have been tracking all such cases in the villages under me, but only on Saturday afternoon, I was informed about 12 more persons who have travel history and are residing in my jurisdiction. Without any contact number and only the village names, I am trying to search for them,” said a rural doctor.“When I visited the house of a couple, they made me wait for an hour as they were busy shopping in the city,” said another doctor.Minister for Health and Family Welfare Balbir Singh Sidhu said such cases had come to his knowledge.“We have appealed to all such persons to ensure 14-day self-isolation and also inform nearby government hospital or dispensary,” he said, adding that police had been directed to accompany medical teams wherever necessary. The state has also asked government and private hospitals to notify about Covid suspects to the surveillance unit concerned.DC Kumar Amit said he had appealed to panchayats and residents’ welfare associations to inform about foreign-returned persons who are not following isolation guidelines. “We have started pasting posters outside their houses and stamping them for the safety of others. Neighbours will come to know and avoid any contact with them,” he said.
22-03-2020||Sangrur||Technical institutions offer isolation wards||The Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institutions (FSFTI), Punjab Unaided Colleges’ Association (PUCA), and Punjab Unaided Technical Institutions Association (PUTIA) have offered their buildings for use as isolation centres for suspected Covid patients.“There are hundreds of educational institutes across the state. At present, all have been closed as per the directions of the government due to Covid. We have decided to give our buildings for setting up isolation wards for suspected patients,” said Monty Garg, Malwa region coordinator of the PUCA here today. Garg said Dr Anshu Kataria, president, PUCA & FSFTI, had also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh that the government could use the buildings, including administrative blocks and hostels.“We have also urged our students and their families to observe Janata Curfew on Sunday to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said. — TNS
22-03-2020||Faridkot||MEA grants visa to woman, kid stranded at Dubai airport||Two days after they were stranded at Dubai Airport, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has allowed a six-month visa to a five-month-old child so that she could accompany her mother to Faridkot. A 23-year-old woman of Jeonwala village of Faridkot along with her five-month-old child Dilseerat was stuck at Dubai Airport after India and Canada shut their doors on them.Living in Canada on a student visa, Navneet Kaur had left India three days ago with her Canada-born daughter. As Canadian borders have been closed for non-citizens, the authorities at Dubai Airport did not allow Navneet to travel to Canada. Navneet was left in a quandary as her daughter was being allowed to travel to Canada, but Dilseerat’s entry to India was not permitted, said Kultar Singh Sandhwan, AAP MLA from Kotkapura.“I raised the issue with the MEA with the help of MP Bhagwant Singh Mann,” the MLA said. “Now, the MEA has given a six-month visa to Dilseerat and the mother and daughter can come to India,” said Sandhwan. Sukhchain Singh said Navneet had come to meet him and was returning Canada after over one-month stay.
22-03-2020||Amritsar||CJ apprised of poor hygiene at airport||In a letter to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court, a Chandigarh-based lawyer, Amar Vivek, has brought to his notice the unpreparedness of the public health sector to deal with Covid. He has requested to lay down urgent and firm guidelines. Vivek stated that his daughter had arrived from the UK on March 18 at Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport. On landing, she was shocked to see dirty floors, choked washrooms, soiled luggage conveyor belts, unattended common areas, neglected waiting areas and extremely crowded and unsecured pick-and-drop points, he stated.Airport director Manoj Chansoria refuted the allegations, saying every person was being screened as per the guidelines. — TNS
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Distilleries permitted to make sanitisers||The Punjab Drug Administration Commissionerate has granted permission to distilleries registered with the Excise and Taxation Department to manufacture hand sanitisers/hand rubs as per the formulation given by WHO, said KS Pannu, Commissioner Food and Drug Administration.However, the order said the permission had been granted purely on a temporary basis for 10 days, keeping in view the emergency conditions due to the spread of Covid-19. Moreover, the producer will supply the sanitisers to government/government institutions in the state only. It also directed that the manufacturer would use the standard material only and supply it at the price fixed by the Centre or Punjab Government.Pannu said the drug control officers of the area would inspect the manufacturing units daily. He said it had become necessary to ensure the availability of essential medical items required for the prevention of Covid spread.There were reports that the demand of sanitisers was growing and the existing manufacturing facilities were not able to meet it, Pannu said, adding that taking advantage of demand and supply mismatch, many traders were indulging in black-marketing.
22-03-2020||Moga||Moga man volunteers for trials to find cure||A 46-year-old man has offered to take part in clinical trials for developing vaccine and medicine for Covid-19 virus.In a public statement, Rajinder Singh said he was ready to undergo clinical trials by pharmaceutical companies or government scientists, if they wanted to test any vaccine or medicine to treat the disease.He said, “I announce that I am offering my body for any experiment, clinical test or vaccine/medicine testing to find a cure to coronavirus. If any company or research institute develops a vaccine/medicine they will need a human body for trials. I am offering my body for the prosperity of humanity....If during any such experiment, I die, then my country and family will be proud of my sacrifice”. Working with an insurance company, Rajinder said he would be responsible for his death if any untoward incident happens.Claiming that he had already contacted the World Health Organization in this regard, Rajinder said he was waiting for a response.Rajinder is married and has two children.
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Demand for goods dips, industry stares at losses||When Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh mentioned earlier this week that coronavirus pandemic was a major disaster and would lead to a serious slowdown in economy, many thought that he was overreacting. Just four days later, the state is grappling with a crumbling economy.Exports hitRetail sales, other than essential items, have dropped drastically and shipments of exporters as well as their payments from clients have been put on holdMost industrial houses in the state are coming to terms with a sudden slowdown in production and sales, although a few like the Trident Group have come out in support of their employees.Retail sales, other than essential items, have dropped drastically and shipments of exporters as well as their payments from clients have been put on hold.As a result, many are contemplating layoffs of daily wagers. A steel unit owner, whose industry is located on the outskirts of Ludhiana, says even as most industrial units are contemplating laying off casual labour, many workers are leaving for their native places due to the fear of a complete lockdown in the coming days.“Just yesterday, a number of labourers from Nepal sought leave and decided to go back. We have been forced to cut down production,” he says.Rajinder Gupta, chairman of Trident Group, told The Tribune that the situation is unusual and requires a positive approach. “We have asked all our officers who travelled to foreign countries recently to stay at home. We have assured our employees that we will take care of all 35,000 families of Trident Group, even as we are preparing to cool off continuous processes. If need be, we shall shut down all processes in larger interest of citizens. Till then, we have provided thermal laser guns at gates for initial screening, besides masks, sanitisers etc at all shop floors,” he says.Smaller industrial units are also taking precautions for the safety of their employees. Mudit Sood, a Ludhiana-based auto component manufacturer, says he has provided sanitisers and masks for all employees. “Any member showing even mild symptoms is being asked to proceed on paid leave, besides being immediately referred to a medical officer,” he says.He says most trade exhibitions in the US and Europe have been cancelled in wake of the pandemic, which could impact procuring future orders. “The scare and the restrictions as part of social distancing are also adversely hitting the retail sales,” he says.BD Singh, a wholesale multi-brand distributor of electronic goods and home appliances in Zirakpur, says his sales started dropping a fortnight ago, initially by 30 per cent. “But in the past one week, the sales have dropped by over 60 per cent. It is an unprecedented situation,” he says.Meanwhile, rice exporters, too, are facing the brunt of the epidemic, as their payments from foreign buyers, especially in the Arab world and Europe, are stuck because of a lockdown in many of these countries.“Most of the exporters have taken loans from banks and interest worth hundreds of crores is due to be paid. We have urged the Prime Minster for a moratorium on loan and interest payment,” says Ashok Sethi, director, Punjab Rice Exporters Association.
22-03-2020||Nawanshahr||His granddaughter took board exam||The fact that 70-year-old’s infected granddaughter, who had appeared for a CBSE Class XII exam on March 13, has made the administration jittery.The girl, a private school student, took the economics exam on March 13 at the CBSE centre set up at KC School in Nawanshahr.The administration has taken all details regarding the seating pattern, the names of students who were in the same room, examination supervisors and their contact numbers.It has gone ahead to take the details of students of two other schools for which KC School was the centre.Officials are now wary that the respiratory infection could have got transmitted to other students in the room or the friends of the 18-year-old.Health surveillance teams of the district are now contemplating contacting the parents of these children, checking their health and ensuring that they do not contract the infection. The administration is likely to advise the parents of these children to isolate them.Gurjit Singh, principal, KC School, said: “The administration had contacted me for the CBSE exam details. I have provided them the lists they wanted.”
22-03-2020||Jalandhar||70-yr-old came in contact with 79, but only 27 tested||As many as 79 persons, who were in touch with the 70-year-old Nawanshahr Covid victim, have been placed in isolated, but samples of only 27 have been taken so far.Of these 79 persons (56 from Pathlawa, 23 from Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur), samples of only 17 persons from Nawanshahr, three from Jalandhar and seven from Hoshiarpur have been taken so far.Priest tests positiveHoshiarpur: Moranwali resident, who was in touch with the Nawanshahr man, has tested positive for CovidThe elderly man is a “pathi” (priest) in a gurdwara at Pathlava. Civil Surgeon, Hoshiarpur, Dr Jasvir Singh said his family members were in quarantine at Binewal villageThey have not been diagnosed with the infection as of now. The Civil Surgeon said so far, samples of eight suspected patients had been taken, of which one had tested positiveOf the 56 Pathlawa (immediate family) contacts, 17 were examined and six tested positive (reports of 11 are awaited). Of the total 23 contacts in Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, 10 persons were tested and one came positive. Reports of three are awaited. None of the health professionals, who the Nawanshahr man came in contact with, have been tested yet.While villagers say they have prepared a list of at least 150 persons, who the deceased came in direct contact with, the total number of people affected may be beyond 250.A Chikka village contact is also under isolation, but his sampling is yet to be done. Pathlawa villagers say at least 25 to 30 villagers had gone to Anandpur Sahib, who may or may not have come in contact with the victim there.State Programme Officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover said, “The sampling ambit will be increased from today. We are already seeking lists of his contacts. Within five to 16 days, all symptomatic, asymptomatic and high-risk cases will be tracked and tested.”
22-03-2020||Amritsar||Back from Britain, man tests positive||The count of coronavirus positive cases in the city has risen to two with the Health Department confirming another case today.The patient had returned from the UK and came to the city from Delhi via Shatabdi Express after staying in a hotel there.Civil Surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said the patient had been tested positive. She said the relatives of the patient had been home quarantined.The department has also traced the driver of an OLA cab that the patient had hired. The Deputy Commissioner has also written a letter to the Railways to get details of the Shatabdi passengers in his cabin. The department has also written to the authorities to get details of the passengers in his UK-Delhi flight.Health officials state that at present, five persons are in the isolation wards, of whom two are positive and the remaining negative. The department has also quarantined 48 passengers, including 43 from Pakistan and four from Iran, at the isolation centre here.
22-03-2020||Patiala||Fearing community spread, govt scales up testing||Fearing community transmission of Covid, the Health Department has scaled up testing of suspected patients. Over the last three days, the department tested 66 persons, taking the number of such persons from 115 to 181 on Saturday. The move to conduct more tests is said to have come after the 70-year-old Banga man, who died of coronavirus, contacted hundreds of people.The department has changed its strategy from testing only symptomatic patients to testing all close contacts of a positive patient.Earlier, the department was testing only those suspected patients who were showing symptoms of Covid. However, it involved high risk of community transmission since in many cases, coronavirus can be asymptomatic.Experts say it is possible that even after getting infected the patient may not show any symptoms at all. Due to this, the suspected patient keeps moving around and risking the lives of others in his contact. Experts insist that to contain the spread of coronavirus, testing of asymptomatic patients is must.When asked about the potential community transmission, after the Jalandhar incident, Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, coronavirus programme, denied the situation of community transmission even as the test results of the close contacts of Covid victim were awaited. However, he said that testing had been already scaled up in the state.“The reports of close contacts of the Jalandhar man are awaited, so I can’t comment on community transmission. But so far the positive cases have travel history to affected areas,” said Dr Grover.
