22-05-2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports seven new coronavirus cases||Ludhiana district reported seven more coronavirus cases on Friday, officials said.Only one of Friday’s cases has been entered into Punjab’s official state COVID bulletin on Friday.Six of the seven new cases were Railway Protection Force personnel. The last one is a 28-year-old woman from Gurpal Nagar who came back from Delhi on May 18.All of the RPF personnel are posted at Ludhiana. Nine RPF jawans posted at Ludhiana have so far tested positive. This is in addition to 48 other RPF personnel from a Delhi-based battalion who tested positive a few days ago. These however have not been included in the state’s tally.When added to the state’s tally, this will take Ludhiana’s infection count to 178.The district has so far reported seven deaths.
22-05-2020||---||At 103, Army’s oldest gunner officer passes away||Chandigarh, May 22At 103, the Indian Army's oldest surviving artillery officer Major Gurdial Singh Jallanwalia has marched into oblivion. A war wounded veteran, who was part of the Second World War and two wars against Pakistan, died on Wednesday in Ludhiana.Major Jallanwalia and 13 of his family members served in the defence forces and have the distinction of participating in all the wars fought by the Indian Army since World War I.Born on August 21, 1917, Major Jallanwalia passed out from the Royal Indian Military School, Jalandhar, and joined the Mountain Artillery Training Centre in June 1935. After completing his training, he was posted with 14 Rajputana Mountain Battery at Abbottabad (now in Pakistan) and in 1940, he was transferred to a Survey Troop at Cammbellpur (also in Pakistan).In 1939-40, he took part in Ahmadzai-Waziristan Operation in the North West Frontier Province, now in Pakistan. Then in 1944, Jallanwalia’s unit was moved by road from Bengaluru to Burma to fight against the Japanese during World War II.He along with others was sent to Burma (now Myanmar) by road. When the unit reached Iraawadi river, they were engaged by Japanese forces. Jallanwalia’s unit killed two Japanese soldiers but he was injured by an enemy bullet.After Independence, Jallanwalia participated in operations to check Pakistani infiltration in the Nowshera Sector in 1948. In the 1965 Indo-Pakistan war, he served as a counter-bombardment officer with XI Corps in the Amritsar-Lahore Sector.He finally hung up his boots in 1967. His two sons – Harmanderjeet Singh and Harjinderjeet Singh – served the Indian Army and Indian Air Force, respectively, and were part of the 1999 Kargil conflict.His grandson is also an Army officer. Major Jallanwalia's father, Risaldaar Duleep Singh, had fought with the erstwhile British India Army in Mesopotamia during World War I.
22-05-2020||Ludhiana||Punjab reports one new case, tally stands at 2,029||A personnel of the Railway Protection Force tested positive for coronavirus in Ludhiana on Friday, taking Punjab's tally up by one to 2,029---the lowest rise in Punjab's COVID-19 cases this month.  This takes Ludhiana's cases to 173, Punjab's daily COVID bulletin showed.  Ludhiana reported six more cases---five of them RPF personnel and the sixth a woman who recently returned from Delhi. But these have yet to be added to the official state tally. Bathinda alos reported a positive case later in the evening. The patient had recently returned from abroad, officials said.This has also yet to be added to the official tally, but when done, will take Bathinda's case count to 42. So far, 1,847 coronavirus patients have recovered. Punjab to ramp up testingPunjab government plans to ramp up its testing COVID-19 capacity to 9,000 per day by next month---a development that comes on a day when the state’s official tally showed only one new coronavirus case.  The state government has installed a new automatic RNA Extraction machine at a laboratory at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College (GGSMC), Faridkot---the first of three such additional machines the government has planned to install to ramp up testing.Minister for Medical Education and Research OP Soni inaugurated the laboratory at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College (GGSMC), Faridkot.“Since there are numerous asymptomatic patients and many are expected to come to Punjab from outside. So, these machines will help to deal with the situation and can confirm cases instantly,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, said. The government has two more laboratories planned at government medical colleges in Amritsar and Patiala.Punjab currently has three government labs in the state that can conduct up to 2000 tests per day.Officials said the state government wanted to ramp the state’s testing capacity to 20,000 samples per day. The state has so far tested over 60,000 samples.Meanwhile, Gurdaspur administration sealed villages of the four pregnant women who tested positive at the Batala Civil Hospital.  District Epidemiologist Prabjhot Kaur Kalsi said that three villages came in Batala and in Gurdaspur.District-wise breakup of cases in Punjab is as follows:  Amritsar (312), Jalandhar (210), Ludhiana (172), Tarn Taran (155), Gurdaspur (129), SBS Nagar (105); Patiala (104); SAS Nagar (102); Hoshiarpur (102); Sangrur (88); Muktsar (65); Faridkot (61); Ropar (60); Moga (59); Fatehgarh Sahib (57); Ferozepur (44); Fazilka  (44); Bathinda (41); Kapurthala (34);  Mansa (32); Pathankot  (31) and Barnala (22).The state has reported 39 deaths  so far.
22-05-2020||---||Punjab CM announces stimulus package to cope with COVID-19 impact||Chandigarh, May 22Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Friday, announced a slew of relief measures for the beleaguered real-estate sector amid the unprecedented COVID-19 situation.Captain Amarinder Singh has announced a six-month extension in the permissible period of construction of plots/projects for all allottees, whether private or allotted by state urban authorities, either through auction or draw of lots, a press statement issued by the government said.The stimulus package announced by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, applicable to both allottees and developers, is aimed at providing them with immediate relief, while arresting the slowdown in housing sector.The relief measures are applicable to all the Urban Development Authorities of the state, and shall be restricted to amount due from April 1, 2020 to September 30, 2020.Captain Amarinder Singh said notwithstanding the huge financial implications for his government, it had decided to support the real-estate sector, which had suffered major disruptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Various representations had been received by the government on this count, he added.Referring to the financial implications of the six-month extension in construction period, the Chief Minister pointed out that since development authorities annually receive non-construction fee of nearly Rs 35 crore, this particular relaxation would lead to reduction in receipt to the tune of Rs 17 to 18 crore for all authorities put together.In another key relief measure, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced that all urban development authorities had also been directed not to charge non-construction charges/extension fee/license renewal fee for the period from April 1 to September 30, 2020. This would involve a financial implication of more than Rs one crore on the basis of the past averages. As a result of this relief, all licenses under the PAPRA and permissions under the policy of Mega Projects would be extended by six months without any charge.In another incentive, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has allowed payment of instalments (including interest) of all auctioned properties due between April 1, 2020 to September30, 2020, along with balance instalments, as equated instalments at scheme rate of the interest. No interest shall be charged on the instalment due between April 1, 2020 and September 30, 2020, and thereafter, scheme interest will be charged on the amount due, the press statement issued by the government further said.This particular relief can also be availed for post-dated cheques of amounts deposited against external development charges/license fee/social infrastructure fund etc, under amnesty policy of November 28, 2019, payable up to September 15, 2020 (including those which were due on March 31, 2020).To promote the concept of green buildings, the Chief Minister also approved increase in the incentive in terms of additional FAR of 5 per cent for bronze and silver, 7.5 per cent for gold and 10 per cent for platinum certification by Griha and Leeds, free of charge.Captain Amarinder Singh also gave concurrence to the proposal mooted by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to allow phasing in payment of the EDC as per release of layout plans. However, rate of the EDC payable shall be applicable at the time of approval of layout plans.According to an official spokesperson, given the criticality and urgency of the situation, the Chief Minister, as Chairman of the Development Authorities, had decided to announce immediate relief measures for six months, thus giving time to the authorities to come out with comprehensive long-term package. Post-facto approval of all the decisions announced by the Chief Minister would be taken by the concerned authorities at the earliest.These urgent relief measures were in addition to certain incentives decided by the Housing and Urban Development Ministry, including extension by six months in the moratorium in payment of instalments in case of auctioned properties, an official spokesperson said.The Ministry has also decided that share of ownership can be transferred by the Urban Development Authorities in case of auctioned sites on proportionate payment plus 15 per cent, subject to minimum transfer of ownership of 20 per cent at one instance. Permission to sell specific, built-up area marked on the layout plan can be given to developers thereafter, in the same proportion subject to having obtained the occupation certificate for such units.Further, the staircase in case of 2 clubbed SCOs can be minimum 4 feet wide in case of lift if provided, as per the decision of the Ministry, which has also agreed to take the definition of Atrium as provided in NBC.
22-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Illicit sale of liquor: Punjab Government cracks down on distilleries||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 22In a major crackdown on distilleries involved in smuggling of liquor, the state Excise and Taxation Department on Friday conducted a stock checking of all 15 distilleries across Punjab.The checking on all distilleries was initiated after a search was conducted on the premises of a distillery near Rajpura last evening.A team of Excise and Taxation Department found 22,262 cases of liquor on the premises of this distillery, which they suspected was meant for illicit sale in Punjab, under the garb of sending it to the eastern and central eastern states.The name of this distillery had also cropped up in the Haryana liquor scam, for illegally supplying liquor to a smuggler in Kharkhoda during the lockdown period.According to top officials in the Excise and Taxation Department, checking was conducted in distilleries in Mohali, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Bathinda, Mansa and Kapurthala.Principal Secretary, Excise and Taxation, A Venu Prasad confirmed that searches were on in all distilleries and breweries.Also read: Illegal liquor trade issue snowballs into political rowThough the searches continued till late in the evening, top officials in the department told The Tribune that all Excise officials (Excise Taxation Officers and Inspectors) posted in these distilleries were being transferred and replaced.One Excise and Taxation officer and two or three Excise inspectors are posted to check the working in the distillery every day.The Excise Department suspects that these distilleries, under the garb of making sanitisers during the two month period of COVID-induced lockdown, manufactured liquor and sold it illegally in the state.These distilleries are also suspected of having supplied extra neutral alcohol (ENL) to the illegal distilleries that flourished across the state during the lockdown period.They are also accused of using labels and passes that allowed them sale of liquor to states like Arunachal Pradesh to sell liquor illegally in Punjab. The distilleries were allowed to manufacture alcohol earlier this month.The Excise Department has so far not passed the order for sale of liquor by distilleries of Punjab to Arunachal Pradesh.A meeting of the liquor contractors with two members of the Group of Ministers (Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Vijay Inder Singla) appointed by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was held last evening, where contractors are learnt to have raised the issue of illicit sale of liquor by the distilleries, especially by a distillery in the Majha region, which was impacting legal sale from the vends.
22-05-2020||---||Girl found dead in Bathinda university, family marches for justice||Bathinda, May 22It was a real show of solidarity, when a large number of local residents gathered on Friday to demand justice for 26-year-old, Jyoti, who was found dead in Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), on Dabwali road in Bathinda, on May 10.Men and women—holding placards, demanding justice with pictures of Jyoti—marched through the streets of Bathinda. They started from Gurdwara Quila Mubarak and marched towards the district administrative complex.The family members of the 26-year-old and the action committee alleged, that Jyoti did not commit suicide, but was murdered.They claimed the accused MRSPTU employee, Jagdev Singh, was arrested, but police should also book the two senior officials who called Jyoti to the office on Sunday despite it being a holiday.Jyoti's family members have demanded a high-level probe into the incident. They claim that injury marks on Jyoti's hand and torn clothes indicate murder.Jyoti, who belonged to Amarpura Basti in the city, was working as a clerk-cum-data operator on a regular post in the accounts department of Technical University.Later, Jagdev Singh, the clerk working at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), was arrested on the charge of murdering fellow colleague, Jyoti Rani and then terming the incident as a suicide.In a statement to the police, the family members of the deceased had said, accused Jagdev Singh, was pressuring their daughter to marry him despite repeatedly being spurned.
22-05-2020||Barnala||Barnala police seize heroin worth Rs 40 crore from International border||The Barnala police have seized 8.29 kg heroin worth Rs 40 crore from Badeke Border Outpost (BOP) from near International border with Pakistan and started further investigations.“On May 13 our police had arrested a woman and confiscated 55 gm heroin from her possession. During questioning we got specific information that the second big consignment of heroin would be coming in some days near Badeke BOP,” said Sandeep Goel, SSP Barnala.Goel further informed that after getting information they got in touch with Border Security Force (BSF) as its officers are responsible for checking cross border smuggling.Today a team of Barnala police recovered the heroin after conducting search of area.“The market value of the seized heroin is around Rs 40 crore while we would send its sample to confirm its potency. Apart from heroin, we have also seized 15 live Pakistan-made cartridges. It shows that cross border smugglers have also been supplying ammunition,” said SSP Goel.When asked whether cops have arrested anyone, SSP Goel said they had been conducting further investigations to arrest the persons involved in the supply of heroin.
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill's father says, 'was home all day, have enough proof', on rape accusations||Punjabi actor-singer and "Bigg Boss 13" finalist Shehnaaz Gill's father Santokh Singh Sukh has denied the rape allegations levelled against him, Sukh, who is a politician in Punjab, told a local TV channel that he was at his home the entire day when the alleged incident happened, reports BollywoodLife.com.He has further said that there is CCTV footage of his home to prove that he is speaking the truth.He has also denied reports claiming that he had been absconding after the incident. He has said that the CCTV footage will prove that he is innocent, adding that Rohi Bridge, the area where the crime allegedly happened, is apparently also under CCTV surveillance.Also read: Big Boss contestant Shehnaaz Gill’s father booked on rape chargeOn Thursday, news reports emerged claiming that Santokh Singh Sukh has been booked by Punjab Police on allegations of raping a 40-year-old woman.The victim, a resident of Jalandhar, claimed that Sukh committed the crime in his car at gunpoint. The case was registered on May 19 at a police station in Beas, Amritsar district. IANS
22-05-2020||---||Big Boss contestant Shehnaaz Gill’s father booked on rape charge||Amritsar, May 21Even over two days after a rape case was registered against Santokh Singh Gill, father of model and former Big Boss contestant Shehnaaz Gill, the police are yet to arrest him.A Jalandhar-based woman has accused Santokh of raping her at gunpoint. According to the complainant, the incident occurred on May 14 and the case was registered on Tuesday.According to the FIR, the victim said she, along with her friend, had gone to Beas to meet her boyfriend Lucky Sandhu, who had been residing with Santokh.The complainant said she was a divorcee and had been in a relationship with Lucky for 12 years. She said there were some differences between Lucky and her over some issue. She added that Lucky was not talking to her and on May 14, she, along with her friend, went to Beas to meet him.The complainant said she met Santokh and told him that she wanted to meet Lucky. She alleged that he promised to take her to Lucky. She added that on the pretext of taking her to Lucky, he asked her to sit in his car alone.She said he parked his car at a secluded place and raped her at gunpoint. He threatened her of dire consequences if she told anyone about it.She said later, Santokh asked her to meet him. Disturbed over it, she narrated the incident to her friend. Thereafter, they decided to approach the police.Kirandeep Singh, SHO, Beas police station, said they had initiated an investigation into the incident after registering a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC. The SHO said raids were on to nab him.
22-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Social distancing ignored on Rajiv Gandhi’s  death anniversary||The District Congress Committee, Hoshiarpur, remembered former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on his death anniversary. Congress workers in the district office, led by the district president Dr Kuldeep Nanda, paid floral tributes to Rajiv Gandhi.During this, social distancing was not maintained despite a ban on any kind of event or gathering by the Deputy Commissioner. According to the orders of the Deputy Commissioner (DC), the gathering of more than 10 persons is not allowed for marriage and funeral purpose. The situation was such that 17-18 persons, including the District Congress president, stood close together while being photographed.It can be clearly seen in the photograph that leave the distance of one or two meters. There is not even a distance of one foot between them. District president Dr Kuldeep Nanda said Late Rajiv Gandhi devoted his entire life for the unity and integrity of the country. His martyrdom inspired us to remain devoted for the country. He aksed the activists to take inspiration from Rajiv Gandhi’s life and contribute for the development of the country. — OC
22-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Nature is revolting to reclaim its kingdom: Pathankot SSP||Tribune News ServicePathankot, May 21When Pathankot SSP Deepak Hilori is quizzed what will happen in the future, his stock reply is “We all are blind and sailing on the same leaking boat.”Before the lockdown kicked in, the officer remained busy managing the routine affairs of the department. Now, the mundane has been relegated to the back burner. The nature has forced upon him new duties like asking people to maintain social distancing, wearing mask and extending a helping hand to his colleagues in these taxing times.The officer feels that viruses do not respect borders. “It is high time we put aside our egos and do what is necessary to limit, or even, halt the damage. The nature is revolting to reclaim its kingdom. If we cannot make peace with her now, what is the point of existing?”, he says.As he speaks, he gets a call from an SHO awaiting instructions on how to deal with farmers not practising social distancing in the grain market. “Deal with them with kid gloves. A few rough words from you could trigger off tensions. Try to tell the farmers that whatever we are doing is for their benefit,” he urges his officer.Hilori believes that every single reduction in the number of contacts a person has per day with others will have a significant impact on the ability of the virus to spread. “This strategy saved thousands of lives during the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic and, more recently, in Mexico city during the 2009 flu,” he says.The officer opines that strange things are happening in strange times.“At a time when corona panic has the potential to wreak havoc, the abiding message from the literary depictions of plagues and pandemics is that the only solution is not every man for himself, but a collective response of universal brotherhood. The irony is that even as the practical response is to close borders, the long-term solution is coming from people banding together, fighting the virus across borders with Chinese doctors, Israeli labs, American scientists and Australian production techniques. The virus is actually testing how well we can collaborate across borders even as we try to shut them down. And, if nothing else, it also reminds us that another way forward is possible—teleconferencing and Skyping instead of the arduous exercise of criss-crossing the globe. That might not be a bad thing for our beleaguered planet,” he maintained.He is again disrupted by a call. His subordinate informs him the decks have been cleared to send back 1,200 migrants to J&K who were stranded in the city following the curfew.“We made certain these people were taken care off. Now it is time to wish them adieu. The J&K government has agreed to take them back,” he says with a relief writ large over his face.
22-05-2020||Aman Sood||Illegal liquor trade issue snowballs into political row||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 21The recovery of liquor in two different cases in the Ghanaur Assembly segment of Rajpura recently has snowballed into a political controversy with Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal leaders blaming each other for “being involved in illegal liquor trade”.While the SAD blames Madan Lal Jalalpur directly for backing the illegal liquor mafia and patronising them, Jalalpur says local SAD leaders are hand in glove with the liquor mafia.The controversy erupted last week when the Patiala police and the Excise Department raided an illegal distillery-cum-liquor-bottling plant, which was making huge money during the lockdown by selling illicit liquor under the guise of popular brands. The accused, operating the distillery from a cold store, were making liquor by diluting extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which was available at a cheaper price, and sold it at exorbitant rates. Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh, who is also an aide of Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, and Dipesh Kumar of Rajpura were booked after Thursday’s raid.Earlier, another cache of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) was seized from the tube well of a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader on Monday night. The tube well is allegedly owned by former SAD panchayat samiti member Darshan Singh of Pabri village. During the raid, the police recovered ENA in 20 drums and a few empty drums at Pabri village under the Kheri Gandian police station.However the SAD leaders today blamed Jalalpur for the illegal trade of liquor claiming that the Congress MLA was the man behind this entire operation. They said last week after the Congressmen were booked, he pressurised the police to show empty drums and planted the liquor at Pabri to shift the blame.“A week after the factory was sealed, the police buckled under the pressure of the Congress MLA and failed to arrest any of his close aides. Even the middlemen, who bought and sold this liquor, are also evading arrest,” said former Cabinet Minister Surjit Singh Rakhra, while speaking at the residence of SAD leader from Ghanaur Harpreet Kaur Mukhmailpur.“Call details of Jalalpur for the past one year should be made public and all his deals with llegal liquor traders will come to light,” Rakhra added.Mukhmailpur said, “Illegal gambling, mining and liquor manufacturing hub is the tag that the Congress has earned for Rajpura and Ghanaur.”“A High Court-monitored or the CBI probe is the only option that can nail actual culprits. Bribes and monthly cuts accepted by Congress leaders in Patiala and Rajpura need a thorough probe,” she added. The police acted on behest of the Congress to show a fake raid at Pabri village, she said.Blaming the Akali Dal and the BJP for the Rajpura liquor recovery case, Jalalpur said the illegal distillery was owned by SAD and BJP leaders and the Akali Dal was blaming the Congress to shift the blame. Police officials stated that a SIT had been formed to probe the cases.
22-05-2020||Vijay C Roy||Jalandhar leather industry in distress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Hit by the lockdown, the Rs 1,200-crore Jalandhar leather industry is in distress. Besides supply chain disruption, the closure of the US and European markets due to Covid has put a strain on their working capital. Due to this factor, they can neither think of diversification nor close down their operations.Jalandhar industry“The manufacturing across sectors has gone through turmoil. However, the leather industry has been hit hard. The sudden lockdown has disrupted the raw material supply and exports. Amid the pandemic, 60% of export orders were cancelled by the exporters as the markets were closed globally,” said Ajay Sharma, secretary, Punjab Leather Federation.According to manufacturers, a majority of clients from the overseas cancelled the orders they had placed before the outbreak of Covid-19.Industrialists said the lockdown has led to a whopping financial loss in terms of exports. In addition to this, imported raw hides are also rotting in containers at ports.In Punjab, leather industry is majorly concentrated in Jalandhar comprising tanneries and manufacturers of shoes, bags, jackets, purses and belts. Currently, the tanneries are closed on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court because of non-fulfilment of environmental norms.The industry is dominated by tiny, cottage and MSMEs. The industry size is pegged at Rs 1,200 crore with 50% turnover coming from exports.There are around 200 units which are engaged in the manufacturing of finished leather (dry work) and stitching. According to the industry, the lockdown has hit at a time when the industry was already under the crisis.“We have resumed partial operations. The industry was closed for almost two months. Despite no sales, we had to bear rent, staff cost and other recurring costs which put a strain on our finances. We can’t even think of diversification as we are hardly left with any capital to start afresh,” said Deepak Chawla, Director, Jay Dee Leather (P) Ltd.As a result, the precious working capital of the tiny, cottage and MSMEs is stuck and it will take at least 6-8 months for the situation to normalise.According to the industry, since the major leather clusters in the country are closed, they are facing raw material shortage and producing with whatever stock is lying with them.“Though the industry has started partial operations, it is still facing issues pertaining to raw material and market for finished products,” Sharma added. According to him, the exporters are not able to commit to orders due to the freeze on industrial activities.The exporters complained that despite negative sentiment against China, they are not able to cash in on the demand because of cheaper imports from Vietnam and Bangladesh. They are of the view that exporters need some handholding to survive this crisis.Besides demanding interest-free loan, the industry says the government must amend the labour laws to give entrepreneurs confidence to invest more in creating larger capacities.
22-05-2020||Aman Sood||Accused Rajpura distiller has licensed vends||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 21After sealing an illegal liquor distillery run from a cold store in Rajpura, the Excise Department has started collecting samples following a revelation that key accused, Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh, is a partner in many authorised liquor vends in and around Rajpura.A probe is now under way to ascertain if premium liquor brands sold at vends across the state and in Haryana were made at the illegal distillery using ENL (extra neutral alcohol).The department is also contemplating cancelling liquor vend licences of the accused. “We will take action once the police complete the probe as we are yet to ascertain if the same liquor was sold at vends owned by Amrik,” said Patiala ETO (Excise) Upkar Singh. “Amrik Singh, who was operating the distillery along with some politicians, made liquor by diluting ENA, which costs Rs 55 a litre and has 72.5 per cent alcohol content. They would dilute it to 40 per cent alcohol by mixing water and add artificial flavour and colour,” the police said.Political patronage allegedly ensured that the entire operation went on smoothly and the accused made 1,000 per cent profit. “They profited by more than Rs 100 crore over the past few months,” local liquor contractors say. “An order for a premium brand of IMFL costing Rs 24,000 per carton in the open market was readied at this distillery at a cost of around Rs 240,” they alleged.“The accused would take orders at authorised vends and make available the ordered brand overnight. From labels to the liquid inside the bottle, everything was fake,” excise officials said.“Instead of bringing fake liquor to the authorised vends, home delivery was done to hoodwink officials and other partners,” they claim.“Due to that reason, no fake liquor was found at authorised liquor vends although these were inspected regularly,” Upkar Singh said. “We will now collect samples from all liquor vends,” he said. Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “We are still investigating the matter.” Meanwhile, the police managed to arrest Dipesh, another accused in the case, on Thursday.
22-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Amritsar to Ballia on foot, 3 brothers say couldn’t wait more||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 21Prakash, in his teens, checks the last message on his mobile. It’s from the Punjab Government, urging migrants to be patient. He responds with a derisive shrug. He and his brothers Dharmendra and Kanhaiya left Amritsar for their hometown Ballia in Uttar Pradesh four days ago. They intend to walk all the way to their village Noorpur, more than 1,318 km away, each carrying a bag with two sets of clothes. The trio is accompanied by five co-workers.Resting under a bridge at the Pathankot bypass here on Thursday, Prakash told The Tribune: “Many of our colleagues left days ago. Government messages mean nothing. We have no money or ration. We can’t wait any longer.” Dharmendra (28) and Kanhaiya (30) arrived in Punjab two years ago. They worked with an embroidery unit. Prakash, who came only a few months ago, sold vegetables. Having lost his livelihood, Dharmendra wants to return to his wife, who is pregnant. Kanhaiya wants to be back with his three young kids aged two, three and five years.“We will resume our journey tomorrow after a day’s rest,” said Prakash, who worked with a bike repair shop after the lockdown, but the shop too was shut after a while. “We received ticket confirmation messages from the Railways, but the message for boarding the train never came. Our landlord kept pestering us for rent. He asked us to leave if we could not pay it. We left without our luggage. It seems like a nightmare. I just want to be home,” said a desolate Dharmendra.
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||3L workers sent back||Since May 3, 3.16 lakh persons, including migrant labourers, have travelled back to their home states by trains, buses and private vehicles.  However, after the resumption of economic activity in the state, there is a 40 per cent drop in the number of migrants who wanted to return home. Official data on the outward movement of persons reveals that till Wednesday, 2.8 lakh persons left the state by 236 trains, costing Rs13.87 crore to the state so far. — TNS
22-05-2020||---||Act against erring Cong leaders, SAD urges Governor||Chandigarh, May 21The SAD on Thursday urged Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore to take action against some Congress MLAs for allegedly patronising liquor smuggling.Addressing the media here, party leader Daljit Singh Cheema said as per media reports, the Chief Minister had admitted during a meeting with Congress leaders that he had knowledge about party leaders involved in liquor smuggling.The Shiromani Akali Dal has claimed that the illegal sale of liquor has caused a loss of Rs 5,600 crore to the state exchequer in the past three years.“The illegal act has caused a loss of Rs5,600 crore to the state exchequer in the past three years,” he claimed.He alleged thousands of litres of ENA (extra neutral alcohol) had been unlawfully released from distilleries owned by Congress men and their close associates and was dispatched to illegal distilleries and bottling plants as has been revealed in the case of Khanna, Rajpura and Ludhiana incidents.He demanded identification and action against distilleries engaging in the illegal act, besides audit of the ENA stock of all distilleries in the state.
22-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||DC asks teachers to monitor distilleries; revokes order later||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 21After teachers’ unions raised a hue and cry over Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq’s order on posting teachers at four private distilleries of the district, he revoked the direction within 24 hours of issuing it.‘Smacked of distrust in excise dept’Senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said the matter spoke volumes of the distrust of the administration in the Excise Department. He said, “It is also an admission of guilt that large-scale smuggling of liquor is taking place from the distilleries.” He condemned the government move to use teachers, who were engaged in a noble profession, on duty of monitoring distilleries and demanded action against officials responsible for this lapse.As per the DC’s controversial order, teachers were given the powers of executive magistrates and asked to keep a check on liquor smuggling at the four distilleries in Batala. They were also asked to submit reports to the Batala SDM daily.The distilleries are owned by Delhi-based liquor baroness Jasdeep Kaur Chadha, sister-in-law of late Ponty Chadha.The order also stated that in case of non-compliance or negligence, teachers would be proceeded against under Section 188 (disobeying government orders) of the IPC.Assistant Commissioner (General) Raman Kochar signed the order on behalf of the DC.Democratic Teachers Front (DTF) state president Davinder Singh Punia termed the order “draconian”.“Teachers are already burdened. They have to take online classes, supervise mid-day meal and distribute books. Earlier, they were asked to screen migrant labourers at bus stops and railway stations without proper safety gears. Amid this, the administration asked teachers to keep a check on liquor smuggling. That was uncalled for,” he said.Akali Dal spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema criticised the DC for his decision. “I was taken aback at the audacity of the Gurdaspur administration to ask teachers to count liquor bottles and report to the Batala SDM,” he said.Sources claim the order was issued after it came to light that there was some problem with revenue generation in the distilleries.When contacted, the DC said it was a technical mistake. “We had decided to pull out employees of several departments and deploy them at the distilleries. Because of a clerical mistake, an impression went out that only employees of the Education Department would be assigned duties. It was a mistake, which has been rectified. I have informed representatives of teachers about it,” he said.
22-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Capt’s luncheon diplomacy pays off; leaders mollified||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21In the matter related to the alleged misbehaviour by Chief Secretary Karan Avtar with ministers, all eyes are now on Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.“Once Manpreet returns from his native village, an effort would be made to untie the last knot in the string,” said a senior party leader. The Chief Secretary is learnt to have visited Bathinda to offer his condolences to Manpreet who lost his father recently.All eyes on FM.Only yesterday Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and Gidderbaha MLA Raja Warring, who led a bitter attack on Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh on Twitter, are learnt to have been mollified after attending a luncheon meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at the latter’s farmhouse in Siswan.Sources in the government claimed that the CM’s luncheon diplomacy paid off and the standoff between the ministers and the Chief Secretary was now over.Also present at the meeting were PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, Urmur MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian and Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh.While Manpreet was away to his native village, Channi was not invited, the sources said.The Chief Minister is learnt to have told the party leaders that he wanted the top bureaucrat to continue in office till his retirement in August. Sources said he also spoke on the excise issue and the action being taken to check liquor smuggling. Pargat Singh is learnt to have reiterated concerns raised by him two months agoParty MLAs not invited to the luncheon held parallel meetings. A note issued by the CMO later in the day said Capt Amarinder Singh, during an “informal lunch”, discussed the Covid situation with some party colleagues and MLAs, who also raised the issue of the Chief Secretary and alleged excise revenue losses.
22-05-2020||---||Accused in PNDT case held after 4-hr chase in Ludhiana||Gurdaspur, May 21A BAMS doctor allegedly conducting illegal sex determination tests for the past several months in and around Gurdaspur was finally arrested after the police and health officials, including Civil Surgeon Dr Kishen Chand, planned a 12-hour-long operation that included a high-speed four-hour car chase. The accused had earlier dodged the officials several times.The car chase started from Gurdaspur and culminated in Ludhiana last evening where accused Rakesh Kumar was arrested. He has been booked under the PNDT Act, 1994, and Sections 420 and 120 of the IPC.On Wednesday, the Civil Surgeon got information that the doctor, accompanied by a woman agent, would be touring villages in the Kahnuwan area carrying his mobile ultrasound machine.The officials laid a trap and sent a woman in a car provided by the Civil Surgeon. The agent asked the driver to proceed towards Ludhiana oblivious to the fact that a police team and health officials were following her in two vehicles.The agent later got suspicious and asked the driver to drive at breakneck speed. A four-hour chase followed on the Gurdaspur-Ludhiana road, which ended at the doctor’s clinic. Ludhiana health officials and the police were kept in the loop and the doctor was arrested.
22-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Teachers launch YouTube channels, upload lectures||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 21To ensure that students remain in touch with studies during the lockdown, two mathematics teachers —Dharampal Singh of Jalandhar and Baljit Singh of Gurdaspur — have started their own YouTube channel where they upload lectures. Their videos already have thousands of views.‘Won’t let pupils suffer’Dharampal Singh (L) of Jalandhar and Baljit Singh of Gurdaspur have started their own YouTube channel where they upload lectures. Their videos already have thousands of viewsDharampal is posted at Government High School, Patara. He has named his YouTube channel “Mathematics Lovers”, while Baljit Singh, a teacher at Government High School, Dharamkot, has a channel by the name of “Sarkari Math Master Baljit Singh”.Despite being physically challenged, Dharampal is enthusiastic about his profession. When asked if he faces any trouble in making videos, he says, “Being a math teacher, my job is to find solution to every problem, not to get lost in it.” He uploads at least three lectures a week for Classes VI to X. “Looking at the current situation, I decided to reach out to students through YouTube. I have been getting a great response,” he said.Dharampal is also the state resource person for mathematics. Baljit Singh has been uploading up to seven lectures daily for Classes VI to XII. He uses small stories with interesting examples to clear the concepts. There are some other teachers in the state who are reaching out to their students using online platforms.
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||90% teachers take classes online: Survey||As classes move online, teachers across Punjab and Chandigarh are learning the new medium of imparting education. Over 82% teachers who have taken to online teaching methods had no prior experience.This has been revealed in an online survey of 3,550 teachers from government, semi-government and private schools in Punjab and Chandigarh conducted here. The survey was conducted by Dr Anita Nangia and Dr Seema Sareen of Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of Dev Samaj College of Education, Chandigarh.The survey report, released today shows that 90.2 per cent teachers said they were taking online classes for the first time. — TNS
22-05-2020||Amritsar||SGPC starts free online classes on religious studies||The SGPC has launched an online Dharam Parchar campaign in view of the Covid pandemic. In all, 276 preachers will take online classes related to Gurbani, Sikh history and “rehat maryada” (tenets). The classes are free of cost. During a class on Thursday, SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh addressed students. Dharam Parchar committee secretary Manjit Singh Batth said at least 10,000 students from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Kolkata, Patna, Jammu, Kurukshetra and Ahmedabad were taking online classes between 6 am and 7.30 am. — TNS
22-05-2020||---||Punjabi youths stuck in Ukraine to return today||Mohali, May 21Evacuated Punjabi youths studying or working in Ukraine are likely to arrive at the international airport here by an Air India flight on Friday.The flight carrying passengers from Ukraine would first arrive at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi. After dropping passengers there, the flight with Punjabi passengers will arrive at the Mohali airport at 1.30 pm.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said passengers would be screened at the airport. If found asymptomatic, passengers of the adjoining districts, including Ropar and Patiala, would be dropped at their homes, the Deputy Commissioner said.He added that passengers of other districts would be taken care of by the respective authorities.
22-05-2020||---||Domestic violence cases up 21% since lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21State law officers have been engaged by the government to counsel families where crime against women, including domestic violence, is being reported during the lockdown period.Official figures reveal 21 per cent increase in the number of crime against women in the state, with 700 cases of domestic violence alone. The number of cases has risen from 4,709 to 5,695 since March, with domestic violence cases going up from 3,287 to 3,993 during the lockdown period.Deputy Advocate General Deepika Deshwal, who is engaged in counselling of the victims, said women after being subjected to domestic violence suffered from depression and anxiety.“During lockdown, I had been allocated the charge of women and child affairs in the state. Now, all complaints are being monitored through daily diary reports being shared by deputy commissioners of police on a daily basis. We are getting complaints of lactating mothers being separated from their newborns after domestic violence,” she said.
22-05-2020||---||All patients cured, 4 Punjab dists Covid-free||Chandigarh, May 21Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today expressed satisfaction over the release of all patients of Covid in Mohali, Sangrur, Ferozepur and Moga districts. He said it was a big relief for these districts that there were no more active cases of the disease.Online training for 22K corona warriorsChandigarh: The state has equipped nearly 22,000 employees with various role-specific training modules on iGOT platform to fight the pandemic far more effectively, paving the way for preparing an army of corona warriors. This will help the state to have complete data on course-wise trainings undertaken by employees, who can further be deployed as and when need arises for trained manpower for containment duties. TNSAll patients have been discharged and sent home after treatment from the isolation centres on Thursday, bringing down the active cases to zero in these four districts.In a press statement, Sidhu said although there was no patient in these districts as of now, the fight with the pandemic was not over. He said the state government had managed to contain the spread of the deadly disease to a great extent, “but our fight will continue till the specific treatment for the disease is not available”.The Health Minister lauded the efforts of all district administrations, mainly health officials, to check the spread of Covid though successful contact tracing where more than 99 per cent contacts of positive patients were traced in containment zones and other areas.
22-05-2020||Arun Sharma
||Bhakra water damages land in Ropar villages||Tribune News Service Anandpur Sahib, May 21  While the authorities failed in repairing and strengthening the banks of the Sutlej since they were damaged during the floods in August, the water being released from the Bhakra Dam has started eroding the land of farmers in the area.  Land owners of affected villages — Lodhipur, Burj, Ballowal, Hariwal, Mehndli Kalan and Chandpur — said they had been left at the mercy of fate again as they had suffered earlier due to lackadaisical attitude of officials concerned.  Heavy rain forced the BBMB to open floodgates that wreaked havoc in Ropar and other districts in August last year. While hundreds of villages in the district remained inundated for weeks, the infrastructure, including crate walls of rivers, spurs and studs, water supply pipelines, buildings of schools and health centres, besides thousands of houses were damaged. Farmers of Dola Basti, near Lodhipur village, said the crate wall on the banks of the Sutlej towards their fields had been damaged during the floods and it was not repaired till now. In the absence of the crate wall, water released by the BBMB a few days ago had started eroding their land and endangered a nearby bridge.  Former panch of Burj Kamaljit Kaur said her family had lost four acres due to erosion by river water. Few other villagers also suffered losses. It was, however, not the first time when these villages witnessed floods last year. Now, the damage to crate wall during floods last year added to the woes of people. Ropar Drainage Department XEN Damandeep Singh said due to the pandemic, there was delay in taking steps in this regard. He said he had already earmarked spots where flood protection would start soon.
22-05-2020||Saurabh Malik
||HC upholds acquittal of Army man in rape case||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 21 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has upheld the acquittal of an Indian Army sepoy accused of raping the doctor wife of a lieutenant colonel. The prosecutrix had claimed that she was pregnant and had returned home from a visit to a hospital when the alleged incident occurred. “Long silence regarding the alleged occurrence of prosecutrix and her husband, both of whom were well educated, creates doubt regarding the prosecution story,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh observed. The Bench also dismissed the prosecutrix’s application for grant of leave to appeal after terming it as “devoid of merit”. An FIR in the matter was registered for rape and criminal intimidation under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC at Sujanpur police station in Pathankot against the sepoy. But Pathankot Additional Sessions Judge acquitted the accused after giving him the benefit of doubt in his judgment dated January 20, 2016. In her complaint to the police lodged in February 2015, the prosecutrix had alleged that the incident had taken place in March 2014. She was pregnant and had gone to the hospital for medical check-up in her husband’s official vehicle driven by the accused. He followed her inside the house while carrying a bag of groceries before the incident occurred. The Bench asserted the explanations put forth by the prosecution regarding delay in lodging the FIR did not appeal to the mind of the court.  The prosecutrix claimed she disclosed the alleged incident to her husband in January 2015. Even her husband stated the same. But the doctor treating her admitted that the husband of prosecutrix informed him about the incident in November 2014. The Bench asserted it was not clear why the prosecutrix and her husband did not report the alleged incident dated March 4, 2014, to the police till February 2, 2015. The prosecutrix, while appearing in the witness box, admitted she kept accompanying the accused in the official vehicle to the hospital for her medical check-up during the next 15 days.
22-05-2020||---||‘Terror convict’ deported from US, controversy erupts||Amritsar, May 21Security agencies were in a tizzy following the deportation of an alleged terror convict having links with Al Qaeda, from the US along with 164 passengers yesterday. He was placed under quarantine at the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here.Dr Jugal Kishore, Civil Surgeon, confirmed that Ibrahim Zubair Mohammad was among the deportees at the isolation ward. He, however, feigned ignorance about alleged his terror links.“I have talked to Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, but the police did not have any information,” he said. Dr Gill said Ibrahim was not wanted by the local police nor was there any input regarding his alleged links with Al Qaeda.SDM Deepak Bhatia said he had only facilitated the returnees’ transportation from the airport to quarantine centres. A document is being circulated on social media, purportedly relating to a US court in Ohio, as per which Zubair along with his brother Yahya Farooq Mohammad was among four persons convicted for terror financing and supporting Al Qaeda leader Anwar Al-Awlaki. Zubair, an engineering student from Hyderabad, had married a US citizen to become a permanent US resident in 2007. He was arrested in 2011 and deported to India after completion of his sentence.
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||MP: Include Amritsar in e-way project||Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today said she had requested the Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry to amend the alignment of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway project to provide a new expressway connection between Delhi and Amritsar, besides creating a Sikh religious circuit by aligning the proposed expressway with the shrines at Sultanpur Lodhi, Khadoor Sahib, Goindwal Sahib and TarnTaran.In a letter to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, Harsimrat requested him to intervene to ensure better connectivity to the holy city and other Sikh shrines under the proposed expressway. tns
22-05-2020||---||Infant dies at Amritsar hospital, toll 39||Chandigarh, May 21A two-and-a-half-month old child today died due to Covid in Amritsar. He was under treatment at the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.According to the health authorities, the infant, Aditya, was admitted to the hospital following complaint of pneumonia and chest infection two days ago. He died on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.His sample was sent for Covid testing and the report came positive today, confirmed Dr Jugal Kishore, Civil Surgeon, Amritsar. He said the health authorities would examine his immediate family members and take their samples for further analysis.Meanwhile, the state reported 23 fresh Covid cases today, taking the count to 2,028. As per the state media bulletin, seven cases were reported from Hoshiarpur, five from Amritsar, four from Gurdaspur, two each from Pathankot and Ludhiana and one each from Barnala, Kapurthala and Patiala.Among new patients in Amritsar included a migrant and a girl. The third patient was a 60-year-old from the Katra Dullo area. The total count of positive cases in the holy city has climbed up to 313.As per the Health Department, so far samples of 59,618 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 53,871 were found negative and reports of 3,719 were awaited.At least 25 positive patients were discharged today from various parts of the state, the total number of cured patients has reached 1,819.
