22-11-2020||Chandigarh||710 new COVID-19 cases take Punjab’s tally to 1,46,346||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 4,614 on Sunday with 19 more fatalities, while 710 new cases pushed the infection tally to 1,46,346, a medical bulletin issued here said.Five deaths were reported from Jalandhar, three each from Mohali and Patiala, two each from Bathinda, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana and one each from Gurdaspur and Mansa, it said.The places which reported the fresh coronavirus cases, include Mohali (146), Ludhiana (98), Jalandhar (74) and Patiala (74).There are 6,724 active COVID-19 cases in the state currently, the bulletin said.A total of 497 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the total recoveries to 1,35,008, as per bulletin.Thirteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 136 are on oxygen support, it said, adding that a total of 30,15,699 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
22-11-2020||New Delhi||Centre rushes high-level teams to Punjab, Himachal, UP amid surge in Covid cases||High-level Central teams have been deputed to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh to support them in COVID-19 response and management.      These states have been either reporting a rise in the number of active cases—those who are hospitalised or are in home isolation under medical supervision, or demonstrating a rise in the daily new cases of coronavirus infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.                 Earlier, high-level teams were sent to Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Manipur and Chhattisgarh.“These three-member teams will visit districts reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases and support the state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases.        “The Central teams shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up,” the ministry said.India’s present active caseload has further declined to 4,40,962 and comprises 4.85 per cent of the total cases while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.69 per cent  with the country registering 43,493 new recoveries in a span of 24 hours taking the total recovered cases to 85,21,617. “The gap between recovered and active cases is steadily increasing and presently stands at 80,80,655,” the ministry highlighted.The ministry said that 26 states and UTs have less than 20,000 active cases, as on date while 7 states and UTs have active cases between 20,000 and 50,000 whereas Maharashtra and Kerala are reporting more than 50,000 caseload.Ten states and UTs contribute to 77.68 per cent of the new recovered cases.Delhi saw 6,963 persons recovering from COVID-19. Kerala and Maharashtra reported 6,719 and 4,088 new recoveries respectively.Ten states and UTs have contributed 76.81 per cent of the new cases.In a span of 24 hours, 45,209 persons were found to be infected with coronavirus.Delhi reported 5,879 cases in a span of 24 hours. Kerala recorded 5,772 new cases while Maharashtra reported 5,760 cases on Saturday.Fifteen states and UTs are reporting less than the national average of cases per million population.Besides, 76.45 per cent of the 501 case fatalities that have been reported in a day are from ten states and UTs.                Of the new fatalities, 22.16 per cent are from Delhi which reported 111 deaths. Maharashtra saw a fatality count of 62 while West Bengal reported another 53.Thirteen states and UTs are reporting higher than the national average of fatality rate (1.46%), the ministry said.             Twenty-one states and UTs are reporting lower than the national average of deaths per million (96). Fourteen states and UTs have more deaths per million population than the national average (96).   India’s COVID-19 caseload mounted to 90,95,806 with 45,209 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,33,227 with 501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. — PTI
22-11-2020||Bathinda||Tensions escalate as 1,500 followers reach Dera Salabatpura after leader's murder||Tensions escalated as around 1,500 Dera Sacha Sauda followers gathered at Salabatpura, the biggest dera and state headquarters of the Sirsa-based sect in Punjab, after the murder of prominent member Manohar Lal at Bhagta Bhaika on Friday.Various wings of the dera have also taken charge of providing langar to them.The followers are adamant that they would not cremate Lal's body till the accused are arrested by the police.On Saturday, after conducting a post-mortem, dera followers took the body to their Salabatpura Dera from the civil hospital. The district administration tried to pacify the followers and even held a meeting with 45 members committee of the dera. SSP Bhupinder Singh Virk eventually left as the talks failed to reach any conclusion.The followers have also blocked the Barnala-Bhagta main road and started an indefinite protest keeping the body of the deceased in a freezer at the protest site.Dera Sacha Sauda Sirsa senior vice chairman Jagjit Singh, Political wing members Baljinder Singh, Balraj Singh, Paramjit Singh, Avtar Singh, Ravi Kumar and others were seen present at the protest.Sensing a situation going out of hand in case of a standoff between dera and district administration, sources said that police has demanded a list of weapon licenses of the dera followers.Moreover, Sukha Gill Lamme group which had taken responsibility for the killing of a dera member has posted another post on Facebook. In the post, he has stated that "Let those who are holding a dharna in Salabatpura also tell what great deed he had done that they are holding dharma. He did not one but four sacrilege. We are not against dera followers or any religion, our enemy is the one who is against the Sikh community and who disrespects our Guru. We will do the same with anyone who will do this if Guru Sahib gives me another chance, I will do it again".Police deployment has also been intensified in the region as Dera Sacha Sauda has a huge presence in the region and the state headquarters of the Dera Sacha Sauda is also located at Salabatpura in Rampura area.In August 2015, many incidents of violence were reported in the region when the CBI court convicted dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh.
22-11-2020||---||2nd Covid wave inevitable: Captain Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, November 21Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday offered all possible help to Delhi in managing its spiralling Covid-19 cases, even as he warned that the second wave striking Punjab was an almost certain eventuality.“Delhi is fighting a tough battle, and we are there to help if needed,” he said, while assuring all possible measures by his government to prepare for the second wave in Punjab. He warned that experience of the NCR and other states showed the second was was an almost certain eventuality.Captain Amarinder expressed confidence that the Health Department would once again rise to the occasion to meet any challenge.
22-11-2020||Bathinda||Probe sought into faulty transfusion||
22-11-2020||Ludhiana||Woman who alleged rape by Bains gets cover||The police today provided security to the woman who had accused Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh of rape. A policewoman and a gunman were deputed as part of her security. The woman staged a dharna at the Police Commissioner’s office over alleged dilly dally by the police in registering a rape case against the MLA.“I am staging the protest as the police seem to be in no mood to register a case against the MLA. I have given evidence to the police against Bains, yet I am being made to shuttle between offices,” she said.— TNS
22-11-2020||Abohar||Pistol stolen from Abohar gun house||Two miscreants today walked into a gun house at Gandhi Chowk here and decamped with a pistol made by the Indian Ordnance Factory.Sethi Gun House owner Vicky Sethi told the police the two masked men entered his shop in the afternoon and showed interest in buying a rifle. The owner inadvertently placed a revolver deposited recently by a licensee on the counter.After the miscreants left the shop without purchasing a weapon, Sethi realised they had allegedly taken away the pistol. He informed the police and a team reached the spot. They procured CCTV footage of the vicinity to identity the suspects. — OC
22-11-2020||---||135 AAP block heads take oath||Chandigarh, November 21The state unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) expanded its organisational structure by appointing new office-bearers here today.Party’s state president Bhagwant Mann, and in-charge of Punjab affairs and MLA Jarnail Singh appointed 135 block presidents in 17 districts, who took oath here today. With this, 460 block presidents have been appointed in 22 districts.Mann said the party had taken a step towards perfecting the ground-level infrastructure in the state. Jarnail said the new appointments had been made after marathon consultations with workers at the grassroots level. He said with this, the party had sounded a clarion call for the 2022 Assembly elections.
22-11-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court permits NIOS diploma holders to take ETT exam||Chandigarh, November 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC) has permitted candidates carrying diploma in elementary education from the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) to take written test for the post of ETT teachers scheduled to be held on November 29.Justice Sudhir Mittal made it clear that the directions were subject to the final outcome of the writ petition.Justice Mittal was hearing a petition filed by Jalandhar Singh and 26 other candidates through counsel Kapil Kakkar and Shreesh Kakkar. Justice Mittal observed the petitioners’ grievance was that their applications for appointment as ETT teachers was not being considered even though their qualification was recognised by the National Counsel for Teacher Education.They had obtained diploma in elementary education from the National Institute of Open Schooling, which was recognised under Section 14 of the NCTE Act. As such, the petitioners were entitled to be considered and had the right to appear for the written examination.
22-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court orders probe into non-preparation of victim’s MLR by hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered a probe into the non-preparation of a victim’s medico-legal report (MLR) by three civil hospitals in the state even though judicial orders make it mandatory.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan also ordered Punjab Director-General Health Services to furnish his affidavit after carrying out the inquiry by the next date of hearing in February third week.Justice Sangwan asserted the Supreme Court and the HC had held that the attending doctor was required to record an MLR as and when a medico-legal case was reported in the hospital. But the mandatory provision had apparently not been followed.“Accordingly, the Director-General Health Services, Punjab, is directed to file an affidavit after conducting an inquiry in this regard as to why the MLR was not conducted by either of the three hospitals, where the victim was taken,” Justice Sangwan said.The case has its genesis in a regular bail plea filed by Manpreet Bhangu against the state of Punjab. His counsel submitted that the victim, as per the allegations in the FIR, was first taken to the Banga Civil Hospital. After first aid, he was referred to the Phagwara Civil Hospital before being taken to the Jalandhar Civil Hospital.The counsel submitted that none of the doctors attending the victim in all three hospitals conducted medico-legal examination. The offence of attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC was added only on the basis of an opinion by Dr Jaskaran Singh of Banga Civil Hospital. The counsel added the establishment of the petitioner’s guilt would be a debatable issue in the absence of an MLR.Justice Sangwan directed the petitioner’s release on interim bail till the next date of hearing only subject to certain conditions after considering the fact that he was in judicial custody since June 12 and challan stood presented.
22-11-2020||Kulwinder Sandhu||Moga epidemiologist gets termination notice over fake Covid reports||Tribune News ServiceMoga, November 21Acting on news report “False report scam exposed, probe on” published in The Tribune on August 20, the state government after a thorough probe today served a seven-day notice to Dr Naresh Kumar, epidemiologist, regarding termination of his services.Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa, CMO, said the mission director of the National Health Mission, Punjab, had issued the notice following an inquiry over allegations of corruption in Covid testing.Graft allegationsOn August 20, The Tribune in its report highlighted the allegations of corruption in Covid testing in the District Hospital, Moga, with reports of many NRIs having been paid Rs 3,500 through “agents” to get negative reports.Om Parkash, a local, in an affidavit filed before the District Magistrate, alleged that Balwinder Kaur from Hong Kong had paid Rs 2,000 to a local doctor in July to get a Covid-negative report. She again had to pay Rs 3,500 to the health authorities after she missed her flight. After the health authorities failed to give her the test report on time, she went to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot to get the test done. Subsequently, after getting Covid test report declaring her negative, she returned to Hong Kong.In the affidavit, Om Parkash said: “I had paid Rs 1,70,000 to a local doctor to get negative reports for 48 persons, but the doctor never kept his word. Subsequently, all 48 persons got their tests done from different places.”In an affidavit, Charanjit Singh, a resident of Dehrka in Ludhiana, said nine NRIs had paid Rs 31,500 to an agent to get the negative reports.Acting on the news report, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu asked senior officials of the Health Department to inquire into the allegations and take action. The department’s probe found the allegations true.
22-11-2020||Manav Mander||Punjab lags behind in testing Covid patients for TB||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 21In August the Union Health Ministry had asked for Covid screening for all diagnosed tuberculosis (TB) patients and TB screening for all Covid-19 positive patients.However, according to the state health authorities, the target of testing TB patients for Covid has been achieved, but testing Covid patients for TB remains halfway.Reaches halfway markDr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said the state had fully achieved the target of testing TB patients for Covid-19, but it lagged behind in testing Covid-19 patients for TB.The department is facing difficulty in collecting samples from Covid patients for TB screening as a majority of the patients are reluctant to go through the test and express their unwillingness to get the test done. Health teams have been given the responsibility to collect the samples of Covid positive patients for TB. Earlier same problem was faced in collecting samples of TB patients as they avoided going to hospitals for giving samples and later samples were collected when patients came to the hospital for follow up of their TB treatment.“Only 50 per cent of the Covid patients have been tested so far for TB. Many TB patients are taking treatment from private hospitals and it is where it becomes little difficult to keep the things going,” said Dr Bhaskar.He said there were nearly 40,000 TB patients in the state and those who tested positive for TB was one per cent and till now nearly 10 TB patients had lost their lives after testing Covid positive.
22-11-2020||---||Chief Secretary: Make Covid testing available 24x7||Chandigarh, November 21To combat fresh surge of Covid infections in the state, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday asked officials concerned to make Covid testing available 24x7.While reviewing Covid preparedness, she directed all administrative secretaries to visit respective districts assigned to them for monitoring Covid response efforts and to review preparedness in case of a second wave of infections, including contact tracing and patient tracking, protocols for referral, strengthening of Level-3 facilities and also ramping up Covid testing across the state.Mahajan said all the officials concerned had been directed to ensure that minimum 15 contacts of each positive patient must be identified and tested as per the Covid-19 guidelines.The departments concerned should be ready to tackle the possible second wave of the pandemic, said the Chief Secretary, adding that it was also the responsibility of the people to actively participate in the fight against Covid.Meanwhile, cases continue to surge even on Saturday as the state reported 719 cases and 23 deaths in the last 24 hours. As per media bulletin released on Thursday, with fresh cases the total number of cases has reached 1,45,667 and the number of deaths reached 4,595. The number of active cases has reached 6,561.
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt starving universities of funds: BJP||The BJP today lambasted the Congress government for wreaking havoc on the higher education in the state by starving universities and colleges of funds.Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said it was humiliating for the state the way Punjabi University Vice Chancellor Dr BS Ghuman resigned from his post because the Punjab Government did not provide the university with adequate funds for staff salaries.Subhash Sharma, State BJP Gen SecyBig insult to facultyIt is a big insult to the teaching community if they cannot even make their both ends meet in the face of acute financial crisis.He regretted the university was reeling under Rs 150 crore debt and the state government had done nothing to bail it out. The fate of Panjab University, Chandigarh, and Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar, was also in jeopardy as the state government had starved them of funds.“Crores of rupees earmarked for the PTU have been diverted and spent on other state government heads, playing havoc with the education structure of the university,” he said. — TNS
22-11-2020||---||Chief Minister okays Punjabi University Vice Chancellor’s resignation||Patiala, November 21Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has recommended acceptance of Punjabi University Vice Chancellor (VC) Dr BS Ghuman’s resignation. This comes three days after the VC submitted his resignation to the Governor’s office.Visits campusThis comes three days after the VC submitted his resignation to the Guv’s officeRaveen Thukral, media advisor to the CM, confirmed the development, saying, “The resignation has been accepted by the government. The recommendations for appointing an officiating or a regular VC will be decided upon after getting a formal approval from the Governor’s office.”Dr Ghuman is said to have visited the university campus in the evening. Officials said he went to his official residence where he was met by senior administrative officials of the university. Dr Ghuman did not respond to calls for comment.On the other hand, the Opposition parties have slammed the state government over the university’s poor financial condition.Shiromani Akali Dal’s senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra, during a candle march in Patiala on Saturday, said it was highly imperative for the state government to take action to pull the university out of financial slump. Academics and students participated in the march. Chandumajra said, “The university’s functioning has come to a standstill as the government has failed to provide any financial assistance.”
22-11-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Balwinder Singh’s kin threaten to return bravery awards||Tarn Taran, November 21Raising a question mark over the police probe into the killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh, wife Jagdish Kaur today threatened to return all four bravery awards received by the family to the President on December 12 if their demands were not met.Was killed on Oct 16Balwinder was shot by two assailants at his residence at Bhikhiwind, 35 km from Tarn Taran, on October 16Balwinder and three other family members were given the bravery awards for fighting militancy.Balwinder was shot by two assailants at his residence at Bhikhiwind, 35 km from here, on October 16.Addressing a press conference at her residence, Jagdish condemned the attitude of the district police over the family’s demand for providing them with adequate security cover.While the family had demanded paramilitary cover, they had been provided with a handful of security men for protection. One of them was even found under the influence of alcohol while on duty, she alleged.Jagdish Kaur, Balwinder Singh’s wifeProbe not transparentHow can the SIT probe be transparent when no one from the family has been made part of the investigation? She questioned the police claim of a transparent probe, saying they were hesitant to disclose the motive behind the murder. She said the suspects, including mastermind Sukhmeet Pal Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, and shooters Sukhdeep Singh Bhura and Gurjit Singh Bhaa, were still at large.“How can the SIT probe be transparent when no one from the family has been made part of the investigation?” she said.She claimed that the district police were reluctant to issue weapon licences to the family for self-defence despite an assurance in this regard by Ferozepur DIG Hardial Singh Mann.DIG Mann, however, claimed the investigation was transparent and that efforts were on to arrest Bhikhiwal and the two shooters. He said a weapon licence for Jagdish Kaur’s elder son had been approved and that SSP Dhruman H Nimbale had been asked to meet the family and redress their grievances.
22-11-2020||---||SGPC awaits MEA nod for pilgrimage to Pakistan||Amritsar, November 21Even though the Union Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has allowed the pilgrims to attend the 551st birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev in Pakistan, the official nod is still awaited by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and organisers.The jatha is scheduled to cross the Attari-Wagah border on November 27 to grace the five-day celebrations scheduled at Janam Asthan, Sri Nankana Sahib. The occasion will be marked on November 30 and the jatha will return on December 1. Around 1,500 applications were received by different organisations, out of which 500 were endorsed by the SGPC to the MEA for furnishing the visa.Darshan Singh, PA to the SGPC president, said we came to know through media reports only that the permission had been grantedby the Central Government. Though there’s no official communication from the MEA as yet. “It is a welcome decision to allow pilgrimage to Nankana Sahib,” he said.Ferozepur-based International Bhai Mardana Yadgari Kirtan Darbar Society head Harpal Singh Bhullar said: “We have got a telephonic communication to visit New Delhi for completing official formalities on November 23-24, but an official invitation is still awaited. We had sent 200 applications.”
22-11-2020||---||Differently-abled keep farmers going in Bathinda||Bathinda, November 21A sizable number of differently-abled persons in Bathinda have been making a significant contribution to the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws which entered Day 52 on Saturday. Not only they have been participating in the stir resolutely, but also serving refreshments to protesters continuously to keep their spirits high.Differently-abled Sarbha and speech impaired Sema from Maluka village can be seen serving milk to farmers sitting on a dharna at the Jeeda toll plaza on the Bathinda-Amritsar highway.Similarly, differently-abled Gursharan Singh from Ghurelli village and Gurtej Singh also ensure that protesters at the Legra Bega toll plaza on the Bathinda-Chandigarh national highway are served “cha and langar” continuously.Sarbha, who also sings songs to uplift the spirits of farmers, says: “I believe that it’s a just fight of farmers against the Central agriculture laws. We stand shoulder-to-shoulder firmly with the farmers. I sing to keep them motivated and entertained.”Jagshir Singh Jhumba, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader, said: “Defying all odds, differently-abled persons have made a significant contribution to the stir from Day 1 and serving as a great source of inspiration for protesting farmers.”“People from all walks of life, including artists, activists, poets, litterateurs, renowned personalities and even children, have been lifting our spirits,” added Jhumba.
22-11-2020|| & PTI||Punjab farmers to lift blockade for 15 days||Chandigarh, November 21Punjab farmers protesting against the Centre’s recent farm laws have decided to allow passenger trains to run for 15 days, beginning Monday evening. The farmers’ unions warned that they would again block the tracks if the government failed to address their concerns.Hours later, the Railways said it would resume goods and passenger train services in Punjab following the state government's communication that the tracks were clear for operations. Sources indicated that the services would resume from Tuesday.DISCORDANT NOTE: two unions disagreeThirty farm unions met here on Saturday morning and later called on Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.“We have given 15 days to the BJP-led Union Government to initiate talks with us on the three controversial farm laws, failing which we will resume our agitation on the Railways property,” warned Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU-Rajewal chief.No road map, talks are pointlessThe state govt has failed to rein in liquor, sand and land mafia. This has hurt Punjab’s growth. It is wrong to relate the state’s falling economy with our cause. The Centre and Punjab Govt have no road map to resolve our issues. Holding talks is pointless. —SS Pandher, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh CommitteeMeanwhile, the unions will continue to protest outside the residences of BJP leaders and toll plazas and businesses owned by certain corporate houses.Train services in Punjab were suspended on September 24 when the farmers launched “Rail Roko”. While the farmers in October allowed the movement of goods trains in Punjab, the Railway Board refused to resume services until the Railways property was cleared of all protesters.CM hails farmers’ decisionI welcome this step since it will restore normalcy to our economy. I urge the Central Govt to resume rail services to Punjab forthwith. —Capt Amarinder Singh, CMSources said the Kirti Kisan Union refused to shift the protest from the Railways property, arguing that this would make the farmers appear weak. Hence, it kept away from the meeting with the CM where issues such as subsidy on stubble management machines, withdrawal of FIRs for farm fires, releasing dues of cane growers and hiking the state advised price to Rs 360 per quintal were raised.A report from Amritsar said the Majha-based Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee too had decided to continue the agitation, arguing that any dialogue with the Centre was pointless. In his appeal earlier, the CM had urged the farmers to let the train services resume as the blockade had so far caused a loss of Rs 40,000 crore to the state. Pointing to the shortage of coal, fertilisers and other essential commodities, he had said a large number of units had closed down in Ludhiana and Jalandhar due to scarcity of raw material.
22-11-2020||Our Correspondent||4 Punjab farmers arrested in Haryana for urea purchase||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Nov 21Wheat cultivators, who brave chill and fog to bring fertiliser from Haryana, are being booked in the neighbouring state under Section 3 of the Fertilizer (Movement Control) Act, 1973 and Section 7 of The Essential Commodities Act, 1955.840 bags seizedFarmer union asks why only peasants have been booked and dealers sparedThe stoppage of goods trains has forced farmers to buy fertiliser from neighbouring states as the sowing of wheat has begunAt least four farmers of the Malwa belt, including two from Ludhiana district, were arrested and their tractor-trailers carrying 840 bags of urea fertiliser confiscated by the Sadar police in Jind, Haryana, on Saturday.Farmers are being forced to bring fertiliser from neighbouring states due to the halt of goods trains amid the protest of farmer unions against the three new laws that farmers term draconian.Terming the action of the Haryana agriculture officials and cops vindictive, farmer unions have urged Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh to come to the rescue of peasants. Baldev Latala, leader of the All-India Kisan Sabha, said agriculture officials of Haryana, led by SDO Baljeet Singh, had got an FIR registered against four Malwa farmers, who purchased urea from different dealers in Jind.He said a delegation of the All-India Kisan Sabha would soon meet the Punjab CM. It’s high-handedness as Haryana officials got a case registered only against buyers and the dealers were spared, he said. “What can a cultivator do if he doesn’t get nutrients for his crops?” he asked.The FIR, a copy of which is with The Tribune, shows that Jarnail Singh of Gujjarwal village and Paramvir Singh of Toose village in Ludhiana district, Kuldeep Singh of Padi Parecha and Jitender of Chhajli village had been booked for carrying 840 bags of various brands of urea fertiliser in their respective trolleys, which were intercepted by Haryana agriculture officials, led by SDO Baljeet Singh.
22-11-2020||---||Won’t allow CBI to enter Punjab: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, November 21Citing “poor” track record ofthe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Bargari case, which it had closed “without any investigation”, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday reiterated his government wouldn’t allow the agency to enter the state without permission.BJP can’t win one seat sans allianceHe lashed out at the SAD and AAP for “not talking anything positive” in the state’s interestHe said corporates were welcome to buy foodgrain, but under current systemPointing out that eight states, including Punjab, had withdrawn general consent to the CBI, the CM said the agency was being increasingly used to play politics, and a fair probe could not be ensured through it.Dismissing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as a non-entity in Punjab’s political arena, Capt told a TV channel that the BJP was welcome to contest all 117 Vidhan Sabha seats in the state. He said the party would not be able to win even a single seat without an alliance partner. The Congress had, in fact, no challenge in the state, with even the Akalis and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) posing no threat, he said, adding that neither of these parties had ever talked about anything positive in the interest of the state.With elections in the state still around 18 months away, it is not possible to say which issue will dominate the elections, said Capt while expressing the hope that the BJP would resolve the farmers’ grievances soon. “Farmers want the MSP to remain and the Central Government should take steps to ensure that. The adamant stand being taken by both the Centre and the farmers, prolonging the agitation, is affecting supplies to the frontline soldiers while damaging Punjab’s interests. The agitation is the democratic and constitutional right of the farmers, which the Centre has evidently realised, apparent from their decision to call kisan unions for talks,” the CM said.He reiterated that corporates were welcome to buy foodgrains in Punjab as long as they follow the existing marketing system, built on close ties between farmers and arhtiyas.
22-11-2020||---||Sangrur farmers gear up for Delhi march||Sangrur, November 21The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) led protest against the Central farm laws in front of the residence of BJP leader Satwant Singh Punia at Gurdaspura village entered Day 41 today. Besides the ongoing protest, farmers are gearing up for the march towards New Delhi on November 26 and 27.“Our preparations are in full swing for the protest in the national capital. We are getting a good response across the state. The Central Government cannot stop us from reaching Delhi,” said Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block president, BKU (Ugrahan).Protesters alleged that the Central Government had been creating problems for them by delaying the supply of urea and nothing could stop them to reach Delhito highlight their plight.“The Central laws will kill farming as private companies would purchase our crops at lower rates. But we will not allow it to happen,” said Sarup Chand, another leader of BKU (Ugrahan).
22-11-2020||---||No urea from NFL, Bathinda farmers lay siege to highway||Bathinda, November 21Scores of farmers from different villages today protested and laid siege to the Bathinda-Amritsar highway near National Fertilizers Limited (NFL), Bathinda, after allegedly not getting urea needed for the sowing of wheat.Amrik Singh Sivian, BKU block President‘Will intensify stir if supply not ensured’We need urea for the sowing of wheat. The state government must ensure that farmers get the required quantity of urea on time, otherwise we will be forced to intensify our protest.Raising slogans against the NFL and the Union and state governments, irate farmers said despite the fact that fertiliser-manufacturing factories were in the district, they were not able to get urea for the sowing. A large number of farmers resorted to protest and even blocked the national highway after they failed to get the urea at the NFL.Bhartiya Kisan Union block president Amrik Singh Sivian said: “We need urea during the ongoing wheat sowing. The government must ensure that farmers get the required quantity of urea on time otherwise we would be forced to intensify our stir in the coming days.”NFL public relations officer Mayank Sharma said: “Though freight services’ suspension has affected the supply of raw material availability, the urea production has largely been unaffected. We are trying to provide urea to farmers as per their requirement. As soon as the train services resume, the supply of urea will be streamlined.”
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Take steps to ensure supply, AAP urges Chief Minister||AAP MLA from Kotkapura and state kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan today wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, urging him to take immediate steps to ensure a hassle-free supply of urea to farmers so as to enable them to take up sowing of wheat on time.In his letter, Sandhwan stated that the farmers were facing an acute shortage of urea due to the suspension of freight trains, leading to delay in the sowing of wheat.Sandhwan said he had visited a number of villages and found how farmers were facing hardship in getting the adequate urea supply, adding that they were being subjected to wait for days to get the fertiliser, while at times they had to return empty-handed.He said farmers required about 8 to 9 lakh tonnes of urea but the supply had gone down by 35 per cent. — TNS
22-11-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Covid, ‘rail roko’ sound death knell for Batala’s foundries||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, November 21During the period extending from the 1960s to the early 1990s, chimneys of Batala’s once famed industrial units spewed riches following which opulence and prosperity were all pervasive.In 2020, the same businesses are living on borrowed time and the men controlling them have slid into depression. These industrialists, who once led a luxurious life, are now seeking solace in prayers.VM Goel, Foundrymen’s Body Gen SecyRaw material cost upBefore Covid, pig iron cost us Rs 32,000 a tonne. Now, we get the same for Rs 38,000. Even other raw materials are being sold at a premium.“If things do not improve in the future, many businessmen will be on footpath. Some are even on the verge of developing mental health disorders,” says Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, who is regularly in touch with industrialists as Chairman of the Gurdaspur Planning Board.Not long ago there were nearly 1,000 foundry units considered to be the backbone of Batala’s industrial fabric. These have now dwindled down to barely 300. The prime reasons are the abolition of the Freight Equalisation Policy (FEP) in 1992, exodus of labour during Covid and the non-availability of basic raw material — pig iron — following the ‘rail roko’stir.The FEP meant that a factory could be set up anywhere in the country and the transportation of goods was subsidised by the Union Government. It proved to be a catalyst in the speedy growth of the industry. However, its abolition virtually rendered the units unviable as the cost price of products, sans subsidy, increased substantially.Post Covid, the migration of thousands of labourers meant units remained shut. Now, the suspension of trains is acting as the final nail in the coffin for these businesses. VM Goel, general secretary of the Batala Foundrymen’s Association, has written a letter to the General Manager, District Industries Centre, claiming that the non-availability of pig-iron post Covid has resulted in Rs 300-crore loss.
22-11-2020||Parvesh Sharma||NGT moved, PWD halts plan to shift poles||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 21The attempt of the PWD(B& R) to get shifted electricity poles from the local telephone exchange road to its sides through the PSPCL has angered area residents as they fear more trees will be axed or pruned to adjust the electricity wires.On a petition of residents, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed that no tree should be axed without justification. Following this, the PWD and PSPCL postponed the work last evening. Residents have been demanding construction o pedestrian path to save the trees.Don’t fell trees, says green bodyThe tribunal says no tree should be felled unnecessarily. Officials halt plan, saying no tree will be cut“Our telephone exchange road has low traffic so its width is enough. We have submitted a request for a pedestrian path construction as another parallel club road has such a path. But officials are not allowing us to live in peace,” said Harbinder Singh Sekhon, 88.“The NGT has directed the Forest Department to ensure that no felling of trees takes place without justification. On this road, when we already have the required width for traffic, why PWD officers are adamant to shift poles by endangering full-grown trees?” asked Sekhon.SE Vipin Bansal rubbished the allegations, maintaining that only poles were to be shifted to the roadside. “We have stopped the work amid residents’ opposition. We will take care of the NGT order and no tree will be axed,” he added.PSPCL Executive Engineer Varinder Deepak said the PWD had paid all expenses, around Rs 31 lakh, to the PSPCL for the work. “We did not get any information about the NGT order from the PWD. After residents sent me the NGT order last evening, I brought it to the notice of the PWD SE and he asked us to stop the work. The PSPCL has no role as we are only assisting the PWD,” he added.
