23-04-2020||---||Coronavirus: Rajpura first Punjab town to be notified as ‘buffer zone’||Patiala, April 23The Deputy Commissioner has notified Rajpura in Patiala district as “buffer zone”, making it the first town in Punjab to be designated as such.The movement from Rajpura to Patiala has been restricted.A total of 41 samples were taken from Rajpura town today.“The move was inevitable in wake of recent spike in cases. We cannot allow cases from Rajpura to spread to nearby districts and towns,” said Patiala DC Kumar Amit.In fact, the spike in positive cases from just two to 49—within seven days—was an outcome of curfew violations in Rajpura. Hundreds of people—including children—are now at risk of getting the infection in the district.Over 18 have tested positive for coronavirus from Rajpura alone in past three days and many samples still await lab reports.Meanwhile, district administration along with police have sealed all exit and entry points to and from Rajpura to ensure that the guidelines pertaining to buffer zone are strictly implemented and “no one is allowed to carry the virus out of the town till the source and those who have tested positive turn negative”.“We are monitoring the situation and all further decisions will be taken strictly as per guidelines pertains to the spread,” the DC said."Buffer zone" is a term usually used around wildlife protected forest area where no other activity or humans is allowed. It’s is restricted only for wildlife and in Covid-19 context, it simply means that “no activity will be allowed by outsiders” or by those inside Rajpura who willl “not be slows to leave the town”. “This is important to save nearby populace from contracting the disease,” said officials.Officials confirm that the spike in cases with majority of them being “man made” due to curfew violations and gatherings is one of the prime reasons why the spread in Rajpura had spiralled to an alarming level.“Necessary steps are being taken. We have intimated the administration and the government”, said a top health department functionary, who says that random sampling will be increased further.Two days back Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit had ordered the sealing of Rajpura. The health department started screening and collected over 100 samples.While many of those from Rajpura who have tested positive have denied that they were part of any party of get-together as in the town’s underbelly, police have booked two of the patients who had violated curfew restrictions.
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Around 25,000 babies born during 1st week of curfew in Punjab: Minister||Around 25,000 babies were born in Punjab hospitals during the first week of the curfew imposed to check the coronavirus spread, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said here on Thursday."In the month of March, about 32,000 pregnant women had registered for the antenatal check-up and nearly 25,000 deliveries took place at both government and private hospitals in the state," the minister said.Punjab had clamped the curfew on March 23 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Sidhu said about 99 per cent of the deliveries were institutional.Fifty-eight per cent of them took place in government hospitals and 41 per cent in private ones, he said.The maximum 3,000 deliveries took place in Ludhiana followed by Amritsar (2,550), Patiala (2,000), Bathinda (1,690), Gurdaspur (1,330), Sangrur (1,300) and Hoshiarpur (1,300), he said.After the curfew was imposed in Punjab, directions were given to all civil surgeons to ensure that pregnant women and children do not suffer."The essential services, including immunisation, are being provided at all government facilities round the clock for pregnant women and children," he said. PTI
23-04-2020||New Delhi||Centre denies permission to Punjab to sell liquor in lockdown||The Centre on Thursday refused the Punjab Government on its request to allow the state to sell alcohol either through regular vendors or through home delivery.Sources in the government said following the revised guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for implementation of nationwide lockdown 2.0 to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the country, which prohibited sale of alcohol, gutka and tobacco products, the Punjab Government had written to the Centre seeking permission to sell alcohol in the state.“But after reviewing the situation, it was considered by the authorities not to allow Punjab Government to sell liquor during the period of lockdown, as exception  can’t be made among the states,” a top government official said.In its letter, the Punjab Government had mentioned that if direct sale from liquor vends wasn’t allowed, the state could be permitted to allow home delivery of the product,” said the official.In its order on lockdown guidelines the MHA had said, “There should be a strict ban on sale of liquor, gutka, tobacco etc and spitting in public places should be strictly prohibited.”Meanwhile, fearing huge financial losses and job cuts, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) has requested states to impress upon the Centre about an urgent need to start sale of liquor in non-Covid zones.Sources said, in a letter to all state chief ministers (barring states which are under prohibition), the CIABC has urged: “The state governments should take up the matter once again with the Centre to permit production, distribution and sales of alcoholic beverages outside containment zones, in conformity with COVID-19 guidelines.”
23-04-2020||Ludhiana||Ola group, CEO donate Rs 1 cr to Punjab govt COVID relief fund||Extending a helping hand to the state government in its fight against COVID- 19, Ola Group and it's co-founder and CEO Bhavish Aggarwal contributed Rs 1 Crore to the Punjab Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.While the Ola Group contributed a sum of Rs 50 lakh, Aggarwal made a personal contribution of Rs 50 lakhs towards the fund.Aggarwal hails from Ludhiana, where he spent a significant part of his early years.The contribution will be used to support the government’s efforts to provide relief to people across the state in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The Ola Group includes various business units, including its ride-hailing arm, Ola Mobility, Ola Financial Services, Ola Foods and Ola Electric.We are grateful for our continued collaboration with the @PunjabGovtIndia and @capt_amarinder ji. The @Olacabs Group and I personally, are making a humble contribution to the @CMOPb's Relief Fund, dedicated to the state’s healthcare workers, frontline staffers and farmers.  Aggarwal said, “Our humble contribution to the Punjab Chief Minister’s Relief Fund will support the state’s fight against COVID-19. We have also extended our support to the government by opening up our robust technology platform through Ola CONNECTS, to over 17 lakh farmers in the state to connect with their nearest mandis and look forward to collaborating on various fronts in the coming weeks. We dedicate this contribution towards the selfless service of the COVID-warriors viz. the doctors, healthcare professionals, essential service providers amongst others, who are leading from the front in these tough times.”
23-04-2020||---||Punjab CM Amarinder orders detailed audit of coronavirus death by experts||Chandigarh, April 23Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he had ordered a detailed audit of every COVID-19 death by experts to understand and check the high mortality rate in the state, and the government was also strengthening its pandemic containment measures, under the guidance of an expert team.The Chief Minister gave this update to Congress President Sonia Gandhi during a video conference, at which he informed the party leadership that the state government was being guided by a group of experts in handling the COVID-19 crisis.The group comprises Dr KK Talwar, former Director PGI; Dr Raj Bahadur, VC State Health University; Dr Rajesh Kumar, former Head, School of Public Health, PGI, as well as experts from PGI, John Hopkins University, etc.The mortality numbers in the state were high largely due to co-morbidity and lack of health-seeking behaviour (patients come late to the hospital), said Captain Amarinder.Despite the high mortality rate of 6.2%, the rate of growth of COVID-19 in Punjab was lower than India, with the cases doubling in 16 days against the national average of 9 days.In percentage terms, cases in Punjab had steadily declined from 2.57% of the total cases in India (as of March 31) to 1.22% in 3 weeks (till April 22), revealing effective containment of COVID-19 in the State, said the Chief Minister.Captain Amarinder cited the example of Nawanshahar as a case of effective containment, that had been appreciated by the Government of India as well as the media.In Nawanshahar, which was one of the first hotspots in the country, all 18 treated cases (besides 1 initial death of Granthi Baldev Singh) had recovered and been discharged, and no case had been reported since 26 March 2020, he informed the meeting.The Chief Minister said Punjab had to be compared with Kerala and Gujarat, which were also states with high NRI population. Punjab was doing significantly better than Gujarat, and in terms of cases per million population, even lower than Kerala (9/million in Punjab vs. 12/million in Kerala), he pointed out.Punjab currently has 257 positive cases, with 16 dead and two critical patients (one on the ventilator and one on HDU), while 53 had been cured/discharged.The state has 3 Containment Zones (where there are more than 15 cases—Jawaharpur, Safabadi Gate-Patiala, Budhlada), while three districts (Ferozepur, Fazilka, Bathinda) are Green Zones with no cases. The state has COVID-19 Isolation Hospitals as of date.With respect to testing, the Chief Minister said 7887 tests have been done so far, with the regular testing facility of 400/day each at GMC Amritsar and GMC Patiala, 150/day at GMC Faridkot and IMTECH Chandigarh, and 60/day at PGI Chandigarh – 60/day.In addition, testing facilities are available in private hospitals as follows: DMC Ludhiana – 40/day and Tuli Diagnostic Lab, Amritsar – 100/day. Clearance for CMC Ludhiana and SGRD Medical College, Amritsar, for testing is in process, he disclosed.At present, the testing rate in the state, at 248/million, is slightly lower than the national average of 309/million (excluding Rapid Testing).Regarding the Rapid Testing, the Chief Minister said 3502 cases were tested before ICMR suspended such tests.The state currently has 10500 rapid testing kits supplied by ICMR, while 10000 had been ordered by the state government, with deliveries in progress. The government has also floated tender inquiry for another 50000 kits.
23-04-2020||Mohali||PG owner booked for misbehaving with woman in Mohali||The local police have booked a 27-year-old man, owner of a paying guest accomodation, for misbehaving with a woman and extorting rent money from her.The accused has been identified as Manoj Kumar, a resident of Kumbra village.The police said that the woman in her complaint said that she was residing in the paying guest and alleged that the accused demanded rent from her. She said that when she told Manoj that she doesn’t have the money to pay the rent, he allegedly abused and assaulted her.The woman alleged that the accused had misbehaved with earlier, too, and entered her room.A case has been registered against the accused in Phase VIII police station.Station House Officer, Inspector Rajneesh Kumar, said that the woman had filed a complaint with them. He said the accused was arrested and later released on bail.
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown: With spike in domestic violence cases, Punjab police comes out with detailed strategy||Amid a massive increase in complaints of domestic violence against women since the curfew and lockdown kicked in, the Punjab Police has formulated a detailed strategy to tackle such cases, with daily action taken reports to be submitted by the DSP for Crime Against Women (CAW).Figures show that there has been a 21% increase (from 4,709 to 5,695) in total cases of Crime Against Women (CAW) between February and April 20, and a similar percentage of increase in cases of domestic violence against women (from 3287 to 3993) in the same period. On the other hand, there has been a substantial decrease in registration of cases relating to dowry harassment, rape and eve-teasing cases during the same period, possibly because men and women are not stepping out and there is increased police presence.Giving details, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the average number of calls received on DIAL 112 per day went up to 133—a whopping 34% for domestic violence cases, during March 20-April 20, from the previous 3 months’ average of 99.33. The per day increase in total CAW cases in this period is 30%. To take stock of the situation and discuss measures to tackle this increase, the DGP on Thursday held a video conference with all DSPs of CAW cell and Women Help Desk Officials. As per the detailed strategy, presented during the VC by Ms Gurpreet Deo, ADGP Community Affairs Division (CAD), SOPs have been put in place to devise the police’s response mechanism.The meeting decided that DSP CAW will send a Daily Report in a defined format to track all such complaints and monitor the action taken. The police will coordinate, as needed, with One-Stop Centres, which are manned by Counsellors nominated by Department of Social Security, Women and Child Development. The services of these counsellors will be utilized, wherever needed, to counsel the victims, perpetrators, and provide necessary protection in case of children.As per the response mechanism, the CAW call is received at 112 and forward to District Control Room (DCC), with details of the call also given to DSP CAW and District Women Help Desks. The Women Help Desk/ Women Response Team are required to call the concerned, visit the women in distress. Women constables posted at PS, designated as PS-WLO, then handhold the complainant and coordinate with the PS and District level Helpdesk on her behalf.It has been decided that the teams will call back the women in distress immediately, provide Tele-Counselling and even visit if needed. They will also provide in-situ counselling to the couple/family involved, and rescue the women victims in case they want to go to maternal house or shelter home. The medical examination is done in case of physical abuse. The teams will then initiate criminal proceedings, in liaison with SHO, if a case is made out.The DGP also issued a stern warning that such cases will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken.
23-04-2020||Patiala||Two booked for spreading coronavirus, flouting lockdown norms in Rajpura||Two men were booked for spreading coronavirus and flouting curfew norms in Rajpura on Thursday.Patiala SSP, Mandeep Singh Sidhu, said that SMO Rajpura on Thursday intimated DSP Rajpura through a letter regarding the irresponsible movement of individuals, who were COVID-19 positive. A preliminary inquiry was also conducted by police.The SSP said: "On the basis of that FIR No 100 dt 23/04/2020 has been registered U/S 188, 269, 271, 336 IPC and 51 of Disaster Management Act at Police Station City Rajpura, against Krishan and Balraj along with some unknown persons. Even after the imposition of the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic they violated the orders issued by administration and met many people in Rajpura."The men had travelled outside Rajpura as well. They contracted the disease and because of their irresponsible actions, many others, including their family, were also infected by the deadly contagion.The FIR was lodged following a report in The Tribune that highlighted hookah parties in Rajpura that led to the mass spread of the virus.Senior officials confirmed that more than 20 of the active cases are directly linked to these parties, which were held almost every day even after the lockdown was put in place last month.Sources said that the hookah gatherings, attended by businessmen, satta operators, local leaders and even medical professionals, were the primary reason for the majority of the 15 cases cropping up from Rajpura in the past week. The Health Department has already started 100 per cent screening in the area, which will be completed within the next three days.
23-04-2020||Patiala||49 cases in 7 days: How Patiala became a coronavirus hotspot||Social gatherings in Rajpura, selling of books in Patiala city and allowing a social worker to visit multiple cities during the ongoing lockdown is how Patiala district become a coronavirus hotspot within days.The instances also speak volumes about the lax of the district administration and Patiala Police in enforcing the lockdown.In fact, the spike in positive cases from just two to 49—within 7 seven days—was an outcome of giving a loose rope to few individuals by the administration. Hundreds of people—including children—are now at risk of getting the infection in the district.In Rajpura, which has now turned into a new hotspot for the COVID-19, social gatherings were being held during the curfew. Many of the positive patients are said to have been at these parties amidst the curfew.The health department claimed that many people from other districts had also participated in these parties that have now emerged as the epicentre of the corona outbreak in the district.Most cases linked to ‘Langar Committee’Except for two cases—the rest of the positive cases in the district stemmed from the same source—a langar committee. A book trader, a social worker in Patiala, two business persons in Rajpura—all corona positive cases—were connected to the langar committee. Members of the langar committee exchanged money, distributed food and organized social gatherings, which became the cause of spread in the district, said the Heath department.Passes were given indiscriminatelyThe social worker, who tested positive this week, had gone to Zirakpur and other cities during the lockdown, said the health department. After visiting other cities, he had distributed langar among around 800 people at Patiala. It has been learned that ‘langar’ passes and ‘curfew’ passes were given indiscriminately, which prompted non-essential movements in the district and increased the risk of spread of the virus. Moreover, there was no check on the rightful use of the curfew passes. There have been many instances where curfew passes were misused.Officials claim all steps were taken to ensure lockdownOfficials claim that all steps were taken to ensure a complete lockdown.When asked about the lapse, Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh said that authorities had not authorized any bookseller to sell books. He said, “He sold books illegally and suspiciously. The administration has not included the selling of books in the list of essential items.”T Benith, SDM Rajpura, said, “There was no large scale movement in Rajpura, it was only three or four families who were responsible for the spread. Moreover, we have booked two positive patients in Rajpura while inquiry is being conducted about the involvement of a police officer.” A timeline of COVID spread:April 14: The district had reported only two cases. One had a travel history of the Dubai, while the other was a gardener who was working at the residences of top bureaucrats, including the Deputy Commissioner.April 15: A social worker, who distributed ration to over 800 people, tested positive for the Coronavirus.April 16: Three family members of the social worker—his wife and two children—tested positive for the coronavirus. A book trader in a congested books’ market also tested positive. April 17:  Patiala reported four more positive cases, including three family members of the book trader and a woman from Rajpura who was admitted to the Government Rajindra hospital with symptoms of breathlessness. The Rajpura woman was also part of the 'langar committee'.April 18: At a time when the cases in the rest of the state saw a decline, Patiala reported 15 cases in a single day—the highest in any district in 24 hours. Of the 15, nine were close contacts of the book trader and six were the family members of the Rajpura woman.April 19: The district health department started screening the entire Patiala city after the spike in cases.On April 20: Five people, including a private doctor and Assistant Sub Inspector, tested positive in Rajpura—all were contacts of the earlier positive patients in Rajpura.April 21: Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit ordered the sealing of Rajpura. The health department started screening and collected 70 samples from the town.April 22: Of the 70, 18 people tested positive for the coronavirus in Rajpura. Of the total 49 cases in the district, 30 people were from Rajpura alone.
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt deputes 3,195 guardians of governance to assist Mandi Board||To ensure hassle-free and smooth procurement of wheat across all the 'mandis' in the state, the Punjab Government has deputed 3,195 Guardians of Governance (GoGs) to assist the Mandi Board in its gigantic task amid curfew and lockdown due to Coved-19.Disclosing this here on Thursday, ACS Development Viswajeet Khanna said that these guardians deployed in 1683 'mandis' would oversee the ongoing procurement operations besides maintaining health protocol including social distancing amongst all the stakeholders to keep the spread of coronavirus under check.Apart from these, GoGs have also been mandated to regulate the safe movement of traffic in sync with the staff of the market committees and Mandi Board to avoid crowd and congestion there.Khanna, further, revealed that these steps initiated by the Mandi Board would a long way in ensuring seamless procurement of farmers produce and safety of all concerned in this trying circumstances in wake of COVID-19 pandemic.Pointing out, further, ACS said that Khanna, further, said that the GoGs are consistently reporting on the prevailing hygiene and sanitation conditions in the mandis besides apprising the concerned authorities about other organizational issues.They are reporting to the state headquarters in Chandigarh, through their organizational set-up comprising tehsil and district heads, which in turn is sharing their reports with the authorities of Mandi Board.Lauding the services rendered by GoGs in this crucial phase, Khanna said that these Ex-servicemen had served the country with utmost devotion and sincerity throughout their active service and now without caring their advanced age, have once again accepted the challenge to extend a helping hand to facilitate the state government in the implementation of its preparedness for staggered movement of wheat due to Coved-19 restrictions.
23-04-2020||---||6-month-old Phagwara girl detected with coronavirus dies at PGI||Chandigarh, April 23The six-month-old girl from Phagwara, who was admitted to PGIMER Chandigarh for corrective heart surgery has died.She had tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.She was on ventilator till Wednesday night.Dr Ashok, PGI spokesperson, confirmed that the girl died on Thursday afternoon.The baby weighing 3 kg was diagnosed with acyanotic congenital heart disease with congestive heart failure.She had been referred to the PGI from a Ludhiana hospital where she had spent 36 days. She was admitted to the Advanced Paediatric Centre on April 9 in a critical condition.She was later sent to Covid facility at Nehru Hospital Extension.Meanwhile, all close contacts of the baby are being screened.Earlier, PGI officials had said they were investigating as to how the baby got the infection. Given that the incubation period of Covid is upto two weeks, it is possible that the baby may have been incubating the infection at the time of admission to the PGI, they had said.
23-04-2020||New Delhi||COVID-19: Punjab firms move SC against MHA order to pay full salaries to workers during lockdown||An association of 41 companies and firms from Punjab has moved the Supreme Court against a March 29 order of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) asking private establishments to pay full wages to workers during the COVID-19 lockdown.Ludhiana Hand Tools Association also challenged the validity of Section 10(2)(i) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The provisions of this Act cannot “impinge upon express provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and take away the right to layoff workmen during times of natural calamity, it said.Terming the MHA order under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 as arbitrary, it said the order violated the private companies' right to carry on any occupation, trade or business guaranteed under Articles 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.“Govt has not taken any steps for workforce instead put the burden on employers to pay full wages," the petitioner said.An employer and employee have reciprocal promises whereby the right of an employee to demand salary is reciprocal to performance of work by such employee, the petition said, adding, an employer has a right not to pay if no work is done.Private employers should be completely exempted from paying their workmen during the lockdown as the one-sided implementation of contract alone was not permitted, it argued.Earlier, amid reports of layoffs and salary cuts in various industries, Mumbai-based textile company Nagreeka Exports Ltdhar challenged the orders issued by MHA and the Maharashtra Government asking companies to pay full salaries to workers during COVID19 lockdown.Instead of issuing orders to companies to pay full salaries during COVID19 lockdown, the government should have considered using Rs 350 Crore unclaimed Provident Fund Deposits to offer financial support to workers during this unprecedented crisis, it had suggested.Due to the extension of lockdown, its losses will be multiplied and if it were to comply with the government orders, its business will become unsustainable, it had contended.The Disaster Management Act -- under which these notifications for payment of salaries were issued -- didn't provide for continued payment of wages by employers to their employees and workers during any disaster, it had said, adding, the orders were beyond the scope of the Act.
23-04-2020||---||Capt urges all CMs to pursue with PM 3-point strategy proposed by him to bail states out of Covid crisis||Chandigarh, April 23 Following up on his letter to the Prime Minister suggesting a three-pronged strategy to bail out states from the Covid crisis, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has now urged his counterparts in all the states to pursue the matter with the Centre.Amarinder has written to the chief ministers of all the states to also write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to consider the suggestions he had made to combat the crisis.Pointing out that it was a matter of concern to all states, Amarinder said in his letter to all Chief Ministers that all the states are reeling under the impact of shrinking revenues and heightened requirements of welfare and health care due to the COVID-19 pandemic.In this context, he underlined the urgent need to request the Government of India to give a special 3-month COVID revenue grant with flexibility to states in spending as per local conditions. He has also urged the states to seek review by the Finance Commission of its recommendations for the current year since the ground situation had completely changed due to the pandemic.Further, Amarinder has urged the Chief Ministers to seek deferment of the full report of the Finance Commission by a year, so that the requirements of the States for economic revival and relief as well as rehabilitation could be fully assessed post COVID-19, and adequately provided by the Commission.The Finance Commission’s 5-year report should begin from April 1, 2021, instead of 2020, after factoring in the COVID impact, Amarinder has suggested, urging his counterparts to take up the matter with the Prime Minister, who is spearheading the national efforts to manage and contain COVID-19.
23-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Seven more positive for coronavirus, Jalandhar tally 60||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 23With seven more people testing positive in the district, the total number of cases in Jalandhar has reached 60. The district figures have doubled in the past one week - especially majority of them being reported from the inner city areas - or bazaar areas. Those testing positive today include five journalists (and kin) from a local media house and two cases from previous contacts. The five media house contacts include a 31-year-old male and a 30-year-old male and their 39-year-old woman and 70-year-old relative male as well as a 65-year-old woman from Jwala Nagar in Maqsudan.   The other two cases are a 46-year-old woman relative of Basti Danishmandan based 70-year-old man who previously tested positive and a 55-year-old woman of another COVID-19 positive case. Notably, the total cases of direct and indirect contacts testing positive from the media house have reached 23 in the district. While 10 of these are employees/journalists at the media house, the rest are their direct/indirect contacts and kin. The new cases are residents of Pucca Bagh, New Dashmesh Nagar, Basti Danishmandan areas.   One of the women testing positive in the district is also the mother of a block extension educator working in the health department’s mass media wing.While a figure of eight cases had been pegged for Jalandhar this morning — with one case already reported earlier – the health department by the evening said formally a report of total seven positive persons had been received with names today.Meanwhile, both the 72-year-old Nijatam Nagar woman and her son were also discharged – taking the total number of those recovered in Jalandhar to 7. The woman had been discharged on Tuesday.
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||AAP writes to PM on Punjabis stranded abroad||
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Oppn flays plan to reopen liquor vends||
23-04-2020||Ashok Kaura||Cops cut cake as Phagwara couple have a quiet marriage||Phagwara, April 23 While following curfew restrictions and maintaining social-distancing, a simple marriage was solemnised in Phagwara on Wednesday. Sukhwinder Singh—a resident of Nawanpind village—took permission for excusing himself from the curfew and reached Phagwara, along with his father, Harbans Singh, sister Kuldip Kaur, Rajbir Kaur and brother Baljit Singh. With the presence of 10 family members each side, he married Khushbir Kaur by performing “Anand Karaj” in Gurdwara Bhagatpura Phagwara.Station House Officer(SHO) Satnampura, Usha Rani, honoured both the families for strictly obeying the lockdown. SHO arranged a special cake for the newly wedded couple, who cut the cake in the presence of the cops, including SHO Usha Rani, and Sub-inspector Raghbir Singh making the marriage a memorable example.
23-04-2020||Aditi Tandon||Punjab sought 1 lakh rapid testing kits, got only 10,000 of Chinese make: Capt||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 23Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said resources of Rs 4,400 crore of GST have still not been released by the Central Government.Speaking at the Congress working committee meeting, he said,  “In place of 1 lakh rapid testing kits, we have received only 10,000 of Chinese make. Their authenticity is to be tested still.”Congress president Sonia Gandhi addressed the party’s working committee meeting and accused the BJP of spreading communal hatred when the country should be fighting the Covid together.“It should worry every Indian that when we should be tackling the corona virus united, the BJP continues to spread the virus of communal prejudice and hatred. Grave damage has been done to our social harmony. Our party will have to work hard to repair that damage,” Sonia said at a virtual CWC meeting days after a mob lynching incident killed two sadhus and a driver in Maharashtra’s Palghar leading to a war of words between the BJP and Congress.She criticised the government on all fronts saying the government was clueless about the post May 3 strategy, testing hadn’t been enhanced and protective gear for doctors was inadequate and of poor quality. The Congress chief also said the poor and migrants continued to be the worst hit and 12 crore jobs had been lost in the first phase of the lockdown.”Since our meeting three weeks ago, the pandemic has increased disturbingly - both in spread and speed. The lockdown continues and all sections of society continue to face acute hardship and distress—particularly our kisans and khet mazdoors, migrant labour, construction workers and workers in the unorganised sector,” she said, adding that trade and industry had come to a halt and crores of livelihoods destroyed.Gandhi said the Central Government did not appear to have a clear idea on how the situation will be managed after May 3.“A lockdown of the present nature after that date would be even more devastating,” she said to a meeting attended by former PM Manmohan Singh and other senior CWC members including Rahul Gandhi.Mentioning her letters to the PM, Sonia said her suggestions had been implemented partially and in a miserly way.”Unfortunately, the suggestions we gave have been acted upon only partially and in a miserly way. The compassion, large-heartedness and alacrity that should be forthcoming from the Central Government is conspicuous by its absence,” Sonia alleged.She called for focus engaging with health, food security and livelihood issues. On testing, Gandhi said it still remained low and testing kits are still in short supply and of poor quality.“PPE kits are being provided to our health care workers but the number and quality is poor. Entitlement of foodgrains under the National Food Security Act has not yet reached the beneficiaries,” she said.Gandhi reiterated the Congress demand of providing 10 kg of foodgrains, 1 kg of pulses and half a kg of sugar to each person of the family every month.Flagging 12 crore job losses in the first phase of the lockdown, she said unemployment was likely to increase further as economic activity remained at a standstill.“It is imperative to provide at least Rs 7,500 to each family to tide over this crisis. Migrant labourers are still stranded, jobless and desperate to return home. They have been hit the hardest. They must be provided with food security and a financial safety net,” the Congress chief said.She demanded necessary facilities to farmers for the next round of kharif crops which will begin in the coming two months and a special MSME package since the sector employs 11 crore personnel and makes up one third of the GDP. Gandhi also alleged that funds legitimately owed to “our” (Congress-ruled) states had been held back.
23-04-2020||---||2 coronavirus positive people booked in Patiala for violating curfew||Patiala, April 23Two coronavirus positive people, admitted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra hospital, have been booked for violation of curfew and district magistrate orders, thereby risking the lives of others. SSP Mandeep Sidhu said a letter was received from the Civil Surgeon against the two.  A preliminary inquiry was conducted and a case registered under the Disaster Management Act at Kotwali police station.They have been identified as Krishan Kumar Gaba and Krishan Kumar Bansal. The SSP said that even after the imposition of curfew and lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic, the accused violated the directions and orders issued by the administration and carried on with their business.“It is learnt that they had travelled to many places in Patiala and even outside. They became coronavirus positive and because of their irresponsible act, many others came in the grip of the epidemic, the SSP said.Gaba runs a shop in the congested books’ market. He has sold books to many parents in the city disregarding the lockdown. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit had to appeal to the people, who came in contact with the infected trader, to come forward. He asked parents who purchased books from the infected trader to come forward on their own.Sources said the Health Department was facing yet another Herculean task to trace contacts of the trader because he had sold books to over 1,000 parents.Commenting on the unlawful visit of the trader to Rajpura and Zirakpur, the DC said laxity on part of the authorities while issuing curfew pass would be dealt with strictly.Meanwhile, the Health Department said the virus was brought to the district from outside because both the social worker and book trader went out of the city multiple times during the lockdown. No local source of infection could be traced.
23-04-2020||---||Three friends work round the clock to help border area residents||Amritsar, April 22Three friends — Harvinder Sandhu, a media professional, Harsimran Singh, an advocate, and Arvinder Singh Raju — are working round the clock to ensure that no needy sleeps on an empty stomach.They are distributing food and other relief material to families in the remote villages along the Indo-Pak border. “These villages have not been getting ration and other supplies on a regular basis, while some have not received even once. Since I belong to Rouran Wala village, which is 2 km from Attari, I know getting essential supplies can be really difficult for people. So we have been preparing food kits and supplying to these areas,” said Sandhu.He said while distributing ration door to door, they ensure zero contact and social distancing. “We especially take care of the elderly and widows, who generally shy away from seeking help. So we identify such people and help them.”Sandhu said they had also been preparing face shields using plastic sheets and fabric for medical workers.“We know that medical professionals who are working on the frontline are not equipped with protective gear. So we make these face shields using the standard procedure shared by the WHO and distribute to several hospitals,” said Sandhu.
23-04-2020||---||Social distancing a casualty during immunisation of kids||Amritsar, April 22Even as the government has issued guidelines for ensuring social distancing as a precautionary measure to keep the spread of Covid-19 at bay, a huge rush of patients, that too in complete disregard to the guidelines, was witnessed at government dispensaries and health centres here on Wednesday.At government health centres, (every) Wednesday is the day on which immunisation of newly born children is done. So, today being Wednesday, a large number of people, along with their children aged between 2-day-olds and 6-year-olds, were present at the centres for their immunistion.The parent of a child, who visited the health centre at Mustfabad for immunization, said, “All the three government employees administering immunisation injections to children were sitting in the same room without obeying the social distancing norm. Besides, around 150 women carrying children in their lap were standing in the corridors outside.” She said by not following the social distancing norm at such places, even small children were being exposed to the risk of infection.Visitors at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC), Kot Khalsa, too reported the same scenario. They stated that a huge rush of patients in the waiting areas was a cause for concern. “A system to ensure social distancing for the safety of the general public and medical staff should be put in place,” said Jaswinder Singh, an area resident.The district health authorities stated that it was also the responsibility of the residents to keep distance. “We do not have security guards or cops to enforce social distancing. The medical staff can only provide medical services and cannot be expected to enforce discipline. The public should understand its responsibility and help in ensuring that no government guidelines are violated,” said an official.
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||State ships 1.25 Lakh tonnes grain||Covid facility at Abohar collegeAbohar: The Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital here will be used as a Covid care centre. Principal Rajinder Girdhar said Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu had directed to gear up preparations on a war footing to set aside isolation wards for symptomatic patients at a primary stage. The work to equip the building with 400 beds and other facilities is underway. The college, which was founded by a local trust in 1975, is managed by a committee headed by Labh Singh Ahluwalia of SAS Nagar. OC
23-04-2020||Mansa||Won’t burn wheat straw, say farmers||After the local administration appealed to various farmer organisations and sarpanches today, they promised to refrain from burning wheat straw during the ongoing harvesting season in the district.DC Gurpal Singh Chahal and SSP Mansa Narinder Bhargav held a meeting with various farmer unions, village sarpanches, representatives of political parties, urging them not to burn the wheat residue to contribute towards clean environment.All farmers, representatives of farmer unions and parties, sarpanches pledged to adopt a zero-straw-burning policy during harvesting.The farmers and various union members also promised to spread awareness in their villages about the need to shun straw-burning.Appreciating their pledge, the DC said burning crop residue not only polluted the environment but also deteriorated the fertility of the soil. The SSP also expressed gratitude to the representatives of various organisations.— TNS
23-04-2020||Fazilka||Man arrested in rape case||A resident of Chimnewala village was arrested for allegedly raping an 18-year-old girl in Fazilka district.  The victim alleged that accused Gurmeet Singh misled her and took her to his house in the village. She alleged that the accused kept her in the house for 10 days and raped her. The accused has been booked under Section 376 of the IPC by the Arniwala police. — OC
23-04-2020||Rajmeet Singh
||Row erupts as officer given CVO charge||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 22 Amid the lockdown when the entire state machinery is battling the Covid-19 outbreak, the top brass in the Local Government Department has shown an “unnecessary haste” in giving additional charge of the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) to a Deputy Chief Vigilance Officer in the department. In a recent order, Atul Sharma, a Superintending Engineer-cum-Deputy Chief Vigilance Officer, was given the additional charge of the CVO at a time when the case for a regular appointment was pending with the state government. After getting consent of Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, the order was issued by Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, Sanjay Kumar.  Atul Sharma, who has been given the additional charge, said he had been working as Deputy CVO for the past 18 months.  For the appointment of a regular CVO as per the Vigilance Commission guidelines, a panel of three names has to be sent by the department before it is approved by the CM. The appointment of a regular CVO had been hanging in balance since Cdre Sudip Malik (retd) resigned as CVO nearly 10 months ago when Navjot Singh Sidhu was Local Government Minister.  Commodore Mailk had resigned in June after Sidhu was divested of the local government portfolio and given the power department. A month later, Sidhu resigned from the Council of Ministers. The role of the CVO in the department is crucial as the previous CVO had recommended punitive action against department officials in several cases of alleged irregularities in not checking illegal construction and in tendering process for civil works.
23-04-2020||Fazilka||Home Guard held for sneaking phones into jail||A Home Guard volunteer, Inderpal Singh, was arrested today for smuggling two mobile phones into the sub-jail here.Deputy Superintendent of Police, Fazilka Sub-Jail, Gurpreet Singh said when the accused reached for duty today, the head warder of the jail got suspicious. Subsequently, he found cell phones concealed in socks. — OC
23-04-2020||---||Promote diversification, agriculture officials told||Mansa, April 22Dr Sutantar Kumar Airi, Director, Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Department, on Wednesday stressed the need to promote crop diversification and increase in area under cotton in Mansa district by 25 per cent.He told the department officials that area under maize and basmati should also be increased.Airi, while chairing a meeting with the officials regarding the plantation of kharif crops, directed the officials to work towards the promotion of crop diversification, keeping in mind the government guidelines regarding Covid crisis.Dr Sutantar Kumar Airi told the officials that material of kharif crop, including seed, fertilisers and pesticides, should be provided to farmers well in time so that they should not face any problem.Dr Sutantar Kumar Airi claimed that for the plantation of cotton there would be no shortage of canal water and power supply.He also directed the officials to lay emphasis on direct sowing of paddy in the district as water level was continuously going down.Mansa Chief Agricultural Officer (CAO) Dr Ram Sarup said he had directed all officials to provide technical information to farmers by making announcements from gurdwara and temples in villages.The state government has already given shape to an ambitious plan for the diversification of crops. Setting aside Rs 200 crore for the purpose, the government has proposed to diversify 3 lakh hectares area, currently under paddy cultivation. The thrust, say officials, will be on promoting maize and basmati variety of crops, in place of water-guzzling paddy. Besides, the government is also promoting cultivation of cotton and pulses in southern part of the state.
23-04-2020||Tribune reporters||Procurement up, but tardy lifting has farmers worried||Bathinda/Faridkot, April 22While the state has created a history of sorts by procuring record 15.38 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat out of 17.56 LMT that arrived in grain markets, the lifting of wheat has not picked up pace, resulting in a glut-like situation.As per information, 1.72 lakh MT wheat has arrived in grain markets of which 1.51 lakh MT has been purchased, but the government has managed to lift only 55,346 MT crop so far in Bathinda district, resulting in heaps of wheat piling up. WHEAT GLUTThe farmers are not finding space in grain markets to park their tractor-trailers and unload the produceFarmers and commission agents are worried that if it rains, their unlifted stock will be ruinedFarmers and commission agents are keeping their fingers crossed as the meteorological centre has predicted light to moderate rainfall in southern parts of Punjab and Haryana from tonight.A commission agent said, “Lifting of wheat is very slow in Bathinda. It is the responsibility of agencies to lift it at the earliest because if that remains slow and weather continues to be like this, we will incur losses.”AAP MLA from Talwandi Sabo Baljinder Kaur today visited the grain market in Bathinda and demanded that the state government should speed up lifting.DC B Srinivasan said, “Procurement of wheat crop is going on very well and every year, it takes 2-3 days to streamline the lifting of the crop.”He said Pungrain had purchased 40,505 MT, FCI 8,745 MT, Markfed 43,232 MT, Punsup 36,548 MT and Warehouse 21,979 MT of wheat in the district.Meanwhile, in Faridkot, the state procurement agencies are struggling to lift wheat from mandis. The lifting and movement of procured wheat from the mandis to the stores of procurement agencies is tardy as contractors are unable to provide adequate number of labourers and vehicles.Attributing shortage of labour to Covid-19, many of these politically connected contractors are asking commission agents to make their own arrangements to shift the procured stock from mandis to stores.“Cartage of procured wheat is the responsibility of contractors and they cannot shift it on the commission agents,” Bharat Bhushan ‘Bhushi’, president of the Commission Agents’ Union, said.
23-04-2020||---||Spurt in cases, 18 test +ve in Patiala||Patiala/Chandigarh, April 22Rajpura seems to have become a major hotspot for the Covid-19 after 18 new positive cases came to the fore on Wednesday. With these cases, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Patiala has reached 49. Story HighlightsOf them, 30 are from Rajpura alone. Negligence on part of two businessmen, who have already been tested positive, is said to be behind most of these cases. They had allegedly organised hookah parties during the lockdown. The new 18 cases, reported today, are being linked to the same events, said health officials. It has been learnt that most of these positive patients had brazenly violated the curfew and visited many cities. Besides, they had also organised hookah parties in the town. Except two, the rest of the cases in Patiala district are linked to a langar committee. A book trader, a social worker and two businessmen, all positive, were associated with the said committee.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said, “Of the 70 samples taken from Rajpura, 18 tested positive. We will shift the patients to the isolation wards at Government Rajindra Hospital.” Besides Patiala, after a gap of 13 days, two fresh cases surfaced in Amritsar on Wednesday. Both male patients, aged 36 and 65, are from Krishna Nagar. The count in district has reached 13.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said both patients were asymptomatic as of now. He said the family members of the new cases would also be tested again.Besides, a six-month-old girl from Phagwara was tested positive for Covid-19 at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, today. Apart from that, five cases were reported from Jalandhar. According to the state media bulletin, the total count in the state has reached 257.The six-month-old girl was suffering from congenital heart disease and was advised a heart surgery. She was getting treatment from a private hospital in Ludhiana till April 8, after which she was referred to the PGI.The doctors at the PGI found that her infection was not coming under control, so she was tested for Covid-19, which turned out to be positive.As per the department, so far samples of 7,887 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 7,100 were found negative and reports of 530 were still awaited. So far 53 people have been cured and discharged from the hospital.Covid-19 Cases DiSTRICT-WISE COUNT
23-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda administrations plan: Enter district, get self-quarantined||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 22The Bathinda administration is making all-out efforts to maintain the Covid-free status of the district. In this light, District Magistrate B Srinivasan on Wednesday ordered field officers to only allow people with e-passes enter the district and then put them under 15-day home quarantine. Tough measuresThe district administration has banned the supply of fruit and vegetable from other state or district.Vegetable markets in Bathinda city will remain open for only four days in a week instead of all seven days.Police teams patrol the city on cycles every morning to keep a check on curfew violators.He appealed to the public for cooperation so that the district remained Covid-free. He assured residents that the administration would ensure uninterrupted supply of essential items. The administration also decided to ban the supply of fruit or vegetable from other state or district. Vegetable markets in the city will no more be open for all seven days in a week; now, these will be open for four days. The police, meanwhile, have intensified patrolling in the district. A team led by DSP (City) Gurjit Singh Romana is patrolling the city on cycles every morning to keep a check on curfew violators.SSD Girls School near Gol Diggi has been turned into a makeshift open jail, where violators are lodged. Residents roaming on streets are caught and lodged in the school for a day. Medical camps have been organised in several areas, especially in slums. On the The Health Department, meanwhile, has collected sample of 163 patients so far. The reports of 154 patients came out negative, while the remaining nine reports are pending.Inspector General of Police (Bathinda range) Arun Kumar Mittal said, “The police are creating awareness among the public regarding Covid-19. They are enforcing the curfew strictly. Those violating curfew restrictions are being dealt with strictly.”
23-04-2020||---||Power sector hit hard, says CM; seeks bailout package||Chandigarh, April 22Citing a severe cash deficit and adverse impact on finances of the state discoms amid the lockdown, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday sought a financial package for the power sector from Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Power Finance Corporation, Rural Electrification Corporation and other financial institutions should provide loans to the power sector at reduced rates for bridging the revenue gap, suggested the CM. He also recommended extension of RBI moratorium on repayment of outstanding loans and interest from the current three to at least six months.Last date for bill payment extendedThe PSPCL has given relief to its consumers. Its spokesman said due date of payment of electricity bill of domestic and commercial consumers with current monthly/bimonthly bills up to Rs10,000 and all industrial consumers, payable from March 20, to May 9, 2020, has been extended up to May 10 without levy of late payment surcharge.Among the suggestions made by the CM were reduction in coal price, waiver of GST levied on coal cost and railway freight for the financial year 2020-21 as well as 50 per cent reduction in inter-state transmission charges.Asserting that his government was committed to providing uninterrupted 24x7 power supply to the people of Punjab, especially to all healthcare institutions, Captain Amarinder said the entire workforce of the power sector was currently mobilised round the clock. However, due to the restrictions imposed to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the communities, business and consumers were facing economic hardship and unable to pay their dues to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).He said this had led to a cash deficit and financial hardship for the discom, impairing its ability to meet daily expenses. At the same time, due to economic hardship, the consumers were seeking relief in electricity tariff, he said, adding that a financial package was urgently needed for continuity of this essential service and for the benefit of consumers.
23-04-2020||---||2,000 pilgrims stuck in Nanded to return home||Chandigarh, April 22Near 2,000 pilgrims from Punjab, who were stranded at Hazur Sahib in Nanded due to nationwide lockdown, will soon travel back home.The Centre gave the permission after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh took up the matter with Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday.Sharing the development on Twitter, Chief Minister said, “The Home Minister has conceded to our request for the travel of pilgrims stuck at Nanded to Punjab. I have asked the Chief Secretary to make arrangement for transportation. We will bear the cost of travel.”Capt Amarinder had first spoken to his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackery, who had said permission would be needed from the Union Government in view of the lockdown.The Chief Minister then wrote to Shah, urging him to allow the return of the pilgrims. He had told Shah that the stranded pilgrims, mostly belonging to farming families, wanted to immediately return home in view of the ongoing harvesting season. He assured the Union Minister that all pilgrims would be screened and quarantined on their arrival in Punjab.Meanwhile, Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, in her tweet, said, “Came to Delhi to meet the Union Home Minister and thank him for speaking to Maharashtra CM to fast-track the evacuation of Sikh devotees stranded at Hazur Sahib. Now, I request the Punjab Government to give permission to the buses arranged by the SAD to bring them back home.”
23-04-2020||Sangrur||23,967 houses surveyed in Malerkotla||Since the detection of two Covid-19 positive patients, including one from Malerkotla and another who had visited the city on March 4, the authorities have been holding a door-to-door survey to screen all residents.  Till Tuesday night, the authorities had succeeded in conducting a survey of 23,967 households. Of the total three positive patients, one belongs to the city, another had come from Delhi last month and stayed in Malerkotla and the third belongs to Gagadpur village. Since the first two patients were involved in religious activities, the health authorities intensified screening to curb the virus spread. At least 51 teams of the Health Department are visiting door to door to scan all residents. “Though most people are cooperating, there are many who are trying to avoid screening,” said an official. Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner, “The officials are monitoring people with flu-like symptoms. They have detected 92 persons who had mild cough.” — TNS
23-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Runaway couple tests +ve, 4 villages  sealed in Abohar||Abohar, April 22Four villages in Abohar have been sealed after officials from Hanumangarh reported that a couple, who had tested Covid positive on Tuesday evening, had halted at Bahawalbasi, Dharangwala, Bhangala and Shergarh villages here before entering Amarsinghwala village (Peelibanga) in Hanumangarh on Monday.24 contacts tracedThe authorities have been on their toes ever since the incident came to light. In all, 24 villagers had reportedly come into contact with the infected couple. They were taken to the Civil Hospital, Abohar.Preliminary investigation reportedly indicated that a 24-year-old resident of Kikkarwali village had allegedly eloped with a 22-year-old woman from UP’s Azamwala on a hired cruiser van. The duo was quarantined at a public health centre in Hanumangarh’s Khothanwali village.The question looms over as to how despite curfew, they were able to enter Abohar and stay with a family in Shergarh village before crossing the interstate boundary.The authorities have been on its toes ever since the incident came to light. About 24 villagers had reportedly come into contact of the infected “couple”, who were escorted to Civil Hospital, Abohar.SDM Jaspal Singh Brar said all four villages had been sealed and people were told not to move out of their homes. Community health centre (CHC) in Ramsara village on the Abohar-Sadulshehar-Hanumangarh road has resumed its operations.KBS Sidhu, Special Chief Secretary, said around 40 persons from Shergarh, Dharangwala, Bhangala and Bahawalbasi were under home quarantine and five hospital quarantine.
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Govt hikes stipend to medicos||Minister of Medical Education and Research OP Soni on Wednesday announced a one-and-a-half time increase in the stipend of undergraduate medical and dental students who are the frontline of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.  An official press release said that the hike has been approved as per their long pending demand.  Soni also checked on the status of all Covid patients admitted to government medical colleges and hospitals in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot via videoconferencing.  The minister looked into the details of working and upgrade of three Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratories. He stressed the capacity enhancement of ventilators and testing was the key to the fight against the virus. The demands related to these facilities were discussed in detail. It was decided that the requirement of additional staff in hospitals and pending recruitments be fast-tracked. The key decisions related to retention of final-year MD and MS students was also taken. — TNS
23-04-2020||Patiala||Rajpura doc’s 400 contacts under lens||After an MBBS doctor at Rajpura town tested positive for Covid-19, around 400 persons, who were examined by him in the last two weeks, are now at the risk of getting the infection.Fearing an outbreak, the district administration has made a public appeal to the patients, who had visited the doctor after April 10, to come forward for screening.T Benith, Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Rajpura, said it had come to the fore that the doctor had treated many patients. He said, “We will screen all of them and home-quarantine them. If any patient shows Coivd-19 symptoms, he will be tested.”The doctor, who runs a private hospital, got infected after he treated a local resident, who was tested positive for the virus. It has been learnt that the doctor had been examining 30-40 patients daily.The entire town has already been sealed and turned into a containment zone. Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said, “We have traced many patients and screened them. We are trying to locate all of his contacts to prevent the virus spread.” — TNS
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Orders pending, combine firms stare at losses||Manufacturers of combine harvesters based in the state are staring at losses as they are unable to complete orders received from various parts of the country due to the lockdown.  Their hopes were dashed by the labour shortage due to which they could not run their units to full capacity in the peak season of March and April. According to the manufacturers, they were expecting to sell about 4,000 of these machines in Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. But the shortage of workforce adversely impacted their operations. “Migrants from Bihar and UP, who form a sizable chunk of the workforce, have not returned yet,” said Amar Singh, general secretary of the All-India Combine Manufacturers’ Association. He said they are left with just 1/10th of the workforce. “Nobody knows how long this lockdown will last,” said another manufacturer Sukhwinder Singh. — PTI
23-04-2020||
||Farmers: Canals dry, cotton sowing hit||Muktsar, April 22 Farmers are facing a tough time as there is no water in canals to irrigate fields for sowing cotton. Brackish underground water can’t be used for irrigating the fields as it is deemed unfit, especially for cotton crop.  Given the situation, the farmers are left with no option but to wait for the resumption of canal water supply. “Every year, the Irrigation Department starts cleaning and repairing of water channels at the start of cotton sowing season. However, in view of the past mistakes, this work should have been done about a fortnight ago,” said some farmers. The Agriculture Department had decided to bring 1.05 lakh hectares area under cotton crop this year in Muktsar alone as against 72,000 hectares last year. “If the water is not released in the canals timely, it will affect the yield. Further, if the cotton is sown late then it will be more prone to whitefly. Thus, the department should release the water immediately. The wheat harvesting has picked up and it is the right time to prepare the fields for cotton sowing,” said Prof SPS Brar (retd), Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. On Wednesday, some farmers said despite the unprecedented yellow rust on wheat crop, per acre yield of crop had increased by nearly 10 per cent this year. “I have got 22 quintals per acre this year as against 20 quintals last year. This year, rain had affected germination of wheat crop, yet there’s an increase in per acre yield,” said SPS Brar, a farmer of Maha Badhar village.
23-04-2020||Vishav Bharti||Epidemics killed over 85 lakh in colonial Punjab: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22Though Covid-19 has thrown life out of gear, Punjab has seen far worse outbreaks like malaria, smallpox, cholera and plague. These epidemics broke out recurrently between 1850 and 1947, and killed over 85 lakh people in the state.Major outbreaksIt killed 25 lakh people by 1947to 1947Dr Sasha Tandon, an associate professor at Panjab University’s Department of Legal Studies, who is known for her work on pattern of epidemics and response of the colonial government in Punjab, says the social reaction now is not much different than what it was hundred years ago.“The rumours, myths, lockdown... everything happened then too. The only difference is the state’s response. In those times, colonial rulers were only interested in protecting their officers and staff, but now everybody is getting equal attention,” she says.In her paper, ‘Epidemics in Colonial Punjab’, she notes that malaria was the biggest killer in Punjab. Fifteen major malaria outbreaks in the region from 1850-1947, claimed 51.77 lakh lives. A higher rainfall made the central Punjab districts of Jalandhar, Amritsar, Lahore, Gujranwala and Shahpur, Rawalpindi and Peshawar, a perennial breeding ground for mosquitoes, leading to recurrent outbreaks.Plague emerged as a major killer in the late 19th century.According to the study, from 1897 to 1918, plague erupted with varying intensity in 26 districts, and had a mortality rate which was approximately four times the all-India average. The disease killed over 25 lakh people in 50 years between 1897 and 1947. The first case occurred at Khatkar Kalan village in the Banga circle on October 17, 1897. Until 1899, the disease remained confined to Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur districts. However, steps to control it were hampered due to the lack of knowledge about the causes till then.“The outbreak brought about an alarmist response from the British who tried to deal with it comprehensively, often using coercion,” she observes.Smallpox accounted for 8.5 lakh deaths from 1868 to 1947. It broke out with maximum intensity from 1875 to 1919 when nine major outbreaks in 27 districts, claimed almost 2.5 lakh victims.Besides, 12 major cholera outbreaks between 1866 and 1921, killed 2.49 lakh people. The districts most affected by cholera were Gujranwala, Hazara, Rawalpindi, Ambala, Gurgaon, Lahore, Jalandhar, Peshawar, Amritsar and Shahpur. The recurrence of the disease in these areas was attributed to a large number of local and regional fairs which were marked by overcrowding, insanitary conditions, besides inadequate and contaminated water supply.“Initially, the colonial medical opinion ascribed the epidemics to habits and customs of the natives, and geographical variations. It overlooked the actual causal agents and environmental factors, particularly those created by the colonial policies and measures. The people looked at the government with suspicion and showed reluctance to adopt them. The mortality from epidemics remained rather high in the north-western region till the 1920s.”
23-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj
||Stranded Bihar migrants worry about families, crop||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, April 22 For the past five months, agricultural labourers from Bihar have been stuck here, longing for their home and hoping for the lockdown to end soon. They came to Jalandhar district during the sugarcane season in December last year hoping to return home soon for maize cultivation. But little did they know that the wait would stretch beyond their imagination, testing them every day and night. The district administration is ensuing that the labourers get the ration, but their worry lies elsewhere. Back home, their families are not only fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, but also the nationwide lockdown which has meant no income and limited ration. Wives and children call them every day to know about the situation here. Their other worry is the unharvested maize crop. April is the month of maize cultivation in Bihar. Little money they make by selling maize helps labourers make ends meet. But this time, they are caught in a limbo.  Tuntun Mehta from Madhepura district in Bihar is unsure about his crop sown on four kanals. “I don’t know what is going to happen. In normal times, I get a good price for the produce. This time, the situation is different. In my absence, who will look after my crops,” he says. He adds, “My family calls me every day and asks me to come back as soon as possible. My wife has run out of money. Even buying medicines has become difficult.” Raj Kishore, another migrant from Bihar, shares his plight. A portion of his “kutcha” house caved in recently. As a result, his mother and younger brother are forced to live somewhere else. “The plan was to return home and rebuild the house but, given the situation, I cannot do much,” he says.  Kishore has also sown maize on his land one acre land. “There are several problems back home. I don’t know what the future holds for us,” he says with a shrug of resignation.
23-04-2020||---||Offer Ramadan prayers from home: Punjab Govt||Chandigarh, April 22The state government has issued an advisory in connection with the safe celebration of the holy month Ramadan in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.A government spokesperson said the sole objective was to avert community transmission.All mosques, “dargahs”, “imambaras” and other religious institutions will remain closed, and there will be a ban on congregational prayers (Nimaz-e-Bajamaat), including the Jumma and Taraweeh prayers, the spokesperson said.The government has advised people to offer prayers from their houses. “All types of celebrations, including Urs, public and private Iftar parties and Dawat-e-Sehri, involving assembly of devotees shall be strictly avoided,” he added.The distribution of items such as juices, “sharbat” or any other cooked food at mosques will be strictly prohibited. Eatery shops near mosques will not be allowed to open, the spokesoperson added.
23-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Health scheme for haemophilic patients put on backburner||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 22Haemophilic patients are suffering in the district as a government scheme, which was to be launched for their treatment, has been put on the backburner by the Health Department owing to the lockdown in view of Covid-19.Notably, after introducing treatment for haemophilia patients at Government Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, the scheme was to be launched in district hospitals across the state under the National Health Mission.A senior functionary in the department said all modalities with regard to implementation of the scheme had been worked out and it was in the last leg, but owing to the global pandemic now, the proposal had been shelved for now.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Satish Jindal, head of the paediatric unit at Women and Children Hospital, said, “We had submitted a demand of 10,000 Factor VIII injections to the Health Department as a part of annual treatment schedule of registered haemophilia patients in the district. The scheme was to be launched in Bathinda in March this year but it is not being introduced as of now.”The market price of Factor VIII injection varies between Rs2,500 and Rs4,000 and patients require repeated cycles of it depending upon the severity of the disease.Father of a haemophilic patient said, “Not everyone can afford to bear the high treatment cost being charged by private hospitals and travelling to Faridkot each time for an injection is difficult, especially during curfew restrictions. We know the government’s focus is on combating Covid but if it had allowed treatment of haemophilia to start here, patients would have been relieved.”Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda said, “Although there is no official confirmation by the department, the launch of the scheme has been postponed for an indefinite period. The department’s resources and workforce are concentrated on combating the pandemic for now.”
23-04-2020||
||IMA lauds Health Dept for proactive role||Chandigarh, April 22 The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has lauded the state Health Department for aggressively tackling the Covid-19 threat with prompt identification, testing and containment strategy. Though the first Covid patient was detected in the state on March 4, the department has been vigilant since January regarding the screening of passengers coming at international airports and international check-posts at Wagah and Kartarpur Corridor, said IMA in a statement here today. Further, the proactive functioning of the department is evident from the fact that the screening of passengers was started in Chandigarh and at check-posts way before the Government of India recommended it.  As a result, a team of the Health Department was able to identify the first case of Covid-19, who was a passenger on a domestic flight. The association had set up 25 beds and 10 ventilators near Jalandhar Covid hospital and had also donated personal protective equipment (PPE) in many districts, besides providing training for management of Covid patients and providing ambulance service at civil hospitals for testing.
23-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Patients cured, Nawanshahr hopes to shed ‘red zone’ tag||Nawanshahr/Ropar/Moga, April 22The last Covid-19 patient from the district, a teenage boy from Pathlawa village, was on Wednesday discharged almost a month after he was tested positive. The 16-year-old is the grandson of deceased Baldev Singh, the first case from Punjab.Warm send-offA 16-year-old boy, the grandson of deceased Baldev Singh, was discharged a month after he tested positive for Covid. The Nawanshahr hospital staff gave him a warm send-off. The hospital staff gave him a warm send-off. Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani and SSP Alka Meena gave him fruits and chocolates.The boy, a student of Class XI, said he was eager to resume his studies. His stay at the hospital got extended as his report came positive after initially showing negative result. Other 12 members of his family have already been discharged.Bublani said though the district would have to wait for 28 days to get rid of the “red zone” tag, after the treatment of all 18 patients, the district had already become Covid-free.Meanwhile, Moga too has managed to shed the Covid-19 tag for now, as four patients, hailing from Mumbai, tested negative for the virus for the second time, health officials said today.No new case of Covid has been reported from the district during the past two weeks. The recovered patients were admitted to the hospital on April 7.Dr Naresh Amla, nodal officer of the Health Department for Covid, told The Tribune the condition of patients was fine and they would be discharged on Thursday.Now, it is up to the district administration to decide on their stay here. Since they belong to Mumbai, it would not be possible for them to reach their homes unless a special arrangement was made for their journey.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh congratulated the Moga district administration on achieving the virus-free tag. He has directed officials to launch intensive tracking, screening, testing and treatment drives to check the spread of the virus in the district.With the exit of Moga from the list, the number of virus-affected districts had come down to 18.In Ropar, a woman who was found suffering from Covid-19 along with his son on April 6, tested negative today. With this, the district has become free of any active Covid-19 case as no such patient has been reported for the past 16 days.Relief for Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: The district now has no Covid patient as its two patients have recovered and were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur on Wednesday. Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, Fatehgarh Sahib, said no case had been reported from the district in the last two weeks. He said that the discharged Tablighi Jamaat activists had been home-quarantined for 14 days. OC
23-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Doctors can provide e-consultation: IMA||Phagwara, April 22While encouraging the medical fraternity, Punjab Medical Council (PMC) has allowed the doctors of the state for e-consultation, including ‘Telephonic or WhatsApp Consultancy’, during the lockdown period in the state. This was stated by Indian Medical Association, Punjab, former president Dr SPS Sooch while talking to The Tribune here on Wednesday.He said the letter of the PMC vide no PMC/2020/23862 was issued to all medical practitioners in the state. Dr Sooch have inspired the doctors to adopt e-consultancy during curfew and not to believe on rumors. He said the IMA, Punjab, had already offered its services during the Covid-19 period.IMA Phagwara unit president Dr Mamta Gautam and secretary Harjit Kaur said they have circulated the notice of the PMC to all IMA members.Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday called off the nationwide symbolic protest against violent attacks on the medical fraternity amid Covid pandemic after getting an assurance of security from Union Home Minister, said Dr SPS Sooch.
23-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Khalsa Aid volunteers help soften the blow for needy||Jalandhar, April 22Time and again, Khalsa Aid has come forward to help out those in need. Be it 2018 Kerala floods when they reached Kochi, the rescue of Kashmiri students back to their valley after the Pulwama attack, or the time when they distributed Eid gifts among over 500 Syrian refugees. Yet again in the time of need, volunteers of the UK-based non-profit organisation have come forward to contribute their bit in the fight against Covid-19.Always on the frontlineNearly 32,000 volunteers across the country, with 300 alone in Jalandhar, are working round the clock to distribute langar and ration kits among the needy, PPE kits, masks and gloves among hospitals, police personnel and sanitation workers.The Khalsa Aid team in collaboration with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab chapter, has set up a 20-bed Covid-19 isolation centre at Malsian village in Shahkot to deal with any sort of unforeseen emergency in the near future.Nearly 32,000 volunteers across the country, with 300 alone in the city, are working round the clock to distribute langar and ration kits among the needy, PPE kits, masks and gloves among hospitals, cops and sanitation workers.Talking to this correspondent, Khalsa Aid Jalandhar head Tajinder Pal Singh said teams under the supervision of Amarpreet Singh, Khalsa Aid director (Asia), had provided PPE kits in more than 15 cities of the state."The kits have been given to government hospitals as well as police personnel working on the frontline. Nawanshahr, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Jagraon, Batala, Moga, Fazilka, Mohali, Patiala, Bathinda and Amritsar are some of the cities where the kits have been distributed," he said.Besides, the Khalsa Aid team in collaboration with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab chapter, has set up a 20-bed Covid-19 isolation centre at Malsian village in Shahkot to deal with any sort of unforeseen emergency in the near future. “To fight this pandemic, we need to scale up the health system and services. As there is a shortage of PPE kits in hospitals, our main focus is to support doctors, nurses, hospitals and administrations across the nation,” he added.He further said despite an unfortunate incident that happened on Tuesday and took away the life of one of their volunteers Inderjeet Singh while he was on his way to Faridkot and Bathinda to distribute PPE kits among doctors, there is no looking back for them as they had pledged to serve the humanity before anything else and irrespective of the circumstances.Besides, the organisation is also helping migrant workers stuck at various places by sending them back to their homes. On March 23, a Khalsa Aid team helped a pregnant woman and her husband who were stranded at the railway station here after the cancellation of trains by sending them off to Jammu on their own expenses. They also provided assistance to many daily wage labourers, who were stranded at the bus stand and other places by arranging free cab service for them.
23-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Migrant workers leave for Bihar on bicycles||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22Even as Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on March 26 announced an economic package worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore to help migrant workers, labourers and poor amid Covid outbreak, a mass exodus of migrant labourers from the state doesn’t seems to end.Away from their hometowns, the migrants, mostly daily wage labourers, are finding it difficult to survive here with limited means. Considering themselves the worst affected by the outbreak, a group of migrant workers from Amritsar and Jalandhar today left for their native places in Bihar. Aiming to cover a distance of over 1,400 km on cycle, they are hoping to reach their villages in 10 days.Ramesh Yadav (48), a native of Patna, said, “I had come here in the last week of February this year to work on a construction site. Later, I moved to Amritsar to join my folks. However, having barely earned anything, we were forced to spend nights without proper food after the lockdown. It’s been more than a month now, and we kept waiting for the administration to arrange for our transportation, but nothing happened in this regard. Since we can’t stay here due to the shortage of money and food (as we live on the basis of daily income provided by the contractors) we decided to travel back to our villages.”After arranging bicycles, Yadav along with more than 20 other migrants started their journey in the dawn and are expecting to cover a distance of around 100-150 km daily. Joining the group in Jalandhar, Pinku (15), who worked as a mason on a daily basis at various construction sites, rued that after the lockdown was imposed, they had been denied payments, therefore they had no other option left, but to leave for their homes. Narrating a similar tale, Vikas Yadav said, “Like Punjab, our crop is also standing ripened in our villages that needs to be harvested. We had no idea that we would be left with nothing.”
23-04-2020||Ludhiana||SHO, Bollywood singer’s song on Covid-19 a hit on Internet||With each passing day, there seems no end to the threat of coronavirus (Covid-19). However, the spirit of city residents to fight against the deadly disease not hit in any way.A song of the Sarabha Nagar SHO, Madhu Bala, got wings when Bollywood singer Kamal Khan got its lyrics penned from lyricist Jaggi Thora and convinced over a dozen singers of Punjab to become part of the number titled ‘Jitange Jitange Aapa Jitange Corona Wali Jung Oye, Jitange Jitange Aapa Jitange Zindgi Di Jung Oye’.The song has also been uploaded on the official Facebook page and Twitter handle of Ludhiana police. It is drawing huge applause from audience, including netizens.Kamal Khan sung the song along with other prominent singers. Even Madhu Bala lent her voice to the song in the video footage.The song highlights how China and Italy were worst hit by the virus and Indians could still save their lives from the deadly disease by staying home.The number also highlights how the Punjab Police was spending days and nights on roads just to ensure that residents could stay safe from Covid-19. Singers also praised the Health Department whose officials were frontline warriors while dealing with the virus.Praise was also showered on vegetable vendors, milkmen and sanitation employees, who were discharging their duties in all respect and standing guard against the virus. In the last part of the song, tributes were paid to the ACP (North), Anil Kohli, who lost his life on duty while fighting against coronavirus.Singer Kamal Khan told The Tribune, “The song is a tribute to the people, who lost their lives while fighting against the menace. Through this song, a prayer is offered for the well-being of cops and health officials, who are on the forefront.”“SHO Madhu’s idea has also brought several singers on one platform,” Khan added. SHO Madhu Bala said, “I feel proud of being part of the Punjab Police Through this song I was to motivate the police force, health officials and residents.” Other singers, who lent their voice to the song, include Sarthi K, Feroze Khan, Master Saleem, Gagan Kokri, Sukhe, Preet Harpal,Vaneet Khan, G Khan, Khan Saab, Madhaali, Ranbir, Nisha Banu, Sangram Hanjra, Kunwar Virk, Sameer, Arpan, Dilshad.
23-04-2020||Ludhiana||Punjab government should ease norms for industry, says forum||All industries and the trade forum have asked the state government to ease norms so that industrialists can start operations on their factory premises. In a letter written to the Chief Minister, Punjab, Capt Amarinder Singh, the All Industries and Trade Forum (AITF) has stated, “The Government of India has given its consent to run various industries in the state. Similar orders have been passed by magistrates as per the situation in their respective districts.”The AITF president, Badish Jindal, said, “There is a dire need to run industries as long closures may disrupt the balance of economy. There is a huge unrest among workers due to uncertainty of restarting factories. The increasing burden of expenditures is piling up huge financial pressure on employers.”“Colonies are also not safe for workers. Besides, distribution of cooked and uncooked food among workers may spread virus infection. Presently, around 3,000 industries are operational in Punjab. Among these industries there are less than 200 units manufacturing non-essential items,” he added.“Industrialists are willing to run their units. They can also take care of safety measures and social distancing during work. But, the clause of responsibility of employer in case of any corona case at any unit scares employers. Instead of employer, the health of both the employee and employer should be the responsibility of the Health and Labour Departments,” he said.“Unfortunately, officials are not checking any industry even for precautions. Less than 2% industry has lodging facility on premises or vehicles to carry their workers. So, employers are unable to apply for permission. It is suggested that if employees want to come from home while maintaining social distance they should be allowed to do so,” he added.
