23-03-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Coronavirus: No curfew relaxation on Tuesday in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 23As full curfew got imposed on Monday afternoon in Jalandhar to check spread of coronavirus, the district administration has decided not to give any relaxation to the residents on Tuesday.There will be no relaxation hours either in the morning or evening. Jalandhar DC Varinder K Sharma said, “People will not be allowed to venture out. Only the milk suppliers, vegetable vendors and safari karamcharis will be allowed to work tomorrow. They are our foot soldiers. No grocery shops will be allowed to open. People have already purchased enough rations. Milk and vegetable vendors will be allowed to operate door-to-door with supplies. But people will not be allowed to come out of house and go to shops and markets.”The DC said he had instructed the Verka authorities to double the production of milk. “I am experimenting with a model wherein I have suggested to the milk retailers to keep their premises shut and go on only for door-to-door service. I will give relaxations in some days but there is no curfew relaxation tomorrow,” he said.Meanwhile, the district administration is learnt to have issued 6,000 passes to vegetable vendors, milk suppliers and employees of media houses.
23-03-2020||Tribune Web Desk||63 confirmed coronavirus cases in North, including two deaths||Chandigarh, March 23As of Monday the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the northern region stood at 64, including a patient each from Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, who died. There were 23 cases from Punjab, seven from Chandigarh, 14 Haryana, two from Himachal, four J&K, and 13 from Ladakh. PUNJABWith two more cases reported on Monday, the number of confirmed coronavirus cases has reached 23 in Punjab; one of which had died in Nawanshahr.The 23 confirmed cases have been reported from four districts — 15 from SBS Nagar, five from Mohali, two from Hoshiarpur, and one from Amritsar. No confirmed case has been reported from rest of the 19 districts.CHANDIGARHChandigarh on Monday reported a fresh coronavirus case, taking the total number of people infected in the city to seven. The latest case is that of a 21-year-old man, a resident of Sector 38, who had come in contact with the brother of Chandigarh's first coronavirus patient. HARYANAWith two more cases reported from Haryana on Monday, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state stood at 14, with Gurugram accounting for a maximum of nine. No death has been reported due to coronavirus in the state.Among the districts which have reported one positive case each are Sonepat, Rohtak, Faridabad, Palwal and Panipat.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said while out of 256 suspected cases 132 had tested negative, the reports in 114 cases were awaited. Meanwhile, 7,733 persons had been put under surveillance in Haryana so far.J&KThe total number of positive cases in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday stood at four. Of these, three (all women) were residing in Jammu, including two who belonged to Kargil district. The fourth case is from Srinagar’s Khanyar area.LADAKHThere were 13 positive cases from Ladakh as of Monday – 11 from Leh district, and two from Kargil district.HIMACHALThere were three positive cases from Himachal, both from Kangra district. Reports of seven suspected cases were awaited. As many as 1,237 persons with travel history had been kept under surveillance. A 69-year-old Tibetan, Tenzin Choden, who died in Tanda medical college, after respiratory problems was tested positive was coronavirus in preliminary tests. The authorities said the samples have been sent to Pune for further testing but for the time being Tenzin was being considered as first coronavirus death in the state. — With agency inputs
23-03-2020||---||With two fresh coronavirus cases, Punjab count reaches 23||Chandigarh, March 23With two more cases reported on Monday, the number of confirmed coronavirus (COVID-19) cases has reached 23 in Punjab.The fresh cases were reported one each from Mohali and SBS Nagar (Nawanshahr). The person found positive in SBS Nagar is grandson of the 70-year-old victim, who succumbed to the deadly virus last week. Besides that 183 were tested negative for COVID-19.As per the state health department, at present besides 55 suspected cases total 1,155 people have been quarantined and one has succumbed to the deadly virus.  At present, confirmed 23 cases have been reported from four districts — 15 from SBS Nagar, five from Mohali, two from Hoshiarpur, one from Amritsar. No confirmed case has been reported from rest of the 19 districts.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Sidhu said Punjab has been on its toes ever to break the chain of transmission since the spread of Covid-19. The department has been taking series of preventive measures to make sure that the virus does not spread within the community. Intensive screening of foreign return passengers is being done by the front line fighters of Health Department with the help of police and other departments across the state.
23-03-2020||---||Curfew imposed across Punjab over coronavirus; only specific exemptions||Chandigarh, March 23With people not following the lockdown orders in Punjab ‘properly’, the state government has imposed a curfew till March 31. Even as he appealed to the people to voluntarily adhere to the curfew imposed to tackle the prevailing coronavirus outbreak, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday warned of strict action against any violation of the curfew imposed “in the larger interest of the state”.In a video message address to the people of Punjab, the chief minister said he was forced to take this extreme step “in the interest of the state, and in the interest of all of you”, as he had received reports that people were moving around normally in towns, mohallas and cities despite the lockdown that became effective this morning.A Punjab government spokesperson said, “After reviewing the situation with the Chief Secretary and DGP, the CM has announced full curfew with no relaxations. The DCs have been asked to issue orders accordingly. Any person required to be given relaxation will be so allowed specifically for a given period and purpose.”Punjab is the first state to pass such orders. The stringent orders were necessitated with fears that the virus may infect many people after reports said some persons contracted the infection at Hola Mohalla celebrations in Anandpur Sahib earlier this month, despite directions against holding such gatherings.A top government functionary said curfew was the only means to keep people indoors.Senior officials in the government said there was a complete ban on movement, which came into effect immediately. Deputy commissioners in each district had been authorised to issue passes, which would be time specific and destination specific. Only those with the passes would be allowed to move around.Even for essential services, including doctors, chemists, and daily goods shops, it was mandatory to apply for permission, and only thereafter could they run their operations.RELIEF MEASURESThe Chief Minister announced relief measures to support the affected people as a result of the restrictions. These included free food, shelter and medicines for those in need, with Rs 20 cr sanctioned out of the CM’s Relief Fund and  DCs and SDMs asked to extend assistance to those in need. The Chief Minister also announced deferment of payment of electricity, sewerage and water bills in the state.The government had earlier initiated legal action against violators of home quarantine. “All measures being taken are for the larger good of everyone. While I am happy that everyone is cooperating, I will not let a few threaten the safety measures being taken against Covid,” the Chief Minister earlier tweeted.Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh said the amnesty scheme on property tax had been extended till May 31, 2020. The date for payment of all those domestic, commercial and small power industrial consumers having monthly/bimonthly electricity bills upto Rs 10,000, which falls on or after March 20, has been extended up to April 15, 2020. The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has been asked not to recover the late payment surcharge from these nearly 35 lakh consumers.The Transport Department will extend the due date of all taxes under the Punjab Motor Vehicle Taxation Act by one month up to April 30, 2020. Stage and contract carriage vehicles would be given 100% exemption from the Motor Vehicle Tax for the period in which these are not allowed to ply.For the farmers, the Cooperation Department has decided to waive for two months (March-April 2020) penal interest on their crop, which is obtained by them from Central Coop Banks & Primary Agriculture Co-op Societies. These farmers can now repay their crop loans till April 30, 2020.The Social Security Department will release pensions amounting to Rs 150 crore for the month of March 2020 immediately. The government has already released social security pensions to the individual accounts of all beneficiaries up to February 2020.The Labour Department has already decided to provide assistance of Rs 3,000 to the 3,18,000 registered construction workers through DBT in their bank accounts.
23-03-2020||New Delhi||Coronavirus: DSGMC offers Majnu Ka Tilla gurdwara for setting up quarantine facilities||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee on Monday offered the ‘serai’ (inn) at Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla on the banks of the Yamuna for setting up isolation wards and quarantine facilities for the treatment of coronavirus-affected people.In a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, DSGMC president Manjinder Sirsa said all 20 rooms in the inn, equipped with modern facilities, could be used for this purpose.He said the DSGMC would provide separate rooms for heath staff, ample parking on gurdwara premises and “the most safe and secure environment”.The DSGMC would also provide langar (free food) to patients and health officials in the ‘serai’ and would extend all possible help in other matters, he said.Gurdwaras in Delhi will provide ‘langar’ to the needy and those affected by the epidemic to fight hunger, the letter read.“The gurdwara committee is fully prepared to provide packed food packets to government agencies and other needy institutes. We can give 10 lakh food packets immediately to the government,” Sirsa said. PTI
23-03-2020||New Delhi||Coronavirus: IT Ministry issues advisory to social media platforms to curb fake news||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) on Monday reiterated its Saturday advisory to all social media intermediaries to initiate awareness campaigns and warn users not to circulate or upload any false information or news about the coronavirus pandemic.In the advisory, which was again circulated by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for amplification, MEITY said, such misinformation or fake news is likely to create panic and disturb public order.“Social media intermediaries must also take down or disable such content on a priority basis,” it said, adding that efforts need to be made to “promote the dissemination of authentic information related to coronavirus as far as possible”.According to reports in the media, social media intermediaries operational in India have been introducing several measures to curb the menace of fake news and prevent misinformation in India.While Facebook-owned WhatsApp started depicting “forwarded” or multiple forward indicators on messages circulated several times across the internet, Facebook itself has tied up with some independent fact-checkers to let people know that a piece of news or information that has been shared by independent fact auditors might be wrong.Besides, micro-blogging application Twitter has also been under a lot of pressure to control the huge influx of unverified news that is circulated on its platform. After criticism, the company is recently reported to have said it would remove or block from viewing any tweets that could cause harm by spreading any misinformation about Covid-19.Showing their sense of responsibility, such intermediaries have been showing on their platforms the links to the World Health Organization’s dos and don’ts regarding the virus, and how to contain its spread.
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown comes into force in Punjab, Chandigarh, 7 districts of Haryana||Punjab, the Union Territory of Chandigarh and seven districts of Haryana were put under a lockdown on Monday, a day after the authorities decided to enforce it as an emergency measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus.The Haryana government notified lockdown in the districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Panipat, Jhajjar, Rohtak and Panchkula till March 31.All essential and emergency services were exempted from the shutdown which would remain in force  till March 31, officials said.During the lockdown, all commercial establishments, shops and factories would remain closed except those dealing in essential commodities such as food, grocery, medicines, etc.Other essential services such as water supply, sanitation, electricity, banks, ATMs would be maintained, officials said.There will be no public transport services, including operation of taxis and auto-rickshaws, except transport of all kinds to and from hospitals, airports, railway stations, bus terminals in Punjab and Haryana.In Punjab, the department of transport might operate a few services of state transport undertaking to ensure essential services, it added.All inter-state bus services would remain shut in Punjab and Haryana. All public transport service would also remain suspended in UT Chandigarh.Punjab and Haryana have so far reported 21 and 12 positive cases of coronavirus respectively, while in Chandigarh, the number of positive cases is six.There will be restrictions on public gathering at one place under Section 144 of CrPC, officials said, adding any person found violating the restrictions would face action.In Punjab, extra police force would be deployed in all the districts to ensure implementation of restrictions.E-commerce (delivery) of all essential goods, including food, pharmaceutical and medical equipment, takeaway/home delivery restaurants/eateries had been exempted from the restrictions, officials said. PTILockdown order being violated Ludhiana: Though the district administration ordered a lockdown in the district, commuters were seen on the city roads as well as internal streets of various colonies on Monday.Two-wheelers and cars are common on Ferozepur Road, Pakhowal Road, NH 44 and other major roads till the afternoon.According to orders issued by the district magistrate, shops of food, groceries, milk, fruit, vegetables, chemist stores and other essential commodities were to remain open during the lockdown. However, even some non-essential services offices and stores were open in the morning.Meanwhile, Council of Engineers president Kapil Arora said, “People are being allowed to move freely in the name of buying essential commodities in the city. The government should also close banks, IT sector and other establishments which attract heavy rush.”Roads sealed in Sangrur, BarnalaSangrur: Police and civil administration have blocked majority of roads in both Sangrur and Barnala districts.Locals alleged that cops were not allowing them to buy essential commodities while cops claimed that they were only preventing gatherings.“I have cleared three police nakas. But now cops are not allowing me to go to the main market. I am going there to buy grocery items,” said Kulwant Singh, a local, who was standing near the local bus stand.Satwinder Singh alleged that cops did not listen to him. “I am going to the local hospital to buy medicine. But cops are not letting me go,” he alleged.Cops have put up nakas at Sangrur, Barnala and other towns and asking people the reasons for their venturing out.Sangrur DC Ghanshyam Thori said locals could go out to buy essential commodities. Cops are preventing only gatherings to prevent the spread of coronavirus, he added.Shops closed in AmritsarAmritsar: Barring essential commodities like vegetables, grocery, chemists and petrol pumps, all other shops remained closed on Monday. The district administration and police appealed to people to close business establishments. Police made announcements over the public address system, asking shopkeepers to attend to one customer at a time. They asked them to wear masks and keep sanitisers. Barricades were installed and a few commuters who were out on the roads had to specify the reasons for doing so.The police warned the social media users from spreading misinformation. Bathinda admn takes out flag marchBathinda: The district administration took out a flag march in the city. It was headed by DC B Srinivasan and SSP Nanak Singh.They warned residents of strict action against those violating the lockdown. TNSShops and commercial establishments closed, traffic curtailedFaridabad: The lockdown announced till March 31 in the district came into effect since Monday morning.With traffic movement well below normal, the police has put barricades for checking and launched a drive to issue challans against the offenders.Almost all commercial and industrial establishments have been closed. Rush was seen at grocery and vegetable shops and at petrol pumps. TNS
23-03-2020||---||Coronavirus: Punjab ministers to donate month's salary to Chief Minister's Relief Fund||All the Cabinet Ministers of the Punjab government have consented to donate their one-month salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, as the state grapples with the coronavirus outbreak.In a press communiqué, Punjab Parliamentary Affairs Minister Brahm Mohindra said that this was a goodwill gesture of the Punjab Ministers to express their solidarity with the people of the state in their fight against the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19).He said that the government is pro-active in discharging its duty to provide the medical care and treatment of the people and to provide all the essential services and amenities to the people in this crucial time.He said that the state government is also working shoulder to shoulder with all the workforce, which comprises; Police Personnel, district administration, doctor, nurses, health workers, who are working at the ground zero to check the spread of COVID-19 in the state.Mohindra said that the Chief Minister has entrusted the task of talking to all the ministers in this regard to seek their approval to donate their one month salary into Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. He said that he has talked with all the ministers and they have given their consent in this regard.Earlier, Ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Balbir Singh Sidhu had announced that they would be donating a month's salary to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to help people grappling with the coronavirus outbreak. In a similar move, to help those whose livelihood is affected as a result of the state-wide lockdown, all IAS (Indian Administrative Services) officers of Punjab cadre will contribute one-day salary to the Chief Minister Relief Fund, said a tweet by the state government. Balbir Singh Sidhu is the state's Health, Family Welfare and Labour Minister.Sidhu said that the health department was working on "war footing" to screen everyone who had recently returned from a foreign country, as screening was one of the ways to save people from COVID-19.The Health Minister said that in the present scenario anyone coming from abroad has to undergo mandatory isolation/ quarantine for 14 days.If symptoms appear, confirmation tests are done free of cost to rule out Covid-19 infection, he added.A web-based application 'COVA' has been developed to provide information to people regarding Covid-19 and guide them to the nearest health facilities.In his statement, Bajwa urged people in Punjab to stay in their houses till March 31 to prevent spreading the disease. Bajwa currently holds the Rural Development, Higher Education, Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries portfolios in the Congress-led government.Due to the lockdown, there is a strong possibility of a damaging effect on daily wage workers and poor people and they may also be a shortage of food, he said.Bajwa appealed to industrial houses, social and religious leaders to come forward to provide all possible help to the people. He also appealed to the people to fully cooperate with the government. He said that there was "no need to panic" but a need to follow all the instructions issued by the health department.IPS, PPS officers, too, chip inThe IPS and PPS officers of the state have also announced to donate a day’s salary for the welfare of police personnel involved in combating the deadly virus.DGP Dinkar Gupta said all the Indian Police Service and Punjab Police Service officers have volunteered to contribute one day’s salary to the Police Welfare Fund towards welfare activities for the police personnel battling Coronavirus pandemic across the state.A sum of nearly Rs. 33.2 lakhs is likely to be contributed as one day’s salary component of 121 IPS and 809 PPS officers in the state, said Dupta.
23-03-2020||Can taking a hot bath help prevent Covid-19?||Busting the covid-19 myths||Taking a hot bath will not prevent you from catching Covid-19. Your normal body temperature remains around 36.5°C to 37°C, regardless of the temperature of your bath or shower. Actually, taking a hot bath with extremely hot water can be harmful, as it can burn you.How effective are thermal scanners in detecting people infected with the new coronavirus?Thermal scanners are effective in detecting people who have developed a fever because of infection with the new coronavirus. However, these cannot detect people who are infected but are not yet sick with fever. This is because it takes the infected person between two and 10 days to become sick and develop fever.Can eating garlic help prevent coronavirus infection?Garlic is a healthy food that may have some antimicrobial properties. However, there is no evidence from the current outbreak that eating garlic protected people from the new coronavirus.Does the new coronavirus affect old people, or are younger people susceptible too?People of all ages can be infected by Covid-19. Older people and people with pre-existing medical conditions (such as asthma, diabetes, heart disease) appear to be more vulnerable to becoming severely ill with the virus.Are antibiotics effective in preventing and treating the virus?No. Antibiotics do not work against viruses, but only bacteria. Therefore, antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment in case of Covid-19.Is there any medicine to prevent or treat the disease?To date, there is no specific medicine recommended to prevent or treat Covid-19. However, those infected with the virus should receive appropriate care to relieve and treat symptoms, and those with severe illness should receive optimised supportive care.As per World Health Organization
23-03-2020||---||Come for testing: Bathinda DC to Hola Mohalla devotees||Bathinda, March 22Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan on Sunday exhorted those devotees who visited the Hola Mohalla between March 6 and 9 to come forward for the testing of coronavirus in nearby government hospital besides exercising strict home quarantine and not to put others lives at risk.Srinivasan said the administration had formed special teams to trace out all those people who attended Hola Mohalla in Sri Anandpur Sahib from March 6 to 9. He said the help of sarpanches and municipal councillors was being sought to motivate all those devotees for testing.He said in larger public interest it was need of the hour to check the spread of coronavirus, which has a tendency to rise exponentially. He said it was the duty of those who participated in the Hola Mohalla celebrations, must contact health department or visit the government hospitals for testing.He exhorts all such devotees to compliance with strict home quarantine and not to move in the society until they are done with their testing. He said every effort must be made to keep a check on the virus without creating any sort of panic.It is pertinent to mention here that this move comes following the death of a 70-year-old man, Baldev Singh, a resident of Nawanshahr, who tested positive and had attended the Hola Mohalla functions in Anandpur Sahib earlier this month.Srinivasan on Sunday imposed Section 144 in Bathinda district to prohibit the gathering of more than 10 persons together in any religious or social functions, besides other instructions as a precautionary measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.
23-03-2020||---||3 medical store owners arrested for selling masks, sanitisers at high rates||Faridkot, March 22Three medical store owners in Kotkapura have been arrested by the police for selling hand sanitisers and face masks at inflated rates.Though the state government has issued direction capping the price of a face mask at Rs 10, the suspects were charging upto Rs 35 per mask and also selling hand sanitisers at exhorbitant prices. Those arrested have been identified as Rocky, Ravi Kumar and Abhey Kumar, said Kumar Saurabh Raj, the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Faridkot.After receiving complaints that the chemists were selling the equipment essential to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 at highly-inflated prices, a raid was conducted on the shops and the suspects were arrested, said the DC. Strict action would be taken against those found to be “fleecing” people, he said. We have asked the people to be cautious against such illegal practices and bring the cases to the notice of the administration, said the DC.Liquor vends declared as essential serviceAs the district administration declared liquor vends as essential services on Sunday, all such establishments made a roaring business in the Faridkot district.Though there are prohibitory orders against the assembly of more than 20 persons, even at a marriage function, but at the ahatas (small restaurants, adjoining the liquor vends), assemblies of more than 20 persons could be seen on Sunday.
23-03-2020||Qadian||MLA distributes masks, sanitisers||Leaders keeping off constituentsGurdaspur: Amid the Covid scare, Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa had instructed his followers not to touch his feet. However, an ASI in complete disregard to the minister's appeal touched his feet, following which he was suspended. Now, Bajwa’s Gurdaspur ministerial colleague Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has issued written instructions, asking his constituents not to come near him, let alone shaking hands with him. He has sent his staff at his native village of Dharowali on paid leave. Both Randhawa and Bajwa are considered to be the 'political dons' of the district, where their writs run large not only among the bureaucrats, but also among their followers. The minister’s house, which is teeming with activities on normal days, is desolate these days. It is learnt that a majority of Randhawa’s Cabinet colleagues have suspended their operations for the time being.Dubai businessman extends helpGurdaspur: At Rs 50 lakh per month, Dubai philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi has provided 100 water tankers, fitted with wash basins, soap and sanitisers, to each district of the state in its fight against the dreaded Covid. In some districts, keeping in view their population, four to six tankers, each having a capacity of 6,000 litre, have been stationed while in others there are two or four. Volunteers of Oberoi's charitable trust “Sarbat-Da-Bhala” are acting as supervisors and can be seen attending to people who come to wash their hands. Oberoi said he had set apart a corpus of Rs1.5 crore. “If the situation aggravates, I will place an order of 100 more tankers,” he said.Covid scare hits Anandpur SahibJalandhar: The spread of Covid in Anandpur Sahib is gaining traction at an unprecedented rate. This was corroborated by Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari. He said in the first phase of Covid, a majority of the cases were reported from his constituency. Among the most affected areas include Banga, Garhshankar, Mohali and Balachaur. A Covid suspect from Balachaur who had committed suicide was from this constituency. Anandpur Sahib got sealed last week after it was found that the 70-year-old deceased had attended Hola Mohalla, said Tiwari. “Unfortunately, I can’t visit the areas, but I am trying to check with doctors if there is anything that I can do for them. I had helped the family of the Covid suspect, who had committed suicide, by getting Delhi doctors to conduct post-mortem on their son,” the MP said.
23-03-2020||---||NRI booked for violating directions to stay in quarantine||Sangrur, March 22The police have booked an NRI from New Zealand for marrying on Sunday as he allegedly did not complete the quarantine period of 14 days. He had reached India on March 10.The NRI, a native of the district’s Bimbri village, is absconding.Ramandeep Singh, SHO, Bhawanigarh police station, said: “We had asked the NRI to stay in quarantine for 14 days as per the directions of the state government. We had asked him to get married at his house in Bimbri village after he expressed unwillingness to change the date of his wedding.”The Station House Officer (SHO) said that on Saturday evening, the police had tried to convince his family to postpone the wedding.“But on Saturday night, he and his relatives went to Fazilika to solemnise his marriage in violation of government directions," the SHO said.
23-03-2020||Our Correspondent
||Cops try to avert attack on family, hurt||Abohar, March 22 The city-1 police station incharge, a constable and a security guard reportedly got injured while trying to save a family from some assailants on Saturday evening. Among the injured include police officials, identified as SHO Chander Shekhar, constable Hanuman Prasad and security guard Jagdeep Singh, and members of the family, identified as Neelam Rani, her son Gaurav and grandson Yuvraj. The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital here at 10 pm on Saturday. Subsequently, SHO, constable, security guard and Yuvraj were referred to GGS Medical College Hospital in Faridkot.  The police said a case had been registered against Akash, Gobind Tank, Aman, Vicky, Makhan and a dozen more unidentified persons. Also, the miscreants belonged to rival factions.
23-03-2020||Our Correspondent
||Three killed in road mishaps||Abohar, March 22 Three men were killed in two road mishaps on Friday. Ayub Khan (30) of Jogiwala and Om Prakash (42) of Sangara village were killed after a speeding canter (mini truck) reportedly crushed them near Hanumangarh’s Jogiwala village.  The incident happened around 8 pm when the duo had stopped to help a tempo driver, who was stranded on the road because his vehicle had developed a snag.  The police intercepted the canter at a ‘naka’ and impounded it. The driver of the canter has also been arrested.  In another incident, a biker, Surinder Nath (27) of Malsisar village, was killed when a tractor reportedly hit him near Mokhampura village on the Sriganganagar-Bikaner highway at 11 pm on Friday.
23-03-2020||Abohar||Anganwadi workers’ campaign in full swing||Despite being a neglected lot, the anganwadi workers were the first one to accept the challenge of bringing about awareness about Covid among women. Despite non-availability of masks and sanitisers due to lack of state government’s preparedness, the workers were found knocking on the doors in Abohar to educate women about the deadly virus and the precautions they can take to keep the disease at bay. Not only did they provide five vital tips to safeguard themselves from the virus, but also gave a demonstration on they should wash their hands regularly. With the help of banners, which they had prepared, they tried to sensitise people on the enormity of the situation and the steps they should take to minimise its spread. In Sriganganagar, the role of Accredited Social Health Activists, instituted by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare as part of the National Rural Health Mission, was also adjudged commendable. Equipped with masks and sanitisers, they had so far conducted surveys in about 40,000 houses to prepare a record of people who needed basic medical guidance to protect themselves from the virus. — OC
23-03-2020||Our Correspondent
||Cartridges made in Pakistan seized in Fazilka||Fazilka, March 22 Two Pakistan-made live cartridges were recovered near the barbed wire fencing in the Santokh Singh Wala border area of Jalalabad subdivision in Fazilka district.  The sleuths of the second battalion of the BSF noticed a polythene bag lying in grass. The bag contained two live cartridges. A case has been registered against unidentified persons under the Arms Act. In another incident, the police nabbed four persons and recovered a countrymade pistol, two fake pistols, three sharp-edged weapons, a knife and a live cartridge from their possession.  The police party raided a canal of Jhotianwali village in Fazilka district and arrested Sharanjit Singh, alias Sarna, Rajinder Singh, alias Rajan and Vishal, all residents of Bandiwala village and Manpreet Singh, alias Mannu, a resident of Ferozepur district. Their accomplice Sandeep Singh managed to flee.
23-03-2020||Vishav Bharti||When Bhagat Singh made an appeal to Editor Kalinath Ray||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 22In the late 1920s, a young man carrying a message from his senior walks into a celebrated editor’s office in Lahore. He pleads that his comrade wants the editor to put fire into his editorials. Amused over the messenger’s bluntness, the editor remarked: “It is not a party organ.”The young man was carrying Bhagat Singh’s message for The Tribune’s legendary editor Kalinath Ray. Ray had a love-hate relationship with the revolutionaries. Through his editorials, he criticised them over violence many times, but when it came to justice, under Kalinath Ray’s leadership, The Tribune not only stood against the empire but also wrote the ‘first draft of history’ by documenting developments in Lahore inch-by-inch.Durga Das Khanna, who later served as chairman of the Punjab Legislative Council, was the young man who carried Bhagat Singh’s message to Ray. He recalled the incident in a memoir written for a souvenir published during The Tribune’s centenary celebrations in 1981. He wrote that the young revolutionaries felt that an emotional or passionate touch to the great and historic struggle for freedom was foreign to The Tribune’s columns… said it would not be correct to suggest that it did not vigorously espouse the people’s cause. “It was, indeed, one of the best vehicles for the propaganda of the message of freedom among the people.”But Kalinath Ray’s ‘moderation’ didn’t enthuse the large mass of young men, particularly students. So Bhagat Singh asked Khanna to meet Ray and convey this to him. “Bhagat Singh, the great hero, once asked me to see Mr Ray and plead with him to put fire into his editorials. Mr Ray, however, felt amused and remarked: ‘Your friends must realise that The Tribune is not a party organ. It espouses the longings and passions of the people at large in an answerable way’.”And with this, Khanna said, he thought he stood dismissed from his presence.But soon all presumptions of the revolutionaries were to go wrong as The Tribune stood test of the hard times.The magic of The Tribune in those days was such that it caught the imagination of young minds. The newspaper’s former editor Prem Bhatia recalled those days in the centenary souvenir: “The recollection of the first impact made on me by The Tribune is the image of a page in this newspaper in June 1929, which carried Bhagat Singh’s statement in court on the revolutionary course he and his colleagues had chosen for themselves for the liberation of India. ‘The bomb was necessary’, the statement thundered, ‘to awaken England from her dreams… are sole purpose was to make the deaf hear and to give the heedless a timely warning…’”“This historical declaration was given in The Tribune a prominence which reflected much courage as also, indirectly, the newspaper’s identification with the movement for freedom.”The Tribune was the first newspaper to publish a splendid photograph of Bhagat Singh, taken at Lahore Central College in 1924, just days after his arrest.Historian VN Datta noted in his book “The Tribune: A Witness to History”, the Central Assembly Bomb Case for which Bhagat Singh and Batukeshwar Dutt were sentenced to life imprisonment, began to figure prominently in The Tribune from May 1929 onwards. “While giving a blow-by-blow account of the court proceedings, The Tribune commended the ‘exemplary attitude’ of the accused who were brought to the court handcuffed, which they resisted.”“The Tribune admired the patriotic spirit of Bhagat Singh and his associates in throwing two bombs in the Central Assembly but it disapproved of the use of violent means tor gaining political end.”The paper not only supported revolutionaries’ cause, but also employed comrades of revolutionaries such as Avinash Chander Bali, who later served as the News Editor.
23-03-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||Janata Curfew hits Malerkotla arhtiyas||Tribune News Service Sangrur, March 22 The vegetable market in Malerkotla, which supplies vegetables to several states, suffered losses because of Janata curfew, as neither commission agents were able to send their stock to other states nor they could sell vegetables in the local market. Commission agents have requested the state government to make some arrangements to prevent losses in the coming days. “Usually, about 100 vehicles loaded with vegetables leave from Malerkotla for other states. The local sale is also in lakhs of rupees. But because of Janata curfew, we were unable to send out a single vehicle. Even locals did not venture out to purchase vegetables,” said Mohhammad Ramzan, a local agent.  Vegetables from the Malerkotla market are supplied to Jalandhar, Amritsar, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Jammu, Srinagar, Udhampur, Haryana, Rajasthan, New Delhi and Chandigarh.  “We suffered huge losses because of Janata curfew. It’s strange that in other cities, vegetables sellers increased prices but, in Malerkotla, the prices of vegetables reduced on Sunday,” he said.  Some agents said after the announcement of Janata curfew, the prices of vegetables doubled on Friday and Saturday and they had orders from other districts, but they were unable to meet the demand.  Malerkotla SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey said the state government had allowed the supply of essential items such as vegetables, milk etc. “We have issued directions to all officers that none should face problem while purchasing essential commodities. But if anyone is facing a problem, he could contact my office and I will take action,” he said.
23-03-2020||Karam Prakash||‘No safety kits’, teachers told to go on door-to-door drive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 22Amid the growing risk of community transmission of Covid, the state government has asked its schoolteachers to go door to door this week to create awareness.The teachers, in some of the districts, have already started the awareness drive. The move to start house-to-house contact programme was taken by the Health and Family Welfare Department.However, teachers said they lacked health expertise and were at a high risk of getting infected with the deadly disease by this exercise. An elementary school teacher said earlier, they were conducting a survey to identify people with Covid symptoms but now, they were asked to go house to house to create awareness.The risk of community transmission will increase if awareness was done through personal contact programmes, experts said, adding the exercise should be done through digital or some other means.Moreover, ASHA workers, who are foot soldiers of the Health Department, said in every village, deploying teachers for such a drive at a crucial stage was not a well-thought out decision by the department.“Earlier, I was working as a booth-level officer, and now, I have been given this job for which I have been given no training. They can make announcements in village gurdwaras or ask the sarpanch to report about NRIs. Why was there a need to physically visit the house to create awareness?” a teacher asked.Davinder Punia, state chief, Democratic Teachers’ Front, said, “We don’t understand how the government can deploy teachers to create awareness on issues for which they are not expert of?”IN A VULNERABLE SPOT
23-03-2020||Ferozepur||Man murders pregnant wife, daughters||A man attacked his pregnant wife and their two daughters with a spade and battered them to death after some arguments with her in a village near here on Sunday. The incident took place at a village in Mamdot block of the district after accused Lakhwinder Singh picked up a fight with his wife and attacked her and their two daughters with a spade, said police, adding the accused fled his home after the incident. Following the attack, the accused’s wife Nirmala and younger daughter Kajal died on the spot while his elder daughter Amandeep Kaur, got critically injured and succumbed to her injuries later. Amandeep was referred to Government Medical College in Faridkot, where she succumbed to injuries, the police have said. After the incident, Lakhwinder fled the spot. The police said that as per the preliminary investigation, the accused had a marital discord with his wife. Ajay Raj Singh, SP (Operations), said a case has been registered. — PTI
23-03-2020||
||Doc by profession,  Banga MLA offers help to families||Jalandhar, March 22 As the Banga MLA happens to be an ENT surgeon, he has offered his services to the administration in providing relief to families. Akali MLA Dr Sukhwinder Kumar Sukhi said he had already been attending all meetings with the Civil Surgeon and teams of doctors and suggesting them various measures for containment of the respiratory ailment. He said as the past president of the Nawanshahr IMA, he had told the Civil Surgeon that he and his team were ready to join hands for free service round the clock in any emergency-like situation. Even today, the MLA took to Facebook to share information regarding the private hospital that he is running at Nawanshahr and his contact details and offered anyone to visit his hospital with symptoms related to fever, cough etc.  He said, “I already have been attending to all patients with such symptoms, wearing a mask and maintaining 1-m distance.”
23-03-2020||---||Help people in need: Akal Takht to Sikh outfits||Amritsar, March 22As Covid threat has engulfed the globe, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has directed all Sikh organisations and gurdwara management committees to extend a helping hand in this hour of need, irrespective of any discrimination on the basis of caste, creed and race.Giani Harpreet Singh has called on all gurdwara managements to prepare quarantine wards in the sarais (inns) to meet any emergent situation, arrange langar (food), medical aid and other things as per the situation arising in their respective territories.Sparing a thought for the Indian students studying abroad who are stuck due to disruption of flights, he emphasised that ‘Guru ghar’ funds could be utilised to accommodate them as per their requirements.He said for the welfare of all, everyone should observe self-quarantine and follow the advisory issued by the governments and health departments of their respective countries. He cautioned that under the Sikh principles, there could be no space for misconceptions and false notions, as was being circulated on social media.“Abiding by the Sikh philosophy and keeping faith, every devotee confined in their homes should recite the Gurbani Path and pray for ‘Sarbat da bhalla’ before Akal Purakh. Everyone should refrain from rumours and fallacy. Covid-19 has affected the whole mankind and claimed many lives in various countries”, he said.
23-03-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda markets closed till March 27||All markets in the district’s cities and towns wore a deserted look in the wake of the Janta Curfew on Sunday.Officials could be seen sanitising the premises of the railway stations and bus stands, which would resume their operations from Monday.Bathinda DC B Srinivasan ordered closure of all markets and shops in the city till March 27. The likelihood of the DC issuing an order to extend the lockdown in the city till March 31 is expected soon. — TNS
23-03-2020||Aparna Banerji||In Jalandhar, uphill task to place 16,000 NRIs in isolation||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 22The district administrations, health and police teams are racing against time to carry out the task of placing in home isolation thousands of people who have returned from abroad in the region known for its NRI presence. In Jalandhar and Nawanshar alone, it is anticipated that an estimated over 16,000 people will be tracked and placed under home quarantine.The administration in Jalandhar is tracking a list of 12,900 people. These are people under foreign travel history who are being placed in home quarantine as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, at Nawanshahr, an estimated 4,000 will be placed under home quarantine. Last evening alone, a list of 1,983 people had been received which shall be revised this evening.While the district administrations also began stamping suspects and sticking posters outside their homes yesterday, a list of those being quarantined is also being uploaded on the Nanwanshahr district administration website.In all, 25 mobile teams have been put on the job in Nawanshahr who are tracking NRIs and placing them under home quarantine. At present, there are 99 people under isolation, 88 in Nawanshahr and 11 in Jalandhar.Meanwhile, at Nawanshahr, entire populations of Pathlawa, Sujjon and Chikaka villages have been cordoned off.One of the runaway cases from isolation in Jalandhar – a woman with travel history who skipped isolation and was traced by the police at Lohgarh in Nawanshahr – has also been placed under isolation at Phillaur. Deputy Commisioner Jalandhar Varinder Sharma said, “We have a list of over 12,000 persons, of whom 75 per cent have been tracked. There are many revisions too. The rest shall be located soon. Everyday additional lists are coming in.”Nawanshahr DC Vinay Bublani said, “Until last evening, we had received a list of 1,983 people. It is being updated daily. We believe it will come to about 4,000 in the district depending upon the cases we receive.”Jalandhar SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said, “Teams are visiting newer areas daily as per the lists which are being updated. Violations are few and largely citizens are cooperating with us.”While three villages at Nawanshahr have been cordoned off, the containment is also proving to be a help in restricting the spread of Covid.Admn on its toes.
23-03-2020||---||Now, Covid testing available at 5 facilities in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 22With three more private laboratories allowed to test samples of suspected Covid patients, the number of testing facilities for Covid has reached five in the state.Earlier the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had designated two laboratories in Government Medical College, Patiala, and Government Medical College, Amritsar, as national labs for Covid.To contain the spread of virus, it has been decided that all notified national labs for Covid testing shall remain open throughout the week. The test is free of cost.As per a list issued by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, there are just three laboratories in the private sector which qualifies the criteria laid down by ICMR to conduct Covid tests.The private laboratories are located one each in Fortis Hospital in Amritsar, Ludhiana and Mohali.As per ICMR guidelines, the private laboratories can’t charge more than Rs4,500 for the test. This includes Rs1,500 as a screening test for suspect cases and an additional Rs3,000 for confirmation test.113 Indians stranded at Amsterdam airportRequesting fellow countrymen to maintain social distancing and follow guidelines in the wake of Covid outbreak, Minister for Sports, Youth Affairs and NRI Affairs Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi on Sunday expressed solidarity with 113 Indians, who have been stranded at Amsterdam’s Schipol Airport.Expressing gratitude to the Union Government and PM Narendra Modi for taking prompt decision in bringing back the Indian nationals, Sodhi said CM Capt Amarinder Singh and he took up the matter with the Union Government and met various ministers in this regard, including Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri.He said the Union Government not only acknowledged their efforts in this regard, but also promised them to bring back the stranded Indians.Indians stranded at Amsterdam’s airport had urged the government to rescue them. They alleged that the authorities did not allow their flight to land when it was just two hours away from the New Delhi Airport, and reportedly took a U-turn.Cost of the test
23-03-2020||Patiala||Several weddings postponed in Patiala||Almost 1,000 wedding functions scheduled in March and April have been cancelled, postponed or are being held with a handful of relatives ever since Covid-19 started spreading in the country.The Marriage Palace Association said it had suffered losses due to cancellations or postponements in this wedding season that would have lasted till April-end. The outbreak has sent ripples through the industry, including vendors, wedding planners and owners of marriage palaces. With Section 144 in force in many parts of the northern states, there are restrictions on gatherings of more than five persons in public places. “It is best to postpone weddings. Keep an eye for the directives and advisories from the state and exercise extra caution to avoid last-minute cancellations,” said Jaideep Narula, a wedding planner.With most courts now shut in India due to the global pandemic, the registration of court marriages and even traditional weddings will also have to wait. Nischint Kumar, whose sister was to wed in Ludhiana on April 15, said the bridegroom who is a merchant navy officer was stranded in Egypt as had not got the permit to travel back to India.Another couple in Patiala, who had planned a destination wedding in Kasauli, has already cancelled their wedding with a social media message for all relatives and friends. “Keeping safety of everyone in mind, the wedding and related ceremonies now stand postponed till September,” read a message by the bride. — TNS‘No liquor licence’Punjab Joint Commissioner (Excise) LK Jain said the department would not issue any liquor licence for weddings in Punjab till further orders. “Even the ones issued earlier will be null and void in wake of separate orders by the respective district magistrates,” he said
23-03-2020||Our Correspondent
||Man arrested for spreading rumour||Abohar, March 22 The police in Sangria, 26 km from Abohar distrcit in the Hanumangarh region, arrested one Shekhar Bissu on Saturday for allegedly spreading a rumour that a Muslim woman was infected with Covid. The said woman had returned from Pakistan last week.
23-03-2020||---||Coronavirus cases rise to 21, Punjab orders lockdown||Chandigarh, March 22With number of coronavirus patients reaching 21 in the state, the state government on Sunday ordered a lockdown till March 31 as an emergency measure to prevent the spread of Covid.You can play the most vital role in preventing further transmission of the disease by not stepping out.—Capt Amarinder Singh, CMHowever, the essential services will be exempted from the shutdown which will be effective from Monday at 6 am and will remain in force till 9 pm of March 31, a government statement said.In an official notification, Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh ordered shutdown of all establishments to break the transmission chain of the highly contagious virus.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh warned of tougher restrictions to check the spread of the deadly infection.On Sunday, Punjab reported seven more Covid cases, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the state to 21, officials said.The Chief Minister appealed to people to avoid leaving their homes unless there is an acute emergency and asked everyone to follow all health safeguards. “You can play the most vital role in preventing further transmission of the disease by not stepping out,” he appealed to people.The Chief Secretary said there would be no curfew during the lockdown period, but restrictions under Section 144 of the CrPC would remain imposed, preventing gathering of more than 10 persons at any given time.Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said extra forces would be deployed in all districts for strict implementation of restrictions.A government official said only essential services such as the police, health, power, emergency transport, and shops selling milk, food items and medicines, will remain open. Besides, eggs, poultry feed, media, e-commerce and essential IT services have been brought under the category of essential items and services.CM hails corporatesThe restrictions…
23-03-2020||Aman Sood||Women rise to occasion, pitch in to make masks||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 22In order to ensure livelihood for rural women in Punjab who are a part of self-help groups (SHG), low-cost face masks and hand sanitisers are all set to hit the market. To be provided free of cost to medicos, officials on duty and the public, the masks will be provided from Monday as women are working round the clock to meet the urgent demand.Following shortage and unavailability of masks in the country, especially across the counters, the administration in districts and even the state governments were facing it tough to meet the demand as China, one of the biggest suppliers of the masks, was itself facing the Covid threat.Last week, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) asked manufacturers and importers of surgical and protective masks, gloves and hand sanitisers to furnish information regarding these items by the end of the day, failing which it would have to take coercive action. Last week, the NPPA directed all manufacturers and importers of surgical and protective masks, gloves and hand sanitisers to furnish information on these items by March 17.The district administration has roped in 28 villages across Patiala with seven SHGs per village involved in the process to overcome shortage of masks. “Approximately 200 SHGs and 600 women and around 50 men are trying to manufacture these masks,” said ADC (Development), Patiala, Preeti Yadav.Experts from the office of public health and medical experts trained the members of SHGs. The district administration bought cloth used for manufacturing these masks and supplied the same to these SHGs which are working round the clock to meet the demand. “I am sitting at my home along with other members of our group. Not only we are using the masks so stay safe, we are earning and also helping the administration get these masks at the earliest,” said Kulwant Kaur, one of the members of the SHG.“Masks are being sold by provision stores, stationary shops and other shopkeepers for as high as Rs 250 to 350 given the shortage in the wake of Covid. Even the medicos are facing shortage in hospitals, making them susceptible to the virus,” said a nurse on emergency duty. Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit said they were able to get a supply of 1.5 lakh masks by this week as 15,000 masks were being produced daily. “The cost to us would be Rs 8 per mask and we will soon start supplying the same to ensure that black marketing is curbed. Some extra workforce is also deployed to get as many masks per day as we can so that the same are supplied to everyone in next few days,” he said, claiming that “government officials as well as private firms, NGOs and commercial establishments will soon be supplied these masks for free”.
23-03-2020||---||7 more contacts of 70-yr-old Nawanshahr man test positive for virus||Jalandhar, March 22Four family members and three close contacts of a 70-year-old man, who died of Covid in the Banga Civil Hospital on March 19, have tested positive for the virus in Nawanshahr.One of them lives in Chikka village, two in Pathlawla and four in Sujjon. All three villages have been sealed.Two of them travelled to Germany and Italy with the 70-year-old man.Nawanshahr alone has reorted 14 cases to the total tally of 21 as of Sunday. The police have been deployed at Sujjon and Pathlawa villages, restricting the entry of residents.The grandchildren of the 70-year-old’s deceased were shifted to Sujjon village a few days ago when the rest of the family was placed under isolation. Of the 17 Pathlawla village residents (all related to the deceased), whose samples were collected in Nawanshahr until Saturday, 14 have tested positive. As of Sunday, the Health Department placed 88 people in isolation in Nawanshar.Civil Surgeon Dr Rajinder Bhatia said, “Family members of those in isolation are stable. The work is on to identify others as per the lists being provided to us.”Nawanshahr DC Vinay Bublani said, “We have cordoned off Sujjon and Chikka villages and a containment plan is being set in place. The corridors created are under strict monitoring of the district administration.”Patients from amritsar stableAmritsar: The condition of two Covid positive persons admitted at Government Medical College here is stable, the authorities said on Sunday. The second positive case, who had returned from Britain recently, was confirmed on Saturday. Health officials said a total 48 persons had been kept at the quarantined centre while 1,625 other had been quarantined at their homes. TNS
23-03-2020||---||SAD backs state, Centre in efforts against disease||Chandigarh, March 22Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has said his party backs the Punjab and Central governments in fight against the Covid.“In this hour of crisis, we are human beings first and Akalis or Congress men later. Sikhism teaches us that we are all in it together. Akali workers offer their services to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in this fight,” he said in a statement on Sunday. The SAD chief asked party workers “to follow guidelines announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. This is the time to put politics on the backburner and stand united in the fight against Covid”.Sukhbir appealed to Punjabis to obey government instructions on the lockdown and stay at home for as long as they can. “Elderly persons must get special care. This is payback time towards our elders who have sacrificed so much for us.”The SAD chief appealed to SGPC president Jathedar Gobind Singh Longowal to issue instructions to ensure that all Sikh shrines and SGPC officials and “sewadars” lead the fight against the virus by observing all guidelines.The former Deputy CM also issued directions to SAD office-bearers and cadre in countries such as Canada, Italy, the US, the UK, Spain, Germany and the Middle East to coordinate efforts to extend every possible help to any needy Punjabi settled abroad.Sukhbir and Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, meanwhile, urged all MPs to release MPLAD funds needed by hospitals for purchasing medical equipment to gear up for the battle against Covid.In a joint statement, the two MPs said that as per reports, there was a shortage of medical equipment and testing kits in government hospitals.They also appealed to all MPs in Punjab and across the country to do their bit to fight the pandemic by committing much-needed funds to government hospitals at the earliest.
23-03-2020||---||Golden Temple witnesses record decrease in footfall||Amritsar, March 22The impact of Janata curfew to combat the spread of Covid-19 witnessed a record decline in the footfall of devotees at the Golden Temple.In normal days, the shrine sees a footfall of nearly 1 lakh people daily from all over the globe. SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said less than 500 devotees paid obeisance at the shrine. Consequently, Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee Langar Hall catered to around 100 devotees.He said the devotees should refrain from coming out of their houses as a precautionary measure. “We request all to stay indoors as per the advisory of the Health Department and government. The live telecast of Gurbani kirtan from the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine will continue,” he said. Sources said a majority of those who got stuck in the holy city due to disruption of rail and bus services had no option but to go to the shrine’s kitchen to partake of langar.Meanwhile, dedicated teams of the SGPC-run Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital and local Health Department were present for the thermo-screening of every devotee visiting the shrine. This was followed by sprinkling of sanitisers on their hands before they entered the shrine.Meanwhile, in the wake of the threat, the SGPC mulled postponing its annual budget 2020-2021 meeting scheduled for March 28 at Teja Singh Samundri Hall. Technically, the budget session is to be held before March 31 every year.
