24-03-2020||---||In pics: Amid corona-curfew, check out what Punjab MLAs are up to||Chandigarh, March 23As the Punjab government has imposed curfew to control the spread of coronavirus, it is time for MLAs to do something different!Restricted to their homes, Congress lawmakers are using the time to nurture their hobbies -- be it cooking, gardening, playing snooker or chess, or spending time with their families and pets.Between spending time with families and taking official calls, most of the MLAs were busy coordinating with district authorities to facilitate the persons needing some sort of help during the curfew.Check out what MLAs are up to:Zira MLA Kulbir Zira was seen trying his hand at cooking.Faridkot MLA Khushal Deep Dhillon was seen spending time with his family and pets.
24-03-2020||---||Coronavirus: No curfew relaxation in Punjab; essentials to be delivered at doorstep||Chandigarh, March 24Instead of allowing relaxation for limited periods at district level during the current curfew in Punjab, the state government has now come out with curfew management guidelines.A government functionary said there would be no general relaxations in the curfew. The guidelines would be implemented at the district level by the deputy commissioners.As per the new orders, during the period of curfew, door-to-door delivery of essential commodities, such as groceries, milk, fruit, and vegetables, may be ensured through pre-identified hawkers/distributors wherever possible.The grocery shops, milk vendors, fruit and vegetable shops, and chemists should be permitted to open on rotation in a manner that at any point of time at least one shop each is open in a given area.Such shops should also be allowed to provide door-to-door delivery on call.The shops permitted to open should be kept under supervision of 1-2 policemen to check over-crowding and maintain spatial distancing.District Mandi Officers/Market Committee Secretaries should ensure a system of home delivery of vegetables and groceries, respectively, otherwise people would flock in large numbers when curfew is relaxed and a law-and-order situation may arise. Some bigger malls and businesses can also be engaged for door-to-door delivery.Only in case of an emergency may people be permitted to go on foot for needs such as groceries, milk, fruit and vegetables, and medicines/chemists, or to doctors and nursing homes.Vehicular movement without a pass will not to be allowed.In emergency, a resident should be able to call police or civil control rooms to avail necessary essential services.
24-03-2020||---||Punjab milk cooperative Milkfed to ensure regular supply of long-shelf and skimmed milk||Chandigarh, March 24Punjab’s milk cooperative Milkfed on Tuesday said it would supply long-shelf and skimmed milk despite the state-wide curfew to combat coronavirus.In order to meet the demand, Milkfed has enhanced the processing of ultra-high temperature processing milk having a shelf life that lasts up to 180 days. Milkfed Chairman Harminder Singh said there would be no scarcity of milk in the state. If the consumers are facing any difficulty in their respective areas, they should bring it to the notice of the department," he said.
24-03-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Amritsar Police buy entire stock from old vegetable seller during coronavirus curfew; Punjab CM reacts||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday commended the Punjab Police for their "heart of gold".The Punjab Police shared a video on Twitter, where they were seen helping an old vegetable seller. In the video, the Amristar rural police bought the entire stock and sent the seller home.They were also seen santising his hands.  Along with the one-minute clip, they wrote: " Superheroes with a heart of gold! Asr Rural Police bought entire stock from a vegetable seller, to sell it themselves-cuz duty asked them to send the seller home,while humanity said that he couldn’t go empty handed!"#SaddeSuperheroSuperheroes with a heart of gold!Asr Rural Police bought entire stock from a vegetable seller,to sell it themselves-cuz duty asked them to send the seller home,while humanity said that he couldn’t go empty handed!@DGPPunjabPolice@PunjabPoliceInd pic.twitter.com/u3EkH6j3nx   The Chief Minister re-tweeted the video, and wrote: "Well done! Well done! @PunjabPoliceInd pic.twitter.com/PYWvzovByQ  The video was widely appreciated online. Reactions:Always proud of Punjab Police. You people are real Heroes  Great  Appreciable Sir🙏  Lovely. Salutes!  Meanwhile, Punjab Police punished those violating the curfew in the state, which has been enforced to prevent the spread of coronavirus—but Chandigarh Police in Sector-17 were seen lending a helping hand.Also read: Coronavirus: Police wield the stick to implement curfew in PunjabThe police were seen distributing food packets to "safai karmacharis", who have been working around clock to sanitise the markets.On one hand, a crackdown was seen on the violators, while the other offered food packets to laborers and "safai karmacharis".
24-03-2020||Washington||Sikh family in the US offer homemade  masks in an effort to help the public amid coronavirus scare||Amid the fast-spreading coronavirus pandemic in the US, a Sikh family based in the state of Indiana has made masks in an effort to help the public and first responders in the fight against the deadly disease, a media report said.After learning about the shortage of masks across the US via media reports, Gurinder Singh Khalsa called up his doctor friends and asked if he could contribute by making masks at home and packaged insanitary conditions said the American Bazaar report on Monday.Once he got the green signal, Khalsa, his wife Gagandeep Kaur and the rest of his family got busy making more than 500 emergency masks packed with double layers of thick cotton fabric."Based on online research and advice from public health practitioners, we have started stitching these general-purpose emergency masks," the American Bazaar quoted Khalsa as saying in the report He wants to give these masks first to the city officials, first responders, police and first departments who are doing a great job in the service of the city residents, according to the report.Khalsa believes that his emergency mask program would allow persons who cannot access the N-95 and medical masks to obtain reusable and washable masks for community use, it added.He emphasized that these masks produced and packed in a safe environment were essentially intended for those who must leave their homes with some protection.In an advisory, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said fabric masks can be used by healthcare workers when nothing else was available.The family also intends to extend the benefit of their initiative to those who may be experiencing financial pinch during these times, said the American Bazaar report."We also hope to offer employment to those who are in need of employment," he said by taking in at least 100 people in a month for making emergency masks."We will be providing a chance of working at home or work at our safe location." According to the latest update by the Washington-based John Hopkins University, the US has so far reported 46,450 coronavirus cases, with 590 deaths. IANS
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol appeals to people to self-isolate, asks 'Why aren't we thinking about ourselves'||Gurdaspur MP and actor Sunny Deol has appealed to the people to isolate themselves and avoid the crowd in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.He said coronavirus was spreading fast in the world and has now entered India."The only way to fight it (coronavirus) is that everyone along with family should isolate," Deol said in a two-minute video posted on his Twitter handle.Deol asked people to isolate themselves the way they did during the 'Janta Curfew' following a call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22."We should not assemble and we should stay away from crowd," said Deol in his message."Why we are not thinking about ourselves? If we are healthy, then our family members will also be healthy, (they will) be safe from this infection, especially children and elders. It (Covid-19) is very dangerous for elders," said the BJP MP.The actor-turned-politician also cautioned people against holding any celebration by inviting friends and relatives at homes, saying one does not know who is affected by this infection.Punjab on Monday clamped curfew with no relaxations. The state has 23 coronavirus patients at present. PTI
24-03-2020||---||6 more test positive for coronavirus in Punjab; total cases 29||Chandigarh/Jalandhar, March 24With six more persons testing positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, the number of cases in Punjab have gone up to 29, including one death.According to the state health department, three fresh cases have been reported from SBS Nagar. All three cases are contacts of a positive case.Three other are from Phillaur in Jalandhar and they were also in close contact of a positive case. They are from Virk village in Phillaur.They were in contact with the man from Pathlawa in Banga who had died after being affected with the virus. The village has been sealed.All 28 cases have been placed under isolation in government hospitals and are stable.A suspected patient of Fatehgarh Sahib was referred to PGI, Chandigarh, where the patient died due to some other illness. As per test report of PGI, the patient was negative for COVID-19.Close contacts of all these cases have been put under quarantine and surveillance. Samples of close contacts of these cases have also been taken and sent to designated labs for testing. Health department teams are working for surveillance.
24-03-2020||Ludhiana March 24||Coronavirus: Ludhiana witnesses complete shutdown, roads wear deserted look||Ludhiana witnessed a complete shutdown on Tuesday after the Punjab government announced a state-wide curfew to limit the spread of coronavirus.Excluding the emergency services in hospitals and an exemption to chemist shops nears hospitals, all other shops, commercial establishments and even fuel stations are shut in the city.Nakas have been enforced at each nook and corner of the city. No private vehicles on the road are noticed. Few people, who had no information about the shutting of petrol pumps, were sent home by police.ADCP 1 Gurpreet Singh Sikand said no person is allowed to come on the roads.Christian Medical College and Hospital has also closed its OPDs and assured to attend all emergencies.Milkmen came to houses to supply milk but vegetable vendors have not come in. Even the door-to-door garbage lifting has not taken place today.It is learnt that cops have also been punishing the violators who are being caught at nakas. Violators are being released only after they apologise.Interestingly, people who are made to sit at home and are not allowed to come on roads were seen roaming on two-wheelers in the internal streets and roads where police nakas were not in place.Notably, earlier the District Magistrate had decided to give a three-hour relaxation to the public (from 6 am to 9 am) for buying necessary items/essential commodities, but then withdrew it.ADCP Headquarters and Security Deepak Pareek said police nakas in the city will remain for day and night to enforce the curfew. He added that police is also monitoring the situation on city roads from the police control room.
24-03-2020||Patiala/Bathinda||Coronavirus: Police wield the stick to implement curfew in Punjab||Punjab Police on Tuesday punished those violating the curfew in the state, which has been enforced to prevent the spread of coronavirus.In videos that have emerged from different parts of Punjab, police can be seen wielding lathis or forcing violators to do sit-ups or crawl on the road to discourage them from venturing outside.Bathinda police punished the violators at Ghorewala chowk.In Patiala, despite repeated reminders to people to stay indoors, residents continued to roam on the roads, following which police personnel used mild force to ensure a complete ban on public gatherings.Senior officials said that the police officers have been doing rounds in colonies and residential areas to ensure that there are no gatherings.“The whole purpose is defeated if people continue to come out and meet outside their houses. It is a virus spread and we can take no chances as this time is vital to save lives,” said Patiala SSP Mandeep Sidhu.Earlier in the day, milk, newspaper and vegetable supplies were hit as authorities failed to take any decision on the movement of these commodities. However, senior officials said that a decision to this effect will be taken by evening so that essential supplies are not hit.
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Chandigarh wake up to coronavirus-curfew disruptions||The first dawn of curfew in Punjab and Chandigarh brought with it anxieties for people wondering about whether or not they would get their essential supplies such as milk. The supplies were disrupted for the most part, but attempts were being made by district administrations to start deliveries at doorstep, at least in the cities.Door-to-door supply of milk and vegetables was allowed in Faridkot, with the Deputy Commissioner issuing passes to vendors.Also read: Punjab Govt clamps statewide curfew to curb spreadThe Bathinda DC announced there would be no relaxation in the curfew on Tuesday in the district, but Verka would arrange door-to-door supply of milk in the city.However, the supply of milk (including Verka) and essential items was severely affected in most parts of Punjab due to a lack of coordination between the district authorities and state government agencies responsible for supply of essential commodities.Moga, Patiala, and Mohali too reported disruption in the supply of newspapers and milk. As much as 12 lakh litres of milk was reported lying at the Mohali Verka milk plant alone for want of pick up.Officials said relaxation was not being given as people in many parts of the state were not taking the curfew seriously. Relaxation for short intervals was resulting in people coming out in large numbers in public places such as parks and markets.They said it could take a day to streamline the process of distribution of essential items.Chandigarh too reported similar disruptions, though newspapers were delivered in some areas.Also read: Chandigarh curfew: Sector-wise relaxation or doorstep delivery of essentialsNewspaper supply in several areas of Amritsar remained affected on Tuesday.Vendor union leaders came at pick up points to discourage the vendors from distributing newspapers.Milk Supply also remained disrupted in the city. Only milk vendors from the rural belt could manage to supply milk at the doorstep in parts of the city.The supply of essential commodities including milk and newspapers continued in early hours but was hit in some parts of Ludhiana. As it was rumoured that curfew will be relaxed for three-four hours, starting from 6 am, the residents were seen coming out of their houses. Those supplying milk were seen distributing milk/bread etc to their customers in many colonies/societies.The suppliers said that at many points, they were stopped by the police but when they checked the bags containing basic commodities, the suppliers were asked to wind-up as early as possible. Many suppliers were seen taking alternative routes through narrow streets to reach out to regular customers.Meanwhile, the hawkers were regular in distributing newspapers, even though the supply was hit in few parts of the city including outer areas, Dugri and few areas in Model Town.Even few chemists had opened the shops in Ghumar Mandi, National Road, Civil Lines areas but within half an hour, they were asked to close around 8:30 am. The maids, who got calls from the employers, were seen reaching out to extend domestic help to the homemakers. However, they cut short their visit and preferred to reach back to the homes safely as cops were acting tough against all roaming on roads.Many residents looked restless in the absence of ration/other necessary items. They tried to find if nearby shops were opened but had to return disappointed as everything was shut.
24-03-2020||---||Social distancing need of the hour: Sukhmani Sidana||Amritsar, March 23Observing self-isolation and encouraging others to follow her, actor Sukhmani Sidana is spending some quality time at home with her family in Amritsar. The actor, who has worked in several Bollywood films such as Manmarziyan and a web series, Sacred Games, flew in from Mumbai before Holi and has since been refraining from venturing out or meet people.“I reached the city a day before Holi and at that time, the airports were not testing people. Two days later, news of increasing Covid-19 cases started coming and it was then that my family and I decided to observe social distancing,” shared Sidana. The actor said with the current rate of cases being reported across the country, lockdown and isolation are the best strategies to follow.“I feel that individual responsibility plays crucial role in this (tackling the disease). I heard that people are not abiding by the advisory and not disclosing their travel history which is an irresponsible act and must be dealt with strictly,” she said.Sidana said to contribute to encouraging the people to perform constructive activities during the lockdown, she has been become a part of social media campaign, #Togetherapart, which is supported by the city chapter of FICCI FLO. She also praised the steps taken by administration to control the outbreak in the city.Sidana said she had been trying her luck in cooking these days. “I have been cooking lunch everyday at home and my family is paying for my misadventures in the kitchen,” she shared amusingly,” she said.
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Staff presence cut at offices||The government today decided to further scale down staff in its offices across the state. The department heads have been asked to prepare the duty roster of bare minimum Group B, C and D employees.The orders do not cover Group A officers and officials of departments running essential services like police, health, transport and food and supplies. — TNS
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Ministers to donate one month’s salary||After the Council of Ministers, led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, on Monday announced to contribute one-month salary to the CM’s Relief Fund, the state IAS officers have decided to contribute their one day salary towards the fund for battling coronavirus.The IPS, PCS and PPS officers of the state too have announced to donate a day’s salary for the welfare of police personnel involved in combating the virus. An official said all ministers would contribute one-month salary on account of donation towards “Coronavirus Disaster Management and Relief Fund”.The CM Relief Fund would be utilised to help those whose livelihood was affected as a result of lockdown. DGP Dinkar Gupta said Rs 33.2 lakh would be collected as all IPS and PCS officers had volunteered to contribute a day’s salary to the Police Welfare Fund for welfare of the police personnel battling coronavirus pandemic across the state. — TNS
24-03-2020||Aman Sood||Lockdown effect: Better air quality||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 23With factories shut and negligible movement of vehicles on roads, the air quality has improved in the past two days in the state, thanks to Janata Curfew on Sunday and lockdown on Monday.The air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 51 on Monday; the industrial town of Khanna recorded an AQI of 43, Ludhiana 36, Amritsar 81, Mandi Gobindhgarh 54, Patiala 48 and Jalandhar 46.On the same day last year, the AQI in the state was double at 101. Khanna had recorded an AQI of 70, Ludhiana 40, Amritsar 100, Mandi Gobindgarh 160, Patiala 118 and Jalandhar 117.“The improvement in air quality shows that humans are to be blamed for polluting the environment. The decreased industrial activity and a majority of residents staying home are the prime reasons for the improvement of air quality,” PPCB member Secretary Karunesh Garg said.“The fact that the complete shutdown in many countries and natural resources not in use, air quality will improve further,” he said. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Kuldip Kumar said the decreased human activity has had a positive impact on nature. “There are reports of sighting of rare birds,” he added.
24-03-2020||---||Help pilgrims stuck at Hazur Sahib: SAD||Chandigarh, March 23Former minister and senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia today urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take up with his Maharashtra counterpart the issue of Sikh pilgrims stranded at Hazur Sahib in Nanded.In a statement here, Majithia said the pilgrims, who were mostly from the Majha region, were unable to return to Punjab due to cancellation of trains. He said speedy arrangements should be made to bring them back, including airlifting them or arranging special buses to transport them back to the state.“This is an urgent matter as the pilgrims as well as their relatives back home are anxious about their safety,” he said adding he had also requested Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal to take up this issue with the Union Government to ensure there were no bottlenecks in swift repatriation of the pilgrims.
24-03-2020||Ferozepur||9 kg heroin seized||The CIA and the BSF seized 4.27 kg of heroin from an area close to the border outpost Bareke along the India-Pakistan border on Monday.Officials said the consignment was stored in four plastic bottles. A China-made pistol was also seized along with the contraband.In another incident, BSF troops seized three packets of heroin weighting around 3.25 kg in the Abohar sector.Another 1.48-kg heroin was seized from Behram Shersingh Wala village in Guruharsahai on Monday. A man, identified as Gurdev Singh, was arrested. — OC
24-03-2020||---||Punjabi singer Ginni Mahi stuck in Italy||Jalandhar, March 23Punjabi singer and popular Dalit activist Ginni Mahi has been stuck in Italy. She was at the fag-end of her Europe tour when the flights got cancelled.Jalandhar-based Mahi had left from here along with father Rakesh Mahi and reached Rome on March 8. She even held two of her music programmes in the coronavirus-hit country after which she finally announced to cancel her programmes on March 16 in view of the increasing spread of the disease.Since then she has been regularly uploading her posts on social media. She said she is in Ardea, a town 35 km from Rome. She has mentioned that like others in the country, she too has been staying indoors. “There is a complete restriction on movement and the cops are able to detect even the slightest movement and quickly come to push you in,” she said in the video.Her brother Nav Prince said, “Ginni is near Rome with dad. We hope she gets back home safe.”
24-03-2020||Amritsar||Foreign Tourists stranded in Amritsar||Due to disruption of Attari-Wagah border movement and cancellation of flights, some foreign nationals are stranded in Amritsar.A group of 16 tourists from Malaysia got stranded here due to the cancellation of flights. They were supposed to go back today. After the intervention of the administration, they were accommodated in a hotel.Gurbachan Singh, a tourist, said they were all together in India on one month tourist visa since March 7. “We have spent almost the entire money. But now the flights have been cancelled. We insist that arrangements be made to send us back,” he said.Tehsildar JP Salwan said the tourists were taken to GMC for medical examination. “Since they were all found to be in sound health, they were accommodated in another hotel. There was no advisory on how to facilitate them to go back home,” he said. In another case, a 77-year-old woman from Pakistan, Khatija, who reached the Attari border, was a dejected lot. She was supposed to cross over the border to go back home, but as the border was sealed, she could not go. — TNS
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab courts to remain closed during curfew: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear the courts situated in Punjab would observe close day as long as the curfew restrictions continue.HC Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry asserted the curfew had been imposed keeping in view the peculiar circumstances following Covid-19 outbreak.As such, Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha had ordered that the courts situated in Punjab would observe close day as long as the curfew restrictions continue in the jurisdiction of their Sessions Divisions.The Chief Justice also ordered the period from March 23 to March 31 would be treated as “closure” of courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh for the purpose of limitation. It indicates the specified phase would not be counted for calculating the limitation period within which the superior court could be moved against an order or judgment. The HC made it clear urgent cases could be mentioned for hearing through e-mail. — TNS
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab 1st to declare curfew||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered a state-wide curfew. The government has decided to further scale down its staff in government offices. Heads of departments have been asked to prepare the duty roster of bare minimum Group B, C and D employees for running essential services. The staff would report for work till April 5. The orders do not cover the departments running essential services, like the police, health, transport and food and supplies.The government had on Friday last decided to reduce the employee strength in government offices to 50 per cent. The state’s Personnel Department has asked all Administrative Secretaries, DCs and the Registrar of Punjab and Haryana High Court to follow the guidelines. The orders are not applicable to Group A officers, employees handling emergency services and those directly engaged in initiating measures to combat Covid-19.“Alternative attendance to office cannot be construed as holiday. As it is treated as working day, each staff member should be available at their respective residences and should respond to calls from office. As the arrangement made is on the lines of ‘work from home’, employees should not leave the headquarters or make themselves unreachable by switching off phones,” the orders read.
24-03-2020||Gurdaspur||Police take out flag march||Dhindsa pledges Rs 30L for ventilatorsSangrur: Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has donated Rs30 lakh for the purchase of two ventilators for Sangrur and Barnala civil hospitals, while his son and Lehra MLA Parminder Dhindsa has announced to donate his salary till the situation comes under control. "I will also extend help to provide other facilities at these hospitals," said Sukhdev Dhindsa. Both these hospitals have been without basic medical equipment like ventilators, staff and other required facilities. TNSFIR against school principalSangrur: The Malerkotla police have registered an FIR against the principal of a school for keeping the school open despite lockdown. “After a complaint from District Education Officer, Sangrur, that Bharat Model School was operational despite shutdown orders, we have registered a case against its principal under Sections of 188 and 269 of the IPC,” said ASI Harpreet Singh. TNS
24-03-2020||Nawanshahr||No events on Bhagat Singh’s martyrdom day||Amidst Coronavirus scare, no political rally was held. A group of 15 youth from the CPI (ML) paid tributes at the martyr’s memorial.Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani and former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia also paid tributes. Arrangements were made to provide masks and sanitisers to dignitaries visiting the memorial. tns
24-03-2020||---||Coronavirus: 2 more NRIs booked for violating directions||Sangrur, March 23A day after the registration of FIR against an NRI, who came from New Zealand for getting married on Sunday, two more NRIs have been booked today. The police have started investigations to trace those persons, who came into their contact.Dr Sandeep Garg, SSPAll NRIs should understand that quarantine is must for the safety of their family members. We need their support but if there is any violation, we will register cases.“Today we have registered a case against NRI Ashwani Kumar. He came from the UK on March 6. As per complaint of the Health Department, two members of his family have been down with viral for the last few days. He got married on March 11 without undergoing the 14-day quarantine period. We have registered a case against Kumar and further investigations are on,” said Ramandeep Singh, SHO, Bhawanigarh.He said apart from violating mandatory direction for quarantine, Kumar and his neighbour allegedly misbehaved with Health Department team.“We will also assist Health Department teams in tracing other persons, who came into his contact,” said the SHO.In another case, an NRI woman has been booked at the Dirba police station. “We have registered a case against Paramjit Kaur, who came from Canada, under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC for violating mandatory directions for home quarantine. She came back on March 10, but today went to Khetla village without undergoing the mandatory quarantine period,” said Sukhdeep Singh, SHO, Dirba police station.
24-03-2020||Amritsar||SGPC offers hospital for patients, inns for persons under quarantine||In its attempt to help the health authorities fight against Covid, the SGPC has offered the premises of the Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (Amritsar) and inns for accommodating suspected patients.Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC president, said special isolation wards would be set up in the Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Amritsar and a dedicated team of doctors would be deployed to attend to Covid patients.“Inns can be used to accommodate persons under quarantine. We have already tied up with health officials under whose guidance services will be offered. We have also decided to offer langar at places instructed by the district administration,” he said.The SGPC has already started sanitising areas in and around the Golden Temple, inns and offices. It intends to suspend its Budget meeting. — TNS
24-03-2020||Saurabh Malik||Move ICJ against China for damages: Advocate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 23A city-based advocate has sought initiation of proceedings before the International Court of Justice (ICJ) for claiming US $13,00,000 million as damages against China for tangible and intangible losses caused by Covid.Advocate Pankaj ChandgothiaThe communist state must be held accountable for its role in facilitating the Covid outbreak and the mounting death toll. Describing it as “a biological weapon of mass destruction unleashed by China”, advocate Pankaj Chandgothia has shot off a legal demand notice-cum-representation to the President, Prime Minister, Home Minister and other authorities on behalf of all citizens of India “who have seen their country and their fellow countrymen suffering mental, physical and monetary loss over the last few weeks solely on account of Covid”.He has called upon the Centre to claim damages by filing a “contentious case” against China in the ICJ. Directions were also required to be sought for censure and international boycott of the country, Chandgothia submitted.The notice has also called upon the Centre “to invest in its citizens and the country by immediately announcing measures necessary to contain the fallout of the pandemic”.Chandgothia warned he would be constrained to initiate legal proceedings by way of a public interest litigation before the Supreme Court, in case the necessary steps as demanded were not taken by March 27.“The communist state must be held accountable for its role in facilitating the Covid outbreak and the mounting death toll,” he added.
24-03-2020||---||Another kin of 70-yr-old from Nawanshahr tests +ve||Jalandhar, March 23The newest member from 70-year-old deceased’s family to test positive for Covid is his grandson. With this, the total tally of positive cases in Nawanshahr district has reached 15. All the people who tested positive in Nawanshahr so far are directly related to the 70-year-old man.Barring three associates and contacts who tested positive yesterday, the 12 comprise family members of the deceased man.Earlier, those from his family who have tested positive for Covid include his three sons, his daughter-in-law, daughter, granddaughter and four other relatives at Sujjon. Except Nawanshahr, the 70-year-old man is also responsible for another contact at Moranwali village testing positive in Hoshiarpur.However, the doctor who raised the alarm about Baldev Singh has tested negative. After the 70-year-old man spent a fortnight in India from March 6 to 18, it was this alert doctor who raised an alarm over Baldev Singh being a Covid suspect.On knowing his travel history, the doctor threatened 70-year-old man’s relatives to let his body stay for testing, failing which he would call the police. Baldev’s relatives had been insistent on taking the body away without testing.
24-03-2020||Aparna Banerji||Nawanshahr covid victim came in contact with 16 health officials, one tested||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 23While key relatives or contacts close to the Nawanshahr Covid victim are being tested regularly, it seems that the same rules don’t apply for the health staff. Of all doctors and health professionals who tested the victim, only one has been tested so far.Dr Shobhna, epidemiologistBanga caseWe have tested three members of the 70-year-old man’s family. They are under isolation in Phillaur. Health officials who tested them have all been placed under home quarantine. They have not shown any symptoms so far.The doctor who had raised the alarm over the patient being a suspected coronavirus patient at Community Health Centre in Banga was tested negative.Others who came in contact with him included three staff members at Nawanshahr, nine at Patel Hospital in Jalandhar, four at Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, and unknown persons at a private hospital in Phagwara.Dr Shobhna, epidemiologist, said, “We have tested three members of a family who were with 70-year-old man and they are under isolation at Phillaur. The health professionals who tested them have all been placed under home quarantine. They did not show any symptoms so far.”While experts across the world have repeatedly stressed on testing as the only way to contain the spread, the lack of testing of high risk groups of doctors who often come into direct contact with the suspected and positive patients is questionable.Questioned why doctors hadn’t been tested, DC Varinder Sharma said, “The said staff have been placed under home quarantine and all NRIs we are tracking have also been placed under quarantine. Due protocol is being followed and consultations are regularly being made with health teams on those being tested on priority basis.”
24-03-2020||Moga||Moga leaders ‘defy’ norms, attend events||In spite of the state government restricting public gatherings amid concerns over Covid spread, local leaders and residents defied the guidelines on Monday as they came out in large numbers for social functions.Congress MLA of Dharamkot Sukhjit Singh, along with Dharamkot Municipal Council president Inderpreet Singh Bunty and his supporters, visited a government hospital in his segment to take stock of the availability of medicines.Dr Harjot Kamal, Congress MLA from Moga, presided over a function, in which senior party leader Rampal Dhawan took charge as the Moga market committee chairman.Akali leader Gurminderjit Singh Bablu flagged off a fogging machine in the presence of his supporters.The police, meanwhile, have arrested a man for allegedly spreading rumours. He has been identified as Hardev Singh of Talwandi Bhangirian village. He allegedly claimed on TikTok that if one took a bath in his village, that person could be cured of Covid. — TNS
24-03-2020||---||With 2 more cases in Punjab, count touches 23||Chandigarh, March 23With two more cases reported today, the number of confirmed Covid cases has reached 23 in the state.The fresh cases were reported one each from Mohali and Nawanshahr. The person found positive in Nawanshahr is the grandson of 70-year-old victim, who succumbed to the deadly virus last week. Besides, 183 were tested negative for Covid.As per the state health department, at present besides 55 suspected cases, 1,155 people have been quarantined and one succumbed to the deadly virus. At least 23 confirmed cases have been reported from four districts — 15 from SBS Nagar, five Mohali, two Hoshiarpur, and one Amritsar. No confirmed case has been reported from rest of the 18 districts.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Sidhu said Punjab had been on its toes to break the chain of transmission. “The department has been taking series of preventive measures to make sure that the virus does not spread within the community. Intensive screening of foreign return passengers is being done by the front line fighters of the Health Department with the help of the police and other departments across the state,” he said.
24-03-2020||---||Punjab Govt clamps statewide curfew to curb spread||Chandigarh, March 23Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered state-wide curfew with no relaxations, making Punjab the first state to resort to this extreme and exceptional measure in the battle against Covid.Capt Amarinder Singh, chief ministerDifficult decisions need to be taken in difficult times. Please listen to me and bear with me. We must work shoulder to shoulder to fend off the crisis we are all facing. We must save our state, our people.Warning strict action against any violation of the curfew imposed in the larger public interest, the Chief Minister appealed to the people to voluntarily adhere to the decision to tackle the prevailing war-like situationAfter reviewing the situation with Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta, the Chief Minister announced the curfew this morning. “The DCs have been asked to issue orders accordingly. Any person required to be given relaxation will be so allowed specifically for given period and purpose,” the CM said.Making it clear that the curfew would be continuous, spanning 24 hours a day, the Chief Minister said only those with emergent needs would be allowed to go out, after taking due permission from their respective DCs, whose mobile numbers would be shared with the public.Even for essential services like chemists, doctors and shops selling daily use essential items, specific permission would have to be sought from the DCs.In a video message, the Chief Minister said he was forced to take this extreme step “in the interest of the state and its people”, as he had received reports that people were moving around normally in towns, mohallas and cities despite lockdown that became effective this morning.The orders came with a slew of relief measures to support the affected masses as a result of the unprecedented restrictions. These included free food, shelter and medicines for those in need, with Rs20 crore sanctioned out of the CM’s relief fund for the same and DCs and SDMs asked to extend all assistance to those in need. The Chief Minister also announced to defer the payment of electricity, sewerage and water bills.Giving details of relief measures announced by the state government, Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh said the local government department had been directed to defer the due date of making payment of water and sewerage bills by one month, besides extending the amnesty scheme on property tax till May 31.Likewise, the due date for payment of domestic, commercial and small power industrial consumers having monthly/bimonthly electricity bills up to Rs10,000, which falls on or after March 20 has been extended up to April 15. The PSPCL has been asked not to recover the late payment surcharge from these nearly 35 lakh consumers.The Transport Department has been asked to extend the due date of all taxes under the Punjab Motor vehicle Taxation Act up to April 30. Stage and contract carriage vehicles would be given 100 per cent exemption from the Motor Vehicle Tax for the period in which these are not allowed to ply.The Cooperation Department has decided to waive penal interest on crop loan for two months (March-April). Consequent upon this decision, farmers can now repay their crop loans till April 30.The CM has ordered release of pensions amounting to Rs150 crore for March immediately.The Labour Department has already decided to provide a financial assistance of Rs3,000 to 3,18,000 registered construction workers through DBT in their bank accounts.Lockdown violations led to curfewRelief measures
