24-10-2020||New Delhi||BJP politicising Hoshiarpur rape-murder due to Bihar polls: Congress||The Congress on Saturday accused the BJP of showing insensitivity towards the Hoshiarpur rape victim and said the ruling party was politicising the issue due to Bihar elections.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that unlike the Uttar Pradesh government, the Punjab government was not denying that the girl was raped and it was not blocking justice.He said if they did, he would go there and fight for justice too.“Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are not denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice,” he tweeted.Asking top BJP ministers Nirmala Sitharaman, Prakash Javadekar and Harsh Vardhan where they were during the Hathras incident, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said they were only raking up the Punjab rape case for political gains in Bihar.“I hope that Nirmala Sithraman ji will stop displaying insensitivity towards a sensitive issue like this. Don’t politicise it. The nation understands that you have suddenly woken up from your deep sleep because Bihar is in election mode.“Your party, your leaders, your prime minister do not see beyond elections and that’s why, all of a sudden, you have decided to make Hoshiarpur an issue,” she told reporters.Drawing a distinction between Hathras and Hoshiarpur rape cases, she said while the Opposition parties felt the need to visit the Hathras victim’s family due to the insensitivity of the Uttar Pradesh government, “they may not feel the same need in the case of Punjab”.She claimed that Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the state DGP are personally looking into the matter and have already invoked sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act (POCSO), besides standing with the victim’s family.She said the Chief Minister has insisted on exemplary punishment.The Punjab State Women’s Commission and the SC Commission have taken cognisance and asked for a report from the SSP in the case, she said, claiming that the UP government did not even register an FIR for the offence of rape and intimidated the victim’s family in the Hathras case.Speaking after the BJP attacked the Congress asking why Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had not visited Hoshiarpur like they had Hathras, Dev asked if anyone can accuse the Punjab government of threatening the victim’s family like the UP government did.“Another reason why opposition leaders felt the need to visit Hathras and not Punjab is that the additional director general of UP said there is no rape in the Hathras case. Can anybody say that the Punjab Police or any police officer in Punjab is denying rape? In fact POCSO has been invoked,” she said.The Mahila Congress chief said while Uttar Pradesh beat up media people, Punjab has not tried to hush up this case.“Where were you Nirmala Sitharaman ji, when BJP leaders in Hathras were rallying with the accused and victim-shaming Hathras’ daughter who was killed so brutally? Where were you, why were you silent,” she asked, asserting that she was “appalled, disgusted and disheartened to see the finance minister spend a lot of time to raise the issue.Separately, Rahul Gandhi attacked the government on economic issues and tweeted, “Our PM teaches India how to run from the truth. Millions of people have lost their dignity and livelihoods as a result.” He cited media reports quoting the RBI Monetary Policy Committee meeting saying that it may take years to regain the lost GDP. PTI
24-10-2020||Karam Prakash||Dronacharya Award-winners from Punjab flay government for ignoring coaches||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 24A day before the Punjab Chief Minister's visit to Patiala to officially start the construction of the state's first sports university, two Dronacharya Award-winning coaches from Punjab accused the government of ‘ignoring’ coaches.Mohinder Singh Dhillon, who has mentored shot putter Tejinder Pal Toor to a gold medal in the Asian Games, said: “What is the use of setting up a sports university if there is no motivation for the sports coaches?”Dhillon, decorated with the Dronacharya Award in 2019, said he is disheartened due to the apathy of the state government and at times wanted to quit coaching.Another Dronacharya Award-winner from Punjab, SS Pannu, said the coaches had not been given cash awards even two years after the their trainees brought laurels to the country. Pannu has been the coach of triple jumper Arpinder Singh, who won gold in the 2018 Asian Games. “We work extra hard, and are away from home. I am hurt that the state government has continuously been ignoring sports coaches.  The Central Government has already awarded us, but the state government has continuously been neglecting us,” Dhillon said.Dhillon said that coaches not being given their due would have a negative impact on young coaches working at the grassroots level.Pannu said: “What is the use of having a sports policy if the government cannot implement ?”He said the coaches were supposed to get a cash award equivalent to 40 per cent of a player’s reward. “If you want results in sports, you have to walk the talk. You can’t win medals by merely making a policy. If you don’t want to implement it, abolish it,” Pannu added.Harminder Pal Ghuman, a young athletics coach who has trained para-athlete Mohammed Yasser, said, “It is very unfortunate that coaches have not been given what they deserve. It is very demoralising to get ignored despite the medals in the Asian Games.”DPS Kharbanda, Sports Director, Punjab, said, “We have already received a cash amount from the Finance Department. In the next one month, cash awards will be given to all the coaches.”
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||‘Doesn’t know what he’s saying’: CM responds to Sukhbir’s allegation of collusion with Centre||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh called SAD Chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s recent allegation of his government colluding with the Centre over farmer protests “ludicrous, strange and senseless”.A press note issued on Saturday from the chief minister’s office said he dismissed Badal’s suggestion that his government had colluded with the central government to end a farmers’ ‘Rail Roko’ blockade of the state’s railway tracks as the rival party’s desperate attempt to get out of the corner they had found themselves in over the farm Bills.The statement quoted Amarinder Singh as also having dismissed Badal’s suggestion that the chief minister should have consulted his party before bringing amendments to the Centre’s controversial laws.“The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief seemed to have been jolted into desperation by the entire Farm Laws saga, which had completely exposed the double standards of the Akalis,” the press note quoted the chief minister as having said. “Does Sukhbir really believe that I would lead my party to political suicide with such an act?”“It seems the NDA government at the Centre had taken the advice of their then allies, the Akalis, in the matter of the anti-farmer, anti-federal and anti-Constitutional farm laws,” the press note quoted the chief minister as saying.The SAD was part of the ruling National Democratic Alliance at the Centre until last month, when SAD pulled out of the central government and the alliance over the controversial laws.
24-10-2020||---||Punjab BJP Kisan Morcha chief Tarlochan Singh resigns over farm Acts||Chandigarh, October 24Punjab BJP Kisan Morcha president Tarlochan Singh Gill on Saturday resigned from the party over the Central farm Acts."I had raised voice against the so-called farm reforms move in the party forum but I was ignored,” Gill told The Tribune.“I am resigning now as I hope the party will take back the Acts due to protests by farmers,” he said.Farmers in Punjab have been vocal in their protest against the farm legislations passed by the Parliament last month, and members of the BKU (Ugrahan) were protesting outside Gill’s house in Moga for the last several days.
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Harish Rawat questions timing of ED’s summons to Capt Amarinder’s son||Congress leader Harish Rawat has questioned the timing of the Enforcement Directorate’s summons to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s son in an alleged foreign exchange violations case.The summons to Raninder Singh pertain to a case registered by the ED under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) with regard to alleged possession of undisclosed assets abroad.“ED’s summons cannot suppress the voice of Amarinder Singh. Captain Amarinder Singh is the voice of Punjab and farmers of the country. Just look at the timing of ED’s summons. If you raise voice, then ED, Income Tax, CBI will be after you. Is this not a message?” tweeted Rawat, who is also a former chief minister of Uttarakhand.Rawat is Congress’ in-charge of Punjab affairs and an All India Congress Committee general secretary.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has been criticising the BJP-led government at the Centre over the three contentious central farm laws.The Punjab Assembly on Tuesday had adopted a resolution rejecting the new farm laws and passed four bills to counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament.Raninder Singh has been asked to depose at the central probe agency’s office in Jalandhar on October 27 in the case.He was questioned by the ED in this case in 2016 and was asked to explain the alleged movement of funds to Switzerland and creation of a trust and a few subsidiaries in the British Virgin Islands.The alleged instances of possession of properties abroad were first investigated by the Income Tax Department.Raninder Singh had earlier denied any wrongdoing. PTI
24-10-2020||---||Capt Amarinder trashes BJP’s criticism of Hoshiarpur rape-murder case as ‘political puffery’||Chandigarh, October 24Trashing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) senior leadership’s attack on his government, as well as the Gandhis, over the Hoshiarpur rape-murder case, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday termed the remarks of Union Ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and Prakash Javadekar as “political puffery”, with no substance or basis to support their criticism, a press release by the state government read.Contrary to what these leaders were claiming, there was no comparison between the Hoshiarpur and the Hathras cases, said Captain Amarinder, pointing out in the latter instance, the Uttar Pradesh government and the police did not only fail to initiate stern action but in fact, was seemingly trying to cover up the matter to benefit the upper-caste accused.“This,” he said, “was in sharp contrast to the prompt action taken by the Punjab Police, who immediately arrested the accused and were now preparing to file the challan within a week.”Also read: Hoshiarpur rape-murder case: BJP turns tables on Congress, says its leaders’ silence deafeningBJP attacks Congress over 'rape-and-murder' of six-year-old girl in Punjab“I had directed the DGP to ensure that the case is fast-tracked by the courts to ensure strict and exemplary action for the accused,” added the Chief Minister.Ridiculing the BJP leaders’ criticism of the so-called silence of the Congress leadership on the Hoshiarpur case, the Chief Minister pointed out that his party had been forced to speak up and protest in the Hathras case because the state had failed to get justice for the Dalit girl there.“Had the BJP government in UP responded as effectively and speedily as we did in Punjab, neither the Congress and the Gandhis nor scores of NGOs, lawyers, human rights activists would have been forced to take to the streets to fight for the victim,” he added.The “selective politics and selective outrage” charge, which Sitharaman made against Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, was, in fact, completely apt for the BJP, said the Chief Minister. “No BJP leader had uttered a word in protest against the acts of omission and commission of the UP government and police in the Hathras case when the entire nation was in an angry uproar,” he added, slamming the party over its politically motivated reaction to the Hoshiarpur incident.The Chief Minister expressed shock at Sitharaman’s and Javadekar’s remark of “picnic tour” by the Gandhis and the other Congress MPs in Hathras, saying it reflected the grossness of the BJP’s anti-Dalit and anti-women mindset.The Gandhis faced lathis at the hands of the brutal UP Police in Hathras. They walked miles in their attempts to reach out to the victim’s family, who cried on the shoulders of the brother-sister duo, he pointed out.“If the BJP had made even an iota of this effort to pressurise the UP government into ensuring justice for the family in Hathras, the Congress would not have been forced to take on the responsibility of doing so,” he added.Captain Amarinder further pointed out that unlike the Hoshiarpur incident, the Hathras case, and the subsequent developments including the middle-of-the-night burning of the victim’s body, were a part of the chain of atrocities being committed against Dalits in UP under the BJP rule.“Independent data endorses that crimes against Dalits/SCs in UP are continuously rising, with nobody to offer succour to the victims, who were living under a blanket of fear. Dalits are fleeing UP while in Punjab, which accounts for the country’s largest SC population, they feel safe and cared for,” he added.
24-10-2020||Balwant Garg||3,068 dentists vie for 35 medical officers' posts in Punjab health department||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 24Eleven days after there were allegations of “leakage” of a question paper for the recruitment of medical officers (dental) in the state health department, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Friday conducted the test afresh.As many as 3,068 BDS and MDS dentists appeared in this examination for 35 vacancies, including 11 seats for general category. Of the total candidates, the university has declared 1,957 candidates eligible for the post as these candidates have scored a minimum of 33 per cent marks in the written test.As per the information provided by BFUHS, only 405 candidates have scored more than 50 per cent marks.“As many as 714 candidates have got 40 to 50 per cent marks and 838 candidates scored 30 to 40 per cent marks, which is the eligibility criteria for the candidates for consideration,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, BFUHS.Out the 1,957 candidates, the BFUHS will call about 105 candidates for physical verification and the top 35 would be selected by the Department for the appointment.On October 11, BFUUHS had conducted a test for 1,017 posts of medical officers (general and dental) and pharmacy officers.About 11,000 candidates had appeared in the recruitment test for 500 posts of medical officers (general), 35 posts of medical officers (dental) and 482 posts of pharmacists on October 11.After the test, there were allegations of leakage of a question paper for the post of medical officer (dental) from an exam centre at Goindwal Sahib in Tarn Taran district.It was alleged that one of the candidates gained entry into the exam hall with a mobile phone. He allegedly used WhatsApp to send the question paper to his brother outside the exam hall.“BFUHS had cancelled the test conducted for dental officers. We had requested the state government to re-conduct the examination,” said the VC.
24-10-2020||Mukesh Ranjan||Hoshiarpur rape-murder case: BJP questions Cong leaders’ 'silence'; Capt Amarinder terms it 'political puffery'||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 24Turning table on the Congress for its tirade against the BJP government, led by Yogi Adityanath in Uttar Pradesh, over the Hathras rape-murder incident, the BJP on Saturday made scathing attacks on the Congress for its leaders’ stoic silence over rape and murder of the minor daughter of a migrant Bihari worker in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district.Even as Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was quick to order a swift inquiry into the ghastly incident, the BJP fielded its senior leader and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to hit at Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, as she claimed that the brother-sister duo did “selective politics” over rape by putting a “blind eye” when it came to their party-ruled state and did “picnic tour” in other places.Also read: BJP attacks Congress over 'rape-and-murder' of six-year-old girl in PunjabCapt Amarinder trashes BJP’s criticism of Hoshiarpur rape-murder case as ‘political puffery’Sitharaman said: “At the outset, I will say that the BJP neither believes nor does politics over sad and painful incidents of rape. We, as a party, always want to see justice is delivered to victims as quickly as possible. But given the situation, the silence on the part of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, or for that matter all 35 MPs, who wanted to go for a ‘picnic tour to Hathras’ has forced us to ask them why are not they speaking on the Hoshiarpur incident.”The BJP leader, with an eye on the ongoing Bihar polls, said Rahul Gandhi, who addressed public rallies in the state along with RJD’s Tejaswi Yadav, did not speak a word about the rape and murder of a minor daughter of a Bihari migrant worker.Echoing Sitharaman, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said: “The incident of rape and murder of the 6-year-old Dalit girl (from Bihar) in Hoshiarpur is very shocking. We demand strict action against the culprits. Instead of going on political tours, Rahul Gandhi should visit Tanda (Punjab) and Rajasthan to take cognisance of incidents of crime against women.”Targeting RJD leader, Javadekar said: “Tejashwi Yadav is sharing the stage and campaigning with the people who are committing atrocities on Bihar’s daughter. How will it go?”Capt Amarinder trashes BJP’s criticismMeanwhile, trashing the BJP senior leadership’s attack on his government, the Punjab CM on Saturday termed the remarks of Sitharaman and Javadekar as “political puffery”, with no substance or basis to support their criticism, a press release by the state government said.Contrary to what these leaders were claiming, there was no comparison between the Hoshiarpur and the Hathras cases, said Captain Amarinder, pointing out in the latter instance, the Uttar Pradesh government and the police did not only fail to initiate stern action but in fact, was seemingly trying to cover up the matter to benefit the upper-caste accused.“This,” he said, “was in sharp contrast to the prompt action taken by the Punjab Police, who immediately arrested the accused and were now preparing to file the challan within a week.” “I had directed the DGP to ensure that the case is fast-tracked by the courts to ensure strict and exemplary action for the accused,” added the Chief Minister.
24-10-2020||---||Farmers burn effigies of PM Modi, Ambani and Adani||Amritsar, October 23Irked by BJP president JP Nadda’s remarks that middlemen and not farmers were behind the agitation against farm laws in Punjab, leaders of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) hurled a counter allegation against the Narendra Modi government for framing laws as per the diktats of the corporate houses.They burnt the effigies of business magnate Mukesh Ambani, Gautam Adani, founder of the Adani Group, besides Prime Minister Narendra Modi in posh Ranjit Avenue, where a large number of women agitators wearing saffron colour ‘Chunni’ gathered on Friday.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, said the BJP government at the Center was enacting laws at frenzied speed which were falling apart like pins. He recalled the outcome of the demonetisation and the GST. The traders being in minority had only opposed in a limited way before the implementation of the GST, he said and added that after over 1,000 amendments the GST had now woefully failed.Similarly, the decision of abrogating Article 370, ending the special status to Jammu and Kashmir and Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) remained controversial.The KMSC spearheaded blockade of Amritsar-Delhi railway line at Devidaspura village on Friday.Activists raised slogans demanding a roll back of the three agriculture legislations which were recently passed by Parliament.Meanwhile, indefinite sit-in outside the residence of Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik continued with members of the Kirti Kisan Union, Azad Kisan Sangarsh Committee and Kisan Sangarsh Committee taking part in it. They raised slogans against the BJP leaders for withdrawal of all three laws on farming. The leaders stated that these laws would help business houses to do direct deals with farmers.
24-10-2020||---||Punjab CM selling fraud as achievement: SAD||Chandigarh, October 23Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said after deceiving farmers like the Central Government, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was now trying to sell the fraud as an achievement.The SAD president said it was shameful that even after it had been proved that the Chief Minister had colluded with the Central Government to get the ‘rail roko’ agitation of the farmer organisations lifted, he was trying to mislead Punjabis by trying to shift the blame of his own failures on others.Sukhbir Badal, SAD President ‘Didn’t share bills’Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had refused to share the proposed Bills with anyone, including his own Cabinet colleagues. He also lied that these had been framed in consultation with farmers.Asking the Chief Minister to speak on facts, Sukhbir claimed: “The resolution you moved in the Vidhan Sabha said you were repealing the three Central farm Acts. However, the Bills you moved were only amendments to the legislations which have spoilt Punjab’s case even further, like in the case of the river waters termination Act in which you strengthened the case of Rajasthan and Haryana”.He said the Chief Minister had also jeopardised the future of farmers of the state by not making government purchase on the minimum support price (MSP) mandatory. He said the Congress government had also not done anything to secure the rights of growers of non-government purchase crops like basmati, maize and cotton.The party had urged the state government to convert the entire state into a principal market yard to circumvent the Central farm laws and safeguard the farmers’ interest. However, when the government passed the Bills with no mention of market yard, the SAD said it was an opportunity lost.
24-10-2020||---||Sukhbir spreading lies, govt chose best option: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, October 23Lashing out at SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for “spreading lies aimed at promoting Centre’s anti-farmer agenda”, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said the state government had, after taking legal and expert opinion, chosen the best method (the farm Bills) to protect the farmers’ interest.Reacting to the SAD’s allegation that the he did not give copies of the Bills for perusal before these were passed by the Assembly, the CM said it was not possible to do so, given the legal apparatus at the SAD’s disposal.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Minister ‘SAD colluding with BJP’The SAD’s rejection of the Bills shows its collusion with the BJP. It suggests that Harsimrat’s resignation from the Union Cabinet and the SAD’s withdrawal from the NDA were nothing but a farce.He took a jibe at Sukhbir’s claim that his party MLAs voted for the Bills without properly going through these, saying “this might explain why the Akalis have been stamping their approval on all kinds of anti-people, anti-India and anti-Punjab legislations of the Union Government over the past six years”.Lashing out at the SAD for the U-trun on the Bills, the CM said: “First you wholeheartedly supported the Centre’s farm ordinances, then quit the NDA calling their Bills anti-farmer, indulged in a political drama through protest rallies and yatras for farmers and then openly voted for the state government’s amendment Bills. You are now rejecting the same,” Capt Amarinder said.He said what was important was not declaring the state as principal market area but to protect the MSP and ensure that the state retained control with no punitive action, which were the main concerns of the farmers. The government had chosen the best method to do so, but the Akalis seemed stuck on a particular methodology, irrespective of whether it would work or not, he added. If the entire state was sought to be converted into a principal market area (as demanded by the SAD), such approach would not have been free from the requirement of Presidential consent, he added.
24-10-2020||Bathinda||Farm Bills passed by Punjab Govt a sham: Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann today termed the three amendment Bills passed by the state government to negate the farm laws a sham.He said unless the government came out with a legislation guaranteeing purchase of all crops at the MSP, the farmers would continue to be exploited. He asked the CM to ensure the procurement of farmers’ produce at the MSP or else step down.Mann visited the Maur Mandi on Friday to take stock of the cotton produce. He met farmers and listened to their grievances. He was accompanied by Talwandi Sabo MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur and others.Addressing farmers, Mann said the cotton produce in Malwa ‘mandis’ and maize in the Doaba region had been lying in the state of neglect, but the CM was sitting pretty in his farm house without any concern for the farmers.The AAP MP said if the Delhi Government could give MSP benefit over and above the Swaminathan recommendation, why couldn’t the Amarinder Singh government? — TNS
24-10-2020||---||Trucks seized, drivers stuck in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 23The trucks laden with paddy, which illegally entered here from Uttar Pradesh (UP), remained stranded for want of administrative action today. This also caused inconvenience to over 40 drivers and helpers.They demanded the local administration’s immediate intervention to resolve the issue. As many as 26 trucks loaded with paddy from UP have been seized by the farmers staging protests against the farm Acts on the national highway near Amritsar. The paddy has arrived illegally from Aligarh, Bulandshahr and Sitarganj areas of UP and was ordered by rice shellers of Amritsar and Tarn Taran.Harpreet Singh and Ashish, both drivers from Moradabad, said they had been made a scapegoat.“It’s been six days since we left home. Had we known about landing in such a troublesome situation in Punjab, we would not have picked the order. We want that the paddy be unloaded here under the directions of administrative officials as the rice shelling firms did not respond to our calls,” Harpreet said.Iqbal from Sambhal said he had come with a truck laden with basmati for a rice sheller in Tarn Taran. “We want to go back home. Earlier, we suffered an economic dent as the work suffered for five months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. I have on me the liability to pay vehicle’s instalment. It’s a double blow because this unclaimed paddy loss would also be borne by us,” he said.Meanwhile, District Food and Civil Supply official Arshdeep Singh said the documents related to goods had been seized and handed over to the local mandi officer for scrutiny. Any further move would be taken accordingly, he said.
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||CBI probe sought  into foodgrain ‘scam’||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today demanded a CBI inquiry into the foodgrain scam in which a Punsup district manager was caught asking ‘arhtiyas’ to cough up commission allegedly for Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and for arranging money for Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Punjab.  The SAD demanded that Ashu be sacked immediately and a criminal case be registered against all Congress leaders named by the accused. — TNS
24-10-2020||
||25 FIRs over straw burning have Mansa farmers fuming||Mansa, October 23 The Mansa police have registered 25 FIRs against farmers who are setting the crop residue on fire. The crackdown has farmers fuming and demanding the cancellation of FIRs. “We are taking a strict action against the erring farmers who are burning stubble. Most FIRs have been registered against unidentified farmers under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Surender Lamba, SSP, Mansa.  Farmers said they acknowledged the adverse effects of burning stubble but had no alternative in the absence of any financial assistance.  Accusing the state government of double standards, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “In his meetings with farmers, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had assured farmers that no new cases would be registered for stubble burning and even old cases would be cancelled, but the police are getting tough on farmers.”  He said the government had failed to provide any viable solution to manage stubble, besides a large number of farmers had not received a compensation of Rs 2,500 per acre announced by the state government last year for not burning stubble. Over 19.7 million tonnes of paddy straw is generated in the state every year. The state government and the Punjab Pollution Control Board have been asking farmers not to burn stubble as it leads to loss of soil’s organic material,  degradation of air quality and high SPM level. The PPCB is taking the help of satellite images for identification of sites where the stubble is set on fire. After getting the images, a team is sent to the spot, which then sends its report to the administration for further action.  As air pollution rises due to burning of stubble, numerous ailments associated with respiratory tract also go up. “Stubble burning aggravates breathing problems, allergies and asthma attacks. It also depletes the red blood cell (RBC) count and adversely affects the oxygen carrying capacity of the body,” said Dr Vitul K Gupta, a health activist.
24-10-2020||---||Sangrur farmers block Sangrur DC office||Sangrur, October 23Members of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) protested in front of the Sangrur Deputy Commissioner’s office for the second day today, demanding compensation and job for the next of kin of farmer Meghraj Nagri, who died on October 9 during a protest against the Central farm Acts.The body has been lying in a hospital as family and BKU members have refused to do the cremation over the non-fulfilment of their demands.“The Punjab Government has neither given any compensation to the bereaved family nor announced any debt waiver or job for it. Today we blocked all three gates of the DC office. In the coming days, we will further intensify our agitation,” said Amrik Singh, district president, BKU (Ugrahan).Sangrur DC Ramvir said he had been in touch with higher-ups and the issue would be resolved at the earliest.
24-10-2020||---||52 goods trains chug off||Moga, October 23The goods trains were back on track in the Ferozepur Railway Division after the farm organisations conceded to partially withdraw their ongoing agitation from the railway tracks.At least 52 goods trains transported essential items and other goods to and fro in the state. Railway officials allowed the movement of trains so that the common man did not have to face any inconvenience owing to the shortage of essential commodities.As per details available, the farm organisations had withdrawn their protests from 26 points to facilitate the movement of goods trains. However, both passenger and express trains are still off the track in the Ferozepur Railway Division.Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, said the goods trains had been restarted, keeping various safety measures in mind, to bring the economy back on track.He said of the trains that had restarted, 17 were goods trains, one foodgrains rake, 10 container rakes, one gypsum rake, one vivid and four empty rakes of coal and iron loading. Besides, 35 rakes had been sent out of the divison. The operation of other goods trains was running as per the schedule, he added.A couple of days back, the Federation of Indian Exports Organisations (FIEO) said the ongoing protests by farmers across the state against the farm Acts had immensely affected businesses across the state.President of FIEO Sharad Kumar Saraf in a statement emailed to The Tribune said the movement of containers, both by trains and road, from various locations in the country was halted, posing a setback not only to the domestic industry but also to the overall exporting community.He hoped that the decision of the Railways to restart goods trains in the festive season would not only bring back the economy on track, but would also give relief to the industrial sector, which had been under pressure in the wake of the pandemic and ongoing protests by farmers across the state.Saraf said a large number of import containers were either stuck up at various ports or were in transit. Over 4,000 export containers containing goods worth over Rs 2,000 crore were blocked at inland container depots due to the ongoing crisis, he added.
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||It’s farmers, not arhtiyas’, protest: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today said it was extremely unfortunate that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda were depicting the agitation of the farmers of the country as “bicholiyon ka sangharsh” (middlemen’s agitation) and asked them not to rub salt into the wounds of the farming community.Former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said the truth was that the farmers were agitating against the “black laws” passed by the Union Government. “Farmers understand that the laws will eventually destroy their future generations. If the Centre does not want to listen to the voice of the farmers and repeal the three agriculture marketing laws, it should at least not do anything to hurt their sentiments.” — TNS
24-10-2020||Our Correspondent||No proof of youth being forced to drink urine: SIT||Fazilka, October 23A day after a second special investigation team (SIT) was constituted by the Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission to probe the assault on Dalit youth Gurnam Singh, alias Gora, in Fazilka, the first SIT, constituted by the SSP, submitted its preliminary report today.Sources said the police SIT’s investigation over eight days suggested the youth had tried to enter the house of a villager, Darshan Singh, at Chak Janisar village on the night of October 8 and 9.Darshan, neighbour Tek Singh and his wife Harpreet Kaur informed the village gurdwara granthi that a thief had entered the village. The granthi made an announcement through the public address system, following which villagers assembled and assaulted Gora, the probe has suggested.SSP Harjeet Singh said the victim was assaulted “inhumanely” with sticks. A video clip of the incident had gone viral. He said investigations suggested Gora did not commit theft. “The victim was beaten up on suspicion of being a thief,” he clarified.He said no proof of administering urine to the victim had come to light so far, as claimed by him in the FIR.The SSP said the accused belonged to different communities, including Dalits and upper caste, thus ruling out “pure Dalit atrocities”. Charges under the SC/ST Act would, however, stay in the FIR against the accused.On the basis of Gora’s statement, three accused — Simranjit Singh, Ramandeep Singh, and Jasveer Singh — were initially booked. All have already been arrested. Gora had alleged he was assaulted and forced to drink urine by the accused in an inebriated condition.
24-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Amid outrage, 6-yr-old rape victim buried||Hoshiarpur, October 23Anger among residents of Jalalpur village in Tanda block was palpable today as the body of a six-year-old Dalit girl, who was raped and murdered, was laid to rest at the village cemetery here today.The girl’s partially burnt body was found from the cattle shed of the suspects — Surpreet Singh and his grandfather Surjit Singh (both arrested) — two days ago.As the body arrived at the village, people assembled outside the house of the suspects, raising slogans and demanding capital punishment for them. The police had to intervene to prevent things from getting out of hand. While reports of stone-throwing at the house were received, DSP Daljit Singh Khakh denied any such incident.A large number of people, including representatives of various political and religious organisations, were present at the last rites.Punjab State Women’s Commission Chairperson Manisha Gulati along with SSP Navjot Mahal visited the family. Gulati asked the district police to expedite the probe and submit the challan in court within two-four days.She said the court would be requested to fast-track the hearing so that the perpetrators could be punished at the earliest. The commission and the state government would extend all help to the victim’s family, besides liaising with the district administration to ensure free education of the victim’s sisters, she added.On his part, the SSP said the police were investigating the case from various angles and the challan would be filed in the next few days. He said the police acted soon after the incident and arrested the suspects. “We will plead for a speedy hearing so that justice could be served to the victim’s family at the earliest,” he said.While BJP leader Vijay Sampla met the family this morning, the state government too rushed in to provide compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the family. Political Adviser to CM Capt Amarinder Singh and MLA Urmur Sangat Singh Gilzian accompanied by PPCC’s SC wing chairman Raj Kumar Chabbewal handed over the cheque to them.Angry mob gheraoes accused at hospitalThe accused were surrounded by an infuriated mob at the Tandai Civil Hospital, where they were taken by the police for a medical examination. Cops led by Tanda SHO Bikram Singh had to lock the accused in a hospital room to save them from angry youths, who were demanding that the accused be handed over to them. After about an hour, Tanda DSP Daljit Singh Khakh and other police officers managed to pacify the youths and the accused were taken to the police station.
24-10-2020||Moga||Gangster nabbed by Moga police||The local police today nabbed a sharpshooter, Harmanjeet Singh, alias Harman Bhau, wanted in several criminal cases, said SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill here.Two of his associates, Ajay Kumar, alias Mani, a resident of Kotkapura, and Amritpal Singh, alias Bhinder, a resident of Bhinder Kalan, Moga, were arrested a few days ago. Bhau and his associates were wanted in cases of narcotics, highway robbery, attempt to murder, snatching, etc.The SSP said at least 2,000 narcotic pills of chemical formulation tramadol and a .12 bore gun with six cartridges were recovered from Bhau. A Fortuner car, snatched at gunpoint from Panchkula, was also recovered. — TNS
24-10-2020||Abohar||16 gm heroin, 550 ltr lahan seized||The CIA today arrested Deepak Kumar of Nai Abadi and recovered 16 gm of heroin from his possession. In another incident, the police raided two places in Kothi Faiz area and seized 550 litre of lahan. Ranjit Singh and his brothers  Raghubir Singh and Gurbhag Singh were arrested in the case. —OC
24-10-2020||---||Govt eases norms to boost real estate||Chandigarh, October 23To boost industrial development and investment in the state, the Punjab Government today took a slew of important decisions, including allowing industry in agricultural and mixed-use areas, subject to certain conditions, besides reduction in non-construction fee by an allottee if he does not construct on estates developed by government and development authorities within three years.The decisions, also aimed at generating employment, were announced after a virtual meeting of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Board (PRTPD) and development authorities headed by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. A 30-day public notice would be issued by the government, after which these decisions would be finalised, an official spokesperson said.Slew of measuresAs per the decisions, industry shall be allowed in agricultural areas beyond 3 km of the Municipal Corporation cities and beyond 2 km of the smaller towns, provided the land has a 19-22 feet access. Further, red category industries should be at least 500 metre away from the village populace for the purpose of establishment of such industry. On the mixed land area use, it was decided to permit industry only along major roads.The meeting also decided on the development industrial hubs in 1,100 acres in Rajpura and in another 1,000 acres near Ludhiana. In another important initiative, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), also headed by the Chief Minister, decided to set up an industrial estate in Mohali. The estate will have two parts, with about 530 acres to be developed by GMADA and comprising smaller plots, while another 250 acres will be allowed to be developed by private players.Further, to give a fillip to the residential sector in New Chandigarh, a decision was taken to allow affordable housing colonies in 25 acres and above, and other residential colonies in 50 acres or above, from the existing requirement of minimum 100 acres. Coming on the heels of the affordable housing policy, notified recently by the state government, the move will provide homes to thousands of people.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister also approved two key projects for Patiala, including cleaning up and beautification of the Chotti and Badi Nadi through sewerage system along its length and creating a water body by the Check Dam, at a total cost of Rs 180 crore. In addition, Rs 42 crore has been approved for beautifying Patiala’s main marketthrough its redevelopment as a heritage street.The meeting also decided to allow development of approximately 200-acre pocket near the airport by land owners on payment of external development charges, with the aim of promoting development in the area.
24-10-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Trader who killed kin had lost crores in crown chit fund scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23After causing a couple of suicides and protests by victims in December 2016, the multi-crore crown chit fund scam is back to haunt the state police which failed to nab the two primary accused in the case.Davinder Garg, who shot himself after killing his two children and wife in Bathinda on Friday, was the leading agent of the chit fund company in the region. He was also on the advisory board of the Bathinda region board of the company.4 accused heldThe police on Friday arrested four persons for abetting the suicide of Davinder Garg. The accused have been identified as Manjinder Singh Dhaliwal, Praveen Bansal, Mani Bansal, residents of Bathinda, and Ashok Kumar, resident of Rama MandiThe matter was brought to the limelight today by the victims through the Crown Chit Fund Sangharsh Committee. The committee members, wishing anonymity, said Garg had lost crores of rupees of his own and of his relatives. Further, hundreds of persons had invested in the company through him and they were seeking their money back.The Punjab Police Crime Branch had taken up the investigation after receiving 470 complaints in 2015 when the scam came to light. The main accused, Mohammad Jameel, CEO of the company, was never arrested. He is said to be in England. The second accused, Jagjit Singh, managing director of the company, was arrested once in September 2015 but got bail on an undertaking that he would return the money of the investors. Jagjit allegedly fled the country.Two persons from Sangrur had committed suicide after suffering losses in the scam. Later, the accused allegedly floated a bitcoin company and lured the victims again to reinvest “if they wanted to get their dues back”.Garg mentions in the suicide note that he suffered huge losses in the bitcoin investment. Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said the investigation was on to find the mode of investment. He said bitcoin was banned in India and the police were taking help of experts. The scam started with the Crown investment company. The managers kept opening new companies to lure the investors. The bitcoin company, opened in Malaysia, where fugitive accused Jagjit Singh was also present, was the eighth company floated by the accused.
24-10-2020||---||Memorial to 1962 Sino-India War hero Subedar Joginder Singh unveiled at Bum La||Chandigarh, October 23A war memorial dedicated to Subedar Joginder Singh, who was decorated with Param Vir Chakra, the highest award for gallantry during the 1962 Sino-India War, was inaugurated at Bum La in Arunachal Pradesh today.The memorial has been constructed at the place where he had made the supreme sacrifice. The inauguration ceremony coincided with the day the Battle of Tongpen La (Bum La) took place in 1962.Subedar Joginder Singh belonged to 1st Battalion of the Sikh Regiment.His daughter Kulwant Kaur inaugurated the memorial in the presence of Arunachal Pradesh CM Pema Khandu and other political leaders, state government functionaries and senior Army officials.State Health Minister Alo Libang, Agriculture Minister Tage Taki, MLAs Jombey Tashi, Phurpa Tsering and Tsering Tashi and DGP RP Upadhyaya were also present.
24-10-2020||Ropar||Don’t be complacent: Chief Secy Vini Mahajan||Even though Covid-19 cases have started coming down, health experts have cautioned against complacency, saying cases may surge again in December and January. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan stated this here today.Mahajan claimed the state government had managed to contain the vius spread and was fully prepared to cope with any situation in future. “No health institution should be negligent in matters of identification, testing and treatment. They have been directed to remain more vigilant,” she said.Meanwhile, the state reported 481 Covid cases and 23 deaths in the past 24 hours. The total number of cases has now reached 1,30,157. The death toll stands at 4,095. — TNS
24-10-2020||Amritsar||Kirtaniya’s portrait installed in Central Sikh Museum||Avtar Singh Parowal, a ‘kirtaniya’ (one who recites hymns) who died maintaining the centuries-old tradition of the Golden Temple during Operation Bluestar in June 1984, has found a place in the Central Sikh Museum.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal installed his portrait in the museum after performing kirtan and ardas. The ‘maryada’ (tenets) of performing ‘akhand kirtan’ (uninterrupted recitation of hymns) has been followed for centuries. It starts from the opening of the portals of the shrine during wee hours, until the closing in the evening. On June 6, 1984, the tradition got disrupted after the Army launched an attack to flush out terrorists. Unlike his colleagues, Parowal, who was on service of reciting kirtan, chose not to leave the ‘danger zone’. He continued to recite prayers for many hours. He eventually died in sniper fire.Longowal said: “He was blessed to have breathed his last in the presence of Guru Granth Sahib. He sacrificed his life for the sake of maintaining the ‘rehat maryada’ of the Golden Temple.”Parowal was born on April 1, 1950, to Gurbaksh Singh and Bhagwant Kaur at Parowal village in Batala. In 1972, he partook of ‘amrit sanchar’ and got associated with the Akhand Kirtani Jatha. Meanwhile, a portrait of Sikh preacher Kartar Singh (Bariaran Wale) was also installled in recognition of his services to the religion. — TNS
24-10-2020||Saurabh Malik
||Auction purchaser not liable to pay erstwhile owner’s dues: High Court||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, October 23 In a significant judgment that will change the way liabilities are recovered from loan defaulters, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that an auction purchaser was not liable to pay dues originally payable by the erstwhile owner-borrower and claimed by the Central Excise. The issue was brought to the notice of the Bench comprising Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma after a petition was filed against Punjab National Bank, Ludhiana, and other respondents by Kamla Engg & Steel Industries through counsel Aalok Jagga. The Bench was told that the bank initiated recovery proceedings against a borrower by filing an application under the Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, 1993, before the Debts Recovery Tribunal. The application was decreed in the bank’s favour and it was held entitled to recover the amount from the borrowers after which the secured assets/mortgaged property was put to sale by way of an open auction. After success in the auction, the petitioner approached the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority, but it expressed reluctance to transfer the property. It added that a letter issued by Central Excise Department said Rs 3,139.70 lakh was outstanding. The Bench ruled: “If the auction-purchaser has purchased the property from the secured creditor-bank, it is the secured creditor which has exercised its right of priority to sell the secured asset to recover and appropriate its dues. Hence, the auction purchaser cannot be called upon to pay the dues of the previous owner/borrower.” The Bench held that that the petitioner-auction purchaser was not liable to clear the liability recoverable from the erstwhile owner-borrower-assessee to the Central Excise. However, the Central Excise was free to recover the dues by proceeding against the assessee, in accordance with law. The Bench added it was also apparent that the Central Excise’s power to attach was only limited to excisable goods and/or moveable properties of the assessee and not immoveable property, for which it would have to issue a certificate to the collector. He would then proceed to recover the dues as arrears of land revenue, in terms of Section 67 of the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887. The Bench said if electricity dues were pending and payable, the liability could not be avoided by the auction purchaser. He would have to clear such dues before seeking a fresh or reconnection of the electricity connection. Before parting, the Bench acknowledged and appreciated “sincere and dedicated assistance” rendered by counsel Aalok Jagga and Sunish Bindlish.
24-10-2020||Aparna Banerji 
||Cancel auction to fell 3K trees, says ex-wildlife warden||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, October 23 A complainant has sought formal cancellation of the auction of 3,396 trees at Thana village in Hoshiarpur by alleging that the contractor had violated the resolution on payment for the auction.  With the District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO) still seeking permission for the defaulting contractor in a formal letter, the complainant, Gunraj Singh, a former Wildlife Warden, Hoshiarpur, has alleged that the letter was “not legal or valid”. Tanda MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian has also stated that he would seek formal action against the officials concerned.  Gunraj has alleged that one-fourth amount of the auction money (due to be paid by the contractor on the same day as the auction, as per a resolution passed in the village) had still not been paid by the contractor, even nine months later.  An auction for 101 dried cheel and 3,295 khair trees was held on January 30 at Thana village in the Banga block of Hoshiarpur. As per a resolution passed by the village panchayat, the successful bidder had to deposit 1/4th of the of the auction money in demand draft/ cash on the spot and if the bidder failed to do so, a security of Rs 10 lakh would be forfeited and the auction would be made to the second bidder. Charan Kanwal Sandhu, who bagged the contract bidding Rs 2.7 crore for 3,396 trees (formally valued at Rs 1.01 lakh by the Forest Department) was supposed to pay Rs 67,75,000 to the Thana panchayat on the day of the auction. But he only paid Rs 3 lakh in cash. Subsequently, Rs 61 lakh was paid by him but over Rs 7 lakh was yet to be paid.  In a reply to the DFO, Hoshiarpur, on queries of non-payment, the DDPO, in a letter on October 7, stated that the contractor was suffering from “depression” and “there are no violations in rules”. The letter also said that “the recovery of auction amount is the responsibility of the Rural Development and Panchayat Department and not the Forest Department. Therefore, the permission to cut trees at Gram Panchayat Thana be issued”.
24-10-2020||Jalandhar||Enforcement Directorate summons Punjab CM’s son on Oct 27||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Raninder Singh, son of Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh, in connection with a Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violation case, on October 27.Earlier, Raninder had appeared before the ED on July 21, 2016. He was then asked to explain the alleged movement of funds to Switzerland and creation of Jacaranda Trust and a few subsidiaries in British Virgin Islands.The ED summons have come at a time when its officials had sought to inspect the I-T files in three cases against him and the CM through an application on September 14, 2020. Though the inspection was initially allowed, it was later stopped after Raninder submitted a revised petition saying the ED had no locus standi.Raninder’s lawyer Jaiveer Shergill said, “We will examine the summons and accordingly put up our case.” — TNS
