25-08-2020||New Delhi||Petition in SC seeks 8-hour shift for cops; appeals Punjab and Haryana HC's order||The Supreme Court has issued notice to the governments of Punjab and Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh on a petition seeking an eight-hour shift for police personnel with weekly offs.A three-judge Bench headed by Justice Fali S Nariman on August 21 asked the three administrations to respond to the petition filed by Jagjeet Singh who challenged the December 4, 2019, verdict of the Punjab and Haryana High Court that had dismissed his plea seeking implementation of the recommendations of the Bureau of Police Research and Development for introducing eight-hour shift system in all the police stations and police posts along with weekly offs.The Bench clubbed the case with another petition seeking similar relief on an all-India basis already pending in the top court.Section 22 of Indian Police Act, 1861 says: “Every police-officer shall, for all purposes in this Act contained, be considered to be always on duty, and may, at any time, be employed as a police-officer in any part of the general police- district”. The petitioner has sought rational interpretation of this provision.
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||1,293 fresh COVID-19 cases recorded in Punjab, 49 more die||The caseload due to COVID-19 in Punjab climbed to 44,577 as 1,293 fresh cases were detected in the state on Tuesday while 49 more people succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 1,178, according to a medical bulletin.This is the third-highest number of deaths reported in a day in Punjab. On August 17, record 51 deaths were reported and 50 were recorded on August 23.Of the latest fatalities, 11 were reported from Ludhiana, nine from Mohali, five each from Amritsar and Patiala, four each from Faridkot and Jalandhar, three from Sangrur, two each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Moga, and one each from Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Pathankot and Mansa, the bulletin said.The fresh cases were reported from Ludhiana (175), Mohali (154), Gurdaspur (149), Patiala (140), Jalandhar (119), Bathinda (82), Amritsar (75), Kapurthala (65) and Hoshiarpur (61), among other districts.A total of 788 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. So far 29,145 people have been cured, the bulletin said.Currently, there are 14,254 active COVID-19 cases in the state, it said.While 55 critical patients are on ventilator support, 499 are on oxygen support, it added.With 22,325 more samples being collected for COVID-19 testing, the total number of samples taken so far for testing has reached 9,41,939, the bulletin stated. PTI
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet clears proposal for introduction of Punjab GST (Amendment) Bill, 2020||The Punjab Cabinet on Tuesday approved the proposal for introduction of the Punjab Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2020, thus paving the way for simplification of provisions and processes to levy and collect taxes under PGST.According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office, the introduction of the said Bill would not only ensure simplifications of provisions and processes but also make it more user-friendly.He said the Punjab Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2020, envisioned to provide changes so as to make the levy and collection of taxes under the GST, which would be effective and easier for the taxpayers.These simplifications involve provisions related to composition levy, eligibility and conditions for taking Input Tax Credit, cancellation of registration, revocation of cancellation of registration, tax invoice, tax deduction at source, penalty and punishment for certain offences and transitional arrangements for Input Tax Credit.Notably, the Goods and Services Tax was introduced in the country with effect from July 1, 2017 as the biggest economic reforms in indirect taxation system of country.
25-08-2020||---||Punjab cabinet approves filling up of 428 medical officers’ vacancies||Chandigarh, August 25As Punjab gears up to further strengthen its fight against the worsening COVID-19 crisis, the state cabinet on Tuesday approved filling up of 428 regular vacancies of Medical Officers (Specialists) on urgent basis. It also gave ex-post facto approval to 107 posts already filled up for six specialities.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, while chairing the Cabinet meeting, said the staff was needed to be on the Board urgently to tackle the crisis, with the state projected to be headed for a peak in the pandemic. The Chief Minister during his last review had stressed on the need to identify vacant specialist posts and hire immediately.“The recruitment, to be undertaken in the Health Department, will be done by a special selection committee headed by Dr KK Talwar through a walk-in-interview,” an official spokesperson said after the Cabinet meeting.The posts for which the post-facto approval has been okayed form part of the ongoing recruitment process for 323 Medical Officers (Specialists). The Cabinet also decided to carry forward reserve categories posts/adjustment against Medical Officer (General) to meet the shortage of doctors. In view of the high number of suitable candidates in certain specialities, it was also decided to offer jobs to all such successful candidates in that particular speciality and to increase the number of posts in that slab accordingly, a press release by the state government read.Of the 428 new posts, 136 have been sanctioned at the district hospital-level, with a maximum of 22 in paediatrics and 20 each for forensic medicine and gynaecology, followed by 18 in microbiology.At the sub-divisional hospitals, 190 seats have been sanctioned with a maximum 39 posts each in medicine and gynaecology, skin and VD (30), ENT (29) and anaesthesia (13). A total of 102 posts has been sanctioned in anaesthesia at the Community Health Centres.The Health Department would be filling these posts as early as possible besides creating more posts if the need arose, said the spokesperson.It may be recalled that the Health Department had taken approval to fill 3,954 posts of the medical and paramedical staff from the Cabinet on June 30 and the recruitment process for that is already under way.The Selection process for 323 posts of Medical Officers (Specialists) of 13 different specialists is also going on and issuance of appointment certificates to successful candidates is underway. Of these 323 posts, only 34 belong to General Category and rest are from various reserved categories.For the purpose of recruitment, the upper age limit has relaxed to 45 years in case of persons already in government service.As of today, India has a total of around 31 lakh COVID-19 cases, of which 41,000 are in Punjab with 1,036 deaths reported in the state.
25-08-2020||---||Punjab Cabinet nod to setting up of law university at Tarn Taran||Chandigarh, August 25The Punjab Cabinet on Tuesday paved the way for the establishment of a law university in the border district of Tarn Taran to commemorate the 400th Birth Anniversary of the Ninth Sikh Guru Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji, as announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh during the Budget Session of the Vidhan Sabha.The Cabinet, under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, approved the ‘Sri Guru Teg Bahadur State University of Law Bill – 2020’ for presentation in the forthcoming session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha.The draft Bill, prepared by the Department of Higher Education, seeks “to establish and incorporate a State University for the development and advancement of legal education and for the purposes of imparting specialized and systematic instruction, training and research in the field of law and for the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto”.The objects of the university shall be to evolve and impart comprehensive legal education at all levels, to organise advanced studies and promote research in all branches of law, as well as to disseminate legal knowledge and legal processes and their role in national development by organizing lectures, seminars, symposia, webinars, workshops and conferences.The University’s Governing Council, to be chaired by the Vice Chancellor, shall be the plenary authority of the University, and shall formulate and review from time to time the policies and programmes of the University and also devise measures for the improvement and development of the University, among other functions.
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Validity of vehicle documents extended till Dec 31: Punjab transport minister||The Punjab government on Tuesday said it has extended the validity of vehicle related documents, including driving licences and registration certificates (RCs), till December 31, 2020, amid the COVID-19 pandemic.Transport minister Razia Sultana said the driving licences, RCs or permits that have expired in February and could not be renewed due to lockdown restrictions or the documents expiring by December 31, would be treated as valid till December 31 this year.Sultana, in a statement here, said the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways issued fresh instructions on Monday related to driving licences, registration certificates and permits.She said the authorities concerned have also been apprised in this regard so that people are not put to inconvenience.She said the police and transport departments, besides all deputy commissioners, have been directed to ensure smooth movement of vehicles. — PTI
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM announces Rs 10 lakh compensation to family of journalist who died of COVID-19||Amid rising COVID-19 cases in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced Rs 10 lakh compensation to the family of an accredited journalist who succumbed to the virus.The decision comes after the death of the 28-year-old journalist, who was working with a vernacular daily in Patiala, succumbed to coronavirus on Sunday while undergoing treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital.The journalist was admitted to the hospital on August 20 with breathlessness.The doctors at the hospital said that he was on ventilator support from the last couple of days.Patiala has been seeing a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases and deaths.Jai Deep who was earlier working with Dainik Bhaskar and Dainik Savera Group lost his life within days of being infected with coronavirus.In his condolence message, the Chief Minister described Jai Deep as an upright journalist committed to his profession. He was a fine photographer with an astute sense of the nuances of photojournalism, said Capt Amarinder.
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amendment to law regulating private clinics among ordinances to be introduced in Punjab Assembly session||The Punjab Cabinet approved of six ordinances to be introduced in the forthcoming one-day session of the state assembly on Tuesday.Previously introduced by the state government, the ordinances include temporary release of some prisoners amid the COVID pandemic, control of drugs dispensation by private de-addiction centres, industrial disputes and child labour. Also on the list are amendments Bills to laws regulating private clinical establishments.The Punjab cabinet also decided to allow online registration of all rice delivery operations, including allotment, in Punjab under the Punjab Custom Milling Policy for Paddy for Kharif 2020-21---a decision taken in the light of the COVID pandemic.The state government approved a new policy for seamless milling of paddy and delivery of rice into the central pool from more than 4,150 mills operating in the state. The state government has also decided to launch a portal---www.anaajkharid.in--- to ensure smooth paddy procurement.Punjab’s Vidhan Sabha will convene for a day on August 28.
25-08-2020||Archit Watts||Sukhbir Badal, Harsimrat, daughter, son test coronavirus negative||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 25At a time when a large number of security personnel and personal staff of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal have been found positive for coronavirus, and his residence at Badal village has been declared a macro containment zone, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, his wife Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, their daughter Gurleen Kaur and son Anantveer Singh have tested Covid negative.Dr Paramdeep Sandhu, nodal officer, Covid, Muktsar district, said, “The samples of four members of the Badal family were taken and they tested Covid negative.”The health department officials, however, are yet to take the sample of Parkash Singh Badal. Sources said that due to his old-age and already being in self-isolation, the Badal Sr had not yet given the sample. Meanwhile, sources said Sukhbir’s elder daughter Harkirat was not there at Badal village.On Monday, 11 people, a majority of them central security personnel, attached with the Badals, had tested Covid positive. Earlier, eight people - six security personnel, a cook and a telephone operator - had tested Covid positive at the Badals’ residence. These included an SP of Punjab Police as well.As of now, 19 people, a majority of them security personnel, attached with the Badals have tested Covid positive. The Covid reports of some of the Badals’ personal staff are still pending.
25-08-2020||Patiala||Two MLAs from Patiala test COVID-positive ahead of Punjab assembly session||Ahead of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha session, two Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs) from Patiala tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday morning.Hardyal Singh Kamboj, Congress MLA from Rajpura, and Harinder Pal Chandumajra, SAD MLA from Sanour constituency tested positive for coronavirus.Both the MLAs have been home quarantined, said the health department.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said that Rapid Antigen tests of the MLAs were conducted and both had tested positive. He said Chandumajra had mild symptoms -- including body ache -- while Kamboj was asymptomatic.Punjab Assembly will be conducting a one-day session on Friday.
25-08-2020||Bathinda||No ICU beds, ventilators for COVID-19 patients in Bathinda||No ICU beds or ventilators are available for COVID-19 patients in Bathinda as critical patients are being referred to the Medical College in Faridkot, located 70 km from here.Bathinda has recently witnessed a huge spike in cases from 349 to 1,983 and even the deaths have surged from 5 to 24.As per the COVA mobile app, Bathinda has 500 beds in the COVID care centre out of which 128 are occupied presently and 372 are vacant.Government hospitals have a total of 135 beds with or without oxygen out of which 45 are occupied and 90 are vacant.Moreover, no government hospital in the district has an ICU bed with or without a ventilator for COVID-19 patients. Even private hospitals have not offered any ICU beds for COVID patients in the district.In April, Indian Medical Association's (IMA) Bathinda unit had written a letter to the Civil Surgeon and had provided a list of eight hospitals which will provide ventilators for isolation centres established for COVID patients, but later all of them back out.Dr Vikas Chhabra, president, IMA Bathinda said: “We have provided the list of eight hospitals who are willing to give its ventilator for COVID-19 patients, but the health department did not proceed further as they don’t have the manpower”.He said private hospitals are facing problems because their doctors and staff are not willing to treat COVID-19 patients because they also fear for their life. Moreover, there is no incentive for the staff to work such patients, he said. This is the reason that hospitals have told the district administration that some hospitals would treat level 1 or 2 patients, but not level 3 patients.B Srinivasan, Deputy Commissioner, Bathinda said “Earlier, we did not have any critical patients, but as cases are now rising in Bathinda, we are making arrangements for 15 ventilator beds in private hospitals and by today evening we will provide you with the list. However, presently, we are referring critical patients to the Faridkot”.A ventilator helps patients who cannot properly breathe on their own by pumping air into their lungs through a tube that has been inserted into their windpipes. Because COVID-19 affects the respiratory system, the number of hospitalized patients in need of breathing assistance has exploded since the pandemic began.A shortage of breathing machines could mean the difference between life and death for the sickest coronavirus patients.
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-servicemen seek Punjab CM’s help||The All-India Defence Brotherhood Association (AIDBA) has urged Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take up the issue of the delay in the issuance of battle casualty certificate (BCC) to the next of kin of martyrs with the Defence Minister.Brig Kuldip Sing Kahlon (retd), AIDBA president, said today that the BCC had not been received by the next of kin of soldiers from Punjab who were killed in the face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan in June.A case has also been taken up by the Department of Defence Services Welfare with the Army Headquarters for the early release of the BCCs. The Punjab Government recently enhanced the ex-gratia amount for martyrs from Rs20 lakh to Rs50 lakh and though budget has been released for the same, disbursement is awaited for want of BCCs.He said there was need for parity in benefits for operations conducted on the Line of Control with Pakistan, Line of Actual Control with China and counter insurgency, including accidents and weather related casualties. This can be done only if there is a national policy.He pointed out that the BCC, which earlier used to be issued by the commanding officer of the unit concerned, can now only be issued with the approval of the Ministry of Defence.
25-08-2020||New Delhi||Meet stakeholders on farm fires: SC to states||The Supreme Court today asked the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to hold meetings with all stakeholders to completely stop stubble burning that converts Delhi-NCR into a virtual gas chamber during October-November.A Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra asked the three states to file respective reports in four weeks.The court, which is seized of a PIL on air pollution in the NCR, sought to know from the Punjab Chief Secretary if the state could assure no stubble burning would take place this year. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati told the Bench on behalf of the Environment Ministry smog towers would be ready in Delhi in 10 months. As the court wasn’t satisfied with the affidavits of the Centre and Delhi Government on smog towers, it asked them to file fresh ones. The farmers’ counsel said the issue was not being discussed with farmers. The SC had on August 10 asked Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and UP to spell out preventive steps. — TNS
25-08-2020||Members of the Democratic Teachers' Front in Bathinda on Monday protested against the recommendations of the committee led by economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia.||Teachers take to streets||The protesters said if the state government implemented the committee report, it would spell doom for them.Resham Singh, chief, Democratic Teachers' Front, said, “In the garb of fiscal adjustment, the committee report suggests deferment of salary and salary cuts. We oppose these recommendations.”He said, “To further burden the employees, the government is planning to increase the development tax.” TNS
25-08-2020||Ferozepur||3 arrested with heroin||The police have arrested three drug peddlers with Rs 3.50 lakh cash, 100-gm heroin and a car. Investigating officer Chand Singh said the CIA had received information that accused Gurdip Singh and his son Amarjit Singh peddled drugs.“Two days ago, they visited a dhaba at Pindi village in Guruharsahai sub-division to check the heroin sample. They were arrested last night. Their accomplice Satnam Singh was also nabbed,” said the investigating officer.“Their call records are being scanned and it is learnt that they had links with inter-state smugglers,” he said. A case under Sections 21, 61, 85 NDPS Act has been registered. — OC
25-08-2020||Sangrur||Theft at temple in Sangrur||Ex-CM Brar’s daughter deadMuktsar: Charanjit Kaur, daughter of ex-CM Harcharan Singh Brar, passed away on Sunday. She is survived by two sons and a daughter. Karan Kaur Brar, ex-MLA, Muktsar, who is sister-in-law of the deceased, urged everyone to pray for peace to the departed soul from their own places due to the pandemic. She was was cremated at Sarainaga village on Sunday. TNSBreach in Aspal drainFazilka: The paddy crop on more than 500 acres near Kabulshah village got inundated following a breach in Aspal seepage drain in Fazilka. Navdeep Kamboj, SDO (Drainage), said 30-ft breach occurred on Aspal seepage drain. Davinder Saharan, press secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Sidhupura), said water has inundated around 500 acres of crop. OCMobiles recovered from jailSangrur: A case has been registered after the recovery of three mobiles from the Sangrur Jail. “Out of three, two mobiles have SIM cards. We have registered a case and started further investigations,” ASI Ranjit Singh said. TNS
25-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Peddler opens fire at ASI||An ASI, posted at Bhikhiwind, was shot at by a notorious smuggler, Rachhpal Singh Daula of Bhuchar Kalan, here today.The injured ASI, Malkiat Singh, and his associate Ranjit Singh managed to nab Rachhpal and seized his country-made revolver. His motorcycle was also impounded.Rachhpal’s accomplice Bhalwan managed to flee.ASI Malkiat Singh said he was on his way back from Poohla village. When he signalled the accused to stop, he opened fire at him and a bullet hit his stomach. The ASI is recuperating at a private hospital in Bhikhiwind. — OC
25-08-2020||London||Son jailed for UK couple’s murder||An Indian-origin man found guilty of the double murder of his mother and stepfather has been sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum 36 years behind bars before being considered for parole by a UK court.Anmol Chana, described as “fanatical” about knives, stabbed his mother Jasbir Kaur (52) and her husband Rupinder Singh Bassan (51) multiple times at their home in Oldbury in the West Midlands region of England earlier this year. The 26-year-old was convicted of the two murders after a nine-day trial at Birmingham Crown Court and sentenced on Friday.The British Sikh couple were found dead at their home in February, after West Midlands Police officers forced their way into their home following concerns being raised for their welfare. — PTI
25-08-2020||---||Sukhbir seeks Rs 100 cr for medical college in Fazilka||Chandigarh, August 24Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today requested the Finance Commission to allocate Rs 100 crore for the establishment of a medical college and hospital in Fazilka to augment medical services in the border district.In a letter to Chairman of the fifteenth Finance Commission NK Singh, the SAD chief said the institution could serve as a focal point for not only the Malwa region, but also the neighbouring districts of Haryana and Rajasthan. He recommended that it be attached to the district hospital in Fazilka.Sukhbir said there was an extreme deficit of basic facilities and healthcare in the government sector in the district. He said the district had only 0.7 to 0.9 beds per thousand population and one doctor served 6,183 persons as compared to 578 persons served in Patiala.He told the chairman that Fazilka accounted for the highest prevalence of cancer in the country. He said a train from Punjab’s Malwa region to Rajasthan was infamously referred to as “Cancer Express” since it ferried only cancer patients for treatment.
25-08-2020||Sangrur||Father booked for rape in Sangrur||On the complaint of a 14-year-old girl, the Lehra police have registered a case against her father for allegedly raping her last night.The police are conducting raids to arrest the accused. Lehra SHO SurinderBhalla said the victim told them that last night her father raped her in the bathroom of their house and she informed her relatives today. — TNS
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Bhawan notified as extended precinct of House||Adhering to safety protocol in view of Covid-19 pandemic, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh has decided to notify Punjab Bhawan as an extended precinct of the House for press coverage of the 12th session of the Vidhan Sabha. This decision was taken at a meeting presided over by the Speaker.The Speaker said Covid-19 test would be compulsory for all journalists, who would cover the session and a special camp would be held from 2 pm to 5 pm on August 25-26 at Punjab Bhawan for journalists. Only those with negative report in the test would be allowed to enter the Punjab Bhawan. An official spokesperson for the Vidhan Sabha said only one cameraman and a journalist from each TV channel would be permitted outside the hall at Punjab Bhawan. Live streaming of the session would be provided in the hall. — TNS
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cops working overtime to shield liquor mafia: Vijay Sampla||The Punjab Police and Excise Department are working overtime to shield the liquor mafia and Congress leaders involved in the multi-crore liquor scam, said former Union Minister Vijay Sampla here today.In a press release, Sampla said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should tell why copies of over 13 FIRs registered against the liquor mafia in Patiala, Mohali and Ludhiana were not being provided despite the ED’s requests.“Bank details, call and revenue records of the accused are yet to be provided to the ED,” Sampla said.As per reports, the ED wrote to the Patiala SSP on June 6 and 12, Mohali SSP on June 17, Ludhiana (Rural) SSP on June 18, but did not get any reply. — TNS
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Promises not met, will gherao ministers: YAD||The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) today announced to gherao Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his Cabinet colleagues in protest against the “non-implementation” of promises made to the youth.YAD president Parambans Singh Romana said initially, the activists would gherao the Chief Minister whenever he stepped out of his farmhouse. He said the youth would remind him of the promises made to them as well as to the people of the state.“We will then gherao all Congress ministers and show them the party manifesto and ask them why they are not implementing the promises made to the people of Punjab?” he said.— TNS
25-08-2020||Vijay C Roy||3 months on, industry yet to see pre-Covid output||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24It has been over three months now when the Covid-induced curbs were eased, but many industrial units in Punjab are still struggling to achieve pre-Covid production levels. As per data, nearly one-third of the 25,325 non-functional units are yet to start manufacturing due to labour shortage, working capital crunch, non-availability of raw material and low demand of finished products due to slowdown.Of the 2.59 lakh registered units, 2.34 lakh were operational as on August 20, but many are operating at much lower capacity because of limited orders. Textile, hosiery, apparel, auto parts and hand tools are among the worst-hit.State of affairs (Punjab)Registered units: 2.59 lakhOperational: 2.34 lakhWorst hit: Textile | hosiery | auto parts | hand toolsAs per estimates, around 53,666 units are operating at less than 50% of their capacity. Among such units, the highest (34,620) are in Ludhiana, followed by 5,436 in Patiala and 5,212 in SAS Nagar. According to the industry department data, of the 25,325 non-functional units, 4,876 units were not operational because of issues such as labour, raw material, less demand of finished products whereas 2,497 units fall in the category which was not permitted during the lockdown. Another 2,719 units fall in the seasonal industry category which is also closed.Amit Goswami, director, Euro Forge (Punjab), said there is an acute shortage of labour and the government must do something to assist the industry.
25-08-2020||
    
        
    
||A case of misplaced priorities for expert group||After the imposition of the lockdown, Punjab appointed an expert group headed by economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia to develop a strategy for the revival of the state’s economy in the post-Covid period so as to restore its normal growth rate.The group was expected to submit its first report by July-end and the final report by December this year. It recently submitted its first report, which is under discussion. Feedback was obtained from multiple sources in the administration and built on work that was in progress.Due to the Covid restrictions, this group did not meet various stakeholders. But the corporates were represented as members in the group itself. Their views and demands form part of the recommendations. The other interest groups such as workers and employees, farmers, small traders, owners of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), artisans, repair shop owners, dhabas and restaurant owners were neither contacted nor did their views form part of the deliberations.The members did not consult experts in the universities and research institutes of the state who have deep knowledge of the economy and society of Punjab. The recommendations, therefore, do not reflect the ground reality but represent the perception of this group which is largely based on ideological considerations of the neo-liberal economic theory.The group’s perspective has been presented at the outset which states that the “faster rate of growth of Punjab depends on whether Central and state governments are willing to implement reforms that improve economic efficiency and enhance India’s competitiveness. These reforms were important even before the pandemic but have become more urgent to revive confidence among investors and consumers.”Further, it is stated that the new wave of technological development based on automation and artificial intelligence could disrupt labour and product markets. Charting a course is complicated by the fact that Punjab’s economic prospects do not depend only on the actions of the state government. This will be heavily influenced by what happens to the Indian economy as a whole as the state's economy is integrated with it.The specific recommendations are largely influenced by the understanding that Punjab’s policy framework must fit into that of the Centre. This is reflected in sectoral policies suggested such as support for the three ordinances issued by the Centre; promoting big private companies in the trade of agricultural produce; contract farming; and the creation of private agricultural markets beyond the control of state agricultural market committees. The group has also recommended payment of power subsidy via direct bank transfer (DBT) after the bills are collected from the beneficiaries as proposed in the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, pending before Parliament.It has also been suggested that the public distribution of foodgrains to the BPL families be replaced by DBT to the poor. These moves are being opposed by Punjab and its farming community is campaigning against the three ordinances and the proposed Electricity Bill. Similarly, it has been recommended to amend labour laws on the pattern of Gujarat, Haryana and UP, but Punjab has refused. There is visible bias for corporate players. On the one hand, the group is for rationalising power subsidy to the agriculture sector and considers it as a net burden on the state exchequer and on the other, recommends cheap power to the industry, irrespective of size, at Rs 5 per unit against the high rates charged from domestic consumers.Similarly, a recommendation is made that agro-processor buyers of wheat should not be charged fees/taxes in the grain markets beyond 2% while the rate is high for the other buyers. Several concessions suggested for the industry reflect the demands of the corporate sector, rather than the state’s needs.It is a fact that the industry did not pay migrant workers during the lockdown and they moved out and the state government paid for their rail fare. This pattern of business and industry prevailed at the all-India level, yet the expert group wants business to be handed over to corporates, but seeks social security and houses for migrant labour, to be provided by the government, ignoring the interests of local labour, while many among them might be urgently in need of such provisions.The recommendations for crop diversification away from wheat-paddy rotation and shifting of 1 million hectares to new crops is more than three decades old, recommended by the Johl Committee-I in 1986, Johl Committee-II in 2002, and by the Kalkat Committee in 2013.This programme has not taken off, rather the area under wheat-paddy has been growing. This is because enabling conditions could not be created in the form of assured MSP and assured purchase. Without analysing the behaviour of corporates in not paying the announced price, it has been forcing farmers to drop those crops in the second round. This is reflected in the fact that sugar mills all over India did not pay farmers for many years for the cane supplied. Without having a firm mechanism for MSP, market clearance and timely payment, this recommendation seems to be mechanical and indicates blind faith in privatisation. This can spell disaster both for the farming community and the working class, leading to deterioration in income and working conditions.The group has not tried to understand the failure of private extension services for Punjab’s farmers when diversification was begun in 2002. The group, while recommending promotion of milk, vegetables, fruits, poultry, goat, pig and chicken meat, has not realised the associated risks. The producers of perishable agricultural goods suffered colossal losses both in Punjab and other states. Many of them have become bankrupt during this period. This is well reported in the media but the expert group missed this and did not make any recommendation towards the revival of trust in crop diversification.Lastly, the MSME sector employs 20% of the workforce in the state. Their number is 14.65 lakh, but only 44,000 are registered. Those unregistered (14.21 lakh) are not eligible for benefits under the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore relief scheme. The group still argues that Punjab should try to help them get benefits under the Central scheme. It is a classic case of lack of understanding.
25-08-2020||---||Covid-19: Punjab sees 43 deaths, SAS Nagar worst hit||Chandigarh, August 24The state reported 1,516 cases and 43 deaths in the last 24 hours.The total count of Covid-19 cases has reached 43,284. The total number of casualties has reached 1,129.SAS Nagar remained the worst-affected district with 251 cases, followed by Jalandhar (184), Gurdaspur (142), Patiala (140), Bathinda (125), Amritsar (108), Ludhiana (72) and Muktsar (60).Apart from that, at present 414 patients are on oxygen support and 51 are critical and are on ventilator support. Ludhiana reported the most number of 11 deaths, followed by SAS Nagar (8), Jalandhar (6), Gurdaspur (4), Kapurthala, Patiala and Mansa (3 each), Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, SBS Nagar and Sangrur (1 each).Meanwhile, the Punjab Government has issued new guidelines regarding medical fitness for home isolation of asymptomatic/mild symptomatic patients and patients aged more than 60 or with co-morbid conditions and pregnant women. All such patients will be given the opportunity to give an undertaking at the time of sampling regarding the availability of home isolation facility at their residence in case they turn out Covid-positive. These guidelines will also be applicable for asymptomatic/mild symptomatic patients.In a statement, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said instructions had been issued to all deputy commissioners and civil surgeons in this regard. He said the doctor available at the time of sampling would assess all such persons for clinical fitness for home isolation. In case patients test positive, they would continue to remain in home isolation as per protocol. He clarified that there was no need to bring them to the hospital provided they remained asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic.Sidhu added that it was compulsory that they procured the kit which should contain a thermometer, a pulse oximeter, vitamin C and zinc tablets and regularly monitor themselves for any symptoms and report immediately to the Health Department if the symptoms appeared or worsened. The minister said private health institutions were also directed to follow the same protocol. If any home isolated patient required any medical assistance, they must call at 104 or district helpline number. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh condoled the demise of photojournalist Jai Deep, who passed away at the age of 28, due to Covid-19 in Patiala.
25-08-2020||---||High Court deplores ‘irresponsible’ behaviour with medical staff||Chandigarh, August 24Amid rising number of Covid cases in the state, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that “irresponsible” behaviour with medical and paramedical staff was required to be deprecated “in strongest terms”.The disapproval came in a case where a group of persons allegedly locked certain members of medical and paramedical team inside a room before removing a body from a mortuary.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after one Sandeep Kaur filed a petition against the state government seeking the concession of pre-arrest bail in a case registered at Barnala city police station for assault or criminal force to deter public servant from the discharge of his duty and other offences under Sections 297, 454, 353, 186, 342, 270, 120-B and 188 of the IPC, besides the provisions of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Disaster Management Act.Appearing before Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa, counsel for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner was not related to the person whose body was taken away from the mortuary and the FIR in the matter was against unknown and unrelated persons. Taking a note of the submissions, Justice Dhindsa, on the previous date of hearing, asked the State counsel to file a reply on the link evidence on the basis of which the present petitioner, a woman, was being nominated as an accused.In its reply, the state submitted that a video clip of the occurrence was recorded and the present petitioner stood duly identified. Justice Dhindsa added that the counsel for the petitioner himself took a somersault and conceded that the person whose body was removed from the mortuary was her first cousin.“Under the prevalent Covid-19 pandemic for any person to behave in such an irresponsible manner needs to be deprecated in strong terms. The medical and paramedical staffers are working round the clock to fight the pandemic. There is a certain protocol to be observed regarding conduct of Covid test and in the eventuality of there being a Covid death, certain precautionary measures have to be followed,” Justice Dhindsa added.Rejects pre-arrest bail to accusedThe High Court has denied pre-arrest bail to a woman, who along with others, had allegedly locked certain members of medical and paramedical team inside a room before removing a body from a mortuary in Barnala.
25-08-2020||Muktsar||11 more of Badals’ staff found infected||With 11 more persons, including security personnel, testing positive for Covid, the residence of former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal at Badal village has been declared a macro-containment zone.Earlier, eight persons, including six security personnel, a cook and a telephone operator were found infected.The number of infected persons at Badal’s residence has reached 19. Test reports of a few employees are yet to come. As of now, samples of nearly 150 persons have been collected. Dr Paramdeep Sandhu, nodal officer for Covid, Muktsar district, said, “The ex-CM’s residence is now a macro-containment zone as the number of positive persons is above 15. Earlier, it was a micro-containment zone.”A health official said the former CM had been advised home-isolation due to his old age. However, both SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal regularly travelled and held meetings with party workers amid the pandemic. The local health staff have not collected samples of the Badals so far. “I can’t comment on this,” said Dr HN Singh, CMO, Muktsar. — TNS
25-08-2020||---||Dalit girl’s ‘gangrape’ sparks protest in Moga||Moga, August 24The gangrape of a 14-year-old Dalit girl by three youths has triggered a public outcry at Nihalsinghwala in Moga district. Activists of various trade unions, opposition outfits, students and women today protested and demanded the arrest of the accused.The accused have been identified as Sehaldeep Singh, Billa Singh and Charan Singh.The victim’s mother, complained to the police that on August 19 she was going with her two minor daughters when Sehaldeep offered to drop them home on his motorcycle. The mother asked his daughters to sit on the motorcycle. Instead of leaving the girls at their home, he took them to an undisclosed location where his two friends Billa Singh and Charna Singh, accompanied him. The younger sister was allegedly gangraped by them while the elder one tried to save her sister. She was thrashed by the trio.After reaching home, the duo narrated the incident to their parents.The accused have been booked under Sections 363, 366A, 376, 120B of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. SAD leader Bhupinder Singh Sahoke alleged that crime against Dalits had increased in the past three years.
25-08-2020||---||Agency delists Adesh medical institute||Bathinda, August 24Allegations of malpractices have hit the Ayushman Bharat scheme in the state. The state health agency has delisted Adesh Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, a private university in Bathinda, after conducting a probe into repeated complaints of malpractices in the welfare scheme.The institute was held guilty of wrongly making money from the insurance scheme. It was found charging money from patients who had duly generated cards. Moreover, on February 20, 2020, the anti-fraud unit had issued a show-cause notice to the institute and it was put on watch, but it continued its misconduct.Dr Maninder Singh, deputy medical commissioner, Bathinda, who was the inquiry officer, said: “There were many complaints against Adesh institute. In one case, the institute had two treatment files of a patient. While one file showed insurance availed, the other was used to charge cash from the patient for the same treatment.” Acting on the probe report, the state health agency decided to delist Adesh institute on Saturday.
25-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||CBI not sharing Balwant Singh Multani case info, Punjab cops tell High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24The Punjab Police today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, alleging that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was intentionally not supplying the requisite documents available with it in a kidnapping and murder case against the state’s former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.The statement of accused-turned-approver Inspector Jagir Singh on the alleged torture of “missing” CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani, was annexed along with the application.The plea, requesting the court to take on record the statement and other documents, is scheduled to come up for hearing on Wednesday, along with a petition filed by Saini for declaring “non-est” the probe against him.Meanwhile, an application filed by Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of Mataur police station in Mohali, stated that the CBI was intentionally not supplying the requisite documents was apparent from the order passed by the CBI Court at Chandigarh on July 21. The order, among other things, stated that the CBI was completely silent about the status of the documents received by it from the High Court in a sealed cover. The court said the investigation agency, in its written reply, nowhere denied receiving the documents, but it did bring out a clear picture in writing regarding the current status of the documents, despite taking sufficient time from the court. The application added the statements of the co-accused, Jagir Singh and Kuldeep Singh, granted pardon, recorded by the court of the Duty Magistrate under orders of the CJM, Mohali, on August 20.As the evidence on record disclosed commission of offence under Section 302 lPC, an application was filed before the Mohali Duty Magistrate/Judicial Magistrate seeking permission to add the offence. The requisite permission was granted vide an order dated August 21.
25-08-2020||Patiala||Patiala hospital staff thrash patient, 2 arrested||Two staff members of a private hospital were arrested by the district police on Monday for thrashing a patient suffering from depression. The police have booked them under Sections 323 and 342 of the IPC.The accused have been identified as Gurdeep Singh and Mohammed Rahul, staff members of Prime Hospital. As per reports, the patient, a resident of Devigarh town of Patiala, was admitted to the ICU ward of the hospital on August 20. He was allegedly beaten up by the hospital attendants on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The entire incident was captured on the CCTV, a footage of which went viral subsequently.The matter came to the fore when the patient complained of pain in stomach and narrated the incident to his relative the next morning. Consequently, the family members filed a police complaint. — TNS
25-08-2020||Sameer Singh||Wait for justice gets longer, litigants edgy||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 24Noor Begum (name changed), who got separated from her husband around one year ago, has been waiting for maintenance charges from the latter.Reason: After a series of hearings, the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak led to adjournment of her case.Begum’s father, who used to repair bicycles to earn livelihood, has been rendered jobless due to the lockdown. “My son-in-law had an extra-marital affair and married another woman without getting a divorce. Let alone paying maintenance, he came to our house and thrashed my daughter and broke her knee. With no income source, how will I run my household and bear her treatment expenses,” said Rahim Iqbal, father of Begum.‘Non-urgent’: There are scores of civil cases, which were not heard during and after the lockdown and deemed 'non-urgent'There are scores of civil cases, which were not heard during and after the lockdown and deemed “non-urgent”. In another matrimonial dispute, a woman with two kids was granted divorce by a court against her wishes, a few days prior to imposition of the lockdown. As a result, she could not appeal in the High Court.There are numerous cases related to financial, land disputes, cheque bounce and serious crimes where hearings are not taking place. In 18 courts in Bathinda, more than 1,500 cases were heard daily, which has come down substantially post-lockdown.Kamaljit Kuti, president, District Bar Association (Bathinda), said, “Mostly criminal or cases deemed urgent are being taken up in the courts, including those seeking bail and stay orders. Cases related to land dispute, money, matrimonial dispute or general criminal complaints are not deemed urgent. Even if such cases are taken up for hearing, courts are adjourning these cases.”A large section of lawyers who have been left with no work, have sought financial assistance from the government.
25-08-2020||---||Punjab Congress leaders stoutly with Gandhis||Chandigarh, August 24In the crisis over leadership within the Congress, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, by rallying behind Sonia Gandhi and her family, has shown his loyalty towards the party, besides his proximity to the Gandhi family.In the past too, Capt Amarinder’s support for the Gandhi family has been consistent, although former AICC president Rahul Gandhi is learnt have certain issues with the Capt Amarinder-led government in the state.Brahm Mohindra, Cabinet MinisterParty needs themWithout Gandhis, there is no Congress. Sonia should remain the president. “Sonia should continue at the helm as long as she wants. Rahul should, thereafter, take over as he is fully competent to lead the party,” Capt Amarinder said.His support for the Gandhi family was critical at this juncture when two Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Bajwa and Shamsher Dullo have been targeting him over the issue of governance. Sources said the demand for change of guard, also backed by two leaders from Punjab, had risen over the nomination of two senior party leaders for the Rajya Sabha seat.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar refused to comment on the stand taken by senior Punjab leaders Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and Manish Tewari.While Bhattal is said to be close to Gulam Nabi Azad, Tewari is learnt to have certain issues with Rahul. In the past too, Tewari has been quite vocal for change in leadership.During the last parliamentary elections, Rahul had opposed the candidature of Tewari from Anandpur Sahib and wanted to give the ticket to former Punjab Youth Congress leader Amarpreet Lally, before Capt Amarinder intervened and got Tewari in.Jakhar, who also has come in support of the Gandhi family, asked those seeking change of guard to name the leader whom they wanted to be named as the party president. “What is stopping them to speak against the BJP government? Rahul has been leading the front against the Modi-led government,” said Jakhar.
25-08-2020||---||Probe panel indicts SGPC officials, Akal Takht seeks action||Amritsar, August 24The Akal Takht-appointed probe panel has revealed that records of not 267, but 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib were misappropriated. This was disclosed by the five High Priests during a meeting, held today under leadership of Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh.With the panel’s report pointing towards gross discrepancies in the publication records of ‘saroops’ since 2015, the High Priests today held the SGPC officials and employees concerned accountable for the lapse and directed the committee to call up an executive body meeting and initiate stern action against the erring officials within a week.Giani Harpreet Singh said the SGPC’s investigation spoke about 267 missing ‘saroops’ from its records between September 18, 2015, and May 31, 2020. However, the Takht panel found misappropriation of additional 61 ‘saroops’ after scrutinising the ledgers of 2013-2014 and 2014-15. Besides, it was feared that at least 125 ‘saroops’ were compiled in an unauthorised manner, out of extra printed ‘angs’ (pages) that were otherwise supposed to be discarded. These ‘saroops’ were issued to devotees without any receipt. This practice was going on since August 18, 2015, and never came to the fore as no audit was conducted by the SGPC publication department since 2016.Unauthorised printing of Guru Granth Sahib in CanadaMeanwhile, Canada-based Ripudaman Singh Malik and Balwant Singh Pandher were accused of violating the Akal Takht’s edict, issued on May 9, 1998, by printing nearly 12 copies of Guru Granth Sahib without seeking any permission. Reports had surfaced that they had set up a printing press in British Columbia and printed the copies to test their venture. Both were directed to submit an explanation within a month with the Akal Takht Secretariat. Besides, Surrey-based Guru Nanak Sikh Gurdwara Society was directed to take into its possession the copies of Guru Granth Sahib and the printing infrastructure. The society was also directed to get the print of the ‘saroop’ examined from experts to find printing ‘error’ in verses of the holy scripture, if any, and submit the report within six months.SGPC’s 2016 executive body, chief secy summonedThe Akal Takht has summoned the 2016 executive committee of the SGPC and its then Chief Secretary Harcharan Singh on September 18 for skipping the 'pashchatap paths' (prayers of remorse) after 'saroops' got damaged during an accidental fire in the publication branch at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib in May 2016Ban on Dhadrianwale’s eventsConsidering a report, which testified the alleged distortion of Sikh history by preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale in his discourses, the five High Priests have put a blanket ban on his programmes, till he tenders an apology at the Akal Takht
25-08-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht rejects Sucha Singh Langah’s plea for clemency||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday rejected a clemency appeal of excommunicated Sucha Singh Langah, a former Akali minister, saying the Sikh community would continue to socially boycott him.The decision came after Langah submitted an “apology letter” with the Akal Takht Secretariat through his son Sukhjinder Singh Sonu.Langah was excommunicated by the Takht on October 5, 2017, after an objectionable video reportedly featuring him had gone viral. Later, he was acquitted by the court as the complainant had withdrawn the charges.Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh made it clear that the Takht’s verdict stood till date. “No pardon was granted to him. The sangat should not have any association with him,” he said.The former Akali minister’s son said it was for the fourth time when his father had approached the Takht for forgiveness. — TNS
25-08-2020||---||Farm ordinances likely to dominate Punjab Assembly session||Chandigarh, August 24The three farm ordinances passed by the Centre in June are set to dominate the one-day proceedings of the Vidhan Sabha, scheduled for Friday.The ordinances have been the topic of political debates for almost two months now. With farmer organisations on the warpath and demanding that the state government reject these ordinances, the government is likely to move a motion to this effect.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has been voicing his concerns against these three ordinances, stating these would ultimately pave the way for ending the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime in the state. He has also taken a public stand that these ordinances are against India’s federal structure. By moving a motion on the issue, the Congress would earn a brownie point over the SAD- BJP, which have been supporting the three ordinances. It would also help the government keep a major vote bank of farmers in good humour, while creating a narrative against the Akali-BJP alliance.The substantive motion on the issue, moved by “suspended” SAD MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa, was disallowed by Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh today.The Aam Aadmi Party has also realised the “political significance” of moving a motion against these ordinances, which, amongst others, pave way for private market yards to be set up outside the existing mandis. Aman Arora, AAP MLA from Sunam, has sought permission to table a motion in this regard.Govt may move motionWith farmer organisations on the warpath and demanding that the state government reject these ordinances, the government is likely to move a motion to this effect
25-08-2020||Balwant Garg||To evaluate online teaching, Punjab School Education Department takes test of 16 lakh students||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 24In the first and largest-ever assessment survey, conducted by the School Education Department to evaluate the health of the education system in government and government- aided schools in the state, more than 16 lakh students of classes VI to XII appeared in the Google quiz test on Monday.Though the test, first step of Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS)-November, 2021, was to start at 6 am and conclude at 8 pm, but due to heavy rush of students the time limit has been extended till 8 pm Tuesday.The online quiz targets to assess the learning outcome of students. While students of classes VI to X are giving their test in six subjects — Punjabi, Hindi, English, social study, science and mathematics, the Class XI and XII students are answering the objective-type questions in their five elected subjects.The first step of this PAS is the Google quiz and there will be three more quizzes in the coming months. The first mock test is expected in September, followed by second in October and last in November, authorities in the department said.There is no separate syllabus for the quiz. It is based on the subject syllabus already being studied by the students online.The mentors of all districts have already trained the teachers regarding the survey and the latter are informing the children about it and motivating them to participate in the test.A senior functionary of the department said: “We have the target of 100 per cent participation of students and this is why the timeline for the test has been extended by 24 hours.” About 14.27 lakh students of government schools and 1.86 lakh students of aided schools are to participate in the test.
