25-06-2020||Mohali||Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s anticipatory bail extended till July 6||The interim bail of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in anticipation of murder charges being added to the fresh FIR in the abduction and murder case of Balwant Singh Multani, was extended till July 6 on Thursday.The special public prosecutor had opposed the bail extension when it came up for hearing in the court of Additional District and Session Judge Monika Goyal here on Thursday.After recording the statement of special public prosecutor, the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Monika Goyal extended the interim bail till July 6.Advocate Sartej Singh Narula and special public persecutor had argued before the court that anticipatory bail granted to DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on murder charges without imposition of Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR is also not maintainable.He said it was said by the court that if Section 302 of the IPC is not added to the FIR by June 8 then the interim bail may be wrested.Narula said they have prayed before the court that it is conditional bail as the court while granting the bail had said that if Section 302 of the IPC is not added to the FIR by June 8 then this interim bail may be wrested.He further said that they have pleaded that Section 302 is still not added and in that case this must be read as infructuous and it cannot be extended.He said the defence itself is seeking adjournment of the case against transfer application and they must not be given the benefit of extension and got this statement brought on record in the court.  When the court of ADJ Monika Goyal questioned prosecution to produce any records if stay has been granted for extending the anticipatory bail period by any of the higher court in this matter, to which prosecution said that no stay has been granted till date after which the court extended the anticipatory bail time period till July 6.Earlier the interim bail was extended till June 25.  It is pertinent to mention here that District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Singh Rai had deferred the hearing on an application filed by Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of Balwant Singh Multani seeking transfer of the case from the court of Additional District and Session Judge till June 29.Till then, the latter’s court had restricted ADJ’s court to pronounce final orders on the case till the session judge decides upon transfer of the case.An FIR was registered afresh against former DGP Saini at Mataur police station accusing him of abduction of Balwant Singh Multani following the complaint of his brother Palwinder Singh Multani under Sections 364, 201, 330, 344, 219 and 120-B of IPC on May 6, at police station Mataur after which the DGP moved court seeking anticipatory bail.
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon covers most of Punjab, some parts of Haryana||The southwest monsoon advanced further to cover most parts of Punjab and some parts of Haryana on Thursday, the Meteorological Department here said. The wind system had reached the northern parts of Punjab, and Chandigarh, on Wednesday, bringing rains at many places.“The monsoon has advanced into most parts of Punjab and some parts of Haryana. The northern limit of monsoon passes through Nagore, Alwar, Delhi, Karnal and Ferozepur,” the MeT department said Thursday.Meanwhile, the maximum temperatures settled a few notches below normal limits in the two states and at their common capital Chandigarh.Chandigarh recorded a high of 34.1 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal limit.In Haryana, Narnaul's maximum settled at 34.8 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal, while Hisar recorded a high of 36.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal.Karnal, which received light rain during the day, recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. Ambala recorded a maximum of 34.7 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal.Patiala in Punjab recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal.Amritsar and Ludhiana, which received light showers, recorded maximum temperatures at 33.5 degrees Celsius 33.2 degrees Celsius and, respectively.The MeT has forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers at isolated places in Haryana and Punjab over the next two days. PTI
25-06-2020||Bathinda/Chandigarh||Punjab reports 7 deaths, 142 fresh COVID-19 cases; total count 4,769||Punjab reported seven deaths and 142 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state's death toll to 120. Along with the fresh cases, the state's tally stands at 4,769.Out of the seven deaths, a 70-year-old man died of COVID-19 on Wednesday night.The deceased, who was a resident of Moga, was under treatment at a private hospital in Bathinda.Dr Amarpreet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Moga, confirmed the death and said: "The patient, a resident of village Lohara in Moga district was admitted at military hospital Moga on June 19.He was then referred to a private hospital in Bathinda where he died on the night of June 24."CS added: "The deceased had a heart-related problem and was also a patient of hepatitis-C. He was cremated while taking all precautionary measures as per the directions by the government."Out of the 142 infections, 31 cases were recorded in Amritsar. While Jalandhar recorded 25 infections, Ludhiana reported 19The source of infection of 15 cases was out of Punjab.
25-06-2020||Ravi S Singh||Rashtriya Sikh Sangat condemns kidnapping of Hindu girl in Pakistan||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 25RSS-affiliate Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, on Wednesday, condemned the kidnapping of a girl of the Hindu community in Sindh in Pakistan and urged the Government of India to intervene forthwith in the matter.“Minorities are being repeatedly subjected to persecution in Pakistan,” Rashtriya Sikh Sangat national president Gurcharan Singh Gill said and urged the Centre to take up the matter with the Pakistan government to rescue the victim girl.He said the kidnapping of the Dalit girl revealed yet again the “sickening” mentality, which was getting deepened in Pakistan’s polity.“The Sikh community is also subjected to cruelties in Pakistan. It is the Pakistan government’s moral and legal responsibility to protect minorities in its territory,” Gill said.Escalating the matter, Sangat's national executive president Davinder Singh Gujral urged the world community to call out Pakistan with regard recurring violation of human rights of the minorities and their religious persecution.“The Rashtriya Sikh Sangat urges the UNO to weigh in against Pakistan to ensure religious and social harmony,” Gujral said, adding that the targeting of the minorities, including Sikhs, in Pakistan was very disconcerting.He said the Sikh Gurus had always espoused the cause of justice and protection of rights of the minorities and had left rich tradition as “legacy of universal and transcendental humanism”.Reports say that the girl kidnapped in Jacobabad, Sindh, was married off to a Muslim man after her forceful conversion of religion this week.
25-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab's 5-year-old TikTok star urges people to follow COVID-19 protocols; Amarinder shares clip||The 5-year-old TikTok sensation, Noorpreet Kaur, has teamed up Punjab Government's 'Mission Fateh' to help curb the spread of the deadly disease coronavirus. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh shared a clip of the TikTok sensation on the microblogging website. "Sharing yet another video by little Noor. Her active participation in encouraging Punjabis to follow social distancing protocols for #Covid19 is indeed applaudable. God bless! #MissionFateh," read the Chief Minister's caption.Noorpreet, who hails from Moga, has gained popularity with her amusing one-liners and is helping Punjab Government ensure social distancing amid COVID-19 lockdown through her clips.  Sharing yet another video by little Noor. Her active participation in encouraging Punjabis to follow social distancing protocols for #Covid19 is indeed applaudable. God bless!#MissionFateh pic.twitter.com/lgpDdsAE03  In the 58-second clip, Noorpreet urges another man to wear a mask and use sanitizers.   Noor, who can be seen in the avatar of a young Sikh boy in the videos, had earlier teamed up with the Moga police to spread the message of social distancing. Noor’s father Satnam Singh works as a labourer at a brick-kiln, while her mother is a homemaker. She and her sister study at the village’s government primary school.
25-06-2020||Balwant Garg||Kotkapura ex-SHO arrested in 2015 police firing case||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 25Probing the police firing of Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in which two protesters were killed and many others injured on October 14, 2015, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Punjab Police on Thursday arrested Gurdeep Singh Pander, the then Kotkapura SHO.The police firing incident had taken place in the aftermath of a sacrilege incident at a gurdwara at Bargari village.The police had allegedly opened firing on the protesters at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan village.Pander has been arrested for the offence of breach of trust and forgery. Sources in the SIT said Pander who had access to vital evidence relating to the firing incidents, had allegedly tampered with these evidences. So, the SIT has charged him with the offence of tampering with evidence, breach of trust and forgery.Last week, the SIT had arrested Sohail Singh Brar, son of a late Akali leader, and Pankaj Bansal, owner of a car agency, for their allegedly helping the cops in fabricating the bullet marks on the escort Gypsy of former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma to create a false defence theory in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.The SIT has already filed a 2,000-page chargesheet against a former Akali MLA and five police officers, including an IG, in the case. In a case under Sections 307 (attempt of murder), 323 (causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC and the Arms Act registered in Kotkapura, the chargesheeted accused are former Akali MLA Mantar Singh Brar, IG Paramraj Umranangal, former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, ADCP Paramjit Singh Pannu, DSP Baljit Singh and SHO Gurdeep Singh Pander.The chargesheet has been filed in the court of judicial magistrate here. The SIT claimed in the chargesheet that besides these accused, its investigation against former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal, former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, former DIG Amar Singh Chahal and others is still under way. A supplementary chargesheet against the other accused will be submitted in the court after completion of the investigation, reads the chargesheet.  Enclosing with the chargesheet the digital evidence and mobile phone call details of the accused, the SIT claimed that to execute its plan of using the force to disperse the protesters, Umranangal had called his subordinate from Ludhiana, ADCP Paramjit Singh Pannu and Moga SSP Charanjit Singh at Kotkapura. A teargas squad from Ludhiana had also reached Kotkapura and weapons to be used on the protesters were kept in hiding by the police, alleged the chargesheet. Umranangal was the Ludhiana IG at that time. All these accused are on bail in the case.Pander was arrested on Thursday after addition of the forgery and breach of trust allegations against him in the FIR.
25-06-2020||Gurbax Puri||4 of family among 5 murdered in Punjab’s Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 25Unidentified armed men killed five people, including four of a family, at Kairon village in this district on Wednesday night.The deceased have been identified as Brij Lal (65), his two daughters-in-law Jaspreet Kaur (28) and Amandeep Kaur (26), one Daljit Singh (22) and Brij Lal’s driver Gursahib Singh Saba.According to the police, their throats were slit with sharp-edged weapons by more than four unidentified men.SSP Dhruv Dahia and other senior officials have rushed to the spot.Brij Lal had multiple drug-peddling cases registered against him while his wife Ranjit Kaur, who was lodged in Amritsar Central Jail under similar charges, had died there a year ago,  said the police.Also read: Punjab Police sub-inspector shot dead in AboharHis two sons, Bakshish Singh Sonu and Paramjit Singh Pamma, are drug addicts, currently under treatment at a de-addiction centre in Tarn Taran.Deceased Jaspreet Kaur was the wife of Bakshish and Amandeep that of Paramjit. Both couples have two children each, who were left alone by the murderers.SP JS Walia said investigation is on to ascertain the identity and motive of the killers.
25-06-2020||Raj Sadosh||Punjab Police sub-inspector shot dead in Abohar||Our CorrespondentAbohar, June 25A sub-inspector of Punjab Police was allegedly shot dead by car-borne men here on Wednesday night.Preliminary reports said Gurwinder Singh aka Vicky reportedly moved out of his Basant Nagari residence near Seetogunno road here around 10.15 pm. All of sudden, a car halted near him and the unidentified men fired three bullets, one of which hit him in the head. The assailants soon sped.Also read: 3 of family among 5 murdered in Punjab’s Tarn TaranIt was apparently a planned murder, police said, while the family claimed he had no enmity with anyone.People who rushed to the place after hearing the firing found Vicky lying on the floor of a market. He was shifted tothe Civil Hospital, where he died.Gurwinder was posted at the district headquarters in the CID wing of police in Fazilka. His uncle Bhagwan Singh is an ASI atthe City-1 police station here.Police officials visited the civil hospital and inspected the site of the crime. CCTV cameras around the locality are being scanned.
25-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Health workers face abuse, threats in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 24Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and Auxillary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) in the district are facing a tough time while conducting house-to-house screening for Covid-19. Sadly, subjecting them to abuse and threats has become a new normal.On Tuesday evening, a family in Pathak Vihar, Patiala, openly threatened an ASHA worker, who requested them to undergo a test as per the government guidelines. The situation became tense and a senior medical officer (SMO) had to call the police for help.Reena, the victim, said they tore the quarantine poster and refused to undergo testing. She said, “They had already torn the quarantine poster pasted at their house. When I tried to paste a new one, they started hurling abuses at me.”Sonia, an ANM worker, said, “People hurl expletives at us whenever we ask them to undergo testing or follow government guidelines. They make us feel unwanted. They have to understand that we are risking our lives for their safety.”Another ASHA worker said people don’t open doors when they visit for inspection.Dr Rishima, a medical officer, said people sometime misinform health officials. Instead of cooperating with officials, people harass them by giving misinformation, she claimed.The District Epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, informed that people would misbehave with ASHA workers, ANMs and even medical officers. “The energy of our staff gets wasted when people don’t cooperate. We request people to support and be kind to health workers, who are working 24x7 in this fight against Covid-19.”
25-06-2020||Ravneet Singh||Varsities in Patiala prepare for exams in July||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 24Universities in the district have devised different plans for holding semester examinations in July. The Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) has decided to conduct online examinations while Punjabi University will hold offline examinations as per its standard operating procedure (SOP).The RGNUL, in guidelines released on Monday, said it will conduct online open book examination for final year students of LLB and LLM only. It said Google classroom will be used as an aid in conducting the examination. The exams (50 marks each) will be of two hours duration. The university has decided that the question papers will be uploaded in pdf downloadable format on Google classroom, while the students will be able to upload their answer sheets for evaluation until 1.30 pm, 3.30 hours after commencement of the examination. The university has also decided to establish a student helpdesk to deal with any technical issue arising during the course of the examination.Meanwhile, as per Punjabi University’s SOP, exams of all classes will be conducted in July. The university intends to conduct the two-hour long offline exams from July 10 onwards with maximum 300 students per centre. The university has prohibited providing refreshments and advised students, teachers and employees to strictly wear face masks in view of Covid-19. The exam rooms will be sanitised before and after the exams. Thermal screening of all student has been made mandatory.
25-06-2020||Patiala||One held with poppy husk||
25-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Jai Maa Mission head in critical condition||Swami Jyoti Maa Mahadev, head of the Jai Maa Mission of the Usha Mata Ji Trust Bassi, Pathana, has been tested positive for Covid-19.Currently admitted to Apollo Hospital in Ludhiana, his condition is reportedly critical.Spokesman of the trust said Swami Ji had diabetes and heart problem and was on a ventilator. — OC
25-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Rainwater enters shops in Amloh||The rain today exposed the preparations made for the monsoon season by the Amloh Municipal Council.Rainwater entered shops in the main market and SAD (B) workers, led by Raju Khanna, in-charge, Amloh constituency, lodged a protest.Raju Khanna said the Amloh Municipal Council had failed to provide people with basic facilities. He said the MLA and ruling party leaders had been making false claims of development in the constituency, but in reality, no development work had been carried out. Rather, all welfare schemes initiated by the Badal government for the poor had been stopped, he said. He said the SAD (B) will continue to highlight the failures of the state government and their false claims to mislead the people. — OC
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Private institutions offer 10K beds for Covid patients||In the wake of spurt in Covid cases and shortage of hospital beds, the Confederation of Colleges and Schools of Punjab has offered to make arrangement for 10,000 beds in their technical institutions.The confederation led by its chairman Ashwani Sekhri, a former Batala MLA, met Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan with the offer. A committee has been formed to look into the feasibility of the proposal.After the meeting, Sekhri said the confederation has proposed to provide its staff in nursing and pharmacy colleges for handling patients coming to the proposed isolation wards, provided they were trained by the health authorities.
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Consider cutting upper limit  of guests at weddings: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the Union of India, the States of Punjab, Haryana and Union Territory of Chandigarh Administration, to consider and decide the issue of reducing the upper limit of 50 guests in marriage related gatherings.50 invitees too muchAs per MHA guidelines, marriage related gatherings can comprise up to 50 guestsThe petitioner pleads that the upper limit of 50 guests is on the higher side and it will frustrate the war against Covid-19The developments before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli took place on a petition filed in public interest by advocate HC Arora challenging the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs.Among other things, it envisaged that the marriage related gatherings could comprise up to 50 guests. The petitioner pleaded that the upper limit of 50 guests was too much on the higher side and it would frustrate the war against Covid-19.Permitting the petitioner to make a comprehensive submission to the respondents on the issue, the Bench issued directions to all the respondents to take appropriate decision on the representation to be submitted by the petitioner on the aforesaid issue, expeditiously.
25-06-2020||Faridkot||RTA held for graft, Rs 2L seized||A day after the Vigilance Bureau nabbed the driver of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA)-cum-General Assistant (GA) to the Deputy Commissioner, Faridkot, for allegedly taking Rs 15,000 bribe, the RTA, Tarsem Chand, too, was arrested today.Preliminary investigation revealed that the driver of the rank of a head constable was working as a conduit between the RTA and a private transporter. Sources in the bureau said Rs 2 lakh had been recovered from the car of the RTA.In the past five years, Tarsem Chand is the fourth official in the district, who had been booked in a case of corruption. In October last year, Hardeep Singh, RTA, and Assistant Transport Officer Gurnam Singh were booked for issuing a “fake” driving licence to a Sangrur resident.The police probe and information available with the RTA, Faridkot, revealed that from October 2018 to October 2019, a clerk in the Farikdot RTA office had issued over 500 driving licences with dubious credentials. The senior authorities at the RTA office, who were in the know of things, just issued a warning letter to the clerk and took no effective step to check this illegal practice, it is alleged.Another RTA-cum-District Transport Officer in Faridkot, Vijay Syal was booked in April 2016 for his alleged involvement in a scandal of huge evasion of road tax in the transfer of ownership of vehicles from one state to another.Syal was one of the four accused in this scandal. The Vigilance Bureau had registered a criminal case against Syal and three other employees of the department on April 5, 2016.
25-06-2020||Gurdaspur||Curbs hit judo players hard||Scores of international and national judo players have written to the Sports Ministry and Judo Federation of India (JFI) urging them to issue an advisory on when and how to resume training amid increasing fears that social distancing norms may not allow for “contact sport” to be resumed in the near future.Players whose careers hang in the balance are Jasleen Saini (2019 Commonwealth championship and South Asian championship gold medalist), Manpreet Singh (2018 Asian championship bronze), Jobandeep Singh (2018 Commonwealth championship gold), Maheshinder Saini (2019 Youth Asian- Pacific championship gold), Ritik Sharma and Anmol Deep (both 2019 Inter-University gold), Manpreet Singh (2019 Junior Asian championship bronze), Sagar Sharma (2019 SGFI School National gold) and Chirag Sharma (2019 SGFI bronze).All these sportsmen are products of the local JFI coaching centre which, over the years, has produced nearly 60 international players, including Rio Olympian Avtar Singh, and over 150 national level judokas.The centre was locked on March 24. “It may not open till next year, that is, till the Covid scare goes away if at all it does,” said a judoka.Coach Amarjit Shastri said a majority of players were in government jobs and the employers had asked them to do clerical work.“Our promotions are performance-linked. Without tournaments, we cannot win medals. Without medals, there can be no promotions. And without promotional avenues, we will stagnate,” said Jasleen, an employee of the Punjab Police.
25-06-2020||Moga||20-yr-old  killed for ‘honour’ in Moga||A 20-year-old youth was held captive for six hours and allegedly beaten to death by the parents of his girlfriend in a suspected honour killing at Dhalleke village in the district in the wee hours on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Inderjit Singh, a resident of Dhalleke village.The police have sent his body to the district hospital in Moga for the post-mortem examination.Preliminary investigations revealed that the man had gone to meet his girlfriend at her house late last night and her parents became aware of the visit. The police said the man was held captive by the girl’s family at midnight and they kept beating him till 6 am on Wednesday.Neighbours rescued the man, who was tied up with a rope, and took him to the hospital, where he was declared dead at 6.30 am. He died with multiple fractures on his body. No arrest has been made so far.
25-06-2020||Mahesh SharmaMandi Ahmedgarh||Online work amid Covid kills demand for paper||Online teaching and work from home culture owing to the Covid-19 pandemic have virtually killed demand for printing paper, thus affecting the economic viability of large and middle scale agro-based paper mills in the state.These mills had played a major role in preventing mass exodus of migrant workers and their families as they were paid wages even when the machinery was silent.Struggle for SurvivalAlthough several paper mills, including 67 large ones, have started achieving the production level of 60-70 per cent, these units are not at ease to continue the wheels rolling as wood pulp paper manufacturers from South-East Asia, who benefit from the Free Trade Agreement, have started quoting much lower rates at the international levelAlthough several paper mills, including six-seven large ones, have started achieving the production level of 60-70 per cent, these establishments are yet to feel easy to continue the wheels rolling as wood pulp paper manufacturers from South-East Asia enjoying the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) have started quoting much lower rates at the international level.Trying to cope up with the situation at the global level, paper manufacturers from the state have urged the Union Government to come to the rescue of the eco-friendly industry by easing tariff regulations and ensuring supply channel to distant states.Senior vice-president, Indian Agro and Recycled Paper Mills Association (IARPMA), and executive director, Shryans Papers Mills, Malikpur, Anil Aggarwal said a majority of the mills had started working after restrictions on the lockdown were lifted.“As far as the operational part is concerned, we are in a better position than other categories of industries as our labour is relatively more disciplined and regular. However, we are yet to start receiving regular orders of printing papers as online teaching and working from home culture have virtually killed demand for publishing of stationery, books and literature,” said Aggarwal.He said metropolitan cities were the major consumers of printing paper. However, most of these cities were now hotspots of Covid-19.Paper manufacturers said lower quotes from manufacturers of South-East Asia was another spoilsport for the indigenous paper market.
25-06-2020||Phagwara||AYUSH doctors  seek regular jobs||Ayurvedic doctors working for the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram under the National Health Mission since 2014 have demanded a hike in their salary and regularisation of jobs.Dr Parbhjot Jabal, chief, Ayurvedic Medical Officers’ Union, sought regularisation of services of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) doctors in the Health Department.She said Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had assured of addressing the issues, but nothing has been done on the ground so far. — OC
25-06-2020||Our CorrespondentAbohar||Wages sought for Civil Hospital contractual staff in Abohar||Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Mulazim Sangharsh Samiti staged a sit-in in front of the Civil Hospital, demanding release of wages to contractual workers and restoration of jobs of six employees, who were terminated about two years ago by an outsourcing agency.The protesters burnt an effigy of the state government at the Rotary Club chowk, and raised slogans against contractors and the Health Department.Action Committee secretary Jarnail Singh said senior officials of the Health Department and the sub-divisional administration had been requested repeatedly to resolve the issue, but to no avail.A meeting was also held last year with the district authorities in this connection.The officials concerned had asked the outsourcing agency in-charge in the hospital to reinstate the said employees, but in vain.If wages to contractual staff weren’t released and the people who were sacked arbitrarily weren’t reinstated, the committee would intensify the agitation, Jarnail Singh warned.
25-06-2020||Ferozepur||4.16 kg heroin seized, 1 held in Ferozepur||Sleuths of the Counter Intelligence Department and 136th Battalion of the BSF recovered 4.16-kg heroin and nabbed a man having links with Pakistan-based smugglers.Ajay Maluja, AIG, Counter Intelligence, said the police had received inputs that Kashmir Singh, alias Sheera, a resident of Ruhela Haji village in the Mamdot block, had links with Pakistani smugglers. He said in February, 2017, 5-kg heroin had been recovered from Sheera following which he was sent to jail for 15 years.“Presently, he was on a parole for 56 days but we had received information that he was still involved in the illegal trade of drug smuggling. Sheera was arrested from Gatti Rajo Ke village. During interrogation, the accused revealed details about the consignment received from across the border following which a joint search operation was carried out with the help of the BSF near border outpost Shameke along the Indo-Pakistan border,” the AIG said. — OC
25-06-2020||Ropar||Times Young Varsity Rankings : IIT-Ropar tops nationally||The IIT-Ropar has secured 47th rank in Times Young University Rankings 2020 announced in London today. The institute, which started twelve years ago in 2008, has topped in the rankings nationally.IIT-Indore has bagged second spot nationally and 64th spot globally.Similarly, IISER, Pune, and IIT, Gandhinagar, ranked between 101 and 150, while Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, IIT-Bhubaneshwar, IIT-Guwahati and IIT-Hyderabad were placed between 151 and 200.The ranking adjudges the universities under five broad parameters, namely, teaching, research, international outlook and industrial output.IIT-Ropar director Prof Sarit K Das said the consistent performance in various rankings was testament to the institute’s continued success at fostering a collaborative and supportive research culture. — TNS
25-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Not paid, steel unit staffers hold protest in Mandi Gobindgarh||Hundreds of labourers and other employees of Modern Steels Limited, Mandi Gobindgarh, today held a protest against the management for not paying them their salaries for the last two months.They raised slogans against the management and threatened to block the GT Road, but timely intervention by Amloh SDM Anand Sagar Sharma saved the situation from turning ugly.The labourers said they were finding it difficult to make the ends meet and complained of braving scorching heat without fans.Protesters said they would continue to protest till the time they didn’t get their dues. The SDM said the major issue of pending salaries had been resolved and the management had agreed to deposit Rs 5,000 in the account of the employees immediately.Spokesperson for the management said they hadn’t received payments due to the lockdown, and would clear the dues of employees soon. — OC
25-06-2020||Muktsar||Two nabbed with 24K pills in Muktsar||The Gidderbaha police have claimed to seize 24,000 sedative pills and Rs 16,000 cash from the possession of two persons.The accused have been identified as Chet Singh of Kuraiwala village, who was dismissed from his service at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, in 1997, and Manpreet Singh of Badhani village in Moga district.The police said they intercepted a car at Kuraiwala village and recovered the contraband from the vehicle. The police said Manpreet took five acres on lease at Virk Khera village to dodge them.A case under various Sections of the NDPS Act has been registered against the duo at Gidderbaha police station.Meanwhile, Muktsar Senior Superintendent of Police Rajbachan Singh Sandhu has marked a probe against two constables and transferred them to the police lines after coming to know that they had favoured the accused. — TNS
25-06-2020||Bathinda||Political storm over ‘auction’ of Bathinda thermal plant land||The state government’s decision to redevelop the land of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant has evoked strong reactions. With all major political parties opposing the alleged auction of the land, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal is claiming that the government is not selling the land, but setting up an industrial park there.Police foil AAP’s march to fm office in BathindaThe police on Wednesday used force to stop Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders from holding a protest march towards Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s office against the government’s decision to auction the land of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant. Huge barricades were put up at Fire Brigade Chowk. The march was led by AAP legislator Baljinder Kaur along with Budh Ram, Meet Hayer, Manjit Singh Bilaspur, former MP Sadhu Singh and other party leaders. The SDM, Bathinda, reached the spot and received a memorandum from the leaders.Farm unions, too, have expressed resentment over the move. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has announced to launch a statewide protest.The foundation stone of the power plant, the first in Punjab, was laid in 1969, when the nation was observing the 500th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. Its four units were built in five years between 1974 and 1979, at a cost of Rs 115 crore. Later, Rs 694 crore was spent on the renovation and modernisation of two units during 2012-14, when the capacity of the plant was raised from 440 MW to 460 MW.The plant was shut down in 2018 as per the modalities worked out by a sub-committee set up on August 24, 2017, for the closure of state-owned thermal plants in view of the Central Electricity Agency (CEA) guidelines to retire non-viable plants that had exceeded 25-year lifespan.Subsequently, another Cabinet sub-committee was set up on May18 to work out the modalities for redevelopingthe plant land.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said: “The state government should not act like a property dealer. It is strange that the government is dismantling the thermal plant on the 550th birth anniversary year of Guru Nanak. The government should find alternative ways like conversion into a biomass plant.”AAP MLA and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said: “We are against the auction of the land because a huge sum was spent on its renovation and its life was extended till 2031. Why did the government spend so much if it wanted to dismantle the plant?”Manpreet said: “Both SAD and AAP are spreading a false propaganda. The land is being utilised to set up the largest industrial park in Punjab. It will create numerous jobs for the youth. Not a single employee of the thermal plant — 1,057 regular, 131 outsourced, 665 contractual – has been dismissed despite the closure of the plant. They are still employees of the government.”
25-06-2020||Barnala||In Sangrur, Dalits allege foul play in land allotment||Alleging violation of norms in the allotment of reserved land (14.5 acres) via auction at Pakhon Kalan village, five Dalits climbed atop a water tank on Tuesday evening. Those sitting on the water tank include Birbal Singh, Kulvir Singh, Pargat Singh, Jagsir Singh and Varinder Singh.Earlier, the AAP MLA from Bhadaur, Pirmal Singh Dhaula, had protested at the Barnala DC office for two days while the SC Commission has sought records from officials concerned.“Upper caste landlords have taken the reserved land through some dummy bidders. As per norms, the Panchayat Department should allot this land to only those dalits who want to cultivate crops themselves,” said Harpal Singh, a resident of Pakhon Kalan.Some villagers said their panchayat had 12 members, including the sarpanch, while five members had been supporting Dalits.“To favour upper caste landlords, the Panchayat Department cancelled the auction on June 15 and 22, but completed the entire process on June 23 without issuing mandatory notices and informing those who had deposited security to bid for the reserved land,” said Harpal. Dhaula said officials concerned had been trying to alter the records. “The Punjab SC Commission has sought records from the Panchayat Department. I will meet commission members and share all the facts with them,” he said. Meanwhile, Barnala Block Development and Panchayat Officer Parvesh Goyal denied the allegations. “We have completed the auction of Pakhon Kalan reserved land as per the norms and maintained complete transparency. We have all the records,” said Goyal.
25-06-2020||Tribune Reporters||Protesting Lok Insaaf Party leaders booked||Phagwara/Muktsar, June 24The police on Wednesday booked Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leaders Simarjit Singh Bains, MLA, Atam Nagar, Ludhiana; Balwinder Singh Bains, MLA, Ludhiana South; Jarnail Nangal, Balbir Thakur, Shashi Bangar, Sukhdev Chaukria and Sukhwinder Singh Shergill under Section 188 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act.SSP, Kapurthala, Satinder Singh said the party leaders organised a cycle rally-cum-demonstration here in violation of the orders of the District Magistrate.Meanwhile, the police on Wednesday registered three cases for violation of social distancing norms in the town. The violations were detected with the help of drone cameras. The accused have been booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.
25-06-2020||Patiala||Plaint against web portal for ‘misusing’ details of students||A web portal has come under the scanner for allegedly using information and logos of government and government-aided institutions without consent and rerouting registration information of applicants to private institutes. Punjabi University and Multani Mal Modi College have now complained to the police and cyber crime cell requesting immediate action against the portal.Officials at Punjabi University said they had come across a portal which was using their information and logo without consent and was offering registration to students for their courses. An official said, “The applicant’s information, collected in the name of Punjabi University on the portal, is shared with private universities but we don’t get any intimation regarding it. The applicant is then contacted by private universities in Mohali, Chandigarh and Delhi via email and phone to convince them to take admission there.”Registrar Manjit Singh said, “We have submitted a complaint against the web portal with the SSP office in Patiala.” A similar complaint has been filed by Multani Mal Modi College as well.DSP, cyber crime cell, Patiala, Charanjiv Lamba, said, “I have forwarded the complaint by the college to the officials concerned. They will initiate requisite action in this regard.” — TNS
25-06-2020||Mohali||NIA court rejects British national Jaggi’s bail plea||The NIA court today rejected the bail application of British national Jagtar Singh Jaggi, alias Jaggi Johal, an accused in the attack on Hindu leader Amit Arora. The plea was rejected by Special Judge, NIA, Karunesh Kumar, in view of serious allegations against him.Jaspal Singh Manjhpur and Ranjodh Singh Sarao, counsels for Jaggi, told the court that he was being implicated in false cases. They argued that Johal was abroad when Hindu leaders were attacked in Punjab. They said the challan filed by the NIA in the court did not provide any concrete evidence against Jaggi. The defense counsels informed the court that Jaggi had been given clearance by the Punjab Police, but the case was recently handed over to the NIA. However, the NIA probe team could not prove any allegation against Jaggi in the challan. Therefore, the accused should be granted bail, they argued.Rejecting the defense arguments, the NIA counsel said there were serious allegations against the accused. Therefore, he should not be granted bail. The court, after hearing the arguments of both parties, rejected the bail application of the accused. — TNS
25-06-2020||Ropar||3 labourers found dead in Ropar village||Three labourers were found dead at a farm in Swaraha village in the Nurpur Bedi block here today. The deceased have been identified as Kesar Singh (50), a resident of Bhanuha village, and Ramu (50) and Shankar (55), residents of Majharia village in Bihar.SHO Jatin Kapoor said Sukhdev Singh (30), belonging to the native village of Ramu and Shankar, was also staying at the farm but was missing from the site. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against him. — TNS
25-06-2020||Patiala||‘Denied’ incentive, Asian Para Games medallist struggles to make ends meet||It seems the state government has forgotten one of its sporting heroes —Mohammed Yasser. A national record-holder, Yasser, a para-athlete, had won a bronze medal in shot put at the 2018 Para Asian Games held in Jakarta. Sans job and financial assistance, Yasser, a resident of Mohammadpur village, has been struggling to make both ends meet.As per the Sports Department’s 2018 policy, the government has to provide Rs 50 lakh as a cash incentive to bronze medallists of the Asian Games along with a job.Ironically, the 26-year-old para-athlete has not received the cash incentive and the job till date.At present, Yasser is under a debt of Rs 3 lakh. He took a loan to prepare for the 2018 Asian Games. Yasser was hopeful of repaying the loan after getting cash from the government.He said, “The Sports Department is making excuses for the past two years. I am not being allowed to meet the Sports Minister.”Yasser said, “The saddest part is that other athletes who took part in the same event (Asian Games) have been felicitated with a cash incentive, but para-athletes are yet to be honoured.”He said, “Every athlete works hard. We go through intensive training and have to adopt a completely different lifestyle. Para-athletes should be treated equally.” Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sports Minister, said the government would soon hold an event to felicitate para-athletes. He said, “Everything got delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.After combating the pandemic, we will honour our para-athletes.”
25-06-2020||Chandig.arh||Sangrur emerges hotspot as Punjab sees another spike||Sangrur is emerging as a new Covid hotspot in the state. After 62 new cases were detected there late last evening, another 19 persons tested positive today. Besides, the district reported another Covid death, taking the total number of fatalities to nine.Read also: The 63-year-old positive patient died last night, while he was being shifted to the civil hospital from Kanjhla village. Of the nine fatalities reported so far in the district, eight are from Malerkotla alone. Of the 19 new patients, 10 are from Malerkotla, six from Sangrur and three from Dhuri.Meanwhile, Amritsar district witnessed two deaths, while Jalandhar and Kapurthala reported one death each. The state witnessed another spike in the number of cases. Nearly 230 fresh cases, the highest rise since the Nanded pilgrims had tested positive, came to the fore on Wednesday, mostly from Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Amritsar. With this, the total count of Covid cases reached 4,627 and that of deaths 113.In Jalandhar, 43 new cases were reported, taking the total count of the district to 648. Earlier, the cases were reported from the congested areas of the city, but today 12 patients were from villages in Adampur, Nakodar and Kartarpur.In Ludhiana district, 34 more tested positive today. A patient from Gur Mandi, Jalandhar, who was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, died. In Amritsar, two more deaths have been reported, taking the toll to 34. The number of positive cases has risen to 844, after 13 fresh cases were reported in the evening (not included in the state bulletin).One of the deaths reported today is from the Katra Khazana area, which was earlier declared a containment zone. Two more micro-containment zones — Vrindavan Colony and Dhapai — were declared, taking the number of such zones in the city to five.
25-06-2020||Amritsar||GMC Amritsar conducts plasma therapy on two patients||In a first, Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, today started a trial to treat Covid patients with the convalescent plasma therapy.Under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) certified yet unproven treatment, the antibody-rich blood plasma of patients who have recovered from Covid is preserved for transfusion into moderately-ill patients.Hhow it worksUnder the treatment, the antibody-rich blood plasma of patients who have recovered from Covid is preserved for transfusion into moderately-ill patients.Dr Sujata Sharma, MS (Principal), GMC, Amritsar, said two recipients — one from Pathankot and the other from Amritsar — were administered the treatment during the early hours today. A recovered patient hailing from the Chheharta area had volunteered to donate the plasma.She said: “A follow-up on the patients’ condition will be done. Since the GMC is also enrolled by the ICMR under its pan-India project, a cumulative report will be submitted. The therapy is basically a randomised control trial to limit Covid-associated complications through plasma which is administered under strictly laid down conditions on moderately-ill patients only.” Dr Sharma said an injection, which cost around Rs 50,000 in the market, was also being tried on patients. “The government has provided the injection free of cost to us. We are observing the results,” she said.Ironically, in Amritsar, which has close to 800 Covid-positive cases and at least 500 recoveries, the authorities of the GMC are struggling to find plasma donors.It is learnt that the hospital has on its list over 20 persons who could donate their plasma, but despite repeated calls, only a few responded. Dr Sharma said efforts were on to convince the donors. “We have been motivating the identified patients who successfully recovered from Covid,” she said.
25-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Vigilance Bureau busts test report racket; 5 doctors booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 24The Vigilance Bureau has booked five doctors and a hospital owner on charges of murder bid, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corruption. They are accused of fleecing patients by issuing “wrong” Covid-positive reports.The bureau found at least seven persons, including a pregnant woman doctor, who were issued wrong reports of Covid infection. It also hinted at involvement of government officials and health staff in the racket. SSP (Vigilance) Parampal Singh said the matter was under investigation.Those booked were Dr Mohinder Singh, Dr Ridhum Tuli, Dr Sanjay Piplani, Dr Robin Tuli (all from Tuli Diagnostic Centre), Pawan Arora (EMC Hospital owner) and Dr Pankaj Soni of EMC Hospital.The controversy erupted after five Amritsar residents, including the pregnant woman doctor, were diagnosed Covid-positive following tests at Tuli Diagnostic Centre located on the Majitha road here. However, they tested negative when re-tests were conducted at Government Medical College’s (GMC) viral research and diagnostic laboratory.Sources said the accused used to target rich people, including NRIs. They deliberately used to give positive reports with the sole motive of extracting money in the name of Covid treatment, sources added.Vigilance sleuths said such persons were admitted to the isolation ward where Covid patients were under treatment. Three patients reportedly contracted infection due to that reason. Tuli Diagnostic Centre owner Dr Rohan Tuli and EMC Hospital owner Pawan Arora could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts.
25-06-2020||---||Withdraw farm ordinances: Punjab parties||Chandigarh, June 24At a meeting convened by Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh over the Centre’s ordinances on agriculture, all political parties, barring the SAD and BJP, unanimously decided to ask the government to withdraw the same, terming it as an “infringement on the rights of the states”. A resolution in this regard was passed after a five-hour video-conference.However, the SAD favoured legal opinion before contesting the issue. Party president Sukhbir Badal said they would be part of an all-party delegation that was to meet the PM on the issue, but only to “clear doubts” and for assurance that the MSP regime would stay. He accused the Congress of trying to politicise the issue.The CM said the Centre had issued the ordinances without waiting for the report of a committee formed under the Maharashtra CM. Dubbing the ordinances as “dangerous”, he warned that these would create an unprecedented crisis in Punjab. AAP Punjab unit chief and MP Bhagwant Mann said not only the farmers, but arhtiyas and small traders too would be impacted.Charging the Centre with benefiting private players under the Covid pretext, he said the move would ruin Punjab.“A delegation of representatives of all political parties led by the state CM will meet the Prime Minister and Union Agriculture Minister to convey their reservations on the anti-farmer legislations and urge them to immediately withdraw these in public interest”, the resolution passed at the meeting read.It said that agriculture and markets being state subjects under the Seventh Schedule, the ordinances were against the spirit of cooperative federalism. PPCC president Sunil Jakhar questioned the timing of the ordinances when the country was in the midst of the Covid crisis and a crumbling economy.BJP state president Ashwani Sharma denied any move to end the MSP regime. CPI state secretary Bant Singh Brar questioned the need of the ordinances when the time-tested marketing systems were working well. Citing the Anandpur Sahib resolution, SAD (Taksali) leader and MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said the ordinances were meant to weaken the federal structure. “The concerns regarding the MSP are valid and the BJP needs to address these,” he said. CPI (M) state secretary Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon said the MSP regime, without mandis and the FCI, would be of no use to the farmers.
