25-05-2020||Patiala||Health department changes strategy of corona testing: Sets off random sampling||Changing the strategy, the health department will now conduct random coronavirus tests for all the high-risk communities including doctors, police personnel and government employees to check the spread of the virus.Earlier, the health department was testing symptomatic patients, high-risk contacts of positive patients, and people with travel history.As per the revised strategy, the health department will also test all the arrested persons by the police.Along with this, jail inmates will also be tested, said the health department.Health department informed that high-risk government employees of health department, rural development, urban local government, food and supplies, mandi board, and procurement agencies will be randomly tested.For this, the health department would make a strategy for taking stratified samples (i.e. random samples after creating strata) of population-based on risk characteristics e.g. age, income, population, travel history, property, the density of the residential area, contact intensity at work, medical history etc.Besides, people working in the congested fruit market, wholesale market, retail stores and banks would also be tested for the virus. Notably, an ASHA worker was tested positive for the coronavirus during the random testing, last week.  Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, informed that they have already conducted random sampling of the more than 100 health workers and undertrials as per the revised strategy.He informed that they were also testing pregnant women and symptomatic individuals in highly vulnerable populations like slum areas, brick-kilns where there is a high probability of spread of disease.Meanwhile, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “Today, we collected samples of many personnel along with other high-risk contacts. We are taking samples of the frontline workers as directed by the state health department. The aim is to stem the spread of the virus.”
25-05-2020||Jalandhar||MLA Sukhpal Khaira arrested for violating lockdown norms in Jalandhar||Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira was detained on Monday by the Jalandhar police while he was at the Desh Bhagat Yadhgaar Hall to hold a candle march in support of kabaddi player Arvinderjit Singh Pehalwan in Jalandhar.The march was being held today to “demand justice for Arvinder Pehalwan killed by police”.30 persons, including Khaira, were booked under Section 188 of the IPC and 31(2) of Disaster Management Act and 3(2) of Epidemic Disease Act for organising candle march without prior permission.Messages had also been sent out on WhatsApp seeking support for the march.His detention comes hours after he held a press conference at Jalandhar demanding a CBI enquiry into “politician-drug-liquor mafia nexus damaging the youth of Punjab”.He sought enquiry into revelations made by a recent ‘chitta’ peddler arrested at Kapurthala, alleging that he was close to a senior Congress leader.During the press conference, Khaira also alleged that the murder of kabaddi player Arvinder Pehalwan was also connected to the illegal liquor sale mafia.Earlier in the day, he also sent across messages stating, “I’m surprised that despite assuring Jalandhar administration that we’ll maintain proper social distancing norms, the government is hell bent not to allow peaceful candle light march at Desh Bhagat Yadgaar hall at 5 pm. This amounts to gagging our voice to speak against police brutality. I request you to please be present at 5 pm to highlight the dictatorial attitude of the police.”Speaking to The Tribune, Khaira said, “I was holding a peaceful march along with 15 to 20 of my supporters within norms. We have been brought to the police station number 4. Currently we have been detained here.”  SHO police station number 4 Rashpal Singh said, “30 to 35 people were holding a candle march at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall in violation of lockdown norms and without any social distancing. No permission had been sought from the police for the same. They can’t hold a march without the permission of the Deputy Commissioner.”
25-05-2020||Batala||24-year-old Akali leader shot dead in Punjab’s Batala||A 24-year-old local Akali leader was allegedly shot dead after an argument in Batala, Punjab, the police said on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Manjot.The incident took place on Sunday evening at Chak Kulian village when Manjot and his two friends tried to stop Joginder Singh from filling a pond with sand.The issue led to an altercation between Manjot and Joginder.In the meantime, Joginder’s son Gurdeep Singh brought a pistol from his home and allegedly fired at Manjot and his friends, a relative of the victim alleged. Local Akali leader Ravi Karan Singh Kahlon alleged that Gurdeep is a Congress worker. Gurdeep is an advocate by profession.Deputy Superintendent of Police Balbir Singh ruled out any political motive behind the killing.The victim’s friends, Lovedeep Singh (35) and Arshpreet Singh (18), too, sustained bullet injuries, the police said.Batala Senior Superintendent of Police Opinderjit Singh Ghumman said a case had been registered against Gurdeep Singh, Joginder Singh and three others under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and the Arms Act.No arrest has been made so far, the police said. PTI
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to home-quarantine asymptomatic domestic travellers for 14 days||All domestic travellers entering Punjab who are found asymptomatic or test negative will have to remain under home quarantine for 14 days, new guidelines issued by the Punjab government said.The rule applies to all modes of domestic transport, including air and train.International travellers however will have to compulsorily undergo institutional quarantine for at least seven days.The revised guidelines replace the old ones for domestic and international travellers and offer some new relaxations.International travellersThe new rules for international travellers, people entering Punjab through airport or seaport/ or landport will have to hand in a self-declaration with their personal and health details to the state and will be screened at their entry.The passengers found to be symptomatic during screening will be taken to a health facility for testing. If they test positive, they would be sent to Covid Care Centres. Asymptomatic passengers and those testing negative could be taken into paid institutional quarantine (government/hotel quarantine) on payment basis and will have to undergo test on the fifth day.If they test negative, they can go home at the end of seven days but will be asked to home quarantine themselves and monitor their own health for a further week. They will have to submit a written undertaking about this to health officials, the guidelines say.Those who test positive will be taken to a government isolation facility. Only under exceptional circumstances such as pregnancy or death of an immediate family member or severe mental illness will a deputy commissioner allow them to quarantine themselves at home. The state health department must be informed of such cases, the guidelines say.Domestic travellersIn case of domestic travellers, they will be screened at the state’s entry points and those found to have COVID-19 symptoms will be taken to a health facility for testing. From there, those who test positive will be sent to a Covid Care Centre. Those found asymptomatic or testing negative will be allowed to go home after submitting an undertaking that they would quarantine themselves for 14 days, monitor their own health and report to the nearest facility if they show any symptoms for COVID-19.  COVA app is mandatory for all such passengers.Frequent interstate travellers who need to travel out of Punjab, such as MP/MLA, salespersons, transporters, doctors, journalists, executives, engineers, traders, and consultants, need not undergo home quarantine.Deputy Commissioners and Sub-Divisional Magistrates will issue passes to such people after they undertake to self-monitor their health and will inform the administration of any symptoms.Those test positive but are asymptomatic will be kept in Covid Care Centres provided they are below than 60 years and have no comorbidities.Those who test positive and need medical supervision (those over 60 or show severe symptoms or have any associated co-morbidity) will be moved to Level II or level III facility depending on their medical condition.
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hosts lunch for Manpreet Badal, Charanjit Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hosted lunch for Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi at his Siswan farmhouse on Monday.The lunch assumes significance in light of the alleged misbehaviour by Chief Secretary Karan Avtar with ministers.It is being assumed that lunch has paved way for rapprochement between the top bureaucrat and the ministers. It was Manpreet Singh Badal along with Channi and Sukhjinder Randhawa who had abruptly ended a meeting on excise after alleged misbehaviour of the officer.A cabinet meeting is expected to be called in the coming days by the Chief minister to officially bury the hatchet between the minister and the top bureaucrat.On May 21, the chief minister had hosted lunch for Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and Gidderbaha MLA Raja Warring, who led a bitter attack on Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh on Twitter.Sources in the government claimed that the chief minister’s luncheon diplomacy paid off and the standoff between the ministers and the Chief Secretary was now over. A cabinet meeting is expected to be called in the coming days by the chief minister to officially bury the hatchet between the minister and the top bureaucrat.
25-05-2020||New Delhi||Wheat procurement surpasses last year's figures; Punjab leads||Procurement of wheat by government agencies this year surpassed last year’s figures of 341.31 Lakh Metric Tonnes (LMT) to touch 341.56 LMT as on May 24, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said on Monday.Overcoming impediments created due to the spread of COVID-19 virus, country-wide lockdown and other issues, the ministry said the figure surpasses last year’s procurement by 25,000 tonnes Punjab is leading with 125.84 LMT followed by Madhya Pradesh and HaryanaWheat harvesting generally starts towards end of March and procurement commences in the first week of April every year. However, with the imposition of national lockdown on March 23, all operations came to a standstill. Since the crop was already ready for harvesting, the central government gave relaxation to start agricultural and related activities during the lockdown period and the procurement could start from April 15 in most of the procuring states, officials saidIn Haryana it started a little later on April 20.Officials say their biggest challenge was to ensure procurement is done safely during the pandemic, which was achieved through a multi-pronged strategy of awareness creation, social distancing and deployment of technology. Number of purchase centres was increased substantially reducing the farmer footfalls in individual purchase centres. New centres were set up using every facility available at gram panchayat level and the numbers were increased sharply in the major procuring states like Punjab where it went up from 1836 to 3681, 599 to 1800 in Haryana and from 3545 to 4494 in Madhya Pradesh. Farmers were provided specific dates and slots using technology to bring their produce, which helped in avoiding crowding. Strict social distancing norms were followed and sanitization activities were undertaken regularly. In Punjab, every farmer was allotted specific spaces earmarked for dumping of stocks and no one else was allowed to enter those areas. Only people who were directly associated were allowed to be present during daily auctions.Apart from virus there were other challenges this time. As all the Jute mills were closed, production of bags used for filling stopped, creating a major crisis. This was tackled by using more plastic bags, supplemented by used bags with very strict quality conditions.Then unseasonal rains in all major producing states led  to wheat getting exposed to water. This posed a major threat to the farmers as such stocks could not be procured under normal specifications. “Government of India and Food Corporation of India (FCI) intervened immediately and after conducting detailed scientific analysis, specifications were re-fixed to ensure that no farmer is put to distress while making sure that the produce so procured meets the minimum quality requirements of the consumers,” they said.Third challenge was the tight labour supply position as well as the general fear created among the masses about the virus. This was addressed by taking a series of confidence-building measures at the local level by the state administration. Total procurement 341.56 LMTPunjab - 125.84 LMTMadhya Pradesh - 113.38 LMTHaryana- 70.65 LMTUttar Pradesh- 20.39 LMTRajasthan- 10.63 LMTUttarakhand- 0.31LMTGujarat -0.21LMTChandigarh -0.12LMTHimachal Pradesh -0.03 LMT
25-05-2020||---||Punjab reports 21 fresh cases; tally rises to 2,081||Chandigarh, May 25With 21 fresh cases reported on Monday, the total number of cases in the state has reached to 2081.As per the media bulletin released on Monday, 10 cases were reported from Amritsar, followed by Jalandhar with six cases and one each in Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, SAS Nagar and Sangrur.In Amritsar, with 10 new cases reported by the state media bulletin, the total count of COVID-19 patients has increased to 329.These patients include an Afghanistan-returned man, Aligarh-returned woman, five contacts of the earlier positive cases, one person arrested by police in a criminal case (he was tested before being presented in court), a male resident of Batala Road and Palm GardenOf the 10, the last three are cases with no travel history or contact with a positive case.Punjab’s total #Covid19 cases stands at 2081 with only 128 active cases. Today, 21 new cases were reported & 15 recovered patients were discharged. 2 patients are on oxygen support & 1 on ventilator. Let us all remain vigilant & take full precautions to triumph in #MissionFateh. pic.twitter.com/3OYqDWEz2v  Apart from the media bulletin, the local administration has reported six more cases. These include four family members of an earlier positive case from Rani Ka Bagh area and two family members of the Palm Garden area patient.As per the local administration, the total count has increased to 335.In Patiala, a 20-year-old pregnant woman tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The woman, who lives in Rajpura, has already been shifted to the isolation ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital.Meantime, the Patiala Health Department informed that the woman had returned from New Delhi on May 19. During her regular check-up for pregnancy, she was screened for COVID-19.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the Rapid Response Teams had been already pressed into the job to trace all possible contacts of the positive lady.As per the state Health Department, samples of 66,142 suspected cases have been sent for testing so far. Of them, as many as 60,114 samples were found negative while reports of 3,968 were still awaited.In the state, a total of 1,913 patients have been discharged so far after the treatment. Now, only 128 active cases are left.Total tested samples stands at 67,213; reported negative are 62,686; reports awaited 2,446; positive cases 2,081; cured 1,813, and 40 deaths reported in the state to date.
25-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr cremated with full state honours||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr was cremated with full state honours at the Sector 25 electric crematorium here on Monday.The three-time gold medallist at the Olympics died this morning at a Mohali hospital. He was 96.One of the greatest hockey players of all time, Balbir Singh Sr had been battling several age-related health problems for over a couple of weeks. He breathed his last at 6.17 am.Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi and senior officials of Punjab Government and Chandigarh administration attended the funeral of the iconic athlete and laid wreaths on his mortal remains.Sodhi said Singh's demise was a big blow for the nation as a whole. He also said the hockey stadium in Mohali would be named after the champion player.Former Indian hockey team captain Pargat Singh was also present at the funeral.Balbir Singh Sr was under observation at a private hospital in Mohali after suffering a cardiac arrest earlier this month. He was admitted to the hospital in a very serious state with multiple organ failure due to bronchial pneumonia. While in hospital, he had suffered back-to-back mild cardiac arrests.He was on ventilator support since May 12 and had tested negative for Covid-19.The veteran Olympian had tweeted a message on April 5 praying for safety of all amidst Covid-19 outbreak#StayHomeStaySafe #PrayersToTheAlmighty pic.twitter.com/P6Jr5F56iB  Last year also he spent 108 days in a Respiratory Intensive Care Unit (RICU) due to bronchial pneumonia at PGIMER.He lived with his daughter Sushbir Bhomia and grandson Kabir Singh Bhomia at his Sector 36 residence in Chandigarh.One of the country's greatest athletes, Balbir Singh Sr was the only Indian among 16 legends chosen by the International Olympic Committee across the modern Olympics history. His world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men's hockey final of the Olympics remains unbeaten. The hockey great had scored five goals in India's 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games. He was conferred with the Padma Shri in 1957 and was the manager of India's World Cup-winning team in 1975.
25-05-2020||---||Jalandhar Passport Seva Kendra set to resume operations from tomorrow||Jalandhar, May 24To facilitate the general public, the Government of India has decided to resume the functioning of Passport Seva Kendra (PSK Jalandhar-I) in Eminent Mall, Near Guru Nanak Mission Chowk from Tuesday, Regional Passport Officer, Jalandhar, Raj Kumar Bali said on Sunday.He said the PSK would resume its functioning from Tuesday with its 50 per cent appointments in normal category. Likewise, he said for enquiry purpose, 50 per cent online enquiry appointments have also been released for the Passport Main Office, adding that Tatkal applications were still suspended till further orders.Bali said Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) in Hoshiarpur was already functioning since May 6. He advised applicants to adhere to social-distancing norms while visiting PSKs. He said the applicants must wear a mask, carry sanitiser, download and install “Aarogya Setu” app and follow government’s social-distancing norms.
25-05-2020||---||Appeal for financial assistance to ailing kid||Ludhiana, May 24Jasleen Kaur (age 5 years 5 months) is undergoing treatment in the Department of Pediatrics, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana. Her parents Paramjit Singh (father) and Preeti Kaur (mother) are residents of Sunam in Sangrur District.Paramjit Singh works as a daily wage earner and does not have enough resources for the treatment of his ailing child. They have spent whatever they had to save their child. Now, they are fervently appealing to the people of Ludhiana to raise funds for the treatment of their child.According to doctors, the patient complained of acute pain in stomach and problem in indigestion also. Her stomach was also swollen and on examination and diagnosis, it was found that Jasleen is suffering for Neuroblastoma, which is a kind of cancer that develops from immature nerve cells found in several areas of the body, which requires chemotheraphy, followed by surgery and radiation procedure (if need arises).An approximated whole cost of treatment is estimated to be around Rs 4-5 lakhs.Anyone willing to donate for the treatment of this child can make the payment through cheque or draft in the favour of ‘Dayanand Medical College and Hospital’ with ‘Treatment of Jasleen Kaur’ along with MRD No 925775 on the backside of the cheque/draft.
25-05-2020||---||Now, make non-medical safety face masks at home||Ludhiana, May 24The lockdown curbs might have been eased but social distancing and wearing a mask have become mandatory these days.The goal of using a mask is to contain the spread of infection and prevent the individual from contracting any airborne infectious germs. Instead of buying medical masks from the market, people can prepare masks easily at their homes.The masks are crucial for health and social care workers looking after patients and are also recommended for family members who are taking care of any ill person, said Rajdeep Kaur and Manisha Sethi, Scientist, Research Fellow Department of Apparel and Textile Science Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana.“Instead of buying medical masks, people should prefer making their own masks at home,” they added. Rajdeep Kaur further said synthetic, polyester or spandex fabric should be avoided because virus has the ability to survive on the surface of these fabrics.The fabric used for making mask should be densely woven, of thick material. Little light should pass through the fabric. It can also have multiple layers of fabric, but also allow breath without restriction, added Manisha Sethi. The mask should be washed and ironed properly before each use. It should be taken off by removing the elastics or straps from behind ears. The front of mask should not be touched with hands.As per Apparel and Textile Science deptMaterial required: Procedure:
25-05-2020||New Delhi||IMD issues ‘red alert’ for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana||With temperatures surpassing the 45° Celsius-mark across several parts in north India, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a “red” warning for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan for the next two days.The IMD has also issued an “orange” alert for heatwave for east Uttar Pradesh, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre.He cautioned that temperatures could soar up to 47° Celsius in some parts over the next two or three days.This was also for the first time this summer season that a red warning had been issued for heatwave, Srivastava said. — PTI
25-05-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Economic package gives no hope, losses huge: Hoteliers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 24Giving a thumps down to the economic stimulus package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last week, the Punjab Hotel Association has demanded a bailout package for the hospitality sector.Satish Arora, president of the association, said: “The hospitality sector, which provides jobs to many, has faced a huge loss in the past couple of months. It is disappointing that the state government has not announced a package for reviving the sector.”Moreover, what may be termed as a double whammy for the hoteliers, a majority of the NRIs coming back under the Vande Bharat scheme have opted out of paid quarantine, leaving many hotels under heavy losses, he said.As per the plan, hotels had readied around 3,750 rooms, but so far less than 10 per cent rooms have been rented out to NRIs in the state.Arora said the Union Government should announce a bailout package for the sector immediately, including deferment of all statutory liabilities such as EMIs to a minimum of 12 months at the Central, state and municipal levels and subsidise employment for three months, contributing 50 per cent of the salary per employee.Further, he demanded that lease, licence, rentals and excise fee as well as property tax should be suspended from March 11 till the end of Covid pandemic, enable GST collected to be used as working capital for six months and utility costs such as electricity to be charged on actual versus the load.“Along with the losses, we now have the major issue of labour (migrant workers) as most of the staff working in hotels hailed from Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar and they have left for their hometowns,” Arora added.
25-05-2020||
||14 lakh people to receive dry ration in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 24 To continue providing immediate relief to residents during Covid, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has decided to distribute dry ration packets among 14 lakh persons. The packets would contain 10-kg atta, 1-kg grams and 1-kg sugar each. This is in addition to 15 dry ration packets already distributed in the state. The Centre had recently directed the state to provide dry ration to 14 lakh persons, including stranded labourers, who were not covered under other schemes of the National Food Security Act or the state Public Distribution Scheme (PDS). Though the state had identified 26 lakh persons who were not covered under the PDS, the Centre arrived at a figure of 14 lakh persons. There are 1.41 crore beneficiaries under the state PDS. Besides, the state has decided no tax would be charged on commercial vehicles from March 23 to May 19. Transport tax for ordinary buses has been reduced by 5%.
25-05-2020||---||Ensure migrants not forced to walk home: CM to officials||Chandigarh, May 24Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed the Deputy Commissioners and district police chiefs to ensure that no migrant was forced to walk home to any other state or remain hungry while in Punjab.‘Units resume ops’In the past few days, around two-thirds of the industrial units in the state have resumed operations, following which the number of persons keen to travel out of Punjab has reduced considerably.—Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterReacting to reports regarding their plight, the Chief Minister said any migrant found walking on the road should be transported by bus by the police to the nearest place from where he could board a train or bus to his native state.Even as 300 Shramik special trains have left the state carrying 3.9 lakh migrants to Uttar Pradesh and other states, the Chief Minister told the civil and police officials that till the migrants left Punjab, they should be provided food and water.“Punjab is your karma-bhoomi, even if it is not your janambhoomi,” said the Chief Minister to the migrants, appealing to them not to try to undertake arduous journey on foot to their native place as the state was making all necessary arrangements for their travel.The state government has already paid Rs20 crore to the Railways for travel of migrant workers to their respective states.The Chief Minister said more than 10 lakh persons had registered on the state portal for outbound movement from Punjab. “But in the past few days, around two-thirds of the industrial units in the state have commenced operations, following which the number of persons keen to travel out of Punjab has reduced considerably,” he said.
25-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||Gurbani, namaz at Malerkotla gurdwara||Tribune News Service Sangrur, May 24 Setting another example of communal harmony, namaz and Gurbani were performed simultaneously in Gurdwara Sahib Haa Da Naara in Muslim-majority Malerkotla.  Members of the gurdwara management committee, Namdhari Mission, Sanatan Dharam and police organised an Iftar party for Muslims on Saturday night while observing social distancing. “The Gurbani was being recited in the main hall of the gurdwara, while namaz was being performed in another hall. The purpose of organising Iftar party was to reconfirm that we are all united,” said Narinderpal Singh, head granthi of the gurdwara. Members of the Muslim community said they had been visiting the historic gurdwara since their birth.  It is not for the first time that the gurdwara has taken steps to strengthen ties with the Muslims. After the lockdown was imposed in March, the gurdwara management committee had started serving langar to a local madrassa, where students of other states were stuck. Besides, the gurdwara served langar to around 1,000 needy residents of the city during the lockdown.  “We have defeated Covid in Punjab because we have the blessings of all religions. The last night’s Iftar party was another example of communal brotherhood,” said Manjit Singh Brar, SP Malerkotla.
25-05-2020||Sameer Singh||Sales freeze, ice cream makers feel Covid heat||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 24The sale of ice-cream has nosedived amid the lockdown in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. After remaining out of business during the peak season, ice cream manufacturers in the state are worried as sales are not picking up even now.The manufacturers said their sales had declined up to 60 to 70 per cent in the current season and with hotels and palaces remaining closed and weddings and other functions becoming a low-key affair, their losses were mounting with every passing day.They said apart from the lockdown, the spread of misinformation on social media platforms regarding consumption of ice cream had impacted their business prospects.Talking to The Tribune, Kuldeep Jindal, president of the Ice Cream Manufacturers’ Association, Punjab, said, “The industry has suffered a big jolt this season. The losses can be pegged at crores of rupees.”Amanpreet Singh, a wholesaler of ice cream in Ludhiana, said, “Two months of peak season are already gone. I have suffered huge losses as I could sell only 25 per cent of the total production from what was sold last season.”“Losses could have been mitigated had rumour-mongers not spread misinformation. Media should spread the right information on consumption of ice cream else we will be doomed,” he added.Naresh Kumar, an ice cream manufacturer in Bathinda, said, “With sales not picking up, the finished product is lying in cold storages now. If not sold on time, it may become uneatable.” There are more than 500 ice cream-manufacturing units in the state. There are around 12 ice cream makers in Bathinda, 15 in Patiala, 60 in Ludhiana and 10 in Jalandhar.
25-05-2020||Jalandhar||Revoke clinical Act or face protest: IMA||Perturbed over the imposition of the Punjab Clinical Establishment Act, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, has decided to protest against the government and shut health services to demand its withdrawal.The government council of the IMA, Punjab, held a meeting in Ludhiana today wherein local branch presidents and secretaries participated online. Dr Paramjit Mann, Secretary, IMA, Punjab, said, “We discussed the situation arising out of the imposition of the Act under the cover of a fight against Covid-19. It was decided that if the Act was not withdrawn, the IMA, Punjab, will hit the roads and even go for a shutdown. Any harmful effect on public health will be the responsibility of the government.”Dr Mann said, “Every member condemned the action of the Punjab Government and questioned the Act’s timing when the private sector is fighting the battle along with its government colleagues. The Act was notified through an ordinance even before the proposed draft was discussed in the joint committee constituted by the Health Minister. We fail to understand why the Principal Secretary (Health) was in a hurry when the priority is to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.” — TNS
25-05-2020||Fazilka||Space crunch in Fazilka  godown, bags of wheat lying in the open||No bag of wheat has been lifted from the grain market here for the past about one week because of the shortage of storage space in the warehouse.Sources say out of 89,453 metric tonnes of wheat that was brought to the grain market, 20,371 MT procured by government agencies is yet to be lifted. This means 4.07 lakh bags of wheat (each weighing 50 kg) have been lying in the open in the grain market.With the temperature hovering around 40 degree Celsius, wheat has started drying up. Result: loss of weight of the produce. Effect: financial loss to arhtiyas.How? If the weight of the 50-kg bag is reduced to, say, 47 kg after being exposed to sunlight for a long duration, arhtiyas get paid for 47 kg and not for 50 kg.“Commission agents are at the receiving end. They have to bear the financial loss arising out of difference in weight of bags of wheat,” said Om Parkash Setia, president of the arhtiyas’ association.A delegation of the association met the DC on Sunday to apprise him of their problems. The DC assured commission agents of getting the bags lifted soon. — OC‘Probe seed scam’Chandigarh: The SAD on Sunday urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to direct the police to act against dealers accused of selling spurious paddy seeds of breeder varieties to farmers at inflated rates. Former minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said even though an FIR was registered on May 11, no follow-up action was taken. TNS
25-05-2020||Archit Watts||FAO warns of locust attack in Punjab again, eight districts on alert||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 24The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has issued a warning that hopper groups in Pakistan will move to desert areas along the India-Pakistan border and this is expected to be supplemented by several waves of swarms coming from the spring-breeding areas in June.The Agriculture Department has issued directions to the Deputy Commissioners of Bathinda, Muktsar, Fazilka, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts in this regard.Talking to The Tribune, Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture, said, “After getting the FAO’s warning, we have issued fresh directions to DCs of eight districts to activate control rooms at the district headquarters, hold regular coordination meetings of revenue, agriculture and locust control officers, form teams for field surveys, conduct meetings of village heads to brief them about the serious forecasts of locust incursion and identify places in coordination with the BSF and other officials. Teams will be deployed which will assist in establishing temporary camps with basic facilities, including boarding and lodging in border and remote areas in light of the Covid-19 pandemic.”Notably, in the past few months, locusts have attacked fields in Roopnagar and Bareka villages in Fazilka district, bordering Pakistan. However, the locusts were killed with the help of locals and district administration.On May 13, a big swarm of locusts had attacked three villages in Fazilka. Further, some locusts were spotted in Muktsar district in January this year.Meanwhile, the Agriculture Department has set up a control room and appointed a joint director as the nodal officer.The FAO’s letter has clearly stated that the current situation and forecast are alarming as locust infestations are expected to extend to other areas in the Horn of Africa and Southwest Asia.
25-05-2020||Patiala||Doctors: Give stipend on par with other states||Resident doctors, who are among the frontline health workers in fighting the Covid pandemic, will be sporting black ribbons as a mark of protest as, they claim, the Punjab Government has not increased their stipend. They will start a silent protest on Monday over the “lackadaisical” attitude of the Medical Education Department in fulfilling their demand. Resident doctors, however, have decided not to skip their Covid duty. They receive Rs49,000 as stipend every month. The resident doctors said their stipend was not on par with that of their counterparts in other states. Junior resident doctors in Haryana and Delhi were getting stipend between Rs80,000 and Rs1 lakh, the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of Patiala and Amritsar said.  They also said the stipend was not commensurate with the work they had been doing.  Dr Nitin Chabhra, president of the Patiala’s RDA, said: “We are working tirelessly to fight the virus, but the government’s attitude towards our demand makes us feel ignored.” — TNS
25-05-2020||---||60-yr-old Amritsar man dies, kin test +ve||Chandigarh, May 24With 15 fresh cases of Covid-19 coming to the fore today, the state’s count has reached 2,060. Besides, one more death was reported in Amritsar, which has taken the toll to 40.A 60-year-old male patient from Katra Dullo died at Government Medical College in Amritsar late last night. The deceased, identified as Varun Mehra, was in a critical condition, said an official. His wife and two sons were also tested positive.As per the media bulletin, seven cases were reported from Pathankot, four Hoshiarpur, two Gurdaspur and one each from Jalandhar and Amritsar. Among the seven patients in Pathankot, six are contacts of already positive persons.After the release of the bulletin, five more cases were reported in Amritsar. The new cases include two patients with no travel history or contact with any previously tested positive case. One of them is an accused in a criminal case, who is in police custody, and another a 45-year-old man from Rani Ka Bagh. The other patients include an Afghanistan returnee, a woman who recently returned from Aligarh and the brother (contact) of a positive patient from Chananke village.As per the Health Department, so far, samples of 66,142 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 60,114 were found negative and reports of 3,968 were awaited.At least 1,898 patients have been discharged after treatment. There are now just 122 active cases in the state.
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab issues health advisory for salons||The Health Department on Sunday issued a detailed advisory for maintaining hygiene and sanitisation at barber shops and salons. All clients should be asked to avail services unaccompanied unless necessary (such as parent/guardian). It should be ensured by the owners that there is no unnecessary crowding, an official said. Further, clients must use a mask to the extent possible while availing the services. Owners and staff working in such shops will also have to wear a mask. All guidelines related to the prevention of Covid-19 must be complied with, the advisory states. — TNS
25-05-2020||
||COVA app sees 23 lakh downloads in two months||Chandigarh, May 24 A team of the Department of Governance Reforms and Public Grievances, comprising general manager Vinesh Gautam, senior consultants Jasminder Pal Singh and Manpreet, launched the ‘Punjab COVA’ app in March this year. Till date, the app has witnessed 23 lakh downloads.  This made Punjab the first state to launch a Covid-19 digital app. As many as 11 states have requested for access to logins to the COVA app and dashboard so that they can use the features of the application to manage services in their respective states, said Vini Mahajan, ACS, Governance Reforms and Public Grievances. Mahajan said the IT team had been tasked to build and implement technology solutions to help the state government in this difficult phase. The entire team worked relentlessly to develop unique solutions through its dedicated and innovative approach. She said over time, the team had built unique features in the app that had helped citizens access essential services and medical assistance, enabled district administrations enforce the lockdown, trace contact history of every infected individual and allowed decision makers get real-time updates of Covid-19 figures from 22 districts.
25-05-2020||---||Man strangled by family for ‘bid to rape’ daughter||Ludhiana, May 24A 45-year-old man, who allegedly tried to rape his 15-year-old daughter, was strangled to death by his wife, daughter and son at Mahavir Jain Colony here last night.The deceased has been identified as Raj Kishore, a mason by profession. The police have registered a case against the deceased’s wife Geeta, minor son and daughter.As per the police, the incident took place last night when Raj Kishore came home in an inebriated state and reportedly attempted to rape his daughter. When his wife intervened, he thrashed her and again tried to physically assault his daughter.His wife told the cops that enraged over her husband’s act, they strangled him using a piece of wire. She claimed that her husband had tried to rape their daughter earlier as well.The police said the accused had solemnised second marriage with Geeta, who was a divorcee and had a son and a daughter from the first marriage. The couple together had a daughter and two sons. Their daughter was 15 years old and the accused had been trying to assault her.The Daresi police are yet to make any arrest in the case. Sources said the woman herself approached the police station and informed them about the crime.
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panel writes to Chief Secretary on crime against women in Punjab||The Punjab State Commission for Women has requested Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh to direct Deputy Commissioners to do the needful in cases of crime against women where mothers were separated from their newborns.In a letter addressed to the Chief Secretary, Manisha Gulati, Chairperson of the commission, pointed out that some deputy commissioners were not acting on complaints of mothers separated from their infants. The DCs needed to act under the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956, the Chairperson said. — TNS
25-05-2020||Our Correspondent 
||Heroin worth Rs10 cr seized in Ferozepur||Ferozepur, May 24 Pakistan-based smugglers continue their efforts to push drugs inside the Indian territory by exploiting the riverine gaps along the border in this sector. In the latest seizure, BSF troops, belonging to the 136th Battalion, today recovered 2-kg heroin worth Rs10 crore near the Shame Ke border outpost. Sources said the consignment was being smuggled through the water channel with help of two plastic bottles concealed in water hyacinth. Yesterday, 1-kg heroin was recovered which was concealed in a 1.5-litre plastic bottle. On May 22, 1.9-kg heroin worth Rs10 crore along with a pistol (9 mm), 280-gm opium, a magazine and five live rounds was recovered by BSF sleuths. In all, 168.5-kg heroin has been recovered by the BSF in Punjab this year.
25-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Court should not engage in social mores||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a court hearing protection pleas by runaway couples was not required to deliver sermons on morality or human behaviour, and a groom who tied the knot with an underage bride would not part ways with their right to seek protection of life and liberty“It is not for this court in a protection petition to engage itself in social mores, norms and human behaviour or introduce personal ideas on morality. Even if it is assumed that the girl is minor, it must be remembered that in the Hindu Marriage Act, 1956, marriage of a minor girl is not void, but voidable on reaching the marriageable age,” Justice Rajiv Narain Raina ruled. The runaway couple had moved the High Court against the state government and other respondents, claiming that they both were adults. In an attempt to substantiate their contentions, their counsel annexed Aadhaar cards, indicating that the girl was born in 2002 and the boy in 1997. The counsel added that the petitioners were apprehending arrest, besides bodily harm and injury. Directions, as such, were required to be issued to Chandher police station in Amritsar district to protect their life and liberty. The state counsel, on the other hand, submitted the girl was a minor and an FIR had already been registered. Justice Raina asserted the girl’s age was in dispute. Yet the prayer was based on Article 21 of the Constitution.Justice Raina directed the Amritsar SSP to personally look into the matter and offer help consistent with their safety.
25-05-2020||Sangrur||Sidhu Moosewala case: 4 cops seek anticipatory bail||Four policemen, who have been suspended in the Sidhu Moosewala case, have moved anticipatory bail applications in a local court. The court has issued a notice to the state for May 26. “Assistant Sub-inspector (ASI) Balkar Singh, head constable Gurjinder Singh, and constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh have filed anticipatory bail applications,” said advocate Sumir Fatta, the counsel for the cops. The accused face arrest after sections of the Arms Act were added to the FIR. On May 4, social media was abuzz with a video in which Moosewala was seen firing from an official assault rifle at a shooting range in Barnala’s Badbar village. Policemen were also seen standing near Moosewala.  The same day, a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act was registered against Moosewala and five policemen. — TNS
25-05-2020||Archit Watts
||Prices of direct paddy seeders go up||Tribune News Service Muktsar, May 24 To overcome the problem of labour crunch, a majority of farmers are opting for direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique rather than going for the traditional method of paddy transplantation. As a result, the prices of tractor-operated direct paddy seeders have gone up by 60-80 per cent. After failing to keep a check on the price of tractor-operated seeders, the state Agriculture Department has advised the farmers to replace two freewheels (gararis) by zero till drills, which are used to sow both wheat and paddy crop. Hardeep Singh, a farmer of Gurusar village in Gidderbaha subdivision, said, “Earlier, some farmers from our village had bought direct paddy seeders for Rs40,000. However, the prices have now gone up to Rs65,000 to Rs70,000. Manufacturers are fleecing the farmers amid Covid crisis.” An official of the Agriculture Department said most of the factories selling spare parts remained closed in Ludhiana and other towns, leading to the hike in prices. “Under the sub-mission agricultural mechanisation, a 40 per cent subsidy is given on the new direct paddy seeders,” he said. Jalour Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Muktsar, said, “Factories supplying farm implements have opened, but are facing labour shortage. It was also learnt that the supply of iron was affected in the recent past, leading to a surge in its price. We have appealed to the farmers not to spend money on buying new seeders, but to bring about some minor changes in the existing zero till drills by spending less than Rs2,000.”
25-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna
||Labour crunch may push farmers to diversification||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 24 For three decades, Punjab has been talking about diversification in agriculture, but to no avail. With specialised labour for paddy transplantation unavailable, the situation seems ripe for a change in the crop cycle. The area under the water-guzzling non-basmati paddy is set to be reduced by almost 3 lakh hectares, as farmers will find it difficult to either buy new machinery for direct seeding or labour to transplant the crop. This clearly means that more and more farmers will opt for basmati or other cash crops like cotton and maize. Official data shows that area under paddy, including basmati, is expected to be reduced from 29.30 lakh hectares in the last kharif marketing season to 26.30 lakh hectares now. Of 26.30 lakh hectares under paddy, 7 lakh hectares will be under basmati varieties. “With Vietnam stopping the export of basmati, a huge opportunity lies ahead for Indian farmers and exporters,” says MS Sidhu, an agro-economist. “The area under basmati will increase from 6 lakh hectares last year to 7 lakh hectares this year, especially as exports look promising after we banned nine pesticides to make it export-compliant,” says Vishwajit Khanna, Additional Chief Secretary, Development. Other than basmati, it is cotton which is expected to get a major push with an expected increase of 1 lakh hectares — from 4 lakh hectares last year to 5 lakh hectares this year. Khanna says a lot of mechanised interventions (vacuum pluckers for cotton and drilling of maize seeds) are being made in the cultivation of alternative crops, which is expected to help farmers wean away from paddy. “The largest shift, however, will be in area under maize. Traditionally, maize was grown in Doaba and the kandi belt, but last year, we made concerted efforts to bring 8,000 hectares under maize in Malwa. This year, the target is to increase the area from 1.6 lakh hectares last year to 3 lakh hectares, mainly in the Malwa belt,” says Sutantar Kumar Airi, Director, Agriculture. Many farmers, however, feel that they will grow maize only if its MSP is assured. Last year, the cotton growers had suffered losses as they were forced to sell their produce at prices below the MSP. Balbir Singh Rajewal, president, BKU (Rajewal), says the price of last year’s maize crop has dropped drastically and the farmers are resorting to distress sale. “In such a scenario, the government will have to assure the farmers a good return for the programme to be successful,” he says.
25-05-2020||
||Education Department adds new subject to curriculum||Faridkot, May 24 To inculcate moral values among students, the state School Education Department has decided to introduce a new subject ‘Welcome Life’ for all classes in schools associated with the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) from this session. In the compulsory subject of 100 marks, the PSEB will prepare the question paper for the annual exams of Classes V, VIII, X and XII. The exam will have 50 marks for theory and 50 for practical. For all other classes, the exam will be conducted by the respective schools. The academic council of the PSEB had given its approval to the new subject in a meeting on May 14. Inderjeet Singh, Director, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), said the new subject was introduced to integrate elements of character education into the school curriculum. “We have already prepared the syllabus for this new subject and the publication of books for all classes is underway,” he said.
25-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Financial crunch, Hoshiarpur couple ends life||E-way project amended: HarsimratAmritsar: Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Sunday said she had received a communication from the Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry that the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway alignment would be amended to provide direct connectivity between Delhi and Amritsar, which fulfilled a long-pending demand of the residents of Amritsar and was in tune with the original alignment proposed during the SAD-BJP tenure. In a statement, Harsimrat said the ministry had acceded to her request to include an additional greenfield highway between Kartarpur and Amritsar. TNSAAP for CBI probe into ‘sex scandal’Chandigarh: Harpal Singh Cheema, Leader of Opposition (LoP), has written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, demanding a CBI probe into the Moga sex scandal. Cheema said on Sunday the scandal registered at the Nihal Singh Wala police station in Moga had brought back memories of the sex scandal dating back to 2003 and 2007, which involved the police brass and political big wigs. The AAP leader said that as political leaders and the police brass were involved, investigation could get influenced, so the case should be probed by the CBI. TNSStray animals claim two livesBathinda: Two persons died in road mishaps involving stray cattle in the last five days here. A youth, identified as Jagga Singh, returning home on a motorcycle lost his balance on the Malout road as stray cattle suddenly came in front of him on Friday night. He was rushed to hospital, but succumbed to his injuries. In another incident, Sona Lal, of Dhillon Colony died after stray cattle attacked him. TNSFather-son electrocutedSangrur: A man and his son were electrocuted at their home in Haripura here. The deceased were identified as Bachan Singh (75) and Harpreet Singh (35). “On Sunday morning, Bachan was at the rooftop pouring water on an under-construction wall when he accidently came in contact with electricity wires. His son tried to save him, but was also electrocuted. Both died on the spot,” said Gurbhajan Singh, SHO, Sangrur city. TNS
25-05-2020||Abohar||Family reunion||Cops impress NetizensMuktsar: The pandemic seems to have handed an opportunity to those who have a penchant for singing, but never got a chance to explore their potential. Like many other cops, Inspector Prem Nath, SHO, Bariwala police station, has penned a song and made a video to raise awareness regarding coronavirus. The district police have shared the video on its social media accounts. Earlier, constable Jagdeep Singh ‘Jamie’ Dhillon had sung a song to make an appeal to the people to stay at home to stay safe.For feathered friendsAbohar: With mercury rising sharply over the last few days, local residents have initiated a drive to save birds. Many of them have hung pots filled with water and grain on tress in city areas. They are also placing such pots on the rooftops of buildings. “Since the pollution level has dipped, this will benefit the flora and fauna of the region. But these still need our attention,” said Nai Abadi resident Suman Bajaj. Similarly, Balwant Nokhwal of Dharam Nagari is looking after birds at a park in Subhash Nagar. His family has also joined him. He said, “Since the natural habitat of birds has declined over the years, we should save them from extinction.”Netas give curbs a go-byJalandhar: After a gap of nearly two months, politicians have begun calling press meets. The city has witnessed three such events within one week. The first one was organised by Congress MLA Pargat Singh, who seemed to be upset at the working of the government, especially the Excise Department. Immediately following him, Sukhpal Khaira called the media and spoke on a murder case and unexpectedly created a lot of rush of his followers at his meet at a time when social distancing is important. Similarly, former MLA Sarabjit Makkar also could not refrain himself and called the media to hit out at his arch rival Pargat Singh.
25-05-2020||GS Paul||Faith, will power see centenarian Hazur Sahib returnee through||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 24Centenarian Massa Singh, a Dalit resident of Dyal-Shahabpur village in Tarn Taran district, is the oldest person in the region to have emerged victorious in the fight against Covid-19.Will instil hope in other patientsWe are extremely encouraged by his recovery. This will further instil hope in other Covid-19 patients. — Dr Anoop Kumar, Tarn Taran Civil SurgeonSingh says he got stranded during the lockdown while visiting Takht Sri Hazur Sahib, Nanded. “I returned on April 28 and learnt I had contracted the virus on May 6. I was shifted to the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Super Speciality Hospital, Tarn Taran. I didn’t lose hope and followed my daily ritual of reciting Japji Sahib and mool mantar. It was with the doctors’ help that I could recover in 12 days,” he says.Singh, who claims to be 100 years old, says he is witness to the mass killings during Partition. He says: “I saw death at Kasur Nullah, where thousands of bodies were dumped. Now, Covid-19 is claiming thousands of lives across the world and we are helpless.”Civil Surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar says Singh’s strong will power helped him in recovery and it will instil hope in other Covid patients.
25-05-2020||Karam Prakash||After 2 months, elite athletes to start training from today||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 24India’s elite athletes will resume outdoor training on Monday, ending a two-month period of moderate indoor training that has left them feeling extremely frustrated. However, the focus of the athletes would be on fitness rather than intense performance-oriented training.Some of India’s leading sportspersons will be among those who will start training here at the National Institute of Sports (NIS), where the authorities have taken “all coronavirus precautions” to ensure the wellbeing of the athletes.Elite sportspersons had been allowed to remain at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centres, but they had been restricted to their hostel rooms since the last week of March, when the nationwide lockdown was enforced.Adille Sumariwalla, the Athletics Federation of India president, said that athletes based at NIS Patiala and SAI centres in Bengaluru and Ooty will start “outdoor fitness” training tomorrow.The sportspersons here will kick off their training under the supervision of a Task Force, which must ensure the implementation of the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by SAI. Following the SOP, the NIS management has already cordoned off the athletics tracks, weightlifting hall and hostels of the athletes to keep visitors at bay.Except the coaches, no one would be allowed in the area where the athletes would train. Training will start in phases, beginning with track and field and weightlifting.Sub-groupsThe athletes would train in small sub-groups to avoid crowding. Different time slots have been allotted to the sub-groups. Chief national coaches of athletics and weightlifting have prepared the schedule. ‘Covid precautions taken’Some of India’s leading sportspersons will be among those who will start training here at the National Institute of Sports (NIS), where the authorities have taken “all coronavirus precautions” to ensure the wellbeing of the athletes.
