26-04-2020||Patiala||PRTC driver on way to bring devotees from Hazur Sahib dies||A PRTC bus driver on way to Takht Sri Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra to bring back stranded devotees died on the way Sunday.PRTC Chairman KK Sharma confirmed about the development in a video.KK Sharma said the driver Manjit Singh suffered a heart attack near Indore. Expressing condolences with the family he said the state government and PRTC will do the best possible for his family.The Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) had dispatched a fleet of 32 buses, including Volvo Scania and HVAC buses, to Takht Sri Hazur Sahib, Nanded, Maharashtra, on Saturday to bring back pilgrims stranded in the state due to the lockdown imposed in wake of COVID-19.
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Hizbul Mujahideen activist held in Amritsar: Punjab DGP||Punjab police on Sunday claimed to have arrested an activist of the Kashmiri militant outfit Hizbul Mujahideen with Rs 29 lakh cash worth Indian currency in his possession.Hilal Ahmed Wagay, a resident of Nowgam coming under Avantipura police station area of Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir, was nabbed by the Amritsar police team on April 25 near Metro Mart, Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said in a statement here.Preliminary investigations revealed that Wagay was sent by Kashmir valley chief of Hizbul Mujahideen, Riyaz Ahmed Naiku, for collecting money from an unidentified person near Metro Mart in Amritsar in a truck, the DGP said.Money was delivered to him by an unknown person, who came on a two-wheeler, Gupta said.The person accompanying Wagay in the truck was identified as Rayees Ahmed, a resident of Bijbehara in Anantnag district, the DGP added.A case was registered under relevant sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (Amendment 2012) in Sadar police station in Amritsar. — PTI
26-04-2020|| ||Covid transmission chain breaks in Rajpura, claims health dept||Patiala, April 26With no positive case for coronavirus in Rajpura in the last 24 hours, the Health Department claimed to have contained the spread of the virus in the town – which had already been declared a buffer zone. As soon as the close contacts — of the last six positive cases of a single-family — tested negative, the Health department said they had broken the chain of transmission in Rajpura. Notably, Rajpura alone has reported 42 positive cases of Coronavirus in the last 10 days – making it a COVOD-19 ‘hotspot’. Health department said after Rajpura was declared buffer zone, movement in the town had been restricted which helped to stem the spread. The health department claimed that earlier people paid visits to their neighbours while some even went all the way to meet their far-off friends and relatives – spreading the virus to many people. However, the situation was now better in Rajpura because close contacts in the chain had tested negative, said the department.He added that they would conduct random sampling, as well, across  Rajpura to check the spread of virus.He said apart from sampling, the department had been conducting screening in Rajpura, which would be completed in the next two days.“All four samples of close contacts of positive patients tested negative. The situation is getting under control in Rajpura. We will go for random sampling after two or three days,” said Patiala Civil Surgeon.Besides Rajpura, 54 samples collected from the various flu corners in the district also tested negative, said the health department.
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab reports one death, 14 new cases in 24 hours||Punjab reported 14 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours, officials said.Jalandhar alone accounted for 12 of Punjab’s 14 new cases cases. Punjab’s official state bulletin shows three cases from Jalandhar, all of them contacts of previously diagnosed patients.  Besides these, some nine people tested positive for coronavirus from Jalandhar’s Raja Garden and Raj Nagar areas---of the city’s most affected places---on Sunday.The development takes the district tally to 78. District health department also revised the district’s death toll to three after health department authorities said a 48-year-old man who was found positive by a private hospital on Saturday within hours of his death was confirmed to have died of the virus.This also takes Punjab’s Covid-19 death tally to 18.The state’s daily health bulletin also showed that both Ludhiana and SBS Nagar each reported one new case.SBS Nagar, formerly known as Nawanshahr, was the first district to report coronavirus case in March, but went without recording any new cases until Saturday.  The Ludhiana case was a contact of an already diagnosed patient. The development takes the state’s Covid-19 tally to 322.Jalandhar has replaced Mohali as the district with the most cases. As things stand on Sunday, Mohali has 63 coronavirus cases, followed by Patiala at 61.The bulletin shows Punjab has so far sent 14,317 samples for testing. One person is critical and on ventilator support.
26-04-2020||Patiala||Amid coronavirus, health department stares at dengue outbreak in Patiala||Already battling with rising cases of coronavirus, the district health department is now apprehensive about the threat of vector-borne disease dengue.The fresh spell of rain — over the past week — has aggravated the possibility of dengue in the district. Following the corona lockdown, there are spots where no one is there to look after the clearance of water.Consequently, there are chances of pooling of water, and the health department fears dengue mosquitoes will start breeding therein. Health experts said if the stagnated water was not drained out soon, it might prompt breeding of mosquitoes in a large number.Notably, the dengue breeds and hatches the eggs in clean stagnant water only. Moreover, the rainfall has made temperature conducive for the breeding.District health department informed that they have already found dengue larvae at many places in the cities during their mass awareness campaign on Friday.In fact, under the drive, health teams went door to door in the high-risk areas and instructed the city residents to keep their all sorts of water containers dry, at least, for one day in a week.Following the detection of dengue larvae on Friday, the health department has already appealed to the city residents to be more vigilant and discard or clean their potential containers of rainwater in their premises.  Health experts believe that dengue has the potential to create havoc if citizen’s participation doesn’t come forth in the drive against dengue.They said as dengue larvae could breed in a water-filled bottle cap, therefore, it was impossible for them (health department) to check each household.  Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said they had already started spraying larvicides and creating awareness among the city residents.He said, “Along with coronavirus, people should also take care of the dengue. The public will be regularly made aware of control measures. Everyone should take care of their houses and surroundings.”
26-04-2020||Amritsar||Intruder shot dead at Indo-Pak border village||An unidentified Pakistani intruder was shot dead along the Indo-Pak border here on Sunday after he ignored repeated warnings by BSF personnel, officials said.They said a Border Security Force patrol team noticed some suspicious movements at Bhindi Saida village near the border on Sunday morning.The personnel found a person entering the Indian territory from across the border and warned him repeatedly to stop, but he continued marching towards them, the officials said.BSF personnel then opened fire and shot him dead, they added.No arms, ammunition or other suspicious items was recovered from him, official said, adding further investigation is underway. PTI
26-04-2020||Patiala||Teen goes missing after having been scolded for playing PUBG; found in Bhakra canal||Body of a 13-year-old boy who allegedly killed himself was pulled out of the Bhakra canal on Sunday, police said.The boy, a student of Class 8, has been missing from his home in Bharat Nagar Colony since the evening of April 20, when his parents scolded him for spending too much time playing the online game PUBG. “His father told the police that since the Covid-19 lockdown the boy had been playing PUBG regularly. On April 20, furious at being scolded by his family members for playing the game for several hours, he left home at 1.30 pm, but was traced by them and brought back. However he again left the house and went missing following which a police case was lodged,” police said.“A CCTV footage showed he was heading towards the canal. Divers have been for him since,” Ronnie Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said.
26-04-2020||Mohali||Punjab Police arrest four gangsters in Panchkula; cop wounded in shootout||Mohali Police arrested four suspected gangsters after a brief shootout at Panchkula’s Billa village on Sunday morning, officials said. They also impounded a country-made pistol and some live cartridges.Police have identified the suspects as Harsimran alias Simu, a resident of Ambala, Dhruv Mohan Garg, a resident of Ghaziabad, Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Derbassi and Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Raipur Rani (Panchkula), officials said.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 186, 188, 332, 353, 307, 34 IPC and 25, 54, 59 of Arms Act at the Chandimandir police station.The shootout occurred around 6 am when a team of 10 policemen from Mohali’s Phase 8 police station was tipped off about the four suspects who face an attempted murder charge hiding in a house in Ramgarh village.Surrounded, the suspects began to shoot at police. A suspect shot Head Constable Raspreet Singh in the leg when he made to arrest him. Despite the injury, Singh gave the suspect a brief chase and arrested him, police said.Singh was first taken to Panchkula Civil Hospital before being referred to GMCH-32, sources said.He would need to undergo surgery, sources said.“It took us around 25 minutes for us to nab all four gangsters. They fired a total two rounds at us. A bullet hit my left leg,” Raspreet Singh said.Deputy Superintendent of Police Ramandeep said the suspects were believed to have tried to kill a man at Mohali in March this year.In March, 23-year-old milkman Kamalpreet Singh was wounded when three unidentified people attacked him with a sword and shot him while he was doing his rounds of milk delivery in Phase 9’s HIG flats.The four suspects, who already face an attempted murder charge, now face another criminal case of shooting a policeman.
26-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Truck carrying 40 Punjabi labourers from MP caught in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 26The Bathinda police on Sunday intercepted around 40 migrants on their way to Ludhiana from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. The truck was intercepted near the lakes on the Bathinda-Amritsar highway in Bathinda. The workers were sent to a camp, where they would be quarantined for 15 days.The truck driver was arrested for violating the lockdown. It is learnt that the driver had dropped off many persons along the way.“Police today seized a truck carrying Punjabi labourers who had gone to Gwalior for some work, but got stuck there due to the lockdown,” Bathinda city DSP Gurjit Singh Romana said.He added they have also traced the persons that were dropped off along the way.Person flees from quarantine centre, arrestedIn another incident, the police have booked a person from Akalia Jalal village for escaping from a quarantine facility by scaling the wall of a school.A complaint was filed with the police by village sarpanch Lakhvir Singh. He said 18 persons had gone to Madhya Pradesh for farm work during the lockdown. After they returned to the village, they were kept in quarantine in separate rooms at a school. But Ranjit Singh fled from the building by scaling the wall.Investigation officer Sher Singh said that Ranjit Singh had been arrested and a case was registered against him.
26-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||First group of sangat from Nanded reaches Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 26The first group of the devotees who had been stuck at Nanded, Maharashtra, reached Punjab early Sunday morning. These pilgrims went to Hazur Sahib in March and were stuck there due to the lockdown.Eight buses of this convoy reached Punjab today. Seven buses entered Bathinda district from Haryana via the Doomwali border and one bus entered through Abohar in Fazilka district. The pilgrims include residents of Bathinda, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur, Ropar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Jalandhar, Fazilka, Sangrur, Patiala, Moga and Chandigarh.State officials conducted medical tests of the pilgrims before the buses were dispatched to the respective districts. However, 21 residents of Bathinda district were taken directly to the isolation centre where they would undergo a complete medical examination.
26-04-2020||Sangrur||B.Ed, TET pass teachers protest across Punjab, demand unemployment allowance||Demanding an unemployment allowance, the members of B.Ed and TET pass union on Sunday protested across Punjab in front of their houses and raised slogans against the state government."Today we have pasted special handwritten or computer print out papers at our doors to remind the government of our plight. We protested at Sangrur from September 2019 to April 2020 for regular jobs. But Punjab government is not serious about giving us jobs," said Sukhwinder Singh, President of the union.Another member, who works as a labourer, said that he is not able to find work during the lockdown."If the government can not give us jobs, it should give us unemployment allowance immediately," said Randeep Sangatpura, press secretary of the union.
26-04-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: Eight cured in Mohali district, total recoveries rise to 22||Eight people, from Jagatpura village in Mohali district, were cured of coronavirus and discharged on Sunday.They were discharged after testing negative for the deadly disease in two consecutive tests.The district has reported a total of 63 cases, out of which 22 have been cured, 39 are active and two died.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that all the recovered patients hail from Jawaharpur village near Dera Bassi, which has witnessed the highest number of infections in the district so far. The total number of patients who have recovered in the district so far has reached 22, whereas a total of 13 patients belonging to Jawaharpur alone have recovered.Singh said that eight patients who recovered on Sunday are Manish (32), Gurjeet Singh (42), Jaspreet Singh (23), Reena (30), Taranpreet Singh (7), Sharanpreet Singh (14), Gurfateh Singh (one-and-a-half years-old) and Pritam Singh (80).He said that all the patients would not be sent home as of now and instead would be quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure at a quarantine centre in sector 70 in Mohali. Singh said that patients belonging to Jawaharpur were cured on April 21 and are currently staying at the above centre and added that all these persons will be sent home only after the quarantine period of 14 days is completed successfully. He said all the remaining patients are undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital and their condition is stable.Lauding the health teams treating patients at Gyan Sagar Hospital, Singh said all the doctors, nurses, paramedical staff at the center are the real warriors who are performing their duty with hard work and dedication while risking their lives. He asked the people to maintain social-distancing, wash their hands frequently, eat good food and most importantly stay at home.
26-04-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||16 persons stuck in Nanded Sahib return to Punjab's Garhshankar||Garhshankar (Hoshiarpur), April 26Sixteen persons from village Moranwali, one of the coronavirus hotspots in Garhshankar, returned from Maharashtra's Nanded Sahib on Saturday night.Immediately after their arrival in the village, they were screened by a health department team and were quarantined in their homes as a precautionary measure. Their samples for the Covid-19 test will likely be taken by Monday.The group had gone to Nanded in a rented mini-bus on March 18. After being stuck there for almost a month due to lockdown, they got the necessary permission to return to Punjab two days ago.
26-04-2020||Sarika Sharma||Migration to saaddi ma boli||Ma boli, saaddi ma boliBacheyaan nu hai dindi loriMa ne sanu janam hai dittaDharti ma ne jagah hai dittiMa boli vich bolna sikheyaMa boli ne maan vadhayaa…Tinna ton vaddi ni maayaMa de charna ch sis navayaMil ke asi pyaar vadhaya — Saadiyaan Tinn Maavaan by AryanThey speak the language. They write poetry in it too. They talk about birds, earth, Bhagat Singh, azaadi, coolies… they talk about dreams. This one by a Class V student talks about three mothers — the mother who gives us birth, mother earth and mother language. Language, for kids like Aryan, is a strange phenomenon. His parents are from Uttar Pradesh but his poems are in Punjabi. Living in a slum near Grain Market in Patiala, does he too wonder about this predicament? Maybe not. Maybe it comes naturally to him. Just like his teacher, poet and translator Satpal Bhikhi, who was born in Punjab but traces his roots to Mainpuri in UP.As it becomes a long journey home for some migrants and an endless wait for others in the times of the pandemic, there are migrants for whom Punjab is home and Punjabi the mother tongue. They may or may not have been born here, but they have known it enough to be able to read and write in it and loved it enough to be able to pursue literature, the highest form of creativity, in it.Satpal Bhikhi, poetI don’t know Mainpuri as well as Bhikhi. Punjabi is the language I converse in with my friends and family. I grew up on Punjabi literature, magazines like Nawan Zamana and Soviet literature that was available to us in Punjabi.A teacher at the government elementary school in Grain Market, Satpal says he doesn’t know Mainpuri as well as he knows Bhikhi in Mansa where he was born. His father came here looking for work in 1961 and stayed on. “I just know Punjabi. I just know Punjabi culture. I love Punjabi language. This is my language. This is the only language I can express myself in,” says Bhikhi, who won the Sahitya Akademi’s highest award for children’s literature, Bal Sahit Puraskar in 2017. He has penned about 15 books for kids and translated world literature for them.Pradeep Bose, poetI don’t think a Punjabi-speaking/writing Bengali is an aberration. Why should I be? I was born and brought up here. This is what I am most at home. In fact, my Bengali is not as good as my Punjabi, but I can speak Pahari well too as my wife is one.His brother Laxmi Narayan Bhikhi, 12 years elder to him, is also a prominent Punjabi poet and critic. He was a month old when they landed in Punjab. “Our father came here and engaged in agriculture. He was unlettered, but wanted us to study,” he recalls. Though not a conventionally bright student, he took to poetry early on, while still in school. Sympathetic to the Naxalite movement, he wrote progressive poetry and revolutionary songs.Around the same time Pradeep Bose, whose father came to Punjab from Bengal to join his job with the Railways, was learning the uda, aida of Punjabi language. In the next decade, he was to be in the thick of literary action in Punjab, more specifically, Ludhiana. Studying to be a veterinary doctor at Punjab Agricultural University, he was the secretary of the Young Writers’ Association when his friend Pash was murdered and organised a gathering at PAU in protest. His first poem was published in Amrita Pritam’s Nagmani in 1976.Surjit Patar, poet & president Punjab arts councilWhat is mother language? For me, this earth is mother. And people enrich each other’s languages. So many of our words have come from Persian. Come to think of it, even words such as ishq and rabb are not ours.Now based in Rajasthan, Bose says his Bengali is not as good as his Punjabi. He may have left Punjab, but not Punjabi. His latest anthology of poems, Shehar de Khilaaf, has just been published. He says a Punjabi-speaking Bengali isn’t an aberration. “Why should I be?” he asks. “I was born and brought up here. This is what I am most at home.”With native Punjabis opting to send their kids to private schools, kids of migrants labourers are mostly the only ones studying in government schools where Punjabi is the medium of instruction. Satpal’s students come from all over India — UP, Bihar, Odisha, Bengal… and, at times, from Nepal too. As teacher, he has been actively encouraging his students to express their creative instincts in Punjabi. Saadiyaan Tinn Maavaan by Aryan was part of his anthology of poems which came out in two volumes between 2016 and 2018. Satpal says he gave topics to kids, who penned several poems. The best ones made their way to the anthology. Rajni, a student of his, he proudly tells, won an award from the Punjabi Sahit Akademi, Ludhiana, too. “She wrote four books too. Sadly, she couldn’t pursue her studies. After Plus Two, her parents married her off. Dickens says poverty is a social disease. And when you are plagued by this disease, all other diseases follow. She had the potential, but life’s realities caught up with her. She quit writing.”Rajni reminds one of Madhuri from Surjit Patar’s remarkable 1999 poem Aaya Nand Kishore:In search of subsistencearrived Nand Kishorefrom faraway Biharin the train Sealdahaccompanied by many more.---------------------------------------With him was Ramkalihis wife, suave and gentle.Close to Ludhianain a village Barewalthe roots took hold and germinated.---------------------------------------From the womb of Ramkalitook birth his daughterwho was named Madhuri.Yesterday I saw Madhuriin the same village schoolwith her plaits tied in ribbonwiping clean her slatewriting Punjabi alphabet.---------------------------------------The daughter of Nand Kishorewriting Punjabi alphabet!So deep is the relationshipbetween alphabets and subsistence…  (Translated by Gurshminder Jagpal)The second half of the poem is about the village landlord’s grandsons going to a convent school in the city. Patar says this poem is his reflection on how a language lives and how it dies.Aaya Nand Kishore inspired London-based Punjabi poet Amarjit Chandan to write an essay. He says the poem is a tale from early 1970s Punjab when the arrival of migrant labourers from UP and Bihar coincided with the migration of Punjabis to foreign lands and the alienation of new-rich Punjabis from themselves, their land and their language. However, the migrants were not welcomed in the new land. Local leaders were soon spewing venom against them. But they were here already, and here they are today, adopting the land and learning the language it speaks.Recalling the essay written in 2000, Chandan says it saddens him to see Madhuri is denied the basic human right of getting an education in her mother tongue. “Maybe she’d be a writer of Punjabi one day. But at what cost!” Chandan sometimes writes poetry in English, with which he has lived almost all his life. “But I still can’t enter the soul of English language. This is my sad predicament,” he says, but chooses to not comment on non-Punjabis writing poetry in the language which is not their blood language.But poet Gurbhajan Gill is generous in his praise. “They first inherited a land and then they inherited its language,” he says. And that is why, for him, the Bhikhi brothers, Bose, singer Ravinder Grewal’s migrant lyricist, are all “brave people”.‘Viewed differently if from UP, Bihar’Poet Satpal Bhikhi says “you are automatically viewed differently in India if you are from UP, Bihar or from Kashmir”. Add to it economic and caste backwardness. “I don’t think this bias is as strong as it is when you are from elsewhere in India,” he says. Laxmi Narayan Bhikhi feels the Punjabi intelligentsia has failed the migrant. He says their heart bleeds for Punjabis abroad but they don’t see those who have migrated to their land in the same light. “One never sees them talk about the migrants’ rights.” He says people go abroad because there are no jobs for them here. “Same is true for those who come to Punjab, isn’t it?”
26-04-2020||New Delhi||5 Punjab men trek home from Madhya Pradesh||Left with no money and food, five men from Ludhiana working at a trading company in Madhya Pradesh undertook an arduous journey back home on the night of April 22. Traversing the 700-odd km distance on intermittent fasting and food provided by truckers on the way, they reached Delhi on Saturday. After a local journalist, who saw these men in a state of distress, tweeted seeking assistance, Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral stepped in to arrange accommodation for them.
26-04-2020||---||Arnab booked for remarks against Cong president||Amritsar, April 25The local police have booked Republic TV channel editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act for allegedly using derogatory words against Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi.The case was registered on the complaint of youth Congress leader Aditya Datti, son of MLA Sunil Dutti.Neeraj Kumar, SHO Rambagh police station, said in the complaint against the Republic TV editor in chief he alleged that the anchor not only used objectionable remarks against Sonia Gandhi but also tried to disrupt communal harmony by provoking people. A case under Sections 153-A, 153-B, 295-A, 504, 505 of the IPC and Sections 69 and 69-A of the IT Act was registered against him.A number of FIRs have been registered against Arnab throughout the country. The Supreme Court, however, has granted a relief of three weeks from any coercive action against him in connection with the FIRs.
26-04-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Cautious Punjab yet to take a call||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25Punjab has decided not to implement MHA orders on reopening shops for now. The matter, discussed at a meeting chaired by the CM, was deferred till April 30. Meanwhile, the 20-member committee to devise a lockdown exit strategy submitted its draft report to Capt Amarinder Singh today.The final report will be ready in three days. The committee recommendations and MHA guidelines on opening of shops will be discussed with MLAs on April 29 and at a Cabinet meeting a day later.Also read: 6 of Rajpura family test +veSources said the committee, in its draft report, had suggested that Centre’s guidelines on relaxations should be followed. It is learnt to have advised against cut in employees’ salaries and advocated stricter restrictions in containment zones only. The CM had said on Friday that he would go by the advice of the committee. Of the 22 districts in Punjab, five are in green zone.
26-04-2020||---||Punjab to help students stuck abroad, DCs to give info||Chandigarh, April 25The Punjab Government has sought details of state residents who have been stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 outbreak and wished to return, officials said here on Saturday.A number of students are keen to return home, especially those stuck in Australia and Canada.“Already travel of foreign nationals stuck in different parts of the state to their countries is being facilitated by the district authorities. Now, the travel of students and others from abroad is being taken up with the Centre,” said a senior government functionary. Rahul Tewari, head, State Covid Control Room, has written to all Deputy Commissioners to send details of such persons.Those desirous of returning need to upload their details on the links provided by the administration or can email their name, mobile number, current address abroad, passport number, email identity and information about the nearest airport to their hometown, the government said.Ambassadors and high commissioners in foreign countries are in regular touch with Indians abroad, giving them support, said an official.
26-04-2020||---||Seeking salary hike, Punjab rehab centre staff to go on strike||Ludhiana, April 25The Government Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Employees’ Union in Punjab has decided to hold a statewide strike from the first week of May and shut down all de-addiction, rehabilitation as well as OOAT clinics.It is demanding that staff of de-addiction and rehabilitation centres, and OOAT clinics should be taken under the ambit of the Department of Health and Family Welfare. This would at least ensure good remuneration, the union said.At present, the staff work under the district de-addiction and rehabilitation societies and are under hecome under the chairmanship of DCs.“At the time of the Covid-19, the staff are putting their best efforts to make Punjab a drug-free state, but it is difficult to work at a low remuneration and meet our daily expenses vis-à-vis the inflation. We are putting our lives at risk, but the government is the state government is least bothered about our safety,” said union president Parminder Singh.He also demanded special allowances in the hour of crisis.“We had met Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and submitted a memorandum of demands to him. He assured us of looking into our demands. We have also been meeting senior officials for the past two years, but nothing has been done so far,” Singh claimed.
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cong honours Covid warriors||Khalsa Aid donates PPE kits, masksChandigarh: Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Saturday said the Department of Prisons was thankful to Khalsa Aid for providing necessary items and equipment to the department for enhancing its capacity to tackle Covid-19. ADGP (Prisons) Praveen K Sinha said, “Khalsa Aid has always played a pivotal role in helping the needy during exigencies throughout the world. Its members have proved to be real heroes who work silently without seeking attention. Humanity shall always hold such noble souls in high regard.” TNS58 foreign students sent homePhagwara: Stranded in Lovely Professional University (LPU) ever since the lockdown was clamped, 58 of its foreign students — 35 from Bangladesh and 23 from Afghanistan —boarded flights back home from Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport, New Delhi. Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal said Bangladesh and Afghanistan embassies, Ministry of External Affairs and district administration assisted the LPU. TNSLG donates electronic productsChandigarh: LG Electronics has donated 52 products to hospitals across four districts. The products include range of refrigerators, air conditioners, water purifiers and TVs. Young Lak Kim, MD, LG Electronics (India), said, “We are donating products that enhance health and hygiene to hospitals in Punjab.” Health Minister Balbir Sindh Sidhu said, “We are grateful to the company for its help in this challenging situation.” TNS
26-04-2020||---||No food or money, Ludhiana youths walk home||New Delhi, April 25The saga of wage-earners stuck in different parts of the country and the tug of the warmth of home continues. Nearly a month into the lockdown, five young men from Ludhiana working at a trading company in Maihar, Satna district of Madhya Pradesh faced imminent crisis – no money, no food. All their savings are gone and they are now staring at uncertainty.Aged between 18 and 28, Manish, Mandhata, Ayush, Anand and Alok decided to trudge their way to Ludhiana and on the night of April 22 began the trek surviving the 700-odd km distance on intermittent food provided by truckers at wayside stalls.One of the persons told The Tribune that after the wages provided by the trading company was exhausted, they survived for some time on local rations, but were eventually turned away since they were from a different state.“So we decided to return to Ludhiana and left on the night of April 22. We crossed several places and near Delhi asked police for directions…,” said one of them. The youths appeared shaken and tired by what they endured.They were sighted on Saturday afternoon by journalist Sharyana Deepak whose tweet caught the attention of Diva Gujral among others. While the Delhi-based journalist, who saws these young men in a state of distress, tagged a few seeking assistance, including the Punjab Police, Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral stepped in to arrange for their accommodation at Gurdwara Rakabganj.At present, these men have been lodged at the gurdwara and await clearance from the state authorities hoping to get a ride back home that would be more comfortable than the difficult 780-odd km walk to the National Capital.
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Army docs save day-old baby with rare disorder||Doctors at the Military Hospital, Pathankot, performed an emergency life-saving operation on a newborn suffering from a rare disorder.The day-old baby of a soldier born out of Caesarian section was suspected to have a rare congenital anomaly of the intestines, consequently resulting in intestinal block and perforation with contamination of abdomen with faecal material leading to septic infection.Prompt diagnosis was made, but the condition of the baby was critical and he was not fit to be taken to the nearest pediatric surgery centre of the armed forces located at Command Hospital, Chandimandir, which would have taken six hours by road, said officials at the Western Command Headquarters.Due to the Covid lockdown, no paediatric surgeon was available at hospitals in Pathankot.Major Adil Abdul Kalam, surgical specialist, Pathankot Military Hospital, performed the intricate and challenging operation by opening up the abdomen of the newborn, who was on ventilator, repairing the tears in intestine and creation of stoma for diverting the stools. — TNS
26-04-2020||---||80 buses sent to ferry pilgrims stranded at Hazur Sahib||Bathinda, April 25In all, 80 buses were sent to bring back stranded pilgrims at Hazur Sahib (Nanded) in Maharashtra on Saturday.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said AC buses of Punjab Roadways and PRTC were being sent to bring back the pilgrims and the cost would be borne by the state. He said three drivers, a conductor and a policeman had been deployed in each bus.
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||6 of  Rajpura family test +ve||With 10 new cases of Covid-19 coming to the fore today, the state count has reached 308. According to the media bulletin, six cases were reported from Patiala, three from Jalandhar and one from Pathankot.1 case in Nawanshahr district after 30 daysNawanshahr: A new case of Covid-19 was reported in Boothgarh village of Balachaur subdivision in Nawnashahr district. With this, the district’s tally has reached 20. The new case has been reported after a gap of 30 days. The patient is a 25-year-old man, a truck driver by profession. He had travelled to J&K. On his return on April 22, villagers informed the administration about him and asked him to keep himself under quarantine. The man stays in the village with his parents. The village has been brought under the containment plan. TNSAll six Patiala cases came from Rajpura, which alone has 42 Covid-19 patients of the total 61 in the district. The chain was started from a 60-year-old woman. All new cases are from one family, including a woman, her two sons and two daughters-in-law, health officials said.Negligence on the part of some of the patients has led to the spread of the infection in the town. According to health officials, many of them kept socialising with their neighbours, while some travelled to distant places to meet their friends and relatives. The department is tracing the high-risk contacts of the six new patients.In Jalandhar, three more cases have come to the fore, taking the total number to 66. The district has now surpassed Mohali and has the most number of Covid-19 patients in the state.A 48-year-old migrant labourer, a Covid suspect, died at a private hospital this morning. The health authorities later confirmed that he died of Covid-19.The three new cases reported today are all contacts of an employee of a local media house, which had earlier reported a slew of cases. They include his 65-year-old mother, wife and five-year-old son.A 48-year-old native of Maharashtra died today reportedly due to Covid-19. He was admitted to a private hospital and his sample was tested at a private lab in Amritsar, which confirmed him to be Covid-positive.The health authorities said it was yet to be confirmed whether he died of the infection. The victim was a resident of Basti Gujan and was working at a leather factory in the city.
26-04-2020||---||High Court refuses to pass order on petition against Lovely Professional University||Chandigarh, April 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to pass any direction or order on a petition filed in public interest for instructing the Punjab Government and other official respondents to test students and other persons residing on the campus of Lovely Professional University for Covid-19.Taking up the case through videoconferencing, the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli asserted it was evident that necessary steps for conducting screening of all students and other persons residing on the university premises were being undertaken by the state in accordance with the Indian Council and Medical Research guidelines. Besides, a show-cause notice had been issued to the university and response was awaited.“Taking note of the facts, we do not find any necessity to issue any direction or pass an order in respect of the issues raised by the petitioner at this stage. Thus, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the present petition is disposed of granting liberty to the petitioner, as prayed for, to take up all possible grievances before the authorities and recourse to law, if so advised,” the Bench asserted.The petition was filed by Sahil Kumar, son of former union minister Vijay Sampla. He was, among other things, seeking directions for preventing the spread of the disease within the university campus. It was added that the university despite the spread of Covid-19 had retained 2,421 students in the hostel.
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Montek to chair panel on revival plan||The government has constituted a group of experts, headed by noted economist and former deputy chairman of the Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia to come out with the post-Covid revival strategy for the state.The 20-member group group shall recommend to the government a short-term (one year) as well as medium-term action plan, including a fiscal management strategy along with other policy measures. Capt Amarinder said his government was grateful to Montek. The group will submit its initial set of recommendations by July 31. — TNS
26-04-2020||Moga||Wheat not procured, farmers protest in Moga||Farmers staged a protest against the Union and state governments for “failing” to lift thousands of tonnes of wheat lying in the grain market at Bhodiwala village in the Dharamkot subdivision of Moga district.Voice anger over irregular ration supplyover lack of ration supply. TNSThey alleged the Food Corporation of India (FCI) was not purchasing wheat from them. The Bhodiwala village grain market has been allotted to the FCI for the purchase of foodgrain.Sukhchain Singh, Kamaljit Singh and other protesting farmers said they were waiting for their turn to sell the grain for the past couple of days, but the procurement authorities were not willing to buy.“Though the government claims to have been procuring wheat, the ground situation suggests otherwise. One can see the glut-like situation in the grain market,” said Naib Singh, another protesting farmer.Deva Ram Meena, assistant manager, Quality Control, FCI, said the grain had lost lustre due to untimely rain in the past few days. “As per the procurement norms, we cannot purchase such grain,” he said.However, he said a special team of the Centre had taken samples of the produce, the report of which was awaited. “If the Centre allows, we will definitely pick up every grain from the village,” he added.
26-04-2020||Faridkot||53 liquor shops sealed in Kotkapura for flouting norms||After receiving complaints of alcohol being sold surreptitiously from many liquor vends in the district during the Covid-19 lockdown, the Excise Department on Friday evening sealed 53 liquor shops in Kotkapura and adjoining villages.“We have started sealing vends in Kotkapura and will continue with the move in Faridkot and Jaito subdivisions as there are complaints that many of these shops were selling liquor at night and dawn when the police patrolling is low. Sealing of these shops will ensure that liquor is not sold,” said Satish Goyal, Excise and Taxation Officer, Faridkot.Though the yearly-issued licences of all liquor shops had expired on March 31 and there is no allotment of new licences on over 20 per cent of liquor shops in the area, the sale in black marketing is an open secret here.A bottle of country-made liquor which was being sold at Rs 140 at the vends before the lockdown is now being sold at Rs 225-Rs 250. Every liquor brand is being sold at a premium these days. Many individuals are making good money through the black marketing of liquor by delivering it at home at a high price. — TNS
26-04-2020||---||Over 60,000 addicts opt for de-addiction in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 25More than 60,000 drug addicts have registered under the state’s de-addiction programme in just one month of the lockdown.‘108’ ambulance employees seek regular jobsThe ‘108’ Ambulance Employees’ Union has decided to go on strike from April 30, even though it said the services would continue. Gurpreet Singh, president of the union, said employees were demanding regular jobs and salary according to a decision of the Supreme Court, eight-hour shift and a special allowance for working during the Covid-19 pandemic.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that in view of the increasing number of patients, the opening time of outdoor opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics had been advanced to 8 am.“The government has given special attention towards key programmes, including the drug de-addiction programme, so that patients suffering from chronic and other serious diseases do not face any difficulty,” he said.The minister also appealed to the public and social workers to follow government’s guidelines and visit hospitals when required.Sidhu said flu corners had been established to take samples of suspected Covid-19 patients. “All private hospitals have been asked to refer patients having flu symptoms to government hospitals so as to prevent the spread of Covid.”Districts have been told to ensure that not a single suspected person is missed in screening campaign.
