26-03-2020||---||Punjab’s first coronavirus patient cured, to be discharged on Friday||Amritsar, March 26The test reports of state’s first reported coronavirus patient, a male resident of Italy from Hoshiarpur district, came out to be negative on Thursday. The patient who had tested positive for the disease earlier this month was admitted at Government Medical college here.The authorities confirmed that latest test of the patient was negative. Deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said patient would be discharged tomorrow. He said the patient, who had landed at Delhi on arrival from Italy, could not be detected at Delhi as he had not developed the symptoms. “But the patient was later detected at Amritsar on his arrival and shifted to hospital,” he said.
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: In a bid to decongest jails, Punjab to release 6,000 prisoners||With a view to decongest state prisons in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, Punjab is going to release around 6,000 prisoners from all the jails across the state.Disclosing this here on Thursday, Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said convicts will be released on parole for 6 weeks and undertrial prisoners on interim bail for the same period.The minister informed that there were around 24,000 prisoners lodged in 24 jails across the state against an authorised capacity of 23,488. The primary aim was to protect the health of the prisoners and restrict transmission of COVID-19 by decongestion of prisons.Prisoners sentenced up to 7 years with maximum two undertrial cases (both on bail) and who have availed their last parole peacefully are to be considered for release on parole.In a statement, he further pointed out that the prisoners who are already out on parole shall be given 6 week extension to ensure quarantining of prisons.An undertrial shall be considered for a 6 week interim bail, if he/she is facing one or two cases in which maximum punishment is seven years or less.Special cases under certain heads of crime, including cheating and the Excise Act shall also be considered for the bail. Camp courts shall be held on jail premises itself for grant of interim bail.However, those convicted or charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the Explosives Act, acid attacks and foreign nationals shall not be considered for release. PTI
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal disagrees with Punjab govt's use of 'brute force' to implement curfew||Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal on Thursday reiterated his party's support for all constructive measures taken by the Punjab government to fight the coronavirus pandemic but said he disapproved of the use of "brute force" against those violating the curfew in the state.Badal's statement came a day after people stepped out of their homes in the state, defying the curfew and alleging the authorities failed to deliver essential goods at their doorstep. Several videos have surfaced online showing police using force to enforce the curfew and send people indoors.Badal said in a statement that people in the state were not prepared for the sudden curfew."While I understand the urgency of the matter, the government needed to ensure its implementation through sensitive and persuasive means rather than the use of brute force against those violating curfew, especially against the women. This is totally unacceptable," he said."There are so many psychological, practical and legal means available to ensure effective enforcement of curfew regulations. There is no need to humiliate the self-respecting Punjabis who have by and large been cooperating with the government's measures," the former deputy chief minister said.The government must use the media to spread awareness among people, he said."We support the government effort but disagree with its methods. This must change," he added.Badal appealed to people to cooperate with the administration "in our own interest".He asked the government to "think of innovative steps" to help the poor, ensure delivery of essential goods and address the concerns of farmers as crop harvesting is to begin next month."The farmers are at the end of the season. They are at the tether's end where their financial needs are concerned and they have to harvest the crop, not only for themselves but also to feed the nation," he said, demanding immediate financial assistance to farmers which could be adjusted in installments later.Badal also appealed to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to defer all loans of farmers.Punjab has recorded 31 coronavirus cases, according to government data. PTI
26-03-2020||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Mamata urges Amarinder to help Bengali workers stranded in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceKolkata, March 26West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged her Punjab counterpart to provide the Bengali workers stranded in Punjab with basic shelter, food and medical support in this hour of crisis.In a letter to Amarinder Singh today, the West Bengal CM wrote that many skilled and unskilled workers from Bengal were working in different parts of the country including Punjab. As a result of the complete lockdown in force in the country to arrest the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Bengali workers are unable to travel back to their homes and are stuck at their places of work.In her letter to the Punjab CM, Banerjee wrote that the West Bengal government was getting frantic calls from the stranded workers. These workers, Didi wrote, were generally in groups of 50 to 100 and could be easily identified by the respective local administrations. She wrote that since it was not possible for the West Bengal government to reach out to these workers for help, the Punjab government could step in and provide support to them.West Bengal government is also taking care of people from other states who are stuck here due to the lockdown, Mamata wrote.West Bengal Chief Secretary would pass on to his Punjab counterpart the details of the stranded workers so that humanitarian support could be extended to them with promptness, Mamata wrote in her letter addressed to the Punjab CM.Banerjee today sent similar letters to chief ministers of 17 more states, including Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Uttaranchal, Rajasthan and Kerala.
26-03-2020||---||Two new coronavirus cases in Punjab, total count 33||CHANDIGARH, March 26With two more cases reported on Thursday, the number of confirmed Coronavirus cases has reached 33 in Punjab. The fresh cases were reported from Jalandhar and SBS Nagar districts. SBS Nagar patient had contracted infection from an already confirmed positive patient while the Jalandhar patient who is admitted in a hospital in Ludhiana had a travel history.The health department said that the condition of all the positive cases is stable.According to health department, those who have got into close contact with these patients have been put under quarantine and surveillance and samples sent for testing.Officials said in the past one week 205 samples have been collected out of which 33 have been found to be positive.  Besides, the health department has identified 667 persons who were in contact with the infected people and have been quarantined.  The result of 151 cases is awaited.The confirmed cases include 19 from SBS Nagar, five from Mohali, four from Jalandhar and three from Hoshiarpur and while one each are from Amritsar and Ludhiana.  No confirmed case has been reported from rest of the 17 districts, said officials.25 CRORES RELEASED TO DISTRICTSTwenty five crores which were allocated to health department for Coronavirus control last week by the state government has been placed at the disposal of Deputy Commissioners and District health officials. The funds besides creating awareness will be utilized for purchase of equipmentsDISTRICT WISE CASESSBS Nagar   19SAS Nagar   5Jalandhar    4Hoshiarpur   3Amritsar   1Ludhiana   1 DAY-WISE SAMPLES COLLECTED     POSITIVE CASESMarch 18                        5                            1March 19                       18                           7March 20                        34                         14March 21                         36                          4March 22                         22                          1March 23                         50                          1March 24                         87                           2March 25                         205                         2
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police to ensure delivery of essentials at doorstep||Amid tighter restrictions and controls as part of the anti-COVID curfew/lockdown in place, Punjab Police on Wednesday went into mission mode to launch innovative and indigenous initiatives across districts to facilitate the door-to-door supply of essential goods through strategic tie-ups with Zomato, Swiggy, Verka, Amul, Mandi Pradhans, Chemist Associations, etc.As a result of the initiatives taken by the district police, the door-to-door supply of essential goods like medicine, grocery and eatables had started in many districts in the state, while similar delivery mechanisms were being worked out in others too.Passes were being issued to authorised vendors for the supply of essential goods, according to DGP Dinkar Gupta, adding that for home delivery of medicine, in particular, necessary tie-ups are being made with the respective chemist associations, so that orders can be taken on phone and home delivery is accordingly undertaken.Story HighlightsThe violations of curfew were reported from Ludhiana City, Ludhiana Rural, Khanna, Ropar, Sangrur, Patiala, Jalandhar City, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Mansa and Ferozepur.The DGP had issued certain directives to the top officials soon after the announcement of the curfew by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the nationwide lockdown by the Prime Minister.He had asked them to make suitable arrangements for door-to-door delivery of essential goods and services and to ensure smooth functioning of delivery boys, rehris, small motorized vehicles, etc.In Amritsar and Ludhiana cities, 650 people had been engaged from Swiggy for home delivery of the essential goods, while in Patiala district, home delivery of essential commodities was being ensured in coordination with the delivery boys from Zomato and Swiggy.As many as 100 trolleys containing essential commodities were dispatched across Sangrur district on Thursday by engaging the services of local volunteers, said the DGP, adding that in Tarn Taran district, milk-producing entities like Verka and Amul have been roped in for ensuring decentralised distribution of milk following proper social distancing measures.Officers of milk plant, Verka, have been liaised with, and they have assured that their 700 vendors will undertake door-to-door supply of milk in Amritsar City too, with the Commissionerate Amritsar directed to issue the necessary passes, said Gupta.All efforts were being made to resolve these concerns at the earliest, assured the DGP, adding that the police officials themselves had suggested various means to address these issues in their respective districts.
26-03-2020||Kabul||'What is our sin', ask Sikh Afghan gurdwara attack survivors; recall chilling brutality||"They killed everyone, no one is left alive," Apar Singh succinctly sums up the horrific attack carried out by a lone terrorist, believed to belong to Pakistan-based Haqqani group, on a prominent Sikh gurdwara here that killed at least 25 worshippers.The over two dozen worshippers were killed and eight others injured when a heavily armed suicide bomber stormed a prominent gurdwara on Wednesday in the heart of Afghanistan's capital of Kabul, in one of the deadliest attacks on the minority Sikh community in the strife-torn country.Some of the Afghan Sikhs, who lost their entire family members in the attack, are wondering what "sin" they have committed to deserve such a fate, TOLOnews reported.Many of the injured from Thursday's attack were rushed to nearby hospitals by security and by local authorities.A number of families of the victims of the attack described the attack as a clear crime "against humanity," the report said.Recalling the brutality, one man, who lost seven members of his family in the attack, says a suicide bomber fired at a man, woman and a child and "showed no mercy to anyone."One of the men who lost his mother in the attack asked: "what was my mother's sin and why are the country's minorities being targeted like this?"."Come and slaughter us if we harmed any Muslim," said one of the victim's relatives."What is our sin? Come and tell us about our sins. If we have done anything to Muslims?" asked other relatives of the victims.Harwinder Singh, who lost all seven members of his family, said the attackers killed all his family members in front of his eyes."They (attackers) killed my mother and my wife with my small child with bullets in front of my eyes,"Singh said."They killed everyone, no one is left alive," said Apar Singh, another victim.A woman, who has been transferred to the hospital for treatment after she was wounded, said there was no news of her family members who had come for prayer."All of our youths were killed, what should we do with the children that are left from the attack?" asked a wounded person.The brutal attack on the minority Sikh community has sparked anger among Afghan residents."The attack showed that they (attackers) don't have any mercy on anyone and they are not obeying any law nor any religion," said Mohammad Mustafa, a resident of Kabul."They don't care about Muslims nor Hindus, it means humanity does not have any meaning for them," said Haroon Rasouly, another resident of Kabul.The attack has faced severe condemnation from both inside and outside the country.Prime Minister Modi said on Wednesday that he was "saddened" by the attack on the gurdwara when 150 worshippers were inside the building."I am saddened by today's terror attack at Gurudwara in Kabul. I express my condolences to the families of all the deceased," he said in a tweet.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) also condemned the attack that lasted for about six hours, terming it cowardly and reflective of a "diabolical mindset"."Such cowardly attacks on places of religious worship of the minority community, especially at this time of the COVID-19 pandemic, is reflective of the diabolical mindset of the perpetrators and their backers,” it said in a statement.Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani condemned the attack, saying: "The attack on the religious sites shows the extreme weakness of the enemy, religious sites should not be vulnerable to attacks and violence." Ghani's rival Abdullah Abdullah tweeted: "The atrocity against this peaceful community is unconscionable. Afghanistan is a rich an colorful multicultural country. Evildoers will fail to destroy it. We will spare no effort to bring the culprits to justice."Former president of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai also strongly condemned the attack and expressed his condolences to the victims' families.India's Ambassador to Afghanistan Vinay Kumar on Thursday visited the gurdwara and offered condolences to families of the victims of the horrific attack.Sikhs have been target of attacks by Islamist militants before in Afghanistan.In July 2018, ISIS terrorists bombed a gathering of Sikhs and Hindus in the eastern city of Jalalabad, killing 19 people and injuring 20.Awtar Singh Khalsa, one of the country's best-known Sikh politicians then, was among those killed in the attack. PTI
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana farmers fear lockdown may hit harvesting, procurement||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana cannot reap what they have sown, literally.Facing an acute shortage of labour and transportation following country-wide lockdown to halt the spread of the coronavirus outbreak, harvesting wheat crop has turned into a herculean task for farmers in the northern states of Punjab and Haryana, the granaries of India'.State procurement agencies too will have to face massive hassles to lift the crop from the mandis with a sudden spike in wheat arrival by mid of April after Baisakhi.Officially, the procurement begins from April 1 in both States that contribute over 70 percent of the total foodgrain—wheat and paddy—respectively to the national kitty to run public distribution and welfare schemes. Officials say this time it is likely to start by mid of April.Punjab had harvested a 20-year record bumper wheat crop last season with its production of 129.93 lakh tonnes, of which 128.38 lakh tonnes were procured by state agencies and the remaining by private traders.Haryana had procured 93.60 lakh tonnes of wheat in the last season.This season, Punjab aims to reap 135 lakh tonnes of wheat and is expected to arrive in 1,850 mandis and nearly 1,700 procurement Centers.Four-five lakh daily-wage earners, mainly from Bihar and Jharkhand, are employed by the farmers and the aarhtiyas' commission agents each in Punjab and Haryana for harvesting and procurement respectively.With the lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 evening means they are not allowed to travel both inter-state and intra-state.The likelihood is most of the farmers will run a shortage of manpower in the coming days.Prominent farmer Yuvraj Dhillon of Punjab's Khanna town, the biggest grain market in Asia, told IANS over the phone that he knew there won't be too many labourers for harvesting this time and this is a big challenge for the state."Most of the labourers normally start arriving in Punjab by mid of March. This time the coronavirus scare earlier slowed down their arrival from home. Now with the country-wide lockdown, a majority of migrant workers stuck there," he said."We have a good crop this time, but we are keeping the fingers crossed. If there is a delay in wheat procurement, it will certainly impact the next crop too owing to the delay," a progressive farmer Amrik Singh of Zira in Punjab's Ferozepur district said.For farmers who have grown potatoes in Punjab's Doaba region, which feeds potato markets across the country, the labour shortage is also spelling harvest troubles for them too.Potatoes are grown on about one lakh hectares in Punjab with a production of 25 lakh tonnes every year. The growers are demanding exemption from curfew to harvest the crop that has short shelf-life.Haryana also largely depends on farm labourers from neighbouring states.The farmers are caught in a vicious time-cycle as they have to complete harvesting of wheat by mid of May and sow the next crop paddy by June 10.Wheat is less labour-intensive compared to the paddy.Dairy farmer Ajaib Singh in Haryana's Karnal said the shortage of manpower is impacting dairy farming too."Farm workers are not willing to come from to their native places in Bihar. This will certainly slow down not only the harvesting but also the procurement process," a district agriculture officer in Haryana said.Farm experts say since wheat harvest is mostly mechanised in Punjab and Haryana, labour shortage is a big issue for 'arhtiyas' and government procurement agencies.The respective state government should take up the issue with the Union government to counter the farm distress.Sensing losses due to lockdown, many farmers in Punjab's Mansa district have started ploughing their vegetable crops with tractors to make green manure for the next crop.Punjab Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the government has been asking farmers to hold on their wheat stock with them for some days after harvesting."We are asking the Central government to delay the procurement and a decision in this regard is expected soon, told the media.Punjab, whose major crops are wheat and paddy, is already facing the problem of plenty.Apprehending rotting of substantial wheat this time, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh last week suggested that the Centre should allow the food stocks currently stored in Punjab godowns to be distributed to the poor whose earnings were impacted due to the coronavirus outbreak instead of letting them rot in the storage areas.Since the stocks belonged to the government of India, it was in their purview to take a decision in this regard, he said, adding that the 20 million tonnes of food grains that Food Corporation of India (FCI) had yet to lift from the godowns could be put to better use by feeding the people not just in Punjab but wherever needed.Such a move would be a lifesaver for the people of India in the current crisis, the Chief Minister added.In Punjab, wheat is harvested in 35 lakh hectares, while rice is under cultivation under 29 lakh hectares with 25 percent under Basmati crop.Out of 42 lakh hectares under crop in Punjab, the other crash crops are cotton, potato, and sugarcane. IANS
26-03-2020|| Chandigarh||People scramble for essential items in Punjab as home delivery fails to kick-off||Essential items were not delivered at the doorstep in Punjab and people across the state were left scrambling for medicines and vegetables. Contrary to the claims of the Amritsar administration, essential items like milk, vegetables and medicines could not be delivered at the doorstep.Chemists, who were designated by the Office of the Deputy Commissioner, for home delivery of medicines, failed to respond when contacted on their phone numbers.The numbers of chemists provided to cater the Mall road, Taylor Road, Lawrence Road for medicines were either found to be defunct or busy.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced immediate distribution of 10 lakh packets of dry rations to daily wagers and unorganised labourers in the state to help them through the contingency situation triggered by the curfew imposed in light of the COVID-19 crisis.The packets, containing 10 kg atta, 2 kg dal and 2 kg of sugar each, would be distributed in the slums and other pockets where such daily wagers and labourers are staying in large numbers, an official spokesperson said.The chief minister also ordered these packets to be made available at the offices of the deputy commissioners to support any such persons who do not get covered in the door-to-door distribution and may call the helpline numbers for food.Call 112 for assitance: PolicePunjab police said that any person could dial 112 for seeking facilities like:emergency travelhospitalssupply of foodgroceriesmedicinesLPGHassle-free movement of trucks carrying essential goodsDelivery of goods through e-commerce platformHealth officials justified it by saying that the chemists remained overburdened and their phones kept busy as they were overburdened. They claim that the number of chemists would be increased. The scenario was dismal when it came to vegetable suppliers. The contact number of vegetable vendors were either switched off or they did not respond to calls.Police too appeared to be insensitive to people’s requirement. Majority of the milkmen were refused access to the urban areas to distribute milk, even though the administration had allowed them between 5 am and 8 am. Similarly, the milk collection centres of Verka in villages were not allowed to operate. Farmers have no choice to make khoya or Desi ghee at their places.In the absence of a wholesale market, the retailers were out of stock, be it groceries, vegetables or medicines.  However, grocery stores in Khandwala and Chheharta areas said that they would be able to start home deliveries only after they have the requisite stock. Several homes in Dashmesh Avenue and Shori Nagar were left in the lurch for essential commodities.In Putlighar area, grocery shop owners said they were yet to get authority passes to operate and serve the people. They claim that they were trying to persuade administrative officials to do the needful but in vain.As per the orders of relaxation, the bank branches were supposed to operate between 11 am and 2 pm, though with a skeleton staff, and the ATMs were to open from 8 am to 8 pm—till the time banks were closed.The scenario was identical in Tarn Taran. The SDM claimed that milk, milk products and so many other eatables were being provided to the residents but the residents of Mohindra enclave said not even a single vehicle approached their locality.  Gurpreet Singh of Noordi village said that just LPG cylinders were provided whereas vegetables and grocery items were out of reach. Private health services kept their shutters down. There was no home delivery of medicine. In Ludhiana, claims of the district administration of home delivery of essential commodities seemed to be falling flat as residents complained that they are not getting medicines, milk and grocery for their daily needs. There are reports that milk agencies/companies have not ensured the supply of milk/milk products.Grocery merchants who had been given permits by MC for home delivery also remained more or less inaccessible. Most of the phone numbers of such shops were either switched off or not reachable. Besides, several chemists could not make the required arrangements for the delivery of medicines at doorsteps.A chemist, on the condition of anonymity, said their pharmacies name has been included in the list without their consent. “Our store is located in a hospital and it is closed for 2-3 days and we have yet to make arrangements as per the instructions given by the district administration. Our store boys are still not ready to deliver medicines at doorsteps. Our pharmacy name was mentioned in the list without any consent. However, we will make all possible efforts to start delivery of medicines at the earliest”, he said.Another chemist in the city said there is no stock of medicines and they can’t ensure the supply of medicines as even Pindi street market, a wholesale market, is closed.Some residents also complained that the contact numbers of the chemists were not reachable or wrong numbers had been provided. Ram Hari Meena said: “I am not running any department store. I have been receiving a lot of wrong phone calls since yesterday. The people are dialling my mobile number to contact Gurjeet Singh of a departmental store in Jawahar Nagar Ludhiana. I don’t know who is Gurjeet Singh. They displayed my number instead of the departmental store number. It is sheer harassment for me. I appeal to the authorities concerned to display the correct number.”In Patiala, residents thronged markets early in the morning. At the Rajpura vegetable market, hundreds of people were seen purchasing vegetables. Residents were resorting to panic-buying in the city.Vendors sold vegetables from vehicles parked along the road in many localities including the Arya Samaj area and Sanauri gate.Potato, otherwise available at Rs 20 per kg, was being sold at Rs 50 per kg, a bunch of coriander leaves, otherwise sold at a marginal rate, also fetched Rs 50. A household on the stadium road, which was selling vegetables spread across the house’s lawn, at low prices, was raided by the police.“We are selling the commodities at justified rates. People are doing sewa (service) as well,” the woman selling the items said.People ventured out even though Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit on Wednesday released a list of grocery and chemist shops that were going to provide door-to-door delivery.However, residents claimed that things were in disarray and supply of essential items in the last 24 hours was not sufficient.The Muktar district administration allowed all medical stores till noon with condition that not more than five persons would gather at the place. It has given major ease to residents who were facing hardships in getting regular medicines. Notably, just two medical stores were allowed to open each in Muktsar, Malout and Gidderbaha towns yesterday.Similarly, the administration issued curfew passes to some vegetable vendors for door-to-door delivery at controlled prices. Milk was supplied until 9 am.However, this relaxation has led to the crowd on roads. Some residents even said that the relaxation might prove "disastrous".Meanwhile, the administration, in an attempt to ensure the supply of essential goods in villages, has authorised sarpanches to buy goods from shops in towns and supply it to the retail shops in villages. The sarpanches would get curfew passes from the concerned SDMs. The shops in villages would open from 4 pm to 6 pm.Gas cylinders would be supplied from 2 pm to 5 pm.The grocery shops would open from 4 pm to 6 pm. As per the district magistrate's order, grocery items would be supplied door-to-door by the shopkeepers and no one would be allowed to visit the shops.Even though two were released by the Jalandhar district administration – one on Wednesday and another on Thursday – of milk vendors, chemists and vegetable vendors – shortage of essential commodities persisted in the city.While the action was taken against a major medical shop in Jalandhar for opening the shop yesterday, retailers in Jalandhar complain that there is a severe shortage of essential medicines in the market. Chemists are largely running short on stocks of medicines relating to Diabetes and Blood Pressure. There is also a shortage of insulin. Many of the numbers in the list provided by the district administration are not being answered. Due to shortage of stocks – some chemists also said they are forced to close shops as customers fight when not provided essential medicines.With reports of hoarding of both medicines and vegetables - prices have also shot up.Even though the police and drug department also taking steps to ensure delivery of meds and vegetables in several areas - a large number of areas in the city are suffering due to unavailability of stock or unresponsive numbers.   Some chemists also said some of the numbers on the government list were scrambled up.Divya, a resident of Wadala Chowk area said she tried many chemists since morning on the list but none responded.A chemist on the Nakodar Road area, said, “I opened my shop for several hours but had to close it after customers picked up a fight for not getting medicines. The stock was updated a day before the curfew since then, the majority of the meds have been sold out. We are not getting stocks ourselves. Customers crowd the shops. What can we do.”Meanwhile, chemists also said there was a serious shortage of milk powder due to which many mothers were facing a very hard time in feeding toddlers. Chemists have been flooded with calls for dry milk.
26-03-2020||---||After starting YouTube channel, Sidhu now to launch Twitter handle on Punjab||Chandigarh, March 26After launching YouTube channel ‘jittega Punjab’, former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has announced to launch a Punjab centric new twitter handle @JittegaPunjabNS.The cricket turned politician in a statement said the twitter handle would allow interaction with the Punjabis on the burning issues of Punjab.
26-03-2020||Nawanshahr||11 more Nawanshahr villages sealed||168 FIRs filed, 184 held for violationsChandigarh: About 38,000 policemen have been deployed in districts and police commissionerates for enforcing curfew, including sealing of affected clusters (Nawanshahr district), maintenance of essential supplies and law and order. In all, 168 FIRs have been registered and 184 persons arrested in last 24 hours, who violated the quarantine and curfew guidelines, according to a release by the police. TNSProvide free ration to poor: MLAs to CM Chandigarh: Amid the 21-day curfew ordered by the Centre to check the spread of Covid, Congress MLAs have expressed concern over the effect of the lockdown on the livelihood of people in the unorganised sector. They have urged the state to provide free ration by utilising MNREGA funds, on the pattern of Telangana and Tamil Nadu. Former minister Jagmohan Kang has urged Capt Amarinder Singh to adopt the Himachal Government model to distribute flour and rice to the National Food Security Act (NFSA) families for April and May. TNSCops launch app for delivery of goods Sangrur: To provide food and essential services to locals at their doorstep, the Sangrur police have launched an app. The app “Police Emergency Services App (PESA)” has been uploaded on the PlayStore and will provide all required services. It has been launched as a pilot project in Sangrur and likely to be launched in other districts to ensure that no one comes out of their homes during the curfew. TNSVC: Covid testing at Baba Farid varsityFazilka: Vice Chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Dr Raj Bahadur visited the Jalalabad and Fazilka Civil Hospitals to take stock of the situation on Wednesday. The VC said the third government Covid-19 testing centre would be set up in the university within a week. Earlier, the facility was available at Government Medical Colleges in Patiala and Amritsar. OCInfo on foreign returnees soughtChandigarh: The government has asked all sarpanches/nambardars in villages to immediately provide information on all residents in their respective villages, who would have travelled abroad after March 1 or who would have received relatives from abroad. Instructions have been issued to also find out the number of persons who visited the Hola Mohalla in Anandpur Sahib. TNSDeliveries at Empanelled private hospitalsChandigarh: In view of the increasing pressure on the public healthcare infrastructure amid concerns over the spread of Covid, the state government has allowed deliveries in empanelled private hospitals under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana without any referral from government facilities. The government has allowed 10 procedures pertaining to obstetrics and gynecology, including high-risk deliveries and Cesarean section. TNS
26-03-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht flays attack, urges Afghan govt to ensure safety of Sikhs||Akal Takht and the SGPC have condemned the terror attack on a gurdwara in Kabul and urged the Central government to initiate steps for the security of Sikh families in Afghanistan.SAD, AAP seek PM interventionShiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday condemned the barbaric attack on a gurdwara in Kabul, urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take up the issue of safety of the Sikh community withAfghanistan President Ashraf Ghani urgentlyThe Aam Aadmi Party too condemned the terrorist attack. Party state unit president and parliamentarian Bhagwant Mann has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention in the matter and a solution to address the issue diplomatically to save precious livesThough the Afghan forces gunned down the attackers, the hours-long siege left 25 persons dead. Officiating Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh said such a cowardly attack, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, was reflective of despicable intentions of the attackers.“This incident has shaken the global Sikh community. Reports emerged that Sikh families living there usually gathered to offer prayers in the morning. The attackers killed the innocent people, including women and children, who used to live in a portion of the shrine. I urge the Indian government to coordinate with the Afghan government so that the security of Sikh community be ensured”, he said. Endorsing it, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said it was a time for the Afghani Sikhs to show unity and approach their government for their security.Manjit Singh GK, president of JAGO party (Jathedar Santokh Singh), and former DSGMC president, called spoke to Tahir Qadiry, charge d’affaires and acting envoy of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to India today.“Qadiry said Afghan President Ashraf Ghani had been personally monitoring the situation. The area has been completely sanitised by the Afghan security forces and all efforts are being made to give immediate treatment to the injured and detailed investigation is still underway”.Manjit Singh also requested the Afghan envoy to shift the injured on priority basis to India for better healthcare as the Government of India had expressed its interest to extend all possible assistance to the affected families of the Hindu and Sikh communities of Afghanistan.SAD (Delhi) president Paramjit Singh Sarna termed it as an attack on humanity not on a community.
26-03-2020||Moga||11-yr-old boy sodomised, killed in Moga||An 11-year-old boy was sodomised, murdered and his body set on fire at Mahesari Sandhuan village in Moga district, SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said today.His skeletal remains were recovered by the police from the building of government primary school in the village.The SSP said the boy had been missing from his home since Sunday noon. The family members tried to locate him, but, they could not find him.DSP (Investigation) Jangjit Singh that during the investigations it came to light Lakhwinder Singh, alias Lakha, took the minor along with him saying that he should accompany him to a neighbour’s home to repair his motorcycle. However, he instead took him to the nearby school where he allegedly sodomised him. When the boy resisted, he allegedly attacked him with bricks on the head and fled. The boy died on the spot. The DSP said Lakha had confessed the crime. — TNS
26-03-2020||Mansa||Fearing losses, farmers plough crops||The vegetable growers in the state are facing huge trouble in the state due to the imposition of curfew to limit spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.After they failed to transport their produce to mandis due to the curfew, many vegetable growers in Mansa district have started ploughing their vegetable crops with tractors in a bid to make green manure.Punjab Kisan Union state senior vice-president Gura Singh Bhainibagha said, “Vegetable growers are facing a huge problem due to the curfew as everything is closed due to which in Bhainibagha village, some farmers have ploughed their crops in their fields.”Similarly, Iqbal Singh Sidhu, sarpanch of Fafad Bhaika village, said, “Due to the curfew, farmers have not been able to sell vegetables in the mandi as health is first priority for everyone”.When contacted, Mansa DC Gurpal Singh Chahal said vegetable farmers should give priority in selling it rather than ploughing it. “If they are facing any problem in selling it, then they should contact officials,” he said.Vegetables have been grown on 2.73 lakh hectare land. Of this, potatoes have been grown on 1.05 lakh hectare. Nearly 1.80 farmers are in vegetable cultivation for commercial purpose.Apart from this, potato growers are demanding exemption from curfew to harvest the crop. They said the crop was perishable with a relatively short shelf-life, if not stored in time. The process of harvesting needs to completed at the earliest, as the rise in temperature above 32 degrees can pose a serious threat to the crop.
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Capt to Maharashtra: Evacuate 2,000 from Nanded Sahib||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged the Centre and the Maharashtra Government to immediately evacuate 2,000 pilgrims stuck in Nanded Sahib in the wake of countrywide lockdown.He tweeted in this connection and written letters to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Maharashtra Chief Minister Udhav Thackeray, a government spokesperson said.Subsequently, the Maharashtra Government responded with the assurance that action would be taken to help out the stranded pilgrims.The Maharashtra Chief Minister’s office conveyed to Chief Minister’s Office, Punjab, that steps were being taken in this respect, while Maharashtra Tourism, Environment and Protocol Minister Aditya Thackeray responded to Captain Amarinder’s tweet that: “Thank you sir @capt_amarinder ji. Will look into it and do the needful.”As trains were cancelledand the nationwide lockdown imposed, there is no possibility to bring pilgrims back to Punjab without special approval of the Centre, wrote Capt Amarinder.
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Town Planning wing issues fresh roster||Employees in the Town Planning (TP) wing of the Local Government Department seem to be indispensable, even if it means violating instructions of the state government on drastically cutting down staff strength in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Despite clear instructions of the Chief Secretary to depute only the bare minimum staff required for essential services, the Director Local Government on Wednesday issued a duty roster for the staff in the Town Planning wing, deputed at state headquarters here.Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, Sanjay Kumar, said since the urban local bodies were among the departments running essential services, only the necessary staff had been called. — TNS
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||It’s a long wait for pvt sector employees||The lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for three weeks would delay the monthly salary of industrial workforce, retail sector, faculties and non-teaching staff of private unaided colleges in Punjab and Chandigarh.People associated with the industry informed that it may be delayed by one to four weeks if everything becomes normal by April 15. Insiders also mentioned that many in the industry, including the service sector, were also mulling pay-cuts. However, they are tight-lipped over the situation.According to industry, especially the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), would put off the payment of salary to their staff to 16th day of the month. The move is likely to impact around 20 lakh workers employed in the sectors.In Punjab alone, there are around 1.80 lakh units in the MSME sector. Normally, the MSMEs disburse 30-50 per cent of the worker’s total salary in advance on 22-25th of every month and remaining on the 7th of every month. However, this month, many of MSMEs have not disbursed the advance salary amid the pandemic.“The factory pay day is the seventh day of the month. Since, the lockdown is in effect till April 14, so it will be difficult to process the salary. Concerned over the issue, we are in touch with state government and requested them to allow the accounts department to function so that they process salary,” said SC Ralhan, former president, Federation of Indian Export Organisations.Many of the MSMEs in Punjab do not have payroll management software, so rely on manual processing.“We are concerned for our workforce and contemplating various options so they should not be deprived of cash but in any case it will be delayed,” said Upkar Singh Ahuja, MD, New Swan Group.However, for the unaided colleges the delay will be anywhere between two-four weeks. “Unlike the manufacturing sector, we are dependent on students for salary. So, once they join the college and deposit their fees, we would be able to pay the salaries to our staff. If the colleges open by April 15, then salaries in private colleges and other educational institutions might get delayed by 2-4 weeks,” Anshu Kataria, president, Punjab Unaided Colleges Association.
26-03-2020||Tribune ReportersGurdaspur||Salary blues haunt govt staff, teachers||In the midst of Covid outbreak, one question worrying government employees, teachers and ASHA workers is whether they will get their salaries on time.Confusion prevailsIn Sangrur and Barnala districts, a majority of the government employees are panicky since the imposition of curfew. Most have made arrangements to run their houses in case they do not get their salariesIn Jalandhar, government schoolteachers say bills are prepared by the DDOs at the district level and the salary is deposited in their accounts. But amid the lockdown, getting salaries seems difficult this monthAs many as 25,000 ASHA workers will face the heat as the Punjab Government does not have data on the basis of which compensation is paid to them. Accredited social health activists (ASHA) are community health workers deputed in rural areas by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare as part of the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM).Workers get a monthly remuneration of Rs 2,000 and incentives for undertaking an assortment of services for the welfare of people, particularly those living in the rural areas. Paramjit Kaur Maan, president of the Punjab Asha Workers Association, said due to Covid scare and subsequent curfew, officials have not prepared this month’s data. “Our workers will have to do with just Rs 2,000 this month. This is grossly unfair. To complicate matters, we have been asked to fan out in villages to trace suspects without sanitisers, gowns, gloves or even masks,” said Maan.Rajwinder Kaur, president, Gurdaspur unit of the association, said they would be meeting Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq to ensure they got compensation. Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said he was apprised of the situation and would do his best to impress upon the health authorities to depute officials who would prepare data on the basis of which compensation could be calculated.In Jalandhar, government schoolteachers are a worried lot. They said bills were prepared by the DDOs at the district level and the salary was deposited in their accounts. But amid the lockdown, getting salaries seemed difficult this month. One of the government schoolteachers said when everything was shut, he did not think they would get the salaries. “The entire work is done at the district level and when no one is visiting any office, how will we get it,” he said. District Education Officer Harinder Pal Singh said they had already received orders of giving salaries to the employees and scanned copies of the bills would be sent online to the treasury office.In Sangrur and Barnala districts, a majority of the government employees are panicky since the imposition of curfew. Most have made arrangements to run their houses in case they do not get their salaries.In Amritsar, Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Deputy Commissioner, said as per the advisory issued by the Central Government, treasuries would be operational during the curfew period.He said a couple of employees in the accounts section dealt in salary disbursal, which directly went into the accounts of the employees. Nitish Singla, Joint Commissioner of the MC, said all arrangements were in place to disburse salaries on time.
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||DGP: People must follow guidelines||Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Wednesday shared a series of videos on his social media accounts where he appealed to people to follow the guidelines issued by the administration.Gupta suggested people to utilise this relatively free time to share innovative ideas to spread awareness on Covid.“I would invite the people on social media, especially the youngsters, to utilise this time of curfew to enhance their creativity and share ideas to create awareness about the virus. We all should work together to curtail the spread of this disease to keep everyone safe,” Gupta said in a video that has gone viral on the social media.“The men of the Punjab Police too are attentive on roads and doing a remarkable job and I appeal to all of you to cooperate with administration to make implementation of the curfew easier,” Gupta said.The Punjab Police have launched the initiative to promote community policing and improve trust factor with citizenry in the hour of crisis. Sources say the authorities might launch a campaign to engage people so that they stay at their homes.
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police dept ties up with Zomato, Verka for door-to-door supply||Amid tighter restrictions as part of the anti-Covid curfew, the Punjab Police on Wednesday went into a mission mode to launch innovative and indigenous initiatives across districts to facilitate door-to-door supply of essential goods through strategic tie-ups with Zomato, Swiggy, Verka, Amul, mandi pradhans, chemist associations, etc.As a result, the door-to-door supply of essential goods like medicines, grocery, eatables had started in many districts in the state, while similar delivery mechanisms were being worked out in others too. Passes were also being issued to authorised vendors for the supply of essential goods, according to DGP Dinkar Gupta, adding that for home delivery of medicines, in particular, necessary tie-ups were being worked out with the respective chemist associations, so that orders could be taken on phone and home delivery was accordingly undertaken.In Amritsar and Ludhiana cities, 650 persons had been engaged from Swiggy for home delivery of goods, while in Patiala, home delivery of essential commodities was being ensured in coordination with the delivery boys from Zomato and Swiggy.As many as 100 trolleys containing essential commodities were dispatched across Sangrur district today by engaging the services of local volunteers, said the DGP.
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt starts disbursing Rs 3,000 to workers||Three days after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced immediate relief of Rs3,000 each for all registered construction workers in a bid to provide relief in wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Labour Department has started disbursing the special grant to 3.18 lakh beneficiaries.A total of Rs96 crore is to be disbursed through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to the intended beneficiaries. “The entire amount will be transferred to the bank account of the construction workers by next Friday,” said Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.Since the lockdown is expected to continue till April, the state is contemplating releasing another grant of Rs3,000 by next month. But the policy decision is yet to be taken, it is learnt.Explaining the delay, sources in the department said due to the curfew and disrupted operations of the banks, the department faced problem in getting their fixed deposits encashed. The transfer of funds to the account of the beneficiaries has started and the entire amount would be transferred by coming Friday.The relief was announced after UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced Rs1,000 each for 15 lakh daily wage labourers. — TNS
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Stuck in Chandigarh, Cong MLAs seek passes||Congress MLAs, who are stuck in Chandigarh due to the curfew, have sought the CM’s help to reach their respective constituencies to participate in the relief and preventive operations in wake of the Covid.Due to lockdown, the MLAs are finding it difficult to move out of Chandigarh.“Despite best efforts by the Punjab Police, there were problems in the dispatch of relief material to the homeless, destitute and daily wage earners in Khanna, Tarn Taran, Zira, Jagraon, Ferozepur, Qadian, and other places. Due to personal rapport with the locals, we can add impetus to the drive”, said the MLAs.The MLAs, Sukhpal Bhullar (Khemkaran), Parminder Pinki (Ferozepur), GP Singh (Bassi Pathana), Kulbir Zira (Zira), Fatehjung Bajwa (Qadian), Gurkirat Kotli (Khanna) are among the MLA stuck in Chandigarh.“Due to the gravity of the situation, all ministers and MLAs, while exercising the precautions against the spread of Covid, should be asked to be present in their constituencies. People have voted us and it is our responsibility to take care of them,” said an MLA.
26-03-2020||Jalandhar||Phillaur family under scanner||With three Covid cases surfacing from the district’s Virk village, health teams are bracing up for a scenario similar to Nawanshahr’s Pathlawa village which has been sealed. There are apprehensions that many in Virk village have been infected from the virus.NRIs shy away from testing NRIs, who have returned to Punjab in the past few days, are giving a hard time to the Health Department as many of them have refused to get themselves tested. Some are hiding their travel history and some are not revealing the names of persons whom they met. The department is also having a tough time ensuring that those in isolation stay put.The three persons who have tested positive are members of a joint family of three brothers. One them, along with his family, lives abroad, while the other two and their six children reside at Virk village in Phillaur.After the three persons were tested positive on Tuesday, their close contacts from Virk village, 16 in number, were brought to the Civil Hospital here in the past two days. Of them, 12 are in isolation.In a statement issued on Wednesday, DC Varinder Sharma said 21 Covid suspected patients had been admitted to the local Civil Hospital.Five persons, who are in isolation in Phillaur’s Civil Hospital, would be shifted to the Jalandhar hospital, the DC said.Sources say the family of the three patients and that of a 70-year-old man, who died of the virus in Banda last week, closely related.When the 70-year-old man was admitted to hospital in Phagwara on March 16, some members of the family from Virk village attended to him.Health teams, meanwhile, have cordoned off Virk village. Camping at Government Senior Secondary School in Virk, they are keeping a round-the-clock surveillance on villagers. A door-to-door survey is underway.
26-03-2020||Jalandhar||Tracing contacts of infected persons a task||Fearing quarantine and social stigma, villagers are hiding the details of those who came in contact with three Covid positive patients of Virk village in Phillaur.It is tedious for the staff to visit every house in the village and convince residents to divulge the details. One of the staff members involved in the process said it was difficult to make the villagers understand that it was important for them to tell if they had come in contact with any of the three family members in last few days.Three members of a family, who were relatives of Baldev Singh from Pathlawa village in Nawanshahr, have tested positive for Covid.On the first day, nine persons of the village, who were in direct contact with infected persons, were taken to the Civil Hospital for tests and the process of identifying more continued on the second day too.A police official said it took him an hour or so to convince the villagers to give the details. “They are scared of getting isolated. But we have to make them understand that if they won’t tell us now, they will have to suffer sooner or later,” he said.Nobody wants to be labelled as a suspect. As per information, most residents gave excuses like their main gate opened on the other side and chances of them coming in contact with the trio were less.Sarpanch of the village Darshana Kumari is also making sure that she provides information regarding the villagers to health and police officials.SP (Investigation) Sarbjit Singh said the villagers were being counselled.DC Varinder Sharma said the police were identifying the people with whom these three persons had come in contact with.
26-03-2020||Anandpur Sahib||Fearing Covid, woman, son hang selves in Anandpur Sahib||A mother and her 43-year-old son reportedly committed suicide fearing Covid infection at Lodhipur village today. The bodies of the deceased identified as Daljit Kaur and Satinderjit Singh were found hanging from a fan at their house.Ropar SP Swapan Sharma said a suicide note was recovered in which the deceased had expressed fears Covid was infecting a large number of people in the world and one day they could also fall prey to it. — TNS
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||1 more case, Punjab’s count 31||With one more case reported on Wednesday, the number of Covid cases has reached 31 in the state. The new case has been reported from Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur district.He is 31 years old. His father, who is a priest at a dera in Nawanshahr’s Pathlawa village, had tested positive for Covid last week. The 70-year-old man was also a priest in the Pathlawa dera.2,500 isolation bedsThe Health Department has ordered to set up 2,500 isolation beds at 20 treatment-cum-isolation facilities for Covid-19 in the state's various district hospitals and medical colleges. These facilities will offer services at free of cost. According to orders issued by Secretary Health, all the 20 facilities have been made operational today.Moranwali village has already been sealed.The 31-year-old man is linked to a 70-year-old man from Nawanshahr district who had succumbed to the virus last week. With this, the total number of persons getting infected from the 70-year-old man has reached 22. Of them, 18 are his family members from Banga and Phillaur. He had returned from Germany after which his condition deteriorated last week. He was found Covid positive following his death.Members of priest’s family were quarantined a few days ago. His 31-year-old son showed symptoms of fever and cough a few days ago, after which he was tested.According to the Health Department, close contacts of the 31-year-old man have been put under quarantine and surveillance. Their samples have been taken and sent to labs for testing.At present, there are 130 suspected cases in the state, the department says. The 130 suspected persons and 1,150 more people have been quarantined. One person has succumbed to the deadly virus. The results of 229 persons are awaited.Of the 31 cases, 18 have been reported from Nawanshahr, five from Mohali, three each from Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, and one each from Amritsar and Ludhiana.
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||New directions on essential services in Punjab||To streamline the curfew management and facilitate supply of essentials, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has issued aVolunteers may also be engaged, if need be, for ensuring prompt door-to-door delivery of essential commodities. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Ministerfresh set of directives to the police and civil administration, including detailed instructions for issuance of passes to maintain the critical system and services, to ensure that the people are not inconvenienced in these difficult times.Extending a helping handThe Chief Minister has constituted a committee, under the chairmanship of ACS (Industry and Commerce), to oversee the procurement processes for all Covid-related items.To ensure timely supply of critical material and equipment to government hospitals, PHCs and CHCs, the DCs have been asked to contact the PSHFW and MD, PHSC. The material includes PPE kits, masks and medicines.Capt Amarinder has ordered that the requisite protocol issued by the Health Department for testing suspected cases be followed meticulously.Giving importance to tracing all international passengers, who arrived after March 10, the Chief Minister said the work should continue unabated.He directed the Health Department and police officials to ensure monitoring of those already traced and placed under home-quarantine.While continuing with its earlier curfew orders, the state government will take all possible steps to avoid any undue inconvenience to providers of essential services and the general public, the Chief Minister said.He has directed the police and administrative officials to ensure door-to-door delivery of essentials for the desired/prescribed period and it may, as far as possible, be further streamlined with the assistance of e-commerce companies/service providers.“Volunteers may also be engaged, if need be, for ensuring prompt door-to-door delivery of essential commodities,” the Chief Minister said.Providers of essential services whether individuals (hawkers/delivery boys) or institutions should be allowed to operate for fixed duration, but on specific permissions and after observing required health safeguards, he added.For special goods trains, which have been arranged to move foodgrains out of the state to ensure adequate storage space for the wheat crop, the Department of Food has issued guidelines.The Chief Minister has also ordered sanitisation of affected or vulnerable areas, for which guidelines have been issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare.For procurement of wheat, ACS (Development) and PSFS will issue a comprehensive mandi-wise plan in due course. Likewise, for the harvesting of potatoes, ACS will issue necessary guidelines by March 27.
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Another Hoshiarpur man found infected||A 31-year-old resident of Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur district has been found infected by Covid-19. He too had been in contact with the 70-year-old priest from Nawanshahr district, who died of the virus infection last week. The total number of persons infected by the Nawanshahr man now stands at 22. Moranwali village has already been sealed.The Health Department is gearing up to set up 2,500 isolation beds at 20 treatment-cum-isolation facilities in various district hospitals and medical colleges. — TNS
26-03-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Punjab losing Rs 1,700 cr GDP daily, says Finance Minister||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 25Amid Covid-19 lockdown in the country, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal today said the state’s GDP was suffering a loss of Rs 1,700 crore daily.Manpreet Badal, Punjab Finance Minister‘Preparing for worst case scenario’We have sufficient financial backing for the moment. Our Finance Secretary, along with his team, is working out a detailed paper on the worst case scenario in case we are not able to handle Covid-19 situation by April 16. We are also ready for the best case scenario. “Under the current scenario, our country is losing Rs 1 lakh crore GDP daily. The affected collections from petrol, diesel and alcohol alone were very big. Punjab is suffering Rs 1,700 crore GDP loss daily,” he said.“Shortly, we will be faced with a bigger problem of handling the harvesting of wheat crop. Not just harvesting and storage, but even payments. We cannot postpone the harvest, but we don’t really know the definite solution at this moment,” he said.Badal, while talking to The Tribune, said: “Punjab Government employees, however, need not bother about their salaries, at least for now.”“We have an effective financial management system in place that can handle the current situation of salary disbursement. All input flows are functional for allowing our staff to work out their disbursement details in time,” he said.“We have sufficient financial backing for the moment. Our Finance Secretary, along with his team, is working out a detailed paper on the worst case scenario in case we are not able to handle Covid-19 situation by April 16,” he said.“I am hopeful that we will be able to tide over the current crisis well in time to avoid any salary delay to employees next time,” he said.
