26-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Inspiring 73-year-old grandfather known as ‘Skipping Sikh’ wins UK award||A 73-year-old Sikh grandfather, popularly known as ‘Skipping Sikh’, who shot to limelight for his exercise videos during the lockdown that attract thousands of viewers and helped raise funds for the National Health Service (NHS) in the UK, was on Friday awarded the ‘Point of Light’ award.Rajinder Singh, aged 73, from Harlington, films exercise videos in his allotment, bringing together over 250,000 viewers on YouTube, helping the Sikh community remain active and fundraising over £12,000 for NHS charities, the UK’s Points of Light website wrote.With the UK in lockdown, this was his way of encouraging people to squeeze in some physical activity in their daily lives.Missing his daily exercise, food and prayer with others from the Sikh community during lockdown, Rajinder decided to share videos online of his skipping fitness routines and inspire others to keep active with him, particularly those isolating at home.His tutorials have since become a worldwide phenomenon, and he is encouraging people across the globe to join in his lockdown skip challenge and donate to NHS charities.In a personal letter to Rajinder, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said:“I wanted to write personally to thank you for all that you are doing to support our extraordinary NHS, and encouraging the nation to pick up their skipping ropes and keep their spirits high by taking on your lockdown skip challenge!“Your ‘Skipping Sikh’ fitness videos have given a lift to the thousands of people worldwide who have watched online and taken part with you in your daily exercise, and provided an ingenious way of bringing together and energising the Sikh community at a time when temples have been closed.“So allow me to join in sharing your message that health is wealth, and congratulate you on becoming the UK’s 1410th Point of Light!”Rajinder said: “Waheguru ji ka khalsa, waheguru ji ki fateh. I am truly humbled for being awarded the Points of Light award. I love to serve others – it’s part of who I am as a Sikh and I love to do sewa (give back). I never thought something like skipping would inspire the world and spread smiles. I’m really grateful for the support and being given this recognition. Thank you to our PM Boris Johnson, God bless you and everyone, I thank everyone for the support and love, and I encourage all to join in the skipping challenge and tag me in @SikhSkipping.“Health is wealth so to everyone my message is stay active and stay happy.”
26-06-2020||Patiala||Patiala reports 28 new coronavirus cases; highest single-day spike in district||Patiala reported 28 new coronavirus cases on Friday, officials said---making this the largest single-day spike of the infection the district has seen yet.Nineteen of the 28 new cases were from Samana town, Patiala district authorities said. Sixteen were contacts of already diagnosed cases. Three of the new cases were pregnant women and five patients had flu-like symptoms and one was a domestic traveller. A healthcare worker and a policeman were among those testing positive on Friday, health officials said.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said two areas in Samana---Warraich Colony and Dogar market---both had the most cases and have been declared containment zones. Both areas will be sealed for 10 days, with strictly restrictions on movements. Health authorities will around the area conducting door-to-door surveys, the official said.Those who tested positive on Friday have already been taken to a COVID Care Centre.The development takes the district tally to 274.
26-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports six new coronavirus cases||Mohali reported six new coronavirus cases, taking the district tally to 242, district officials said on Friday.A 29-year-old woman from Baltana who is a research scholar at Chandigarh’ s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research tested positive, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said. Apart from her five migrant women from Uttar Pradesh who lived in Behda and worked at a meat factory there also tested positive.The Baltana resident has been admitted to PGI, but the others are at a Covid Care centre in Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital.Seven people were cured and released from the hospital in Banur, the doctor said.  Mohali has 54 active cases, the doctor said.The district has reported three deaths so far.
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two more die of coronavirus in Punjab, toll reaches 122; state reports 188 fresh cases||Two more persons succumbed to coronavirus in Punjab on Friday, taking the death toll to 122, while 188 fresh cases pushed the infection tally in the state to 4,957.One person died in Bathinda and another in Fatehgarh Sahib, as per the medical bulletin.Punjab continues to see a surge in new coronavirus cases with 188 more people testing positive for the virus on Friday.The state has witnessed 1,833 new cases since June 15.Among the fresh cases detected on Friday, 67 were in Ludhiana, 31 in Patiala, 24 in Sangrur, 14 in Amritsar, 13 in Fazilka, 10 in Pathankot, nine in Gurdaspur, six each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Mohali and Rupnagar and 2 in Ferozepur, as per bulletin.Of them, four were foreign returnees, while 26 had travel history to other states, it stated.Nine coronavirus patients were discharged from various hospitals after they recovered from the infection. A total of 3,201 people have been cured so far, as per bulletin.There are 1,634 active cases in the state as of now.Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 852 coronavirus cases. It is followed by 730 in Ludhiana, 668 in Jalandhar, 346 in Sangrur, 274 in Patiala, 234 in Mohali, 207 in Gurdaspur, 205 in Pathankot, 187 in Tarn Taran,  166 in Hoshiarpur, 126 in SBS Nagar, 125 in Muktsar, 107 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 101 each in Faridkot and Rupnagar, 92 in Moga, 90 in Fazilka, 88 in Ferozepur, 85 in  Bathinda, 83 in Kapurthala, 46 in Barnala and 44 in Mansa, as per bulletin.Six patients are critical and are on ventilator support, while 24 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 2,76,919 samples have been taken for testing so far, as per bulletin. PTI
26-06-2020||New Delhi||Abducted Sikh's wife appeals to PM as Afghan gets more risky for minorities||The wife of a Sikh man abducted in Afghanistan has asked for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to have her husband freed and then granting Indian citizenship to her family of six.Attacks on Sikh minorities in Afghanistan have increased ever since India cast its lot with the Kabul regime in the ongoing peace talks with the Taliban.Another threat to the minorities has been the rise of an ISI-affiliated terrorist outfit. Security analysts believed it was behind the Gurdwara Har Rai Sahib massacre in Kabul to announce its presence.The abducted Sikh, Nidan Singh, is an Afghan who had moved to India for some years when the Taliban gained ascendancy in the early 90s and worked odd jobs here. It is still not clear how and by whom Nidan Singh was asked to return and man Gurdwara Tala Sahib in Afghanistan’s Paktia Province near the border with Pakistan. The wider region called “Loya Paktia” has been a Mujahideen and then Taliban\Haqqani Group stronghold since the early 1980s.Nidan Singh lived at the gurdwara where Guru Nanak was reported to have visited with his wife and children and was responsible for its upkeep, sources said.  Nidan Singh was abducted earlier this week.India and other countries are worried over the shrinking of space for Sikh and Hindu minorities ever since US-Taliban talks got into high gear and India excluded itself from establishing contacts with the insurgent group. India has condemned Nidan Singh’s abduction and the government hopes the Afghan government will be able to secure his safe and early release.Soon after the May 15 massacre at the Kabul Gurdwara, former US Vice-President Joe Biden had promised to raise the annual global refugee admissions cap to 1.25 lakhs if he won the November US Presidential elections. Implicit was the assurance that some of the quota would be for Afghanistan’s embattled Sikh community.The USCIRF, which frequently upbraids India for its treatment of minorities, had described the Kabul attack as a “terrible tragedy” for a “wonderful, peaceful religious group” that has been virtually decimated in Afghanistan with just a thousand left.Its chief Senator Sam Brownback was more guarded than Biden on the issue of citizenship but has mentioned the possibility of settling them in Canada, India or Pakistan. “We’ve been inquiring, as others have, of possible places for the remaining Sikhs in Afghanistan to go to be able to be safe. I don’t have anything publicly that I could say,” he had observed.
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pre-monsoon rains surplus in Punjab and Haryana but deficient in Himachal||On the eve of the southwestern monsoon covering the entire country, rains during the month have been good in the states of Punjab and Haryana, but deficient in Himachal Pradesh.In Punjab, the pre-monsoon rain from June 1 to June 26 were 24 per cent above the long period average for this period, while in Haryana the surplus was 15 per cent.On the other hand, rain in June so far was deficient by 21 per cent in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh.According to data released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Punjab received 47.8 mm rains from June 1 to June 26 as compared to the long period average of 38.6 per cent for this period.Haryana received 42.4 mm compared to 36.8 mm while Himachal Pradesh received 61 mm compared to the normal of 77.1 mm.During the past 24 hours, there has been fairly widespread rainfall activity over west Rajasthan and adjoining Punjab and Haryana in association with the cyclonic circulation at lower tropospheric levels over northeast Rajasthan.The monsoon today advanced into the remaining parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab, thus covering the entire country, around 12 days in advance.The normal date for this is July 8. The last time the monsoon advanced so early was in 2013 when it covered the entire country by June 16.IMS has predicted that the monsoon this year would be 96 to 104 per cent of the long period averageIMD data shows that during June, Una was the only district in Himachal to have received above normal rainfall.The tribal areas in upper parts of the state have been hard hit, with the deficiency being 54 per cent in Lahaul and Spiti, 39 per cent in Kinnaur and 21 per cent in Chamba. Bilaspur and Hamirpur in the central part of the state also remained relatively dry with the shortfall being 46 per cent and 34 per cent, respectively.In Haryana too, rain in most districts remained below par, with Palwal, recording a deficiency of 90 per cent, being the hardest hit, followed by Panchkula with a shortfall of 56 per cent and Rohtak with a shortfall of 47 per cent.On the other hand a few districts received heavy rains, with the surplus being 153 per cent in Rewari, 130 per cent in Karnal and 117 per cent in Kurukshetra and Kaithal.Barring south-western parts, most areas of Punjab received surplus rain in June. The deficiency recorded was 55 per cent in Faridkot, followed by 47 per cent in Ferozepur and 46 per cent in Mansa. Tarn Taran, Muktsar, Patiala and Barnala were other districts where the shortfall ranged between 10 to 35 per cent.
26-06-2020||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Evidences favouring Sikhs frustrates Meghalaya government’s eviction plan||Tribune News ServiceKolkata, June 26In what is being seen as a confirmation of the strong legal position of the Shillong Sikhs regarding their residence in the city’s Harijan Colony neighbourhood, Meghalaya Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong, who is heading the High-level Committee (HLC) set up by the state government to relocate the Sikh residents from Harijan Colony, has admitted that the matter was a complex one.Tynsong recently told journalists at Shillong that the Harijan Colony issue, especially the land question, was far from simple.“All evidence is in our favour and because of this we always got relief from the court also whenever we knocked the door of the judiciary to seek protection from state government’s attempt to drive us away from the locality where we have been living for generations,” Gurjit Singh, leader and spokesman of Shillong’s Harijan Colony Sikhs, told this reporter over the phone.The High-Level Committee (HLC), constituted by the state government in June 2018 for relocating the Harijan Colony residents, formed a sub-committee under urban affairs minister Hanmletson Dohling to assist it.The main job entrusted to the sub-committee is to examine and try to resolve differences between the traditional Khasi institution ‘Hima Mylliem’ and the state government over the land (Harijan Colony).The land was given to the ancestors of the current residents of the colony by the then tribal chief of the area. According to the land laws prevailing in Meghalaya, the state government or any of its agencies, including the Shillong Municipal Board (SMB), do not have any right over this land.Plenty of attempts have been made by the state government from time to time to evict the residents of Harijan Colony which is located close to Shillong’s two prime commercial districts – Police Bazaar and Burra Bazaar. However, all attempts had come undone in the court.According to Gurjit Singh, Dalit Sikhs from Gurdaspur in Punjab were allotted the land by the local Khasi tribal chief back in the middle of the 19th century.Violent tactics to intimidate the residents, including a recent terror threat preceded by a mob attack and even the murder of Lal Singh in 1995 by thugs masquerading as Khasi protesters, had failed to drive away the Sikhs from Harijan Colony.
26-06-2020||---||Vini Mahajan appointed Punjab chief secretary||Chandigarh, June 26Punjab on Friday appointed 1987 batch Punjab cadre IAS officer Vini Mahajan as the new Chief Secretary, replacing the 1984 batch officer Karan Avtar Singh.She becomes the first woman Chief Secretary of Punjab.Singh has been posted as Special Chief Secretary, Governance Reforms. He is tipped to be chairman of the state water regulatory body.Though the Chief Minister, while intervening in the recent face-off  between Karan Avtar Singh and the ministers had hinted at Singh being allowed to complete his tenure as Chief Secretary till August 31 this year, the appointment of Mahajan before his retirement has surprised many.Sources in the government said a section of bureaucracy wanted Vishwajeet Khanna to be made the new Chief Secretary as he retires in June next year.
26-06-2020||Dubai||Dubai gurdwara charters first-ever repatriation flight for 209 passengers to Amritsar||A gurdwara in Dubai has facilitated the first chartered flight to Punjab to repatriate 209 Indians stranded in the UAE, according to a media report.  The Guru Nanak Darbar Gurdwara arranged the flight with 209 passengers on board, which took off on Thursday from Dubai to Amritsar, the Gulf News reported.The gurdwara authorities in a statement said that they were in the process of arranging more such flights to Amritsar in the coming days to facilitate the return of Indians stranded in the country due to COVID-19 travel restrictions.“The second flight is scheduled for June 27, two are in the pipeline, and we are working on six more flights in the coming weeks making sure they (stranded compatriots) reach home safely and at the earliest,” the statement said.“We are thankful to the Indian Consulate in Dubai and the Indian Embassy, UAE for all their support to make this (the first charter flight) happen," it said.Surender Singh Kandhari, chairman of the gurdwara, said that the gurdwara had been distributing meals to around 1,500 people, including blue collar workers, every day since March with the help of the Indian Consulate and volunteers. “This is our commitment towards the society, as it also reminds us of our shared responsibility to treat others as we wish to be treated ourselves and the basic principles that bind people of different faiths together,” he was quoted as saying in the report. PTI
26-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Punjab's decision to allow dine-in services evokes mixed response||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar June 25The state government’s order to allow hotels, restaurants and resorts to operate at 50 per cent capacity has evoked a mixed response from the owners of various dine-in facilities.Navdeep Singh Grover, owner of Astoria Food Pavilion, welcomed the move with open arms but also pointed out that some issues need to be dealt with to ensure smooth functioning of restaurants. “The closing time (8 pm) is too early for diners. Moreover, we have to wind up operations half an hour in advance to abide by the norm,” Navdeep said.Restaurant owners have got a respite with the decision. But the strict guidelines and the 50 per cent occupancy rule will make it difficult to strike a balance between expenditure and revenue. Neighbouring states such as Himachal Pradesh have permitted eateries to open with restrictions but the latter have declined as it is not economically viable for them. —APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant AssociationNavdeep’s restaurant resumed services with take-away and home delivery options on June 8 when the state gave relaxations in lockdown.When asked how the business is going, he said: “It is slowly coming back on track. Despite rising costs, we are offering 15 per cent discount on home delivery to spur sales,” he said.Vishal Sareen, managing director of Festyn Era and Festyn Royale resorts, is glad that marriages have been allowed with limited guests and strict adherence to social distancing norms and other health protocols. “The hospitality sector was hit hard by the lockdown but the decision to allow marriages to take place shows that the government is working to revive the industry and also protect the health of the people,” an Sareen said.APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said restaurant owners had got respite with the decision. But the strict guidelines and the 50 per cent occupancy rule would make it difficult to strike a balance between expenditure and revenues, he said.“Neighbouring states such as Himachal Pradesh had permitted its eateries to open with restrictions. However, the latter had declined as it is not economically viable for them,” he said, adding that social distancing was necessary but was not viable for hotels and restaurants as the profits would decline.
26-06-2020||GS Paul||Several fruit plants added to Guru Ka Bagh in Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25In its endeavour to increase the green cover on the Golden Temple complex, the SGPC on Thursday added fruit saplings in the dedicated belt christened as “Guru Ka Bagh” since October 2019.Spread over nearly two-acre plot between Guru Ram Dass Langar Hall and Gurdwara Manji Sahib, this green belt has over 400 varieties of flowers, herbs and fruits.These saplings were donated by SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh.Dr Roop Singh told that the SGPC was constantly striving for the protection and cleanliness of the environment and Guru Ka Bagh was the only place in the Golden Temple complex that was developed for the purpose. “Thursday, we planted lemon, kinnow, litchi and chikoo”, he said.Special beds were created in the garden with planning to have high rise trees like mango, kachnaar, kasel, chaurasia and maulsari, another part having saplings like gulmohar, palumaria alba, palumaria rubra, haar shingaar, tikoma gori chori , followed by colourful flowers and shrubs of various varieties like rose, gardania dwarf, ficus, chandni, bottle brush, tekoma capensis and bougainvillae. Also, the Korean grass to cover the base complemented its appearance.Besides, just inside the entrance from the Brahm Buta bazaar side, a ‘vertical garden’ comprising around 24,000 plants of different varieties too has been developed with the flower pots fixed to the walls.Similarly, with several Sikh bodies including Akal Purakh Ki Fauj, plantation drive was carried on the rooftops of Teja Singh Samundri Hall, administrative buildings, to create a terrace garden in the shrine complex.Dr Roop Singh told that as per the executive committee’s decision, all gurdwara managements have been directed to erect a green belt in their respective premises. “ At least, one acre was to be spared for the purpose in every gurdwara where heritage, medicinal and ornamental saplings were to be planted. It has been started with plantation drive conducted in Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib (Amritsar) and Gurdwara Baba Bir Singh Rattoke (Tarn Taran). The devotees must take it as a lesson of Guru to preserve the environment and plant trees in their surroundings”, he said.
26-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Fake Covid Reports: It was traumatic, worst time of our life: Victims||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25It was traumatic and the worst time of our life as it could have caused irreparable loss to us, says Raj Kumar Khullar, father-in-law of Dr Anum Khullar, who became a victim of the alleged nexus between Tuli Diagnostic Centre and EMC Hospital.The Vigilance on Wednesday had booked five doctors (including those from the laboratory) and owner of EMC Hospital on the charges of murder bid, criminal conspiracy and corruption for giving fabricated and false Covid test reports allegedly to fleece suspected patients.Dr Khullar was 9-month pregnant and her delivery was due on June 8, when two days before (on June 6) she was declared Covid positive by Tuli Lab. Her condition was deteriorating every minute while the family members were convincing different hospital authorities to get her admitted for the delivery.“Due to wrong Covid report by the doctors of the said lab, which was widely circulated in the social media and media channels, hospitals were reluctant to get her admitted for the delivery,” said Khullar. We ran from pillar to post for getting her admitted, he said. At a time when a woman needed her family most, my daughter-in-law (Dr Khullar) was ‘crying’ alone in the isolation ward, he said.Dr Khullar, went to a private hospital for admission on June 6, where she was asked to get her Covid test done. Her test was conducted in the evening by Tuli Lab doctors and her results were declared positive. Thereafter, the hospital authorities refused to admit her and she was shifted to the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) and no family member was allowed to meet her.While her condition was deteriorating as the due date was approaching, all family members were asked to quarantine themselves. This led to enormous trauma not only to her, but to the entire family. He said on their insistence, GNDH authorities got her re-tested on June 7 and she was declared negative. To be doubly sure, another test was conducted on June 8 and again she tested negative. They immediately took her to a private hospital for delivery, but they again refused to admit her.Vicky Dutta, another complainant, alleged that due to the greed of the hospital and private lab authorities, three members of his in-laws’ family got infected from the deadly virus. He said after his father-in-law was tested positive and admitted to the EMC Hospital, the hospital authorities got other family member tested from Tuli laboratory and their reports came positive on June 10. They were also admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital.He said when he insisted, another test was conducted on June 11 by GNDH doctors, but their reports were not shown to them. He said when another test was conducted on June 13, reports of three family members admitted to the isolation ward came positive. He said he later stumbled upon the test reports of June 11 issued by GNDH, in which they were declared negative. This report was not shown to them which clearly indicated that they got infected from the hospital.Five Vigilance sleuths, including a personal security officer of SSP Vigilance Parampal Singh, got infected during the investigations in the case. They sealed the Covid testing machine from Tuli Lab, whose licence was cancelled by the Civil Surgeon a day before the registration of case. The SSP confirmed this development. The cops have been put in quarantine.The Punjab Medical Council has taken suo moto notice of the news published in The Tribune and constituted a special committee for conducting a probe into the alleged unethical act on part of the doctors. The three-member committee includes Dr SPS Soch, Dr Sushil Sehgal and Dr Jasmine Dahiya, all members of the council.
26-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Dissent in Punjab Congress over market panel chiefs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25Leaders to meet CMFor the past two days, party leaders and MLAs are trying to convey their resentment to the Chief Minister. Led by a Cabinet Minister, some of the MLAs are expected to meet Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday.Congress leaders and MLAs are up in arms against their own government over the appointment of chairmen of market committees in Bathinda, Muktsar, Mansa, and other districts. After the outbreak of Covid, this is the third round of appointments in the market committees.Some of the MLAs are upset over their choice of candidates not being appointed as chairmen. For the past two days, party leaders and MLAs are trying to convey their resentment to the Chief Minister. Led by a Cabinet Minister, some of the MLAs are expected to meet the Chief Minister tomorrow.A senior party leader said in a classic case, Narinder Singh, son of former chairman of a block samiti during the previous Akali regime, had been appointed as the chairman of the market committee of Talwandi Sabo. In Malout, the appointment of Rashpal Singh has stirred a hornet’s nest. A senior contender for heading the Malout market committee, Bhupinder Singh, whose name had been recommended by the Deputy Speaker and Malout MLA Ajaib Singh Bhatti, resigned from the Malout block samiti on Thursday.Sources in the party said some of the appointments had been made on the recommendations of Raninder Singh, son of the Chief Minister. Raninder was not available for a comment.Similarly in Bathinda (Rural), the appointment of chairman of the market committee of Sangat town, Harmail Singh Ghudda, has not gone down well with party leader Harwinder Singh Laddi. In Bhucho Mandi, Muktsar, the chairman of the market committee, Goniana, has not been appointed as per the recommendation of Bhucho Mandi MLA Pritam Singh Kotbhai. “I have full faith in the Chief Minister. Whatever decision he takes will be for the betterment of the party,” Kotbhai said while refusing to comment on the controversy.The leaders and MLAs are learnt to have approached PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar. “We are looking into the concerns of party leaders,” Jakhar said.
26-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Without procurement, MSP has no meaning: Jakhar||Hoshiarpur, June 25No stakeholder in expert group: BajwaRajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Thursday said the Finance Commission, while constituting a high-level group of agricultural experts, had ignored key stakeholders. “The group has no representative from the agricultural sector or cooperatives,” he said.On the one hand, the entire country was suffering due to Covid, and on the other, the Central government had brought a “black ordinance” which aimed at eliminating the minimum support price (MSP) system. The BJP government was reluctant to face Parliament because many questions would be asked, to which it would have no answers. This was stated by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar here today.He reached the grain market in Hoshiarpur to talk to farmers regarding the ordinance. Jakhar said the MSP had no meaning without government procurement. “What will be the benefit of the MSP if the crop is not procured by the government?” he asked.Questioning the intentions of the Shiromani Akali Dal and its president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Jakhar asked why he was silent on the “black ordinace” of the Centre.He said paddy MSP had been increased by 2.8 per cent this year but at the same time, diesel prices had also increased by more than 12 per cent in the past 15 days.A delegation of the Arhtiya Association led by Sudhir Sood, Tarsem Modgil and Jagdish Kumar met Jakhar and told him that a cut of Rs 2.12 per quintal in the purchase of wheat had been made without any reason and thus, the money deducted should be returned.
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Stock aplenty, PPE units find no buyers||As many as 124 PPE manufacturing units, mainly concentrated in Ludhiana, are facing the problem of plenty. Having ramped up their daily combined production capacity to over five lakh PPEs and 5.21 lakh masks, these manufacturers are now finding it difficult to find buyers.They are also finding it hard to compete with unregistered and uncertified manufacturers, who are selling cheaper and substandard material. Sources said there was a huge demand for quality PPEs globally, but in India, the demand for standard goods had failed to pick upThose manufacturing N95 masks were in the same situation where, too, the demand was low because non-certified and low-cost masks flooding the market. “We have requested the Centre to allow the units export PPEs and masks. We have also written to other states to start procuring these essential medical goods from Punjab manufacturers,” Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries, said. — TNS
26-06-2020||---||‘Locked up’ by attendants, doctors at Barnala hospital go on strike||Barnala, June 25Doctors and paramedical staff at the local Civil Hospital today went on a strike in protest against the alleged misbehaviour by some relatives of a man who was brought dead to the hospital.They sought action against the accused who locked some doctors and paramedical staff in a room and took away the body from the mortuary late last evening. However, after an assurance from the police that the accused would soon be arrested, a team of doctors today conducted the postmortem.According to information, Balwinder Singh died under mysterious circumstances on Wednesday. His relatives brought the body to the Civil Hospital, where SMO Dr Jyoti Kaushal formed a three-member board to conduct the postmortem. The board of doctors also recommended the inclusion of a forensic expert in the team.“We were discussing the case when relatives of the deceased came there and locked us in the office. They broke open the lock of the mortuary and took away the body. However, we immediately called them back. Though we conducted the postmortem today, our strike will continue till the accused are arrested,” said Dr Kaushal. “After the postmortem, the body was handed over to the family. We have taken up the matter with senior police officials for immediate action,” said Dr Gurbinder Singh, Civil Surgeon. Barnala SHO Bajit Singh said investigations were underway and strict action would be taken against the accused.
26-06-2020||---||Sukhbir: Misquoted by CM on ordinance||Chandigarh, June 25SAD’s doublespeak exposed, says CaptLashing out at the SAD chief for his “doublespeak” on the issue of a resolution passed during the all-party meeting on Wednesday, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh dared Sukhbir to come out with a categorical statement that “his party does not extend even conditional support to it”. Reacting to Sukhbir’s “false claims” on what transpired at the meeting, Capt Amarinder accused him of misleading people.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today flayed Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the Congress for “trying to deceive farmers by issuing a false and misleading” press statement about the all-party meeting held here yesterday.Terming the statement released by the state government on the meeting as a “breach of faith”, the SAD president alleged the release had been manipulated to show that the SAD had supported the resolutions moved by the government.Sukhbir also played the recording of his speech during the meeting to make his stance public. He separately wrote a letter to the Chief Minister, criticising the manner in which the Congress had tried to “mislead farmers by misquoting him”.“I promised everyone at the meeting that the MSP and assured marketing will not end. We even agreed to accompany a delegation to the Prime Minister to clarify the doubts, if any. However, this was misinterpreted by the government in its press release by stating that the SAD would accompany a delegation of representatives of all political parties led by the CM to get the Central ordinances withdrawn,” he added.
26-06-2020||---||142 new cases in Punjab, 93 cured||Chandigarh, June 25Amritsar, Jalandhar, Sangrur and Ludhiana continue to witness a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. A total of 142 fresh cases were reported across the state on Thursday, most of them from these four districts. Ten more persons succumbed to the deadly virus.Although the Sangrur administration denied any Covid-related death today, the state media bulletin reported two deaths from the district.In the media bulletin, two deaths were reported from Amritsar and one each from Moga, Tarn Taran and Ludhiana. The tally of positive cases in the state has mounted to 4,769 while the death toll stands at 120. In Bathinda, a 36-year-old man from Harbansh Nagar died of Covid-19, but the fatality was not reported in the media bulletin. This is the first death due to the virus in Bathinda. The victim had co-morbidities and was suffering from a renal ailment. He had gone to the Faridkot Medical College for dialysis, where he was found infected.Meanwhile, the good news is that 93 patients were discharged after recovery today. Of these, 24 patients were from Amritsar, 17 from Sangrur, 13 from Ludhiana, 10 from Pathankot and eight from Hoshiarpur. While no new patient has been admitted to the ICU or put on ventilator support as of date, only five patients are critical.In Amritsar, three deaths were reported (as against two in the media bulletin). The deceased were identified as a 55-year-old woman from Haripura, an 88-year-old man from Police Lines and a 34- year-old man from Ekta Nagar. At least 31 new cases were reported. Fourteen of them are the contacts of positive patients.In Jalandhar, a 65-year-old man from Gur Mandi succumbed to Covid-19, becoming the 19th victim in the district. As many as 25 persons, including 19 contacts of positive patients, were found infected. Sangrur, which continues to give the health authorities the jitters, reported 25 new cases today — seven from Malerkotla, 10 from Amargarh and two each from Dirba, Kuhrian and Sherpur blocks. A police official and a person from Moonak were also found infected. Meanwhile, a 70-year-old resident from Lohara village in Moga, who was admitted to a private hospital in Bathinda, died today, confirmed Moga Civil Surgeon Dr Amanpreet Kaur.
26-06-2020||Aman Sood||Punjab Health Department turns to police for contact tracing||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 25400 tracked with cops’ helpA senior health official confirmed that the department had tracked and isolated over 400 contacts in the state using police help. He said it was vital for them to know the contact details of a patient to avoid further spread.Health Department officials have turned to the police to trace the contacts of Covid patients.Despite repeated requests and reminders, many Covid-positive patients continue to hide their travel details and recent social contacts. Sources say many passengers coming from abroad do not reveal their complete travel history and usually misbehave with ASHA workers, who have been deputed to track such returnees.A senior IPS officer says the police have been getting requests from health officials and the district administration to track the primary contacts of Covid patients who try to hoodwink the authorities. “We have decided to track movement of all such patients to ensure there is no community spread,” he says.“There is nothing wrong in travelling or meeting friends. But in the present scenario, it is important for people to be responsible and share accurate details, including travel history and other movement,” said a Health Department official. The fight against Covid-19 has posed several challenges before the Health Department. One of them is tracing the contacts of the patients, as many are reluctant to reveal the names of their contacts. In almost every district, teams of cops have been tracing mobile tower locations and call records of patients.
26-06-2020||Our Correspondent
||Congress worker killed, five hurt in clash over land in Fatehgarh Sahib district||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 25 A Congress worker was killed and a sarpanch and his four supporters sustained serious injuries in a clash over the possession of panchayat land at Chanarthal Khurd village here last evening. The incident took place when the sarpanch along with his supporters went to take possession of the land. Two sons of district SAD president Swarn Singh Chanarthal and their aides allegedly opened indiscriminate firing at them after attacking them with swords and lathis. The deceased has been identified as Kulwinder Singh, a former panch. SSP Amneet Kondal, accompanied by SP (Investigation) Harpal Singh and other police officials reached the spot. The police on the complaint of Gurbaj Singh alias Raju, sarpanch, have registered an FIR under Sections 302, 307, 324, 323, 506, 148, 149, 120-B IPC and 25 and 27 of the Arms Act against Balwinder Singh, Gurmukh Singh, both sons of Chanarthal, and their supporters Arshdeep Singh, Kulwant Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Gurjit Singh and Jassa. Gurbaj Singh alleged that Gurmukh Singh, a former sarpanch of the village, got the panchayat land transferred in the name of a Bhagrana resident, Bhagwant Singh, during his tenure.  He said he along with Kulwinder Singh had moved the court and got the transfer stayed. He said when they went to inspect the site last evening, the Akali leader’s sons accompanied by others attacked them with swords and lathis and later opened indiscriminate firing. The injured were rushed to the civil hospital in Fatehgarh Sahib, where Kulwinder Singh succumbed to his injuries. SSP Kondal said the FIR had been registered and the police were conducting raids to nab the accused. MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra condemned the incident. He alleged that the Akalis were supporting the land mafia.
26-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Cop shot dead in Abohar, probe on||Abohar, June 25No enmity: KinThe accused came in a car and fired three bullets on him. One of the bullets hit him in the headHis family said he had no enmity with anyoneA Sub-Inspector was allegedly shot dead by some car-borne assailants here last night.As per preliminary reports, when the victim, Gurwinder Singh alias Vicky (30), ventured out of his Basant Nagari residence here around 10 pm, the accused came in a car and fired three bullets on him. One of the bullets hit him in the head.Vicky was rushed to the civil hospital where he was declared brought dead. The police claimed that it appeared to be a planned murder, while the family said he had no enmity with anyone.Gurwinder was posted at the district headquarters in the CID wing of the police in Fazilka. His father Sukhcharan Singh had retired as a head constable and uncle Bhagwan Singh is an ASI at City-1 police station here.DIG Ferozepur range Hardyal Singh Mann and SSP Harjit Singh inspected the crime spot today. “We hope to crack the case soon,” the SSP said.
26-06-2020||Fazilka||Miscreants attack two Home Guard volunteers in Fazilka, 1 hurt||Two Home Guard volunteers were allegedly attacked by some miscreants while they were on their way to home at Arniwala village here last evening.Major Singh (53), deployed at the Arniwala police station, alleged that he along with his namesake and colleague, were intercepted by the miscreants on way back to their home. The accused threw a brick on their car, following which the rear windshield got damaged. When they came out of the car, the accused attacked them with sticks. The complainant sustained injuries and was shifted to the local Civil Hospital.The accused were identified as Jagdish Singh, Gobinda, Sajan Singh, Chhinda Singh, Channi, Kuldeep Singh, Bhollu, Talwinder Singh and Mangu. They have been booked under the IPC.According to information, the Home Guard volunteers provide information to the police with regard to liquor smuggling, “satta” and other anti-social activities.Arniwala police station in-charge Navdeep Singh Bhatti said some of the accused had already been facing cases of liquor smuggling. — OC
26-06-2020||Balwant Garg||Bargari: SIT arrests ex-SHO in Kotkapura firing case||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 25The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police on Thursday arrested Gurdeep Singh Pander, the then Kotkapura SHO, in the 2015 firing incident at Kotkapura.Sacrilege falloutA case was registered against unknown persons on the complaint of Gurdeep Singh Pander, the then Kotkapura SHOHe had accused unknown persons of attacking the police with firearms and damaging public propertyThe incident had taken place on October 14, 2015 in the aftermath of a sacrilege incident at a gurdwara at Bargari village. A criminal case under Sections 307 and 353 of the IPC and relevant Sections of the Arms Act was registered against unknown persons on the complaint of Pander. He had accused unknown persons of attacking the police and damaging public property.Now, the SIT has nominated Pander as an accused in the case, charging him with breach of trust and forging official records. Sources said Pander, who had access to vital evidence relating to the firing incident, had allegedly tampered with the evidence in a bid to implicate some innocent persons.Pander had claimed that the cops fired 10 bullets in self-defence after they were attacked by the protesters. He had made an entry in the malkhana record regarding the deposit of 10 empty cartridges, but these were never deposited, the SIT claimed.Accusing him of forging the records and misappropriating cartridges, the SIT arrested Pander on Thursday and got his one-day police remand. Earlier in January this year, Pander along with former SAD MLA Mantar Singh Brar and then Kotkapura DSP Baljit Singh, had got bail in the firing case.Since the bail was granted in a case registered at Kotkapura on August 7, 2018, the SIT has booked Pander in the old case of October 14, 2015, in which he himself was the complainant.The state had witnessed a series of sacrilege incidents during 2015. It started from Bargari village from where a “bir” was stolen in June 2015. The incidents led to widespread protests across the state. During one such protest, two youths were killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan on October 14.
26-06-2020||---||Two more denied bail in Sidhu Moosewala case||Barnala, June 25A Barnala court has dismissed anticipatory bail applications of two more accused who are facing an FIR under the Arms Act along with Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala. The FIR was registered on May 4 at the Dhanauala police station.Custodial interrogationWe opposed the bail applications as the police need the custodial interrogation of all accused to ascertain who provided them police escort during the curfew. — Jagjit Singh, Additional Public Prosecutor“We opposed the bail applications as the police need the custodial interrogation of all accused to ascertain as to who provided them police escort during the curfew. Apart from it, the use of AK-47 rifle to fire at the shooting range in Badbar is also a serious aspect of the case. The Court of Arun Gupta, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Barnala, has dismissed applications of Karam Sukbir Singh and Inder Singh Grewal,” said Additional Public Prosecutor Jagjit Singh. “Sidhu Moosewala is releasing his songs without getting a bail. We raised this point in the court too,” he said.On May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar of Barnala district went viral on the social media, the Dhanauala police, on the directions of DGP Dinkar Gupta, had registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and eight other accused.
26-06-2020||---||Under pressure to withdraw case: Rape victim’s mother||Ropar, June 25The mother of a 14-year-old Dalit girl has alleged that the Anandpur Sahib police first refused to register the complaint of her daughter’s rape, and later, when the case was registered after a month, the police did not mention in the FIR that the victim was a Dalit.'Cop gave Rs 15K, asked me to go home'My daughter was raped at a local guest house on March 16 by Munish of Paharpur near Anandpur Sahib. I filed a complaint at the Anandpur Sahib police station, but instead of arresting the accused, a policeman gave me Rs 15,000 and told me to return home. — Victim’s motherNotably, there have been no arrests in the case so far. Surprisingly, no action has been taken against local SHO Bharat Bhushan till now despite the fact that the then Anandpur Sahib Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Davinder Singh, indicted him in his report for delaying registration of a case. He had also recommended departmental action against the SHO on April 28. The mother of the victim is a divorcee staying with her two daughters in the village and working as a maid. She alleged the police, with the help of some influential persons, were pressurising her to withdraw the case.She said due to the lockdown, she could not pursue the case, but on April 24, she brought the matter into notice of the then DSP Davinder Singh, who, following an inquiry, ordered registration of an FIR.SHO Bharat Bhushan, however, claimed that prima facie, he didn’t find the complaint genuine which is why he did not register a complaint.SSP Swapan Sharma denied the charge that action was not being taken against the SHO. He said a departmental inquiry had been initiated due to which there was a delay in registering an FIR against the accused.
26-06-2020||Mohali||Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini’s bail extended till July 6||The interim bail of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, in anticipation of murder charges being added to the fresh FIR in the case of abduction and murder of CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani, has been extended till July 6.The special public prosecutor had opposed the bail extension when it came up for hearing in the court of Additional District and Session Judge Monika Goyal today.Advocate Sartej Singh Narula, special public persecutor, had argued that the anticipatory bail granted to Saini on murder charges without imposition of Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR was also not maintainable. He said it was said by the court that if the Section 302 was not added to the FIR by June 8, the interim bail might be wrested.Narula said they had pleaded that the defence itself was seeking adjournment of the case against the transfer application and they must not be given the benefit of extension.When the court questioned the prosecution to produce any record, if stay had been granted for extending the anticipatory bail period by any higher court in this matter, the prosecution said no stay had been granted till date. — TNS
26-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma & Archit Watts||Patients allege negligence at Sangrur, Muktsar Covid centres||Tribune News ServiceSangrur/Muktsar, June 25LIST SHORTCOMINGSNo mandatory examinations being conductedMedicines not given timelyFood not served on timeNo routine health check-upMany Covid patients who are admitted to isolation wards at Malerkotla and Ghabdan centres are facing trouble due to the alleged apathy of officials. They said food was not served on time at the Malerkotla centre and routine medical examination was not being done at the Ghabdan centre, which could worsen their health. Patients had also not been given masks, gloves and sanitisers, they alleged.“I am a diabetic, so I must get food on time. My breakfast and lunch were served late today. Despite checking my sugar level and confirming that it is above normal, doctors have not given any medicine to me yet,” said a retired government employee, who was admitted to an isolation ward in Malerkotla on Wednesday.As per the government bulletin and till the filing of this report, the number of active Covid patients was 157 in the district, while an equal number of patients stood cured.Apart from the delay in serving of food, some patients at the Ghabdan centre alleged that doctors were not conducting the mandatory medical examination of patients daily.“I have been here for the past three days, but no one from the Health Department has come to check my temperature, blood pressure and other symptoms. If doctors do not want to enter the ward, why have they put us here? The Health Department has not provided any sanitiser or mask to us,” said a homeopath, who belongs to Dhuri town of the district.A senior Railways officer alleged many Covid patients had been sharing one bathroom, which too was not being cleaned properly.Police official, who has been shifted to the Ghabdan centre after he tested positive three days back, alleged the department staff did not come even after they called them repeatedly after a patient got high fever.Sangrur Civil Surgeon Dr Raj Kumar said he would look into the matter. “Doctors must conduct daily medical examination of Covid patients and also ensure timely food to all. Both are serious issues and I will take prompt action,” he said.Patients at Muktsar’s Thehri village alleged that the Health Department had failed to provide even basic facilities.A video shot by one of the patients, show rooms without coolers and taps running dry. The patient also highlights poor lighting arrangement in the hospital.Muktsar Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr HN Singh, said, “Once we get the funds, more facilities will be provided. I have brought the matter to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner.”
26-06-2020||Bathinda||Rain brings cheer to paddy growers||Heavy rain lashed parts of the city as well as villages on Thursday morning.  With the ongoing paddy sowing season, it came as a respite for farmers. Agricultural experts opine it will prove beneficial for many crops.Resham Singh, a farmer from Yatri village, said, “The timing is so appropriate, as both crops and vegetables sown during this time of the year will benefit from it. If all goes well, the farmers will harvest a bumper yield this season.”Due to waterlogging, residents had to face a tough time commuting from one place to another.Areas such as Parasram Nagar, Partap Nagar, Powerhouse Road, Goniana Road, Sirki Bazaar, Civil Lines, Bharat Nagar, Bibi Wala Road, and areas adjoining the Bathinda-Barnala highway, Patel Nagar and New Kamla Nehru colony remained waterlogged for hours.The IMD said 33 mm rain was recorded in the city today, with maximum temperature at 31.5 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature at 27.8 degree Celsius. — TNS
26-06-2020||Faridkot||Opium, liquor seized from RTA driver’s house at Faridkot||A seizure of opium, poppy husk and liquor was made today from the residence of driver of Regional Transport Authority-cum-General Assistant to Faridkot DC. The incident follows two days after the vigilance bureau (VB) arrested the driver, Amarjeet Singh, for accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000 from a private transporter. The accused is a head constable in the Punjab police. In all, 16 bottles of liquor, 400 gm of poppy husk and 60 gm of opium was seized from the possession of the accused, following which a fresh criminal case under the NDPS Act and the Excise Act was registered against him. Singh had revealed that he had accepted the bribe on behalf of RTA Tarsem Chand. Both RTA and driver are on 30-day police remand. — TNS
26-06-2020||Saurabh Malik
||Won’t force girl  into marriage, father tells Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 25 Just around a week before the Father’s Day, a Sangrur woman had moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging that her father wanted her to tie the knot with a drug addict after parting ways with her studies. After the HC’s intervention, the father has now undertaken before the Bench that he would not get her married against her wishes and had no objection if she continued to pursue her studies. Justice Rajiv Narain Raina of the HC asserted that substantial grievance of the 22-year-old petitioner stood redressed. She could now pursue her studies without fear or threat from anyone, much less her parents. He asserted that she was satisfied with the arrangement. But at the same time, she prayed in her statement recorded in one affidavit filed by the State that she may be permitted to move an appropriate application before the authorities concerned in case she needed further help. “The court has no doubt that no such necessity will arise; but in case it does, the respondent/authorities will speedily look into the matter and take such steps as are ameliorative to her condition, safety and distress call,” Justice Raina added. Earlier, Justice Raina had directed the Sangrur DC, and two Senior SPs to depute “a senior and sensitive woman officer in the civil administration in social welfare or any other department, including from the police, but not below the DSP’s rank, to meet the petitioner and enquire about her side of the story and also the father’s version”. The direction came after Justice Raina took note of the woman’s allegations that she was desirous of pursuing her studies further, while her father was insisting that she married the boy of his choice, who allegedly was a drug addict. She also accused the father of threatening and intimidating her for forcing her to act against her will. If truth is found in the girl’s statement, it would be the administration’s responsibility to protect her life and liberty, he added.
26-06-2020||bhojpur (Gurdaspur)||Tributes to Galwan valley martyr||The bhog ceremony of Naib Subedar Satnam Singh (41) who died in a clash with Chinese forces in Ladakh last week was marked with emotionally charged speeches.  At the event, Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa maintained the state government would deliver its promise of giving Rs 50 lakh and a job to the deceased’s kin. Besides, Rs 12 lakh ex-gratia announced by the Chief Minister would also be provided. PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, who was deputed by CM Capt Amarinder Singh to attend the event as an emissary of the government, said: “There is no bigger sacrifice known to a man than to lay down one’s life in the defence of nation. It is therefore our duty to honour the valour, sacrifice and martyrdom of such men in a dignified manner.”  Rural Development Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said his department would give Rs 10 lakh for the construction of a memorial gate leading to the village. — TNS
26-06-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Addict ‘kills’ 4 of his family, cops say they were into drug trade||Tarn Taran, June 25An addict with the help of his associates, who are yet to be identified, allegedly murdered four members of his family in Kairon village, 20 km from here, late Wednesday night. Gurjant Singh, the accused, allegedly slit the throats of his father Brij Lal (65), his two sisters-in-law Jaspreet Kaur (28) and Amandeep Kaur (26) and brother Daljit Singh (22). He also killed the family’s driver, Gursahib Singh Saba. Jaspreet’s son (6) and daughter (1) and Amandeep’s two daughters aged five and two years were unharmed.Sources said the victims were sleeping in different rooms when the attackers broke into the house. Kulwinder Singh, DSP, Patti, said a case under Sections 302, 450, 148 and 149 of the IPC had been registered on the basis of information provided by the children, who claimed they had seen their “chachu” kill their parents and grandfather.“It is clear that all members of the family were into the drug trade or were addicts. Hence, the involvement of their trade associates cannot be ruled out”, the DSP said. Police sources said it was yet to be ascertained if cash or valuables were missing from the house.As panic spread in the area, DIG Hardyal Singh Mann, Tarn Taran SSP Dhruv Dahiya and other officials rushed to the site. A dog squad was called as forensic experts collected evidence.Brij Lal had several drug peddling cases filed against him. His wife Ranjit Kaur Rani, arrested on similar charges, had died in Amritsar Central Jail two months ago. His sons Bakshish Singh Sonu and Paramjit Singh Pamma, both addicts, are currently under treatment at a private centre.Backing the police claim, a village elder said: “The family was undoubtedly into the drug trade. Early this morning, some ‘customers’ were seen outside their house.They left in haste when told of the murders.”Saba, the deceased driver, was the son of a member of the Bhindranwala Tigers Force of Khalistan, who was shot dead more than three decades ago.
26-06-2020||---||204 J&K locals back from Pakistan||Amritsar, June 25Stranded in Pakistan due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the first batch of 204 Indian nationals hailing from Jammu and Kashmir, a majority of them medical students, today returned through the Attari-Wagah border.They were received by Aamir Chowdhary and Muneeb Umar, Assistant Directors, Directorate of Hospitality and Protocol Department of Jammu and Kashmir Government, at the integrated checkpost (ICP), Attari.A team of six doctors were deputed at the ICP to conduct thermal screening. Special buses were arranged by the J&K State Road Transport Corporation to ferry the returnees to their native places.“They will have to undergo Covid test at the Lakhanpur border and will be accordingly quarantined,” said an official.Shiv Raj Singh Bal, SDM, said residents of J&K were among the 748 Indian nationals hailing from various states who would be repatriated in three phases.“In the second phase, 250 persons are expected to arrive. Next day, 248 more will come,” he said.
