26-12-2020||Chandigarh||12 more Covid deaths, 307 new cases in Punjab||Twelve more fatalities due to coronavirus were reported in Punjab on Saturday, pushing the death toll to 5,281, while 307 fresh cases took the infection count in the state to 1,65,126.There are now 4,436 active COVID-19 cases in the state, according to a medical bulletin.Mohali reported 61 new cases, Ludhiana 38 and Jalandhar 37, among cases recorded in other parts of the state.A total of 564 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,55,409, as per the bulletin.Fifteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 71 are on oxygen support, it stated.A total of 38,02,080 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. PTI
26-12-2020||---||Former MP Harinder Singh Khalsa quits BJP||Chandigarh, December 26Former MP from Fatehgarh Sahib Harinder Singh Khalsa has resigned from BJP.Khalsa said the party leadership has shown insensitivity towards farmers.He had won Lok Sabha election on AAP ticket from Fatehgarh Sahib and later joined BJP.
26-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Two protesting farmers die at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 26Two protesting farmers — one from Punjab and another from Kaithal in Haryana — died of cardiac arrest at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border in the past 24 hours.The deceased have been identified as Amrik Singh (75) of Gilawali in Gurdaspur district (Punjab) and Amarpal (32) of Serhada village in Kaithal.Nine farmers have so far lost their lives at Tikri border and seven of them died of either cardiac arrest or other ailments.“Amarpal was camping at a petrol pump near the main dharna spot at Tikri border for the past five-six days. He died of heart attack on Friday evening. We took him to Kaithal and reported it with the Kaithal police,” said Rameswar, cousin of Amarpal, adding that his cremation was performed at the village today.Second death at Tikri was reported on Saturday afternoon when the body of Amrik Singh was brought to Trauma Centre at Civil Hospital, Bahadurgarh. As per information, Amrik along with other protesters had been staying near new bus stand in Bahadurgarh. He suddenly got unconscious at dharna spot this morning.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said Amrik was dead when he was brought to the civil hospital. His post-mortem would be done tomorrow, he added.
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||More Punjab farmers head towards protest sites near Delhi||Carrying ration and other essential items with them, several batches of farmers from Punjab headed towards Delhi borders on Saturday to join the peasants protesting against the Centre's new agriculture-related laws for a month now.According to farmer union leaders, peasants from various places, including Sangrur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Bathinda districts were headed towards Singhu and Tikri borders.Read alsoThey began their journey despite fog and biting cold wave conditions in many parts of Punjab on Saturday.Tractor trollies, cars and other vehicles carrying farmers, including the elderly and women, were seen on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway, proceeding towards the borders with the national capital.It seemed the farmers were prepared for a long haul as they carried their ration and other essentials in their trollies."We will rest only when the Modi government repeals the farm laws," said an elderly farmer headed from Amritsar to the protest site near Singhu border.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), one of Punjab's largest farmer organisations protesting against the recent laws, claimed that thousands of farmers would march from the Khanauri and Dabwali borders towards protest sites near the national capital.The outfit's general secretary Sukhdev Singh said many women are also part of the fresh batches of farmers.On Friday too, several batches of farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee headed for the protest sites from Amritsar and other places.Meanwhile, for the second day on Saturday toll collection was halted at several highway points in Haryana - including in Karnal, Sirsa, Rohtak and Jhajjar districts - by the farmers protesting against the new agriculture-related laws.Responding to a call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union, farmers had on Friday halted toll collection on most highways in Haryana.Officials said toll collection remained halted at several toll points on Saturday too.A few days ago, the BKU had announced that toll booths in Haryana would not be allowed to collect charges between December 25 and 27.However, operations were normal at various toll plazas in Gurugram and Palwal districts.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country have been protesting for the past nearly a month near various border points of the national capital, demanding the repeal of the farm laws, which the ruling party has claimed are for farmers' benefit. PTI
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Biting cold persists in Haryana, Punjab; Hisar reels at 2.2 degree C||Biting cold conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Saturday, with Hisar reeling at a low of 2.2 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana was the coldest place in the state, while Narnaul too experienced a cold night at 3 degrees Celsius, Meteorological department officials here said.Among other places in the state, Karnal, Sirsa, Rohtak, Ambala and Bhiwani recorded their respective minimums at 4 degrees Celsius, 4.1 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees Celsius, 5.3 degrees Celsius and 5.6 degrees Celsius, they said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also braved a cold weather, registering a low of 4.2 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Adampur recorded a minimum temperature of 2.5 degrees Celsius.Pathankot, Halwara and Bathinda too braved intense chill, registering respective minimums of 3.5 degrees Celsius, 3.7 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala were also under the grip of biting cold, recording respective minimums of 4.2 degrees Celsius, 4.4 degrees Celsius and 4.8 degrees Celsius, the weather office said. — PTI
26-12-2020||---||Water level 53% below normal in Punjab dams||Chandigarh, December 25The water level in major reservoirs across the northern region remains low this year, with the present storage being 53 per cent below normal in Punjab and 25 per cent below normal in HP.The current water level in the Thein Dam reservoir on the Ravi in Punjab is 498.35 m against the upper limit of 527.91 m with the available storage being 0.567 billion cubic meters (BCM), according to the data released by the Central Water Commission (CWC) yesterday. This means the available storage at Thein is only 24 per cent of its total capacity. The figure was 69 per cent at this time last year, while the average storage during the past 10 years was 52 per cent.At Bhakra Dam on the Sutlej in Himachal Pradesh, the water level was 492.40 m against the maximum of 512.06 m, with the water holding being 2.898 BCM. This implies the current storage is 47 per cent, against last year’s 67 per cent and 10-year average of 69 per cent.Pong Dam on the Beas in Himachal recorded the water level at 410.62 m against the maximum of 423.67 m. The current storage of 3.012 BCM is 49 per cent of its total capacity, which was 72 per cent last year and average 58 per cent over the past 10 years.
26-12-2020||---||Fazilka lad Shubhman Gill makes Test debut today||Chandigarh, December 25Three years after making his First Class debut, Shubhman Gill gets to play his first Test for India in Australia on Saturday. It has been a meteoric rise for the Fazilka-born youngster who has ticked almost every box in the junior cricket to make a place in the senior team. From making a record 351 runs in the Punjab inter-district U-16 tournament to becoming the Player of the Tournament (372 runs) in the 2018 U-19 World Cup, to becoming the youngest Indian to score a First Class double-hundred against WI-A in Trinidad and Tobago in 2019, Gill has been a proven performer in every step of his short cricketing career. Twice, in consecutive years (2013-14, 2014-15), he was adjudged the best junior cricketer of the year by the BCCI.His childhood coaches say Gill’s sincerity towards his passion makes him a standout player while teammates know him as a very career-conscious cricketer. Gill is said to have consciously charted his domestic career on the lines of Virat Kohli, comparing his scores with Kohli’s, tournament-by-tournament and year-by-year, often outscoring his mentor. On the Boxing Day Test against Australia, the Punjab opener comes in as a replacement for Prithvi Shaw, his U-19 team captain, primarily on the basis of better technique and temperament.Cricketers such as Rahul Dravid, Sachin Tendulkar and Sunil Gavaskar are the admirers of his classical technique. Alan Border, watching him bat in warm up games, said, “I really think he has got something about him, his technique.”His knocks of 43 and 65 runs in the second warm-up game against Australia A has buttressed his claim for a spot in the playing XI in the second Test against Australia in Melbourne. The 21-year-old finally gets his India Test Cap, No. 297.
26-12-2020||New Delhi||AICC ignoring MPs’ protest in Delhi, says Sunil Jakhar||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar has taken exception to the fact that no senior AICC leader has visited Congress MPs from Punjab who have been sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar here.“Everyone keeps talking about strengthening the cause of farmers, but the AICC has been ignoring its own MPs who have been protesting here for days now. No senior leader has met Congress MPs Ravneet Bittu, JS Gill and Gurjeet Aujla,” Jakhar told The Tribune today. On Thursday, the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad spoke of how Congress RS members staged a nightlong dharna near Gandhi’s statue after the farm Bills were “undemocratically” passed in the Upper House. Reacting to it, Jakhar said, “You are talking of Rajya Sabha MPs but why not go and meet your own party MPs from Punjab who have been agitating for farmers at Jantar Mantar? AICC leaders by not supporting Punjab MPs in this protest are falling in BJP’s trap.” — TNS
26-12-2020||---||Punjab farmers gherao BJP leaders, disrupt functions||Chandigarh, December 25Amid the stalemate, farmers in Punjab on Friday stepped up their agitation, not allowing BJP leaders to hold functions in memory of Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary. In Jalandhar, Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) activists held a protest outside the residence of former Cabinet Minister Manoranjan Kalia. Several farmers received minor injuries as they tried to breach the police barricade outside Kalia’s house.In Bathinda, farmers disrupted a function at Amrik Singh road, forcing the BJP workers to flee. A video of the incident went viral on the social media.Farmers held a protest outside a hotel in Muktsar where a BJP function was underway. Sources said the BJP activists escaped from a back door of the hotel under police protection. Farmers led by the Krantikari Kisan Union picketed outside the residence of the Patiala district president of the BJP. While in Malout the farmers closed the gate of a hall where a BJP function was being held, a huge crowd comprising farmers and members of the Punjab Students Union surrounded the farmhouse of BJP leader Iqbal Singh Lalpura at Kalwan village in Ropar. The protesters later targeted a private telco’s tower at Jhajj village, snapping the power supply. Similar reports were received from Kotkapura and Fazilka.Led by union vice-president Kirpal Singh Mussapur, Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba) activists in Phagwara gheraoed local BJP leaders who had gathered at a hotel. They raised slogans against the Modi government and Union Minister Som Parkash.More ex-servicemen leave for DelhiHundreds of ex-servicemen left for Singhu and Tikri protest sites on Friday. “We will stay there and offer all possible help,” said ex-servicemanPargat Singh. “Today, the first batch left. More are preparing to go. To save our country, we must support the farmers,” a determined BKU (Ugrahan) leader, Harjeet Singh, said.
26-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Electricity supply to 30 Jio mobile towers snapped||Farmers and residents of different villages on Friday shut the power supply to 30 towers of Jio mobile. The farmers protesting against the three agri laws have now started disconnecting the power supply to mobile towers thus disrupting the telecom services in several parts of the district. The power supply to more than 100 towers has been disconnected till date in the district.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, said power supply to the cellular company towers in Sabhra, Jaura, Boparai, Maniala Jai Singh and Algo Kala villages was cut today.Other farmer leaders Dhanna Singh Laluguman and Baljit Singh Bhghel Singh Wala said in Chabal area farmers cut the power supply of towers installed in Chabal (three towers), Thatha, Bir Baba Budha Sahib, Baghel Singh Wala, Baghiari, Sohal Thathi, Panjawar, Dhand and Kasel villages.The power supply to towers in Ratta Gudda, Marimegha, Sandhpura, Padhri Kalan, Rasulpur, Bhura Kona, Maluwal Santa and other villages was disconnected in the last two days.Dhanna Singh said the farmers had been regularly making announcements to the resident through the public address system of the gurdwaras to change your network operator by retaining your existing mobile number.According to information, the company has its 300 towers in the border district.Kashmir Singh, a resident of Kot Dharam Chand Kalan, said before cutting power supply to the tower, farmers and the other residents had organised a rally in the village and condemned the Central government for protecting the interests of big corporate houses at the cost of common man. — OC
26-12-2020||---||Farmers disrupt BJP events on ex-PM’s anniversary||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar/Bathinda, Dec 25Farmers today held protests across the state even as the BJP held programmes to celebrate former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary.In Jalandhar, several farmers received minor injuries during a standoff between them and the police outside the residence of former Cabinet Minister and BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia. As the farmers attempted to break through the barricades, the police used force in which some of them incurred minor injuries. During the commotion, the turbans of some leaders also came off.Complelte Anarchy in state: ChughThere’s complete anarchy in Punjab. BJP workers are being assaulted. Attacks were engineered on me and state BJP president Ashwani Sharma. Punjab is moving in the direction of becoming like West Bengal. - Tarun Chugh, BJP general secretaryWon’t stop protestingFarmers are protesting in bone-chilling conditions in Delhi and BJP leaders are busy celebrating. We will not stop our protests until the BJP-led Union Government repeals the farm laws. - Mothu Singh Kotra, BKU (ekta ugrahan) leaderSit-in at Patiala BJP chief’s housePatiala farmers started an indefinite protest outside the residence of BJP district president Harinder Kohli, demanding his resignation over the farm laws. Meeting farmers, Kohli said: “The Union Agriculture Minister along with other senior leaders have already reached out to farmers. But I will demand from the high command to find a solution at the earliest.”DCP, Jalandhar, Gurmeet Singh, said: “We were just trying to prevent protesters from entering the BJP leader’s house. The turbans came off during the struggle which ensued while we were trying to stop them.”Gurnam Singh Charuni rejects Haryana Deputy CM’s offer to mediateFarmers also gheraoed a venue where a programme was being held to commemorate the late Prime Minister. They later headed to the BJP office, which had been cordoned off by hundreds of police personnel, and held a peaceful protest. “We shall gherao BJP leaders’ house tomorrow and protest the Prime Minister’s Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday,” Amarjit Singh, youth leader of the BKU (Rajewal) said.In Bathinda, farmers ransacked the venue where BJP workers were celebrating the birth anniversary of Vajpayee. A video purportedly showing BJP workers running away from the spot has gone viral on social media. The police present at the spot had to use mild force to disperse the mob. In Kotkapura town of Faridkot also, farmers disrupted a programme of BJP workers.In Muktsar, farmers held a peaceful protest outside a hotel here where the BJP activists held a programme. A large number of police personnel were deployed there and no untoward incident took place. The farmers took out a protest march in Muktsar town, removed the hoardings of some private companies from some grocery shops. They also lodged a protest in front of a grocery shop owned by the family of BJP’s Muktsar district president Rajesh Pathela.In Malout too, the farmers protested outside the BJP’s similar event. They even closed the gate of the hall, where the programme was being organised. Later, the police helped the BJP activists to come out from the hall. In Fazilka, the BJP celebrated the late PM’s birth anniversary amid the protest. Farmers forcibly shut an insurance company’s office. In Ropar, farmers and members of Punjab Students Union gheraoed the farmhouse of BJP leader Iqbal Singh Lalpura at Kalwan village. Later, they snapped the power supply to a telecom tower at Jhajj village.
26-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||PM blatantly lying on laws: Farm leaders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25Prime Minister Narender Modi, while addressing the nation today, once again proved that he was ruling by spreading lies, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said while talking to The Tribune today. He was responding to the address by PM Modi earlier during the day, attempting to allay farmer fears that private firms might grab their lands under the new laws enacted by the Centre.AAP protests in houseAAP leaders and MPs Bhagwant Mann and Sanjay Singh on Friday protested against farm laws in the Central Hall of Parliament in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.No farmers’ baat: CongressThe PM’s message to farmers was nothing more than a “dreamer’s paradise”, said Congress leader Sukhjinder Randhawa. He said the PM was not listening to the “Mann ki Baat” of farmers.Rajewal said, “If a PM’s political personality is laid on the foundation of blatant lies, no country can run smoothly,” referring to Modi’s arguments that corporates would be no threat to farmers’ lands. “What Modi utters is blatant lies,” he said.Responding to the part of Modi’s speech that “farmers will enter into an agreement for finished products and not for land”, general secretary of BKU (Ugrahan) Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said, “Here begins the trap laid out to capture farmers’ lands. We know that more than 85 per cent of farmers in the country have less than four acres of land. In the first step, the corporate will manipulate the market where farmers will get only what they are given. They will not get the deserving price. This will lead to the already-suffering farmer plunge into deeper financial crisis. Ultimate, this category of farmers will be forced to sell their land to the same corporate.”Denying the argument of the government that farmers had no fear of losing their land, farm leader Rajinder Singh said, “If the Prime Minister is so sure, why does he not talk to us? It is because he knows we will counter his lies. We have the facts to prove him wrong.”General Secretary of BKU (Dakunda) Jagmohan Singh said, “Perhaps, Modi is the first Prime Minister who lies so blatantly. We have already shown on the basis of facts how our land will be taken away. We met the Union Ministers four times but they did not have any reply. The people of the country have understood that the government is lying.”
26-12-2020||---||Ex-servicemen, farmers leave for Singhu, Tikri||Tribune News ServiceSangrur/Amritsar, Dec 25Hundreds of ex-servicemen under the banner of the Punjab Ex-Servicemen Security Guards’ Union on Friday left for the Delhi border in various vehicles from Mehla chowk town of the district to support the farmers’ stir.“We also belong to the families of farmers and are going to Delhi to support our brothers in their fight against the Central farm laws. We will stay there and offer all possible help,” said Pargat Singh, general secretary of the union.Local BKU Ugrahan leader Harjeet Singh, who is also an ex-serviceman, said more of us would leave for Delhi in coming days. “Today, the first batch has left while many more are preparing to leave as we know it well that to save our country, we must support farmers,” Harjeet added.Meanwhile, another batch of farmers from Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran on Friday headed for the Kundli border.Under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), at least 25 tractor-trailers left from Amritsar’s Golden Gate under the leadership of Sawinder Singh Chautala, Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, Germanjit Singh Badala and Jasbir Singh Piddi.KMSC activist Gurbachan Singh Chhaba said the Centre was adamant on harassing the farm community while keeping the interest of their corporate associates.“Today, the third batch of farmers left to join the stir at the Delhi border from Jalandhar, Sri Hargobindpur and Hoshiarpur. We will not bow before the Modi government and nothing except the revoking of the contentious farm laws will be accepted. The Centre has also been wrongly propagating that farmers have agreed to the conditions of the farm laws. These tactics are being adopted to scuttle the protest, but we will not let it happen,” he added.In Bathinda, the Punjab Taxi Union announced they would not charge any rent from farmers wishing to join the protest in Delhi.
26-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Wounded farmer pens poems on struggle||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 25“Inquilabi khande di dhaar naalon tikhi, mehnat kash lokan khatir larna paina ae, Madho Das to Banda Bahadur Singh banna paina ae, chup kareyan ton nahio sarna (Revolution is sharper than a sword. We have to fight for the workers. We have to become Banda Bahadur Singh from Madho Das. Silence won’t help),” chants 61-year-old Jugral Singh as he nurses a wound on his right hand’s little finger.Caused by a tear gas shell that brushed past his hand on December 26, the day residents of his Jattha village reached the Singhu border, the wound hasn’t deterred Jugral, who has been busy penning poetry from his new abode in a trolley.Among the first farmers to reach at the Singhu border, Jugral comes from Acharwal village, which is known for its martyrs.Meanwhile, poet Jangan Singh (85) from Jhorda village in Ludhiana is also busy writing poetry at the Singhu border. He says, “Pehlan tote ch painda si, sathiyan keha gaddi ch pao – buzurg banda. Haar ke menu pakki rajai banake diti. (I was sleeping on tattered rags. But my union made a warm quilt for me. Now I live in a tent.)”“I am not moving from here as long as the Central Government doesn’t repeal the contentious agriculture laws and ensure we get the right MSP on all crops,” he signs off.
26-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Pinnis keep protesters warm||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 25Several villages across Punjab are cooking and sending wholesome food every day for the protesting farmers at the Delhi border. Amid dropping temperatures, desi ghee and khoya pinnis are keeping the protesters warm at Delhi.Residents of Naruana village have prepared 10 quintals of khoya pinni for the protesting farmers. Even, the womenfolk are ensuring men and children, who are away from homes, get their daily quota of pinni to keep them warm as they spend day and night in the open.One pinni with hot milk is believed to keep a person healthy and warm amid the dropping temperatures. “A large number of elderly people are part of the protest and the pinnis are specifically prepared keeping their health in mind,” said farmer leader Harpreet Singh.He said: “It’s oursmall contribution to the farmers’ protest. We will continue to help our brethren till this issue reaches its logical conclusion.”Earlier, Amrik Singh Sandhu from Talwandi Madho in Jalandhar personally delivered 25 quintals of pinnis to the Kundli and Singhu borders. Meanwhile, Barnala district unit of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) sent five quintals of pinnis to the national capital on December 5.Several other villages from Sangrur and Ropar districts dispatched tonnes of jaggery to Singhu and Tikri borders.
26-12-2020||---||Movement will act as catalyst of change for youth, says Patar||Bathinda, December 25The farm agitation against the new agricultural laws has acted as a catalyst of change for the youth and young artistes/singers in the state who were otherwise considered misled. The movement, which initially began as an economic struggle, will spur a historical social change in our society in the years to come, Punjabi poet and litterateur Surjit Patar said during the People’s Literary Festival that started in Bathinda today.Patar had returned his Padma Shri in solidarity with the farmers’ protest recently. While drawing on the positives of the ongoing agitation, the renowned poet added, “The fact that youth are witnessing this historical movement in front of their eyes will certainly pave the way to alter their mindsets and subsequently how they lead their lives. Now is the moment when youth energy has to be channelised in the right direction. Themovement has got unprecedented support and set a new precedent for generations to follow. The insensitive approach of the government will not be tolerated by them anymore.”“Half the battle has already been won but now, divisive forces are at play. The wisdom lies in staying connected and united in the face of adversity to take the struggle to the next level,” he said. Kavita Krishnan, CPI (ML) leader spoke on the topic ‘India’s mass movements in contemporary times and its future’. She said, “The farmer movement that started from Punjab has paved the way for it to become a mass movement in the country. Winning or losing does not matter. What matters is the strong message that such mass movements send.”
26-12-2020||---||Don’t vandalise mobile towers: CM to protesters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25Amid reports of the disconnection of power supply to mobile towers across the state, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday appealed to protesting farmers not to inconvenience the public with such actions but to continue to exercise the same restraint as they had been showing over the past several months of their agitation.Pointing out that the telecom connectivity had become even more critical for people amid the Covid pandemic, the Chief Minister urged the farmers to show the same sense of responsibility which they had been displaying during their protest at the Delhi border.He urged them not to take the law in their hands by forcibly shutting down telecom connectivity or manhandling employees of telecom service providers. Stressing such actions were not in the interest of Punjab and its future, he requested the farmers to reciprocate by ensuring that the battle for justice does not cause any problems to people.He said such actions would adversely impact his government’s efforts to attract more investment in the telecom sector as part of its recently announced New Telecom Guidelines 2020, which was aimed at improving telecom connectivity in the state.
26-12-2020||Sangrur||Dhol marches  to drum up support for stir||Preparations are on across various villages in the district to mobilise residents for the December 26 and 27 march to the Delhi border in support of the protesting farmers.“Dhol marches” and meetings were organised and announcements made through gurdwara public address system today as farmers readied their modified trailers and other vehicles.“Our village has decided to cook ‘sarson da saag’ tonight in each house to take it to the Tikri border on Saturday. There are many houses where two members are already at the protest site, while two more members would leave on tomorrow,” said Harjinder Singh, BKU (Ugrahan) Bhawanigarh block president. Many women said they were going without ration as their relatives at Tikri had said there was enough stock. — TNS
26-12-2020||---||Open general category posts to be filled first, rules HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25In a judgment liable to change the way vacancies are filled by the state agencies in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has laid down the procedure for undertaking direct recruitment process to avoid a similar controversy in future. It has, among other things, made it clear that open general category posts would be filled first from the joint merit list.Deviations caused anomaliesJustice Harsimran Singh Sethi also asked Punjab and Haryana Chief Secretaries and UT Home Secretary to issue specific guidelines to all recruiting agencies on filling the advertised posts in various categories while undertaking direct recruitment process. Justice Sethi also made it clear the settled principles of law were required to be kept in mind.In his order, Justice Sethi ruled the process of filling posts available in various reserved categories was to be undertaken on the basis of merit secured by the reserved category candidates in the selection process only after all posts in the open general category were filled.Referring to a high court judgment in the case of “Parminder Singh and others versus the State of Punjab and others” decided in December 2017, Justice Sethi added a bare perusal of the law cited clearly showed all candidates, irrespective of the categories in which they had applied, were first of all eligible to be appointed purely on the basis of merit against the posts advertised in the open general category. The process of filling posts in the reserved categories was to be undertaken thereafter out of the remaining eligible candidates belonging to various reserved categories as per their merit.Justice Sethi added deviation from this process created anomalies and unnecessary litigations. It was “very much avoidable” in case the recruitment agencies followed proper procedure for appointment in accordance with the settled principle of law.“Let appropriate instructions, as detailed, be issued for being followed meticulously without any fail while undertaking process for direct appointment to the various available posts by the recruiting agencies throughout the States of Punjab, Haryana and Union Territory of Chandigarh,” Justice Sethi added.
26-12-2020||---||Devotees throng gurdwaras as Shaheedi Jor Mela begins||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, December 25The three-day annual Shaheedi Jor Mela held to commemorate the martyrdom of the younger Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh began here today with religious fervour and ceremonies.On the first day, a sea of devotees was witnessed at gurdwaras and long queues were seen at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib and Gurudwara Jyoti Swaroop Sahib. More than 10 lakh devotees are expectedto pay obeisance.On the opening day, the SGPC organised gatka, painting, essay-writing, kavishri and bhajancompetitions among students at Mata Gujri College, Fatehgarh Sahib.Meanwhile, the World Cancer Care Charitable Society, England, in collaboration with Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, organised a cancer care camp under the supervision of Dr Kulwant Singh Dhariwal. Dr Prit Pal Singh, Vice Chancellor of the university, inaugurated the camp. He said the objective of the camp was to spread awareness among the masses, especially the youth, so that they could be guided and inspired by the martyrdom of Mata Gujri, Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh.
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Covid recoveries surpass cases in 24 hrs||The number of Covid patients, who have recovered in the state, is higher than that of infected persons.Against 320 new cases reported in the state in the past 24 hours, 412 persons recovered on Friday. The number of active cases too has come down to 4,707.However, nine persons succumbed to the disease today, three each in Amritsar and Jalandhar, and one each in Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Patiala. The death toll is 5,269, while 1,64,821 persons have been been infected so far.The maximum number of cases reported on Friday were from Mohali (48), followed by Ludhiana (43) and Patiala (40). — TNS
26-12-2020||Ludhiana||GST case: Two bank employees booked for forgery||A day after making the eighth arrest in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) fraud amounting to Rs 393 crore, the Ludhiana CGST Commissionerate today said it had filed an FIR against a manager and an assistant manager of a local bank branch on charges of forgery, fraud, cheating and abetment to an offence.The two bank officials were booked after they admitted to having allowed the wife of the main accused in the multi-crore racket to operate his bank locker, a day after he was arrested in the case on November 11, said a senior CGST Commissionerate officer.He said during the course of the investigation, the evasion wing of the commissionerate found that the bank accounts and locker of accused Sahil Jain maintained in Capital Small Finance Bank Ltd, Sunder Nagar, Ludhiana, were shown operated by the accused on November 12 at 12.15 pm, whereas he was arrested under the CGST Act, 2017, and remanded in judicial custody on November 11. Jain was the main accused behind creating 23 bogus firms leading to a GST scam involving an income tax credit (ITC) fraud of Rs 393 crore.“The branch manager and assistant manager were summoned by the department and their statements were recorded on December 24, wherein they confessed that the locker was operated by Yashita Jain, wife of Sahil Jain, on November 12.“The branch manager admitted to having directed the assistant manager of the branch to allow Yashita to operate the locker after making the entry and forging Sahil’s signature in the locker operation register maintained in the bank,” said the officer. He said Yashita was a partner in a number of such firms involved in the issuance of bogus bills and passing on fake ITC. — TNS
26-12-2020||---||Large gatherings banned, vegetable prices go south||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 25Amid restrictions on large gatherings in view of the Covid pandemic, vegetable prices have come down sharply. Radish, cauliflower and turnip are selling for Rs 1-2 per kg in the wholesale market. Similarly, potato, peas and tomato are being sold for Rs 10-13 per kg.Ramesh Kumar, a wholesale vegetable seller, said, “The prices have come down due to a glut-like situation. Vegetables in large amount are used during weddings and ‘bhog’ ceremonies. However, there are hardly any marriage functions in the ongoing month of ‘Poh’. Besides, there are restrictions on gatherings at condolence meetings. We hope the situation improves by mid-January.”Some vegetable growers have even started donating their produce to cow shelters.An employee of the local market committee said vegetable growers and sellers were suffering huge losses. “Even vendors are selling vegetables at throwaway prices,” he said. Gulshan Bhateja, a marriage palace owner, said, “The prices of dry fruits have also come down, which otherwise go up during winter.”
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Rulda murder: Police expect speedy extradition of 3 from UK||The Punjab Police are upbeat at the arrest of three alleged pro-Khalistan elements in the United Kingdom following India’s extradition request in the 2009 Rashtriya Sikh Sangat chief Rulda Singh’s murder case.The three, all UK nationals, were identified as Gursharanbir Singh Wahiwal, Amritbir Singh Wahiwal and Pyara Singh. They are accused in the murder case in which the policehad moved for their extradition in August 2019.The National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing a series of targeted killings in Punjab in2016-17, had also submitted a chargesheet against Gursharanbir.“As per our investigation, Gursharanbir is one of the most active supporters, funders and planners of violence in the Khalistan movement. He had come to India to carry out Rulda’s murder and later trained in Dubai the accused in the targeted killings case, especially of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Punjab vice-president Brig Jagdish Gagneja,” said a senior police officer.While Rulda was murdered in 2009, the extradition case was moved in 2019 after strong evidence was found against the accused, said the officer.Gursharanbir and Amritbir are known as Wahiwal brothers in the terror network and are said to be the top functionaries of the Khalistan movement.Police officials said they were in league with slain terrorist Harminder Mintoo and Harmeet Singh, alias Happy, who ran a terror network from Pakistan and was killed last year. They are also related to Jaggi Johal, another UK citizen, currently under arrest in Punjab for his alleged role in the targeted killings. — TNS
26-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Norms violated while hiring 1,558 head teachers, says HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25Less than two years after an advertisement was issued for the direct appointment to 1,558 posts of head teacher, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that illegal and improper procedure contrary to settled principles of law was adopted by the recruiting agency. Meritorious candidates entitled to appointment were suffering unnecessary litigation rather than being appointed in accordance with law.Irregular actThe irregular act on the part of the recruitment board has led to a situation where 779 posts in the open general category could not be filled and 226 posts remained unfilled due to unavailability of recommended candidates. High courtTaking up a bunch of petitions by Gurpreet Singh and other petitioners, Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi asserted it was incumbent upon the respondents to first fill 779 posts advertised in the open general category from the joint merit list, irrespective of the category in which a candidate had applied for. Only thereafter the respondents should have undertaken the process of filling reserved category posts starting from the next merit position available. But the recruitment board and the respondents did not follow the process.Justice Sethi asserted recommending candidates equal to the number of posts advertised in the different categories was the first irregularity committed by the recruitment board. Eligible candidates, twice the number, should have been recommended.“This irregular act on the part of the recruitment board has led to a situation where total 779 posts in the open general category could not be filled and 226 posts remained unfilled due to unavailability of recommended candidates. A large number of candidates out of 779 recommended by the recruitment board either did not participate in the process, left the selection process halfway or were found ineligible...,” Justice Sethi asserted.The second irregularity by the recruitment board was to take up the selection process of all 1,558 posts simultaneously, rather than first filling up all the posts of open general category. The outcome of the illegal/irregular action was that selection and appointment till date could not be finalised, creating unnecessary litigation.“The posts remained unfilled in the open general category due to this irregular process of recruitment by the board and followed by the respondent-department. Now, unfilled posts in the open general category are being filled by the respondents by transferring the reserved category candidates, who are higher in merit and already appointed in the reserved category, to the open general category, to satisfy the requirement of law and to rectify their mistake,” Justice Sethi added.Before parting with the case, Justice Sethi asserted no ground was made out to interfere with the process of shifting the candidates from reserved categories to open general category to undo the illegality/irregularity by the recruitment board in the appointment/selection is at the initial stage.
26-12-2020||---||Rap for dist consumer forum chief, member||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana, December 25In a rare move, the State Consumers Disputes Redressal Commission has reprimanded the presiding officer of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission KK Kareer and one of its members Inderjit for an alleged delay in deciding pending cases, setting up more than one Bench against the rules and altering orders pronounced in various cases after these were uploaded on the website.In the course of hearing of an application filed by the legal heirs of Late Sham Singh seeking appropriate action against the commission president and members for non-compliance of state commission’s orders of July 23 and November 23 in light of the order dated May 20, 2015, of the national commission in favour of the petitioner, the Principal Bench of the state commission presided over by Justice Paramjit Singh Dhaliwal termed it a ‘serious matter’.In his orders pronounced on December 23, the state commission took serious note of the allegations levelled by the petitioners that presence of different members (of the commission) in different cases taken up on the same day created an impression that two Benches of the district commission were functional in Ludhiana and also about alteration in orders after these were officially pronounced.About the presence of different commission members in different cases on the same day, the state commission observed: “No sanction has been accorded by this commission that two Benches are set up at district commission (in Ludhiana) and the commission has no power to set up benches as appears to have been done. It needs to be probed and examined. It appears to be against the settled principle of law and propriety, which judicial discipline demands.”The case pertained to an execution application filed by legal heirs of Late Sham Singh with the district commission for execution of sale deed of a residential plot allotted by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust to the deceased under locally displaced person (LDP) category on the basis of orders made by the National Consumer Disputed Redressal Commission.
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Stone-crushing units at 2 Mohali villages sealed||As part of efforts to curb illegal mining in the state, the Punjab Government has sealed stone-crushing units at two villages — Mubarikpur and Handesara — of Mohali district for not producing the valid documents.A spokesperson said in order to contain illegal mining in the state, the mining department was taking stringent steps at various levels involving the police and PESCO, adding it was already in the processof introducing technological interference. He said the National Green Tribunal, in its December 10 orders, observed a number of stone crushers had failed to submit complete data in reference to material procured/processed and power consumed. “It has been pointed out that the possibility of procurement of material in an unaccounted manner by the stone crushers cannot be ruled out in view of illegal mining in the immediate past,” he added. The spokesperson said the government had decided to expedite the monitoring of crushing units that were not working in compliance with the Punjab Minor Mineral Rules, 2013, and stone crusher policy of the state. — TNS
26-12-2020||Bathinda||Illicit liquor seized, seven  held in Mansa||The police today recovered 457 bottles of illicit liquor of a Haryana brand and 250 litres of ‘lahan’ in Mansa district. Seven persons allegedly involved in bootlegging were arrested and booked under various sections.Mansa SSP Surendar Lamba said: “As part of a drive against drugs and bootlegging in the district, an operation was conducted and the district police recovered a cache of illicit liquor.” The police, after getting a tip-off, conducted a raid and nabbed two persons with 35 cartons of illicit liquor in a car. After interrogation, another suspect was arrested. Two of the accused were minors who were produced before a local court, which sent them to a juvenile home in Faridkot. — TNS
26-12-2020||Amritsar||Missing ‘saroops’: Activists to gherao ministers’ houses||Contesting the disappearance of 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib, Sikh activists today announced they would gherao the residences of all state ministers and Speaker of the Vidhan Sabha as no criminal action was taken by the authorities against the accused, who were indicted by an Akal Takht-appointed probe panel.Activists of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal and Gurdwara Akal Bunga have chalked out a schedule.The organisations released the next schedule of protests outside the residences of 12 ministers. The residence of Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa will be gheraoed on December 28 and that of Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria on December 30. — TNS
26-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Farm leaders meet today to discuss fresh talks offer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint forum of farmers’ organisations, will meet on Saturday to take a call on the response to the fresh letter received from the government and decide the future course of action.Leaders of farm bodies from Punjab huddled together on Friday to discuss the issues, including PM Narendra Modi’s speech during his video interaction with farmers of some states. “We will intimate leaders of the joint forum of organisations of our decisions. The final decision will be taken by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha,” said a farm leader.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of BKU (Lakhowal), said the farm unions were surprised that while the PM and Agriculture Minister had admitted that there were flaws in the new laws and were ready to amend these, they were not ready to repeal these. “The PM said that rumours were being spread that MSP would go after the new laws. We say if this is merely a rumour, the government should immediately come up with an ordinance to make MSP a legal right,” he said. He said the statement that APMC mandis would not be affected with the new laws was not correct because when private mandis would come up, APMC mandis would not be able to survive amid competition.“There will be no tax in private mandis while market fee and rural development fund are charged in APMC mandis. Private mandis will give extra benefits to farmers initially and once APMC mandis die their own death, farmers will be left to the mercy of private mandis,” he added.Lakhowal said it was surprising that while thousands of farmers were sitting on the Delhi borders with their families in the extreme cold, the PM chose to speak to a few farmers through video-conferencing.Reacting to the PM’s speech, Jagmohan Singh, another farm leader, said it was ironical that the PM thought that farmers who had organised such a big movement were illiterate and misguided. Yudhvir Singh, national general secretary, BKU (Tikait), “We understand that the letters being sent for offers of talks are merely to show to the SC so that the government can say it was sincere for talks, not farmers.”‘Golgappa langar’ at Singhu border
26-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||NRIs buy wooden toys for kids for cultural connect||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 25While kids are spoilt for choice when it comes to toys, non-resident Indians (NRIs) are purchasing wooden playthings for their children to keep them attached to the rich culture of Punjab. Not only this, unemployed youth from the Doaba and Malwa regions of Punjab, who have got training in carpentry, are now adopting the trade keeping in view the profitability.How much these costThe price of wooden toys ranges from Rs200 to Rs600 depending upon the size and design of the toy. The cost of customised toys ranges from Rs4,000 to Rs8,000 per item.Landran-based Gurpreet Singh Dhami, who sells wooden toys to his customers living abroad, said he had learnt carpentry from his father and started making furniture and other wooden products in 1996. He recalled he was returning from the Attari-Wagah border when a bus conductor advised him to make wooden toys. He said he liked the idea and started making wooden toys. Dhami said initially, the demand for his products was less, but later a large number of customers started approaching him for making specially designed wooden toys. He said the price of wooden toys ranged from Rs200 to Rs600 depending upon the size and design of the toy.He said most of his clients were from Canada, the UK and the USA. He said he also made customised wooden toys on demand, adding that the cost of specially designed toys ranged from Rs4,000 to Rs8,000 per item. Dhami said the wooden toys he sold included replicas of tractors, trucks, Gypsy, bus, oil tanker and agriculture implements. Dhami said after witnessing his success, many youths from the Doaba and Malwa regions of Punjab were approaching him for training in making wooden toys. He said he had trained over 100 youths from the two regions. He said 30 youths were still connected with him for advice on the designing of wooden toys.
