28-03-2020||Nawanshahr||Coronavirus: Sidhu Moosewala’s latest song raises the hackles of this Punjab village||Controversial Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala’s new song on the 70-year-old man who died last week in a village in Punjab’s Banga of coronavirus has left several in the man’s village Pathlawa seething.The song, titled “Mein Gurbaksh gwacha Italy ton aaya haan”, tells you the story of one person he calls called Gurbakh. The victim’s family however claims that the singer makes no attempt to hide who he means, even repeatedly using the victim’s real photo to make his point. Those who object claim that the implication is clear-- that the elderly man is to blame for the disease in the state, an unfair blame, they say, given that the man lost his own life to the disease and 15 of the state’s coronavirus affected belong to his own family.They also object to the song’s lyrics, which says “Si jehri meini bimari ho gyi pote nu, aaya sare pind te maut da saya. Galti meri bhugte dunian, mere karke marde mere. Kidan khud nu maaf karun, bada zulm kamaya”.Village sarpanch Harpal Singh, who is currently taking care of his coronavirus psoitive mother at the civil hospital in Nawanshahr, said the song was uncalled for give that the victim’s family have been suffering. Although he admits to not having heard the song, he says “ill-conceived, ill-timed and in poor taste” from what he hears of it. “Here we are all busy taking care of our families from the deadly disease and there people are mocking it. The victim was in complete ignorance. Who wants his two-year-old grandson and 15 family members to fall ill all in one go? I have been meeting the family here every day. I know what they’re going through all grind they have been going through,” he said.Harpreet Pathlawa, a youth activist of the village, says: “I really do not know what the singer or the Punjab Police intends to do by blaming a dead man for the disease spread. The youth in the village are completely averse to the release of this song. The victim went to two hospitals when he felt unwell. Had the hospitals taken care of him well at that time and admitted him, he could have lived and the disease would have been contained. So the blame largely lies with the hospitals”.The 70-year-old died who at a hospital last week, becoming the state’s first coronavirus death, had travelled to Germany and Italy.Italy is the country hardest hit by coronavirus, recording over 9,000 deaths.
28-03-2020||---||Kartarpur SHO shifted to lines for getting curfew violators thrashed||Jalandhar, March 28Taking action against Kartarpur SHO Pushp Bali for going too harsh on curfew violators, the Jalandhar Rural Police have shifted him to Police Lines.SP Headquarters Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu confirmed having taken the action today. He said that Inspector Hardeep Singh had been deputed in his place.The SHO’s videos had gone viral wherein he had got people badly thrashed with cane by his subordinates while they were seen bringing back milk, grocery and other items for their families in curfew days.The humiliation and ill-treatment mete out to the commuters using cane and forcible sit-ups ordered on roads evoked sharp reactions from the public after which Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh had asked DGP Police Dinkar Gupta to ensure that cops did not deal so badly with the curfew offenders. The action against the SHO came today following such orders.
28-03-2020||---||Punjab doubles coronavirus testing capacity, scales up 112 helpline||Chandigarh, March 28Amid the growing threat of coronavirus (COVID-19), Punjab government has increased the testing capacity in double fold at Government Medical Colleges in Patiala and Amritsar.DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, said government is combating with this threat on war footing and Additional Real-Time PCR machines have been installed at GMC Patiala and Amritsar to double the testing capacity.He said shifts of staff to supplement testing facilities have been increased so that the results of the tests come rapidly and the treatment process initiated immediately. He added that bio-safety equipment have been shifted from IIT Ropar to GMC Patiala to further increases testing capacity.Meanwhile, the Punjab Police have further scaled up its citizen support systems, including the 112 helpline and supply of essentials, to cope with the emergency situation arising out of the imposition of curfew/lockdown in the state in the light of COVID-19 crisis.Tiwari added that Medical Education and Research Department is working 24X7 and daily status report is being taken via video conferencing from different parts of the state so that concerted efforts should be focused on concerned areas.The Principal Secretary said Information and Consultation Desks have been set up at Medical Colleges for guiding public, apart from this round the clock staff facilitation counters have been put up for assisting doctors, nurses, paramedics on duty during odd hours.He said there is no scarcity of any medical commodity and buffer stock of N95 masks, PPE kits, triple layer masks and other essentials has been provided to staff according to protocols. He divulged that training is being provided to staff daily for updating about the latest guidelines and findings of WHO regarding COVID-19. Daily updates on projections are being calculated by epidemiologists and accordingly supplies are being augmented.To further improve its response time and cope with the increased pressure on 112 helpline, the Punjab Police today augmented the capacity of the 112 call centre by adding 11 workstations, raising its capacity to 53. A total of 159 personnel are manning the stations, working in three shifts, according to DGP Dinkar Gupta.The Punjab Government is also in talks with a private BPO firm for hiring a ready/functional 100-operator station to augment/supplement the capacity of 112, said the DGP.The callers are directed to District Control Rooms or 104/108 for any health related queries, ambulance etc. Those related to provision of medicines, groceries and other essential commodities are provided with the phone number of the District War Rooms set up by Deputy Commissioners, concerned official or local vendors as per requirements.Meanwhile, the Punjab Police has also taken measures to manage crowds arriving at the Mandis after Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s directed that harvesting and marketing of horticulture products be permitted in a controlled manner.Besides setting up of barricades and closure of small gaps in compounds walls, separate areas have been designated for sale of tomato, peas and cauliflower, with onion and potato being sold at a different place.The Mandis have been divided into sectors, with one person assigned one sector. Besides, rehris entering the market will get only one hour to make purchases, as per the systems put in place by the police. While the Mandis will open for sale at 5 am on Sunday and Monday, from Tuesday onwards they will commence sale at 8 am.
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab asks NRIs who visited state after January 30 to register themselves||The Punjab government has asked non-resident Indians (NRIs) who visited the state after January 30 to call 112 and register themselves.The development comes in the back of rising coronavirus cases in both the state and the country.Punjab’s positive cases current stand at 38 from 898 people who were tested. Its positive cases also include the 70-year-old man who died last week and later tested positive for the deadly contagion.Punjab reported no new cases of coronavirus until Saturday evening, a media bulletin by the state government showed.The bulletin said it was awaiting results for some 264 suspected cases. Some 596 people have so far tested negative and one person has been cured, the bulletin said.Currently, the contagion has been reported rom six districts of Punjab’s 22. Of the 38 positive cases in the state, 19 came from SBS Nagar, six cases from Mohali and Hoshiarpur, five from Jalandhar and one each from Amritsar and from Ludhiana.Meanwhile, Punjab’s health department has decided to recruit pharmacists, staff nurses, radiographers, laboratory technicians, ANMs, and ward attendants on a temporary basis in the light of the mounting health crisis. In an advertisement issued in various newspapers, the health department said that it would pay the new recruits on a daily basis---Rs 750 a day for ward attendants and Rs 1,000 a day for the others.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Sidhu said the state government was yet undecided how many they wanted to engage on such basis.“Once we will get the applications, we’ll start asking requisition from various districts and will begin recruitment according to that,” he said.The country’s cases have spiralled to over 800, with 19 deaths reported so far, including one from Punjab. The state government imposed curfew in the state earlier this week in an attempt to stop the virus spread. The central government also followed a day later with a nationwide lockdown.Experts say that the lockdown will help “flatten the curve” of the virus.Helpline numbersThe central government has launched helpline numbers for each state as the country grapples with rising number of coronavirus cases.The number for Chandigarh is 0172-2704048, for Haryana 0172-2545938 and for Punjab  0172-2747798.
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Now, get curfew passes, report crowd gathering in Punjab on COVA app||People in Punjab can now get their curfew passes for emergencies, report mass gatherings, know home quarantine patients and foreign returned travellers on the COVA App, which will also soon provide facility to request for groceries and other essentials, as well as consultation with doctors.Several states have adopted the unique Corona Virus Alert (COVA) app, which is underway for implementation in two provinces in Canada. Launched earlier this month by the Punjab government to disseminate official information about COVID-19 pandemic, the app is available on Android PlayStore and iOS AppStore and is available in English, Hindi and Punjabi. It has more than 4.5 Lakh user registrations so far and more than 20,000 views of the dashboard per day.While the app is up and running in Haryana, Rajasthan, and Chhattisgarh, work on adoption of the app is in progress in Manipur, Meghalya, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Delhi, and Leh, according to Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Governance Reforms. A total of 11 state governments have requested access to the COVA Application and dashboard for their respective states and districts, she revealed.The application aims to sensitise people and share with them protective and preventive measures that need to be adopted. The application also informs citizens of government advisories and notifications about coronavirus and encourages them to check for symptoms effectively.Amid the curfew/lockdown imposed in the state, several new features have been added to the app, according to Vini Mahajan. These include covid-19, audio video awareness, search of foreign returned travellers, chat using BOT, issuing of curfew pass, reporting mass gathering, marking oneself as home quarantined and geo fencing of home quarantined. Approved applications for curfew will have an e-Pass sent to the registered phone number. IMA's app for OPD services Indian Medical Association, Punjab, has said it would launch a mobile app to provide free medical consultation (OPD services) on mobile phones itself.“People don’t have to physically visit any hospital (would ensure social distancing) to get examined,” the association said.The app will have contact details of more than 500 doctors of different specialities who would provide free medical consultation over the phone, the association said.The development comes in the light of growing coronavirus cases in the state as well as the country.Punjab’s coronavirus cases stand at 38, with one death. The country’s tally meanwhile has shot past 800 with 19 deaths. Punjab government has imposed a statewide curfew in an attempt to flatten the curve and prevent the spread of the contagion.
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Centre launches helpline state-wise numbers for coronavirus||The central government has launched helpline numbers for each state as the country grapples with rising number of coronavirus cases.The number for Chandigarh is 0172-2704048, for Haryana 0172-2545938 and for Punjab  0172-2747798.
28-03-2020||New Delhi||Evacuate Sikhs stranded in Afghanistan, says Amarinder to Jaishankar||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday urged foreign affairs minister S. Jaishankar to bring stranded Sikh families back from war-ravaged Afghanistan to India.The chief minister tweeted: "Dear @DrSJaishankar, there are a large number of Sikh families who want to be flown out of Afghanistan. Request you to get them airlifted at the earliest. In this moment of crisis, it's our bounden duty to help them."On March 25, terrorists stormed a crowded Sikh Gurudwara and housing complex in Kabul killing at least 27 people in Afghanistan.The terrorists belonged to Islamic State.The foreign affairs minister condemned the attack.He had said: "Deeply concerned at the blasts reported near the cremation site of those killed during the attack on Gurudwara Sahib in Kabul."Jaishankar said that Indian Embassy in Kabul was in touch with Kabul security authorities. He said that he has asked them to ensure adequate security onsite as well as safe return of families to their homes thereafter.Dear @DrSJaishankar, there are a large number of Sikh families who want to be flown out of Afghanistan. Request you to get them airlifted at the earliest. In this moment of crisis, it's our bounden duty to help them.  Same day, Amarinder Singh and Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had also condemned the attack on a religious gathering in a Gurdwara in Kabul. Amarinder Singh described the attack as extremely "tragic and unfortunate"."Horrific news coming from Kabul where a barbaric terror attack happened in the Gurudwara Guru Har Rai. It's extremely tragic and unfortunate. Request (Afghanistan) President @Ashraf Ghani Ji to find out the perpetrators and look after our people," Singh had tweeted. IANS
28-03-2020||Punjab||People violate curfew in Punjab, step out to purchase essential items||Reports of curfew violations came from several parts of the state as people side stepped police vigils to buy daily essentials on Saturday, posing a challenge to the authorities trying to enforce social distancing.Reports of swelling crowds at grocery stores and dairies came from cities like Amritsar and Jalandhar.In Amritsar, residents crowded grocery stores and diaries, which were open from 6 am to 9 am in most areas, although there has been no official relaxation of the ongoing curfew.Flour mills and medical stores remained open after district administration allowed them to operate. The Deputy Commissioner allowed shopkeepers and traders selling daily essentials, fruits and vegetables to remain open. The administration has also allowed doorstep delivery of daily essentials.In Bathinda, people defied curfew orders and crowded provision stores that were selling items through the backdoor of their shops.District administration has allowed doorstep delivery of daily essentials.Chemist shops that have the administration’s permission operated between 5 am to 7 am, although many said that their stock of medicines had depleted because of bulk purchase by customers.Meanwhile, some leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal have complained that they have been denied curfew passes. Former SAD councillor Gursewak Singh Mann said in his post on Facebook that the administration should give him a pass to allow him to help the poor in his area.“If anybody remains hungry in his ward, then they can register a case against him,” he said in his post. In Patiala, grocery shops a heavy rush of phone-in orders after the administration allowed doorstep delivery of essentials.Punjab reported no new cases of coronavirus until Saturday evening, its media bulletin showed.Punjab’s positive cases current stand at 38 from 898 people who were tested. Its positive cases also include the 70-year-old man who died last week and later tested positive for the deadly contagion.Local bodies to buy food, medicines for daily wagersChief Minister Amarinder Singh has allowed local bodies to use their funds to buy food and medicines for daily wagers whose livelihoods have been affected by the curfew in Punjab. The state government has set a limitation on how much money can be used on such expenditure. The municipal corporations of Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar can spend Rs 1 lakh each, other municipal corporations can use up to Rs 50,000 a day, Class A municipal committees Rs 25,000 a day, and Class B, C and Nagar Panchayats up to Rs 15,000 a day.Likewise, gram panchayats can buy medicines and food for the daily wagers and the poor out of panchayat funds at their disposal. Each Gram Panchayat has been authorised to spend up to Rs. 5,000 a day, with a maximum limit of Rs 50,000.The state has so far reported 38 coronavirus cases. The central government as well as several state governments have announced schemes meant to supplement incomes of daily wagers and those vulnerable groups that would lose their livelihood as a result of the countrywide lockdown.The spiralling coronavirus cases in the country have led the central government to announce a complete lockdown starting Wednesday. Days before, Punjab first announced a lockdown, then imposed a curfew, in an attempt to stop spread of the deadly contagion.The global pandemic coronavirus has infected 600,000 people worldwide and has so far claimed 27,000 lives. The pandemic, which began in China, has since swept the world, with the highest numbers coming from Italy (9,135) and Spain (5,690). Europe, the epicentre of the crisis, is struggling to contain the death toll. India’s cases have spiralled to over 800, with 19 deaths reported so far, including one from Punjab. The state government imposed curfew in the state earlier this week in an attempt to stop the virus spread. The central government also followed a day later with a nationwide lockdown.Experts say that the lockdown will help “flatten the curve” of the virus.
28-03-2020||Patiala||Percentage of suspected coronavirus cases in Punjab testing positive thrice the national average||The percentage of confirmed COVID-19 cases among the suspected patients in the state is three times higher than the national average.Astoundingly, the state has a percentage of 7.5 positivity— when suspected cases were tested—while the national average is just 2.5 per cent.This indicates the higher concentration of corona carriers, in the state than the rest of the country, say the experts. Besides, the higher positivity, experts said that this implies that there could be a slow rate of testing in the state as compared to the national figures, therefore, to “scale up” the testing is the need of the hour.Of the 789 tested patients in the state, lab reports of 518 patients are already out.As per the Punjab Health Department bulletin on March 27, of the 518 suspected 38 have already been tested positive for the deadly COVID-19—which amounts to 7.5% positivity.This implies that every 13th suspected patient in Punjab is likely to be positive for the virus.As per Indian Medical Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country has tested 27,688 suspected patients, out of the 691 people—across the country—was tested positive, as on March 27—a positivity of 2.5 per cent only.  However, the numbers of testing saw a rise only after ICMR pushed the states to go for more testing after a change in strategy on March 20. As per the revised strategy by ICMR, non-symptomatic people, who have been in direct contact with positive patients were to be tested along with all symptomatic patients.People are not cooperatingIt is pertinent to mention that hundreds of people, who have returned from foreign countries, have started living at a new address to escape themselves from the health department’s surveillance.    A health department official, on the condition of anonymity, said: “We have already scaled up testing. However, people, who had returned from a foreign land, are continuously hiding to avoid 14 days home quarantine. They should follow the guidelines – strictly.”
28-03-2020||Ludhiana||Coronavirus: Unable to venture out, Punjab farmers sell veggies at throwaway prices||The vegetable crop in Punjab is being harvested in bulk, and farmers are unable to venture out to get the desired price for their vegetable crops. They are either dumping the production or opting to plough through the fields.Amid the coronavirus lockdown, farmers don’t have a designated channel to sell their produce. The approaching wheat harvesting season is another cause of concern for the farmers at this juncture.Several farmers are unable to get the permission for stepping out as they do not have the required infrastructure and knowledge to send their request to the district administration.It’s that time of the season when the farmer harvest and sell vegetable crops of peas, cucumber, cauliflower, cabbage, potato, etc.The retailers are earning a quick buck by selling the vegetables at a high rate as they have enough pending stock. They also managed to purchase vegetables from farmers at throwaway prices as they are required to clear their stock. The farmers are the sole ones, who are suffering.The local mandis—where they sell their produce to the customers directly—have been shutdown. When they head to the main mandi for selling their produce, the time limit of two hours is fairly less, and instead of arguing over the price they prefer to dump the produce on whatever price they get.“Earlier we used to go to local vegetable mandis and sell our produce but now since local mandis have been shut, we are in crisis and do not where to sell our produce. This is the harvesting season, and we have quintals of vegetables with us but no place to sell. The vegetable which we use to sell at RS 15 per kg is now being sold at distressed price of Re 1 per kg,” said a farmer from a village near Kohara, Amrik Singh.Since vegetables are perishable items, farmers cannot keep them for long.“If things continue to be the same, I will be left with no other option but to plough the fields where vegetables are grown. I do not know the method for getting permission from DC and is now requesting several people to get the same for me and nobody is ready to help amidst this chaos”, he said.“Some farmers in our village have already thrown peas in their farms and also ploughed the field where vegetables are grown as we are unable to take vegetable to the Mandi. Vegetables do not have shelve life and we are forced to destroy our crop as we are unable to venture out due to lockdown. Yesterday I went to the main Mandi at Ludhiana but the wholesalers were hardly giving any price and in two hours I was unable to sell my produce at the desired price and instead sold it for the price of peanuts,” said another farmer from village Sariah.Farmers demand that agricultural officers and mandi officers should be designated. They can further fix the responsibilities for picking the produce in such a manner, that there is no rush of the people.General Secretary of Bhartiya Kissan Union, HS Lakhowal, said that farmers are having a real tough time as local mandis are closed, and they are unable to sell their produce.“Vegetable crop is getting accumulated, and they have no facilities to store it and cannot go out to sell the same. The wheat harvesting will start from April 13, and we are worried about it as well,” said Lakhowal.“If the farmers in Haryana will store wheat crop with them, they will be given RS 50 per quintal for one month and if they will be storing the produce for two months then they will be given RS 125 per quintal,” said Lakhowal.
28-03-2020||Nikhil Bhardwaj||4 undertrials escape from Ludhiana jail||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 28Four inmates lodged at the central jail here fled on Friday night by scaling the outer wall.Jail officials and Ludhiana police officials are trying to trace the accused. The incident came to light on Saturday morning when counting of inmates was being done.They were identified as Ravi Kumar, 24, resident of Samrala, Suraj Kumar, resident Kheri village in Ludhiana, Aman Kumar, 23, resident of Mandi Gobindgarh, and Arashdeep Singh, 24, resident of Sangrur.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the four escaped on Saturday morning from Ludhiana jail. They were under trial in theft cases."Due to the curfew they will not be able to go far. All people are requested to inform police in case they notice any suspicious person in their locality. Any information about them may kindly be given to Ludhiana police control room at following numbers. Identity of informer will be kept secret and he will be suitably rewarded,” said the CP.Police asked residents to inform at following numbers if they get to know about the accused.  7837018500, 7837018555, 0161-2414932 and 0161-2414933.Jail Superintendent Rajiv Arora was not available for comment. Senior cops are in the jail premises to probe the matter.
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Chandigarh admins receive curfew pass requests for taking dog for walk, getting haircut||From permission to go for morning walks to calling a barber home, many frivolous requests from residents seeking curfew passes have been received by the authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh, officials said on Thursday.Already hard-pressed for implementing the lockdown restrictions and ensuring supply of essential items at people's doorsteps, the concerned authorities in the state and the Union Territory have appealed to residents to avoid making requests for curfew passes in the absence of any "genuine" reasons.Both Punjab and Chandigarh have imposed curfews in their respective territories to implement the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus."People have been coming up with funny requests for curfew passes. One such request was from a Chandigarh resident, living in a flat, who sought a pass for taking the dog outside. Another request was for calling a barber at home for a haircut because shops are closed," a senior official of Chandigarh Administration said.In Mohali, the district administration received calls seeking curfew passes to go for morning and evening walks."We have received requests from people for curfew passes for going for morning and evening walks. They cite that they are not feeling healthy because their walks have stopped due to imposition of restrictions," Mohali Sub Divisional Magistrate Himanshu Jain told PTI.Besides, some requests came from VIPs who want passes for their gunmen or cooks, officials said.In Mohali's Dera Bassi, the authorities got a request from a person that he be allowed to visit his maternal family.Officials said people with such requests do not understand the seriousness of the issue and pointed out that they should support the administration in tackling the present situation in an effective manner.The SDM's office of Punjab's Kharar town alone received around 2,000 calls for curfew passes since the restrictions were imposed.Meanwhile, the authorities claimed that they had issued curfew passes to vegetable vendors, chemists associations and ration shops for supply of essential items at the doorsteps of residents. — PTI
28-03-2020||---||Policeman on patrol duty dies of heart attack in Patiala’s Samana||Patiala, March 28Performing patrol duty for the past week, a 48-year-old policeman died of heart attack in the district in the wee hours of Saturday.He was posted at Samana Sadar police station and was on patrol dury following the curfew imposed in view of the coronavirus pandemic.ASI Mian Singh, 48, died while on duty at Khari Fatan village in Samana around 3.30 am.Officials rushed him to hospital where he was declared brought dead.He was on duty for 14 to 16 hours a day owing to the curfew and it took toll on his health, said his colleagues.
28-03-2020||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Allow us to walk home, they plead||“Just allow us to walk to our native places in J&K, Gujarat, UP and Bihar,” plead those stranded at construction sites, madrasas and slums in Punjab towns, despite the administration making efforts to provide them essential commodities with the help of social organisations. Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey and DSP Karanveer Singh claim to have roped in certain organisations supplying free ration and cooked meals to the needy.Agencies have drawn the attention of the government to the migrants who may increase the risk of spreading the virus by moving in groups. — Mahesh Sharma
28-03-2020||Majitha||Majithia distributes essential items||Helpline not reachable in MuktsarMuktsar: If you are in trouble and calling up the curfew helpline numbers, there is no guarantee that your call will be answered. Several residents have complained that either their calls don’t go through because the phone is switched off or goes unanswered. When Deputy Commissioner MK Aravind Kumar was asked about it, he said: “The problem might be a result of low battery of some handsets. Otherwise, I am told the central control room in the district has received 4,500 calls so far.” TNSAAP MLA sprays disinfectant in villages Moga: AAP legislator Manjit Singh sprayed disinfectant in all houses and animal sheds of two panchayats at Bilaspur village in the district on Thursday and Friday. “Prevention is better than cure,” he said and appealed to people to keep their houses and animal sheds clean. “Every person must launch a special cleanliness drive in their house, locality, village, town and city,” he said. TNSBusinessmen donate to help needyGurdaspur: Businessmen are donating liberally to help the state government fight Covid. Gurdaspur-based Chadha Sugar Mills, which had found itself fishing in troubled waters following a molasses spill in the Beas, has manufactured 6,000 litres of sanitisers. “We have a responsibility towards society,” said mill owner Jasdeep Kaur Chadha. Dubai-based businessman Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi on Friday despatched trucks carrying tonnees of sugar, flour and pulses for all 22 districts of the state. TNSIndustry seeks rebate in power billsChandigarh: Industrial consumers have demanded a rebate in the payment of power bills. Though the PSPCL has deferred the payment of bills to all consumers up to Rs10,000, other consumers, whose bill is over Rs10,000 have been asked to use digital modes of payment on or before their due date.Mahinder Pal Gupta, president, Mandi Gobindgarh Industrial Furnace Association, said: “The business is shut, but we are supposed to pay fixed part tariff for the period when we were forced to shut operations. The authorities must give us relaxation.” TNSChemist held for overchargingChandigarh: The Vigilance Bureau has arrested a chemist for selling sanitisers and masks at exorbitant prices. Chief Director, Vigilance Bureau, BK Uppal has already directed all officials to keep a watch on shops and suppliers in the state. Following complaints, a team, led by AIG Ashish Kapoor, raided Indus Pharmacy in Phase 3B-2, Mohali, and found that sanitisers and masks were being sold at hefty rates. The owner of the medical store, Dinesh Kumar, was arrested. TNS
28-03-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Stuck in South Africa, 5 youths seek help||
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Wheat harvesting by mid-April||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday allowed various departments to allow harvesting and marketing of horticulture produce with necessary restrictions relating to Covid precautions.The Chief Minister’s directives came a day after The Tribune highlighted the concerns of farmers regarding lifting of potato crop and vegetables. He said wheat harvesting in Punjab would commence around mid-April “on account of weather conditions” while assuring smooth procurement and timely payments.“The wheat harvesting has been delayed due to weather conditions and is likely to start only by April 12 to April 15 in the state,” the Chief Minister said. Adequate arrangements are being put in place for harvesting and storage of potato crop.Detailed guidelines for wheat harvesting are expected to be issued by March 31. — TNS
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||No toll collection till lockdown ends||The state government has decided to suspend toll collection at 23 barriers operational under the Public Works Department (PWD) till the end of the lockdown. The PWD has allowed its guest houses to be used as isolation centres.Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla said only emergency vehicles were plying. He said the Education and Public Works Departments had extended support to the Health Department and even school buildings could also be evacuated immediately. — TNS
28-03-2020||---||Govt medical colleges short of masks||Patiala, March 27Interns and resident doctors at three Government Medical Colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot are facing an acute shortage of masks.Resident doctor, GMC, PatialaSafety of doctors being compromisedDespite being on the frontline, doctors are not being provided protective kits. It’s unfortunate that safety of doctors and nurses is being compromised. A third-year resident doctor said, “I was on night duty in the emergency ward, but there was no mask for me to wear. I went out to purchase a simple three-layered mask and was charged five times the actual price.”Narrating their woes, interns said they were not provided with masks while on duty. The Medical Student Association, Punjab, claimed that interns at the GMC, Faridkot, were chided by the authorities for demanding masks.The Resident Doctor Association, Punjab, appealed to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to provide masks, gloves and sanitisers to these colleges.The association said lack of concern and callous attitude of the administration towards the doctors and the staff was appalling.Two resident doctors at the GMC, Amritsar, were admitted to the isolation ward with Covid-like symptoms. As the infection is transmitted through droplets while coughing or by touching contaminated surfaces, protective gear is a must for the doctors.Doctors at the GMC, Patiala, said ENT doctors are risking their lives while taking nasopharyngeal swab without N-95 masks.An intern at the GMC, Patiala, said, “Despite being on the frontlines, masks are not available for the doctors. It’s unfortunate that the safety of doctors is being compromised.”DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said the government had already given Rs 1 crore to each medical college in the state. He said, “I will ask the Vice Chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences to resolve the issue. We have already given 1 lakh masks to each medical college here.”
28-03-2020||---||Cops distribute 1.9L food packets||Chandigarh, March 27The state police on Friday stepped up its relief operations across the state through the distribution of nearly 1.9 lakh food packets and setting up medical camps in various districts. They also facilitated the movement of about 3,000 trucks and other commercial vehicles carrying essential goods into the state across various interstate border points in the past 24 hours.DGP Dinkar Gupta said they had received nearly 1,600 applications from individuals for two-pass under the facility launched yesterday. He said they were working on introducing new kinds of passes, such as an interstate critical emergency transit pass, covering Punjab, Delhi, UP, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to facilitate travel.He said community kitchens had now been set up in three slum areas of Ludhiana (rural) police district.Supply lines restored42,515 police personnel on ground to enforce curfew and maintain essential supplies79 FIRs registered and 104 persons arrested in 24 hours till Friday evening for curfew and quarantine violations17,000 calls in 24 hours on 112 curfew helpline police emergency number1,88,317 food packets distributed. Of these, 1,34,815 lakh were of cooked food and 53,502 dry food packetsControl room set up to regulate supplyChandigarh: The Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department has set up a control room to coordinate an effective resolution of the supply chain disruptions (if any), especially in transport of perishable goods. The government has dedicated two mobile numbers (7986164174, 9877937725) for addressing issues in this regard. An email has also been created fruit.veg.control@punjab.gov.in. TNS
28-03-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Drive on to trace 1,330 foreign returnees||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 27The state police have launched a drive to trace nearly 1,300 NRIs who were among the passengers who arrived in Punjab in the last two months, but have not been tracked so far.Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba has also raised alarm. In a letter addressed to all states, he said there was a gap between the number of NRIs landing in the country and those tracked. He said 15 lakh NRIs had reached India, but many have not been tracked by the states.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has also directed the Rural Development Department to compile information of all persons who came from abroad after February 15. He appealed to all sarpanches to provide this information to the department within the next two days.As per police data, about 1,300 NRIs were not traced till Thursday even as efforts were on to find their whereabouts.The tracking down of these NRIs is a top priority as almost all of the 38 positive cases in Punjab are linked to NRIs. Worth mentioning is the case of a Banga-based NRI, who has infected nearly 25 persons.Police officials said these NRIs were not found at the addresses mentioned in their documents. “We feel that it is not an alarming situation. Had they been infected, they would have reported to some hospital by now,” said a senior police official.Jalandhar tops listPolice dist Untraced NRIsJalandhar rural 204Ludhiana 172Mohali 128Gurdaspur 118Batala 84Amritsar rural 84Hoshiarpur 63
28-03-2020||Arun Sharma||Amid curfew, Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana KP’s house being ‘renovated’||Tribune News ServiceRopar, March 27In spite of the state government imposing a statewide curfew amid concerns over Covid, several labourers are renovating the residence of Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh here.Rana KP Singh, Assembly SpeakerI am staying in Chandigarh. So I have no information about any renovation work at my house in Ropar. If labourers are working there, I will get the work stopped immediately.They say an officer staying in the house has asked them to contact him in case the police stop them en route. On two occasions, the police did stop them, but they were allowed to proceed when they said they were going to the Speaker’s residence for the renovation work, they claimed.When this reporter reached Rana’s residence in Giani Zail Singh Nagar here, two women were carrying sand inside the house. Also, two men were seen mixing sand and cement.On approaching them, the women labourers said they had been coming from Nangal Chowk to the site for the past five days. They claimed that besides them, two labourers, as many masons and a carpenter were working inside the house.When contacted, Ropar DC Sonali Giri said, “No construction activity is allowed in view of the curfew. Before taking any action, I will find out who is at fault.”Later, the DC said officials were sent to the Speaker’s residence and no one was found working there.Rana KP Singh feigned ignorance of the matter. “I am staying in Chandigarh. So I have no information about any renovation work at my house in Ropar. In case labourers are workig there, I will get the work stopped immediately,” he said.
28-03-2020||Jalandhar||Daily wage earners run out of ration, seek help||Frantic calls are being made to the district administration by daily wage earners and the working class for help. Most are saying they have run out of money and ration amid the nationwide lockdown.Every day, the Covid control room, set up in the Jalandhar District Administrative Complex (DAC), is flooded with such calls. The staff attending to their calls said they were getting a number of calls from the workers, who were out of jobs and had no money to feed their families.After the lockdown, all industrial units, which are a source of livelihood for lakhs of people, closed down. This added to the woes of labourers, who were already facing a tough time making ends meet.No work means no food and the labourers are now awaiting help. Though some NGOs have extended help, the number of such people is much higher.One of the staff members at the DAC said once they received complaints, they informed about the needs of these people to various NGOs. Sandeep Kumar from Flying Udaan, an NGO, said he was getting many calls from people that they had nothing to eat.District Food Supply Commissioner (DFSC) Narinder Singh said the needy were being identified and their requirements were being checked. “We will provide wheat flour, pulses, sugar and tea among other essentials to the needy,” he said. — TNS
28-03-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Sydney-returned suicide victim tests negative; family in shock, seeks probe||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, March 27With the report of Sydney-returned Tanveer Singh (23), who had allegedly committed suicide at Safdarganj Hospital in Delhi, coming negative, his family is not ready to believe that their son took his own life.His father Manjeet Singh said Covid outbreak had destroyed their lives even as their son wasn’t infected. He, however, is not ready to accept the suicide theory. “I don’t think my son committed suicide. The matter should be inquired thoroughly,” he demanded.He said the post-mortem report was awaited. While sharing his grief, Manjeet Singh, a transporter based in Mumbai, said, “I was in Mumbai when my son arrived in India. I had never imagined that I would never see him again.” The victim, who belonged to Siani village at Balachaur in Nawanshahr, had returned from Sydney along with his mother. He was taken to the hospital for a Covid test after he complained of headache.“My son was coming home after a long time and my wife had joined him in Sydney. We were eagerly waiting for them to return,” he said.Earlier this week, the report of Tanveer’s mother also found to be negative. She was tested by Nawanshahr doctors. Manjeet Singh said his wife was still in shock. “Before going to Sydney, Tanveer’s mother was so excited. She would talk about him most of the time. When they flew in from Sydney, we were so excited, but everything is finished now,” he said.Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari has also demanded that the case be thoroughly investigated as the person was taken from the airport to the hospital on suspicion of Covid infection.
28-03-2020||Aman Sood||Health Dept revises list, says over 55K NRIs arrived in Punjab||Tribune news servicePatiala, March 27After initially stating the number of passengers who arrived in the state in the last about two months at one lakh, the Health Department has now found that the actual number of such persons is 55,669.The department has raised concern as many are violating the quarantine guidelines. Amid fear of Covid spread in the state, fresh directions have been issued to all divisional, deputy and police commissioners to trace and quarantine all passengers who arrived in the state after January 30.As per the orders by Additional Chief Secretary Satish Chandra, DCs have been told to divide the districts into sectors and appoint officers for systematic tracing of passengers. “The persons under quarantine are to be observed regularly by the surveillance team and if any one of them is found to have Covid symptoms, he/she be tested immediately,” it says.Last week, in a letter to Centre, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had written that Punjab had the maximum number of NRIs in the country and about 90,000 of them had landed in the state this month.Jalandhar sees maximum arrivalsJalandhar 13,723Amritsar 9,950Ludhiana 9,281Hoshiarpur 6,211Kapurthala 1,990Gurdaspur 1,813Patiala 1,827SBS Nagar 1,605Moga 1,342SAS Nagar 1,123Tarn Taran 1,071
28-03-2020||Aman Sood||Nabha village quarantines itself, sets example||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 27A remote village in Nabha with a population of 750 has taken an initiative that drew appreciation from the Union Government. Agetta panchayat has sealed the entry and exit points of the village for all outsiders and sanitised the entire village, besides strictly following the curfew norms.Led by sarpanch Harpreet Kaur, the villagers have formed committees to enforce the rules. They are giving access to people only after getting complete details about the visitor and properly sanitising the entrant.“The villagers have told their relatives not to visit them. We are all together in his hour of crisis. The entire village is contributing to ensure that the curfew orders are followed in the right spirit,” says Harpreet Kaur.Village resident Bahadur Singh says they sprinkle sanitiser in the entire village every day. “This helps us keep our surroundings clean. Garbage is disposed of on a daily basis. Ration and milk supplies are met from own sources and every family is given the supply on the basis of number of members. This helps us keep track of every person, including migrants working in the fields,” he says.Strict guidelines have also been passed by the panchayat to keep away from rumour-mongers and do not trust every post forwarded via social media. “We are in touch with the local police and if some important information is received on social media, we talk to the police to check its authenticity,” says Harjit Singh, another resident.Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has appreciated the effort and also spoke to the panchayat members. “I will apprise Prime Minister Narendra Modi about this unique effort. We will encourage other villages in the country to follow the practice,” the minister is reported to have told the panchayat during a video call today.Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said Agetta village had led by an example and he had visited the village to appreciate the effort. “Even the Union Minister and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur lauded the panchayat. I hope other villages will also follow the suit,” Sidhu said.
28-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Truck driver arrested for ferrying 58 Punjabis from Gujarat||Abohar, March 27The Rajasthan Police today arrested a Ferozepur-based trucker for ferrying 58 Punjabis who got stranded in Gandhidham in Kutch district of Gujarat due to the lockdown.A police team reportedly intercepted a truck after noticing at a toll barrier near Sangam terminal on the Sriganganagar-Bikaner highway that seven persons were seated in the driver’s cabin. It then surfaced that 51 others were also travelling in the vehicle that was covered using thick sheets.Investigations indicated that they boarded the truck on its return trip at Gandhidham. Some of the passengers belong to Makhu and Ferozepur. They were working in an industrial unit in Gujarat, while others were farm workers. They got stranded due to sudden lockdown and no other mode of travel was available to facilitate their return back home.As driver Gurjant Singh of Mallanwala in Ferozepur district reportedly could not produce permission to ferry the passengers, he was arrested under Sections 269 and 270 of the IPC. He was later released on bail, but the truck was impounded.The police had called a Health Department team from Jamsar town and got all passengers medically examined. All of them were found fit. The police then arranged food for them with the help of social activists. Later vehicles were arranged with the help of the Transport Department to facilitate their journey to native places in Punjab, sources said.
28-03-2020||Tribune Reporters||5 more test positive, Punjab's count reaches 38||Chandigarh/Jalandhar, March 27With five more Covid cases reported on Friday, the count has reached 38 in the state. Three cases were reported from Hoshiarpur district, and one each from Jalandhar and Mohali.All five were infected from already identified patients.The Health Department said the condition of all infected patients was stable. The close contacts of the five patients have been put under quarantine. The samples of the close contacts have been taken and sent to labs for testing.The department said that so far, samples of 789 suspected patients had been sent for testing. Of them, 480 samples tested negative while the reports of 271 samples are awaited.Of the three new patients in Hoshiarpur, two are family members of a priest, who has already tested positive for the virus. They are his 60-year-old wife and 28-year-old daughter-in-law. The third patient, a 66-year-old woman, is the priest’s neighbour.All are residents of Hoshiarpur’s Moranwali village.So far, 96 samples from the district have been sent for testing. All 96 persons came in contact with the priest and his son, who is also Covid-positive.Of the 96 persons, 67 have tested negative and three tested positive as of Thursday. The reports of the remaining persons are awaited.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said villages adjoining Moranwali such as Basiala, Aima Jattan, Pandori, Binjhon and Sooni had been sealed.At present, nine suspected patients are admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur. They belong to Moranwali, Mehindwani and Saila Khurd village.The Health Department visited affected villages in Hoshiarpur district on Friday and collected 20 samples.In Jalandhar district, a 27-year-old man tested positive, taking the number of cases to five in the district. His parents and brother are already infected with Covid. All four, residents of Virk village, are related to a 70-year-old Nawanshahr man, who died of the virus last week.They are members of a joint family. The samples of the 27-year-old man’s four cousins have tested negative. The report of his uncle is awaited.Of the 38 Covid patients in the state, 30 are from Doaba — 19 from Nawanshahr, six from Hoshiarpur and five from Jalandhar. And of the 30 patients, 29 are relatives of the 70-year-old Nawanshahr man.Meanwhile, a driver working with a Phagwara factory has been kept in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. His neighbours say the driver went out regularly before his family was tested. One of his friends is also in isolation. His cousins, whom he met regularly, have already tested negative. They were discharged on Thursday.Italy-returned man in home quarantine10 contacts of 70-yr-old man testedPhagwara: Medical teams took blood samples of 10 close contacts of a 70-year-old man, who died of Covid in Banga recently, in the last two days. Among them is a doctor, in whose hospital (situated in Phagwara) the 70-year-old man was admitted initially, said Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Naresh Kundra. The reports of the 10 persons are awaited. The SMO said all 10 had been instructed to remain under home quarantine. OCDistrict-wise tallyNawanshahr 19Mohali 6Hoshiarpur 6Jalandhar 5Amritsar 1Ludhiana 1
28-03-2020||Patiala||PSPCL stares at Rs 450 crore loss||The spread of Covid has hit the power sector badly with the 21-day lockdown estimated to cause roughly over Rs450-crore loss. Already under losses, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is suffering about Rs20 crore per day loss due to the steep fall in demand and fixed charges to be paid to the private thermal plants despite not using the power produced by them.With Covid resulting is closure of shops and industry, the power demand has gone down. Further with debts and salaries of staff to be paid, the PSPCL is looking at the state government to release subsisting amount and also writing to the Centre to delay the payment of railway fare for coal and other charges.“The PSPCL has made arrangements for power availability and has mobilised sufficient manpower to maintain the system. As Punjab has declared deferment of payment of electricity bills, the PSPCL has requested the Finance Department to release subsidy payment on priority,” said PSPCL CMD Baldev Singh Sran. — TNS
