29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to hire 23 district development fellows||The Punjab government will hire 23 young district development fellows to help districts with the execution of existing schemes.The Department of Governance Reforms and Public Grievances (DGR), the government of Punjab, in partnership with Ashoka University, is hiring 23 young district development fellows who would join the government in August 2020, said Punjab’s Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan in an official release here.The move was aimed at bringing forth new energy and enthusiasm into governance, she said. PTI
29-05-2020||Vijay Mohan||Punjab, Haryana receive heavy rainfall in May; deficient in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29While rains in the month of May so far have been surplus in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana, the precipitation has been significantly deficient in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh.Many parts of the region experienced light to moderate showers over the past 24 hours, bringing respite from the severe heatwave affecting these states, where temperatures remained above normal over the past few days. The rains also augur well for the paddy plantation and also the water situation, including recharge of groundwater.From May 1 to May 29, Punjab received 22.3 mm rain compared to the long-period average (LPA) of 16.9 mm for this period, while Haryana received 21.2 mm against the LPA of 17.4 mm, making the downpour surplus by 32 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively.Himachal, on the other hand, received only 36 mm rain against the LPA of 63.5 mm for the same period, making it deficient by 43 per cent, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).As far as the situation over the past 24 hours is concerned, most districts of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh received varying amount of rain, while in Punjab rain it was largely experienced in the Malwa region.Himachal recorded 4.1 mm rain against the normal of 1.7 mm for the day, while Punjab and Haryana received 3.6 mm and 2.6 mm rain respectively against the normal of 0.4 mm and 1 mm, respectively, the IMD data states.These rains, accompanied by winds, have been attributed to a mid-tropospheric level western disturbance over east Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan and a cyclonic circulation over northeast Rajasthan and its neighbourhood at lower tropospheric levels. The weather department has predicted more rain and thunderstorms of varying intensity at many places in the region over the next three days.During the month, Barnala remained the wettest district in Punjab, with an excess of 309 per cent, flowed by Patiala, Tarn Taran and Faridkot where the surplus ranged between 194 to 128 per cent. The hardest-hit were SAS Nagar, Rupnagar and Hoshiarpur, with the deficiency ranging between 100 per cent to 56 per cent.Rains in most of southern Haryana remained below par during May. Gurugram, Palwal, Faridabad and Bhiwani were the hardest hit, with the deficiency being 91 to 68 per cent.Barring Sirmour district in Himachal, rains in rest of the state remained below LPA in May. Kinnaur, with a deficiency of 74 per cent and Bilaspur, with a deficiency of 67 per cent were the hardest hit.
29-05-2020||Amritsar||Kingpin of module involved in cross-border smuggling arrested in Amritsar||In a major breakthrough, the Amritsar rural police have arrested Ajaypal Singh, prime suspect and alleged kingpin of the module involved in cross border smuggling busted by the police in January this year.He has been evading the police since then and his arrest is likely to make new recoveries and shed the light on the entire nexus and its operations, said SSP Amritsar rural Vikram Jeet Duggal here on Friday.The police had arrested 10 persons in the case till now.  The SSP said names of some Pakistan-based smugglers had come to light during the investigations carried out so far. He said the module was active for the past several months before it was busted and accused were arrested.The police had recovered two heavy duty drones with remote, two wireless sets, Rs 6.24 lakh of drug money and a car from their possession. The SSP said a fresh case was registered against Dilbagh Singh alias Bagha of Khasa for providing Ajaypal shelter during for period.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||PSEB declares results for Classes 5, 8, 10 results online||Punjab School Education Board declared result of Classes 5, 8 and 10 on the basis of grading system on Friday.The results have been uploaded on PSEB’s official website www.pseb.ac.in and www.indiaresults.com.Punjab School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said the results of registered students have been declared on the basis of Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE).
29-05-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda reports four new COVID-19 cases||Bathinda reported four new coronavirus cases, taking the district COVID-19 infection tally to 48.Two have a recent travel history and the third is an anganwadi worker, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said.The last person was recently arrested for an offence.The district now has only five active cases.Civil surgeon Amrik Singh said those who tested positive have been moved to civil hospital. All those who came in touch with them have been quarantined and will be tested soon, he said.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Not wearing a mask? Be ready to shell out Rs 500 in Punjab||If you are not wearing a mask, be ready to pay a fine of Rs 500 in Punjab. Coming down heavily on those who fail to comply with the COVID-19 guidelines, the state government on Friday notified penalties—ranging from Rs 500 to 3,000—for violations.Penalties for violating guidelines Rs 2,000: Violation of social distancing norms by owners of shops/commercial places.Rs.3,000: Violation of social distancing norms by bus ownersRs.2,000: Violation of social distancing norms by car ownersRs 500: Violation of social distancing norms by auto-rickshaws/two-wheeler ownersAs per a notification issued by the Director, Health Services, those who don't wear a mask in public places will be imposed with a penalty of Rs 500. For violating home quarantine instructions, a fine of Rs 2,000 will be applicable. Those who are found spitting in a public place will be charged a penalty of Rs 500.Apart from that, the health department has also notified a penalty of Rs 2,000 if owners of shops/commercial places violate social distancing norms.Vehicle owners will also be fined for violating social distancing norms. As per the notification, violations in buses will attract a penalty of Rs 3,000, cars Rs 2,000 and auto-rickshaws/two-wheelers Rs 500.All officials not below the post of BDPO, Naib Tehsildar, ASI or any other official authorised by Deputy Commissioner can impose the aforementioned penalties under the provisions of Epidemic Disease Act, 1897.Non-payment of the fine by the violator will attract proceedings under Section 188 of IPC as per the regulations framed under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897.
29-05-2020||New Delhi||Sikhs turning turbans into life-saving facemasks||For a Sikh, his “pagri” (turban) is more than a headgear.It is an identity, a symbol of spirituality, pride and honour. During the COVID-19 crisis, they are also becoming a lifesaver all because of an initiative by the members of the community associated with the ruling BJP, who are turning them into face masks.“A Sikh can give up life for his turban, it is a symbol of unity and integrity for the community, in fact, the entire country,” says BJP Sikh cell co-convenor Jaspreet Singh Matta as he explains about the campaign that has drawn an “overwhelming response from the community across the country”.Matta said not only the BJP workers but also “Sikh brothers from all over the country have come forward to give us turbans”.Apart from Delhi, similar initiatives are also being run by members of the community associated with the BJP in cities namely Jabalpur, Hyderabad, Amritsar and Jammu, Matta added.“Last month, BJP national secretary RP Singh urged the Sikhs associated with the party to give unused turbans at home for making the face masks,” the co-convener said.Interestingly, though the Delhi unit started with a target of 25,000 to 35,000 face masks, given the response, it has now been increased to one and a half lakh. The masks will be distributed among school students under the Municipal Corporation of Delhi once they reopen. They will be distributed among corporation legislatures by BJP president JP Nadda.For stitching, around 12 tailors facing hardships due to the lockdown, have been employed.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pictures: Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula witness rain, temperature drops||Rainfall lashed Chandigarh and its surrounding areas on Friday, leading to a drop in temperatures by a few notches and bringing a much-needed relief from the heat.Adjoining towns of Mohali in Punjab and Panchkula in Haryana also witnessed showers.A severe heatwave swept Punjab and Haryana earlier this week, with Hisar registering a high of 48 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The maximums had hovered around 43-45 degrees Celsius at many other places too.The Meteorological Department had forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers at many places in the two states on May 29 and 30, and at isolated places thereafter in the region. PTI
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab reports 39 new cases; state tally rises to 2,197||Punjab on Friday reported 39 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 2,197.Amritsar (12), Jalandhar (8), Pathankot (5), Ludhiana (4), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Moga (2), Patiala (1) and Ropar (1) all reported new cases of COVID-19, the state's evening COVID bulletin said.  Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Moga and Gurdaspur all reported cases of people with travel history.    Seven of Jalandhar's eight new cases were contacts of already diagnosed case. One was a new case with a travel history. Ten of Amritsar's 12 new cases had travel history, one was a contact of an already detected case and the last was a case of severe acute respiratory infection. Of Pathankot's five cases, three were contacts of an already diagnosed case, one was a case of influenza-like illness and the last was a self-reported new case. Moga's two new cases were people who recently returned from abroad. Of Ludhiana's four cases, three had travel history and one was a case of severe acute respiratory illness. All cases from SAS Nagar, Patiala, and Gurdaspur had travel histories.Punjab's death count stands at 42. The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (366), Jalandhar (242), Ludhiana (180), Tarn Taran (156), Gurdaspur (136), Patiala (116), Hoshiarpur (114), SAS Nagar (107), SBS Nagar (106), Sangrur (94), Muktsar (66), Faridkot (62), Ropar (62), Moga (61), Fategarh Sahib (57), Pathankot (52), Ferozepur (46), Bathinda (42),  Kapurthala (36), Mansa (32), and Barnala (23).Breakup of Punjab's death count is: Amritsar (7), Ludhiana (7), Jalandhar (6), Hoshiarpur (5), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Patiala (2), Pathankot (2), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).Meanwhile, Jalandhar reported another case later in the evening. A man who returned from Mumbai recently tested positive on Friday. Bathinda also reported five new cases, two of whom have a recent travel history and the third is an anganwadi worker, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said.The last person was recently arrested for an offence.The district now has only five active cases.Civil surgeon Amrik Singh said those who tested positive have been moved to civil hospital. All those who came in touch with them have been quarantined and will be tested soon, he said.    Neither Jalandhar's new case or Bathinda's have been added to the official state tally yet.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cannot trust cash-strapped to give subsidy: Punjab farmers||The state government’s move to abolish free power to the agriculture sector and replace it with the direct cash transfer of subsidy after farmers pay the bill has stirred a hornet’s nest.Given the precarious fiscal health of the state, farmers are skeptical that power subsidy, which is the major input cost, will not be paid regularly.DBT calculation complexbe Rs10,575The Cabinet had, on Thursday, decided to allow direct benefit transfer (DBT) of power subsidy to farmers, as part of the reforms necessitated under measures announced by the Centre to avail an additional borrowing limit of 2 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), which works out to be Rs12,000 crore.Farmers have threatened to oppose the move, saying they will be forced to pay the bills without any assurance of timely release of subsidy.Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said: “The government’s decision will further push indebted farmers towards ruin, which, in turn, could lead to higher incidence of suicides. How can we trust the cash-strapped government to give us subsidy when the state itself has never paid subsidy to the PSPCL?”This year, Punjab is to pay Rs12,246.94 crore as power subsidy; this includes Rs8,275 crore to be paid to the agriculture sector.“Only those with a tubewell connection get free power. Almost 45 per cent of marginal farmers (69,485 out of 1.54 lakh marginal farmers) and 17 per cent of small farmers (35,264 out of 2.07 lakh farmers) do not own tubewells. Thus, they are bereft of subsidy. If the DBT is to be granted to only those farmers owning tubewells, others will again be left out,” said agro-economist Ranjit Singh Ghuman.He further said, “On an average, medium and large farmers have two to three tubewells. They get the subsidy. If the criterion is the size of operational landholding, there is no data on the number and size of owned holdings. The size of holdings depends on leased-in and leased-out land, and, in Punjab, 25 per cent of land is leased out by way of oral deals.”A senior officer said the Group of Ministers (GoM) would consider every factor before implementing the decision on the DBT of power subsidy. He, however, assured that a targeted approach would be followed to ensure that the DBT benefitted the most-needy farmers.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab's move to withdraw free power may trigger political storm||The Punjab Government’s decision to withdraw free power facility from the farmers in a phased manner is set to trigger a political clash with the Shiromani Akali Dal saying it will launch an agitation to “save farmers.”In response to the threat, the Congress said the SAD should first quit the coalition government at the Centre as the state government was being forced to follow the diktats of the Narendra government on the issue.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the party had been playing the role of a responsible Opposition by restricting protests to the virtual world only, but on the issue of farmers, the party will hit the streets. Party insiders said the leaders might seek the “blessings” of Akal Takht, if needed, on the issue.The party has called a meeting of its core committee on May 30 to chalk out the strategy on the matter. Notably, the farming community forms a major chunk of the Akali vote bank. The move to withdraw free power might give political fodder to it to reclaim much-needed support in the state.“The Akalis should first resign from the coalition government at the Centre which is forcing the states to withdraw free power from farmers to get loans or funds from the Centre. They should leave the coalition government and then talk about farmers,” said Sunil Jakhar, president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee.The Cabinet had on Wednesday decided that free power from farmers will be withdrawn in phases. The Cabinet said this was being done as the Centre had refused to help the state economically, arguing it had enough money to bail out the farmers.The government said it would not burden the farmers and reimburse the power bills.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jakhar seeks Rs3 lakh crore debt relief||Addressing netizens on social media as part of the Congress’ nationwide programme, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had completely forgotten the poor sections of society.Highlighting the plight of millions of migrant workers, Jakhar quoted an incident of a girl carrying her ailing father on a bicycle from Gurugram to Darbhanga and said once the situation normalised, the party would organise a “padyatra” from Gurugram to Darbhanga to show solidarity with migrants.Remarking on the Union Government’s announcement of Rs20 lakh crore package, Jakhar asked the PM to explain what was in the package for farmers. The Congress leader demanded that the Central Government should waive off the farmers’ debt ofRs3 lakh crore.“If the Congress Government in Punjab can waive the debt of 6 lakh farmers despite limited resources, why can’t the Union Government do the same?” the PPCC chief questioned.
29-05-2020||Amritsar||Akalis demand probe into ‘seed scam’||As a part of its statewide campaign against the alleged multi-crore seed scam, SAD leaders, led by former minister Bikram Singh Majithia, today sought an independent probe into the matter.Ludhiana MP bittu backs RandhawaChandigarh: Even as the Congress government is yet to issue a statement on the allegations levelled by the Akalis on Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Bittu on Thursday came in support of the minister. “The minister has been raising issues involving Akalis, be it transport business or sacrilege cases. I fully support him,” said Bittu. TNSIn a memorandum to the administration, SAD claimed an associate of a minister was allegedly involved in supplying “spurious” paddy seed (PR 127 and PR-128) which were never authorised for sale.Majithia said, “We reject a vigilance inquiry into the scam. The Vigilance probe has no credibility. We demand an independent probe into the matter to be conducted by a Central agency or judge of the HC or SC.”The issue came to light when farmers alleged that the PAU was selling the seed varieties at Rs70 per kg, but a shop located opposite the PAU Gate no. 1 was reportedly selling these for Rs200-Rs250 per kg. — TNS
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab draws criticism over MBBS fee increase by 77%||The state government’s move to increase MBBS and MD fee by nearly 77 per cent has drawn criticism from various quarters, including the Left and Aam Aadmi Party.It’s loot: AAPAAP leaders have demanded setting up of a commission under the watch of an HC judge to look into the ‘loot’ of medical students.AAP leaders alleged that like the previous Badal government, Capt Amarinder Singh, too, had been playing into the hands of private players in the medical education sector. It demanded setting up of a commission under the watch of a judge of the High Court to look into the “loot” of medical students in Punjab.In a statement, core committee chairman Principal Budhram, chief spokesperson Baljinder Kaur and Meet Hayer (all MLAs) alleged the Cabinet had made medical education the most expensive in the country.They said the government had ignored the importance of doctors, especially in the battle against Covid-19.Rebel AAP MLA from Bholath Sukhpal Khaira said it was shocking to note such a steep hike particularly in view of the ongoing crisis.Dr Vitull K Gupta, a health activist, also condemned the MBBS fee hike. He said it was a regressive step in the light of passage of an important Bill for amendments to the Punjab Private Health Sciences Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission, Fixation of Fee and Making of Reservation) Act, 2006, regulating the fee in all private medical colleges and universities. — TNS
29-05-2020||---||High Court judge takes oath||Chandigarh, May 28Justice SN Satyanarayana today took oath as a judge of the High Court during the Covid lockdown. Transferred from the Karnataka HC, Justice Satyanarayana was administered oath by Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha this morning during a ceremony attended by just about six judges, all wearing masks.Keeping in view the prevailing situation, the HC decided that the oath-taking ceremony would be attended by only administrative committee members, comprising top seven judges.Justice Satyanarayana has joined at number seven and will be hearing, among other things, criminal appeals, leave to appeal and appeals against acquittal.
29-05-2020||---||ULB election to be postponed till Oct||Chandigarh, May 28In wake of the Covid lockdown, the elections to 117 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) is set to be postponed beyond October. This could compel the state government to bring an ordinance to extend the term of the administrators, appointed in March and April after the five-year term of the ULBs ended.As resources were diverted towards combating the pandemic, development works in civic bodies have been hit. Sources say postponing the elections will give the government time to complete development works and later showcase the works as its achievement. Moreover, there’s no clarity till when guidelines related to social distancing and large gatherings would have to be followed.The ULBs had fared poorly during the 2019 Assembly elections, when Navjot Singh Sidhu held the charge of the department. The government had cited lack of development as one of the reasons.As per the Municipal Corporation Act, 1911, the civic bodies must go to the poll within six months of expiry of their term. This means the administrators cannot function beyond six months. In such circumstances, the government could bring in an ordinance.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Former ITAT head was  an astute administrator||Vimal Gandhi, a former president of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), passed away on Sunday. Gandhi practised as an advocate and joined the tribunal as a judicial member on September 16, 1985. He served as the president of the tribunal for over six years. He was an astute administrator.When Gandhi was appointed the president, the pendency of cases in the tribunal was 1,80,666, which was brought down to 47,000 as on April 1, 2010. He also started the system of refresher course for members of the tribunal. He also represented the tribunal at international forums of repute, including the United Nations, where he made a presentation on successful practices at the tribunal.He also formulated a code of conduct and penned broad guidelines on how judgments should be written. — TNS
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||CM okays Rs50 crore for desilting drains||CM Capt Amarinder Singh today sanctioned a total of Rs55 crore for undertaking flood protection and desilting measures in the state.At a meeting to review the state’s flood preparednes, the CM asked the Finance Department to place Rs50 crore to the DCs to carry out the desilting of drains before June 30, and complete the flood protection works by the first week of July. — TNS
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Wind direction saves day as locusts change course||The change in wind direction spared Punjab a locust attack on early Thursday morning as the swarms changed their course and returned to Rajasthan.On Wednesday evening, the Locust Warning Organisation informed the Agriculture Department that tropical grasshoppers were spotted near Sangriya (Rajasthan), only 50 km from the state border.“On Thursday morning, the department received a message that the insects had started moving towards Punjab. An alert was sounded immediately to teams stationed at Fazilka and Muktsar districts. Later, we got another dispatch around noon that the locusts returned to Rajasthan because of change in wind direction,” Secretary (Agriculture) Kahan Singh Pannu told The Tribune.The scare has been averted for now, but the Agriculture Department is not taking things lightly.A department communication to DCs of Bathinda, Muktsar, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts on May 14 had said, “Adult groups and small swarms from breeding in Balochistan and Punjab in Pakistan will move to desert areas along the Indo-Pakistan border. This is expected to be supplemented by several waves of swarms coming from the spring-breeding areas during June.”In another communication to the Chief Agriculture Officers on Wednesday, the department had said that “requisite pesticides have already been made available in the districts. Markfed has been given the order to manufacture and supply the pesticides. The buffer quantity has been kept at Bathinda, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Fazilka and Ferozepur for meeting emergency requirements, if any”.Each district is required to constitute eight to ten teams. Each team will have 30 to 50 members. A mock drill will be carried out in all districts in two days.Moga: The district has been put on alert in view of the apprehension of the locust attack from neighbouring Rajasthan. DC Sandeep Hans said, “Teams have been formed at block levels to spray insecticides. The Agriculture Department has arranged pumps and machinery for the purpose.”
29-05-2020||Amritsar||Museum to have hockey legend’s portrait  soon||The SGPC has announced to instal the portrait of hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior, who passed away on Monday, at the Central Sikh Museum in the Golden Temple complex here.Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC chief, said: “Balbir Singh Senior represented India in Olympics and hockey tournaments in his ‘Sikhi saroop’. The purpose of installing his portrait in the museum is that the younger generation should idolise him.”The SGPC, meanwhile, has offered its inns to accommodate Punjabis who have been quarantined on returning to India.He said Punjabis had complained about poor arrangements at hotels, where they have been quarantined. “Our inns have been transformed into quarantined zones as per the guidelines of the Union Health Ministry. They can be quarantined there free of cost,” he said. — TNS
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Same High Court Bench to hear successive bail pleas||In an attempt to ensure proper disposal of bail matters, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that successive applications filed by an accused will be listed before the Bench which initially decided the plea.The decision will be applicable to both regular and anticipatory bail applications and pleas seeking cancellation of the bail. The High Court asserted: “The successive bail applications under Sections 438 and 439 of the The Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) of the same accused and application for the cancellation of bail under Section 439 (2) of the The Code of Criminal Procedure will be listed before the same Bench, which decided the earlier bail applications”.The High Court has also made it clear that the only exception will be in cases where the judges have been transferred or have superannuated.The High Court added that the pleas would be heard by the same Bench irrespective of the subject matter specifically assigned to the Bench/Judge in the roster.The direction is expected to go a long way in ensuring justice to both the compliant and the accused as a judge who has initially decided the bail plea is in a better position to gauge the change in circumstances warranting the grant or denial of relief at a subsequent stage.
29-05-2020||Sangrur||Two more seek bail in Moosewala case||Two more persons involved in the Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala case, have applied for anticipatory bail. An FIR had been registered under the Arms Act against them at the Dhuri Sadar police station.Advocate Sumir Fatta said Head Constable Gagandeep Singh had applied for anticipatory bail.“The court has issued a notice to the state for May 30,” said Fatta.Apart from Gagandeep, another accused Inderveer Singh Grewal also applied for anticipatory bail today. On Wednesday, the court had granted interim bail to Constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh, Head Constable Gurjinder Singh, and ASI Balkar Singh and shooter Jungsher Singh while directing them to join the investigation.On May 4, a video, showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar of Barnala district, went viral on the social media. After that the Dhanaula police, on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, registered a case under relevant sections of the IPC and Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and five policemen, including Balkar Singh, Gagandeep Singh, Gurjinder Singh, Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and three others. — TNS
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Audit: All Covid victims in Punjab had co-morbidities||Not even a single healthy person was among the 40 Covid-19 deaths in Punjab. The fact came to the fore in an audit carried out by experts in the state.As per the details, among patients who died due to the virus, 77 per cent (31) were over 50 years of age and suffered from serious underlying diseases like end-stage kidney disease, cancer, HIV, besides uncontrolled diabetes and high blood pressure. Chronic illnesses like heart disease, hypertension, diabetes and obesity were major contributing factors in the remaining 23 per cent of cases.Eight patients had end-stage kidney disease and were on dialysis, which in itself is life threatening. Besides, nine patients had uncontrolled diabetes, which again is a serious condition.A few cases were severely immunocompromised as they were HIV positive. Such patients are highly prone to infections and have little capacity to fight these, health officials said.Death in most cases occurred in patients who were already suffering from serious illnesses which might have led to mortality in natural course of events, an official says. As many as 1,918 patients have already recovered, out of total 2,106 positive cases reported so far.Principal Secretary Health and Family Welfare Anurag Agarwal says Punjab has also done exceedingly well in crucial parameters of Covid-19. “The recovery rate in the state is 91 per cent, the highest in the country. At 1.3 per cent, mortality rate is the lowest,” he said. In all cases, where patients were found to be Covid positive irrespective of the underlying disease, as per ICMR guidelines, the death is counted as Covid death, Agarwal points out, underlining that the state’s mortality rate is significantly lower than the national average of 3 per cent.Further, in many cases samples were taken after the patient’s death. Those who turned positive were counted as Covid-19 deaths. This was done to not to miss on contact tracing of possible positive patients, Agarwal says.The expert committee, headed by Dr Talwar, also guided the state to analyse and review the cases of deaths and take corrective action accordingly. The review of the deaths was also taken up by the expert committee in detail and the doctors were updated with latest information.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two more succumb, death toll 42 in Punjab||A 60-year-old woman from Amritsar and a head constable of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) posted in Ludhiana today succumbed to Covid-19.The woman, Jaspal Kaur, belonged to Bandala village. The patient was a known case of hypertension and CAD, claimed health officials.The head constable was 49 years old and belonged to Karol Bagh area of Jalandhar. With these two deaths, the total number of casualities due to Covid-19 reached 42 in the state. The head contsable was under treatment at MCH, Vardhman, and was later shifted to CMC Hospital after his condition deteriorated on May 22.He was on ventilator since May 26 and was suffering from bilateral pneumonia and lung sepsis and was a borderline patient of hypertension. He had a cardiac arrest today and breathed his last, said Dr Rajesh Bagga, Civil Surgeon.Till now 57 RPF personnel, 48 from Delhi and nine Ludhiana, have tested positive for Covid in Ludhiana.Meanwhile, 33 fresh cases were reported today, taking the total number of cases to 2,158. Jalandhar reported three more positive patients. The district tally reached 233. Punjab Health Systems Corporation vice chairman Monik Sehgal and his brother Manish Sehgal (both aged 52) tested positive last evening. As per the Health Department, so far samples of 78,014 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 70,871 were found negative and reports of 4,985 were awaited. There are now 172 active cases in the state.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||49K treated under sehat bima yojana in Punjab||The state government has provided free treatment to more than 49,189 patients in empanelled hospitals under Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana during the lockdown period so far.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the government was committed to provide quality health services across the state and despite the lockdown, about 35,628 e-cards had been generated within two months and at a cost of Rs43.85 crore, more than 49,189 patients had been treated.He said instructions had been issued to the civil surgeons to expedite the procedure of generating e-cards so that maximum number of beneficiaries could get the benefits of flagship scheme of the state.Underling the services given to the beneficiaries, the minister said as many as 726 patients underwent heart surgeries, 19,867 got dialysis, 1,512 underwent cancer treatment and 996 elderly got joint replacement.To get free treatment under the scheme, he clarified that the entitled beneficiary needed to generate an e-card. “Arogya mitras are posted in every empanelled hospital. They register beneficiaries, generate their e-card, if not issued earlier, and facilitate cashless treatment in the hospital,” he said.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Relief for frequent interstate travellers||The state government today issued additional guidelines for persons travelling interstate through trains (incoming/outgoing) or other modes of transport.An official spokesman of the Health and Family Welfare Department said persons who had arrived in the state via train must ensure that they remained in home quarantine for 14 days, except frequent travellers.He clarified that frequent interstate travellers who needed to move outside Punjab such as MPs/MLAs, salespersons, transporters, doctors, journalists, executives, engineers, traders, consultants etc. need not be home quarantined.The deputy commissioners and sub-divisional magistrates would issue passes to such persons, who shall submit an undertaking for self-monitoring of their health status and inform the administration in case they experienced any symptoms of Covid-19.For travellers who have return ticket scheduled before the completion of duration of homequarantine, they shall be allowed to board trains if asymptomatic. In case, such a person has developed symptoms, he/she will be tested and treated as per health protocol.
29-05-2020||Ludhiana||Peddler with Pakistan links arrested||Two days after the BSF seized 6 kg of heroin from a man near its border post at Samaske, PS Guru Har Sahai, Ferozepur, a team of STF, Ludhiana range, nabbed the accused for smuggling 5.04 kg of heroin from Pakistan on Wednesday evening.The accused has been identified as Partap Singh (37), a resident of Kotli Aulkah village in Amritsar’s PS Lopoke.The accused, who was supplying the contraband in ration bags on a motorcycle, was held at a ‘naka’ near Casa Le Baron marriage palace.Earlier, the BSF had seized the consignment, which was buried in the fields adjoining zero line along the Indo-Pakistan border, after getting a tip-off from the STF team, Ludhiana Range. However, the BSF couldn’t arrest the accused, as he had managed to escape.Sneh Deep Sharma, AIG, STF, Ludhiana/Ferozepur Range, said the accused was on his way to supply the contraband to his customers when he was arrested by the team of the STF.During preliminary probe, the accused confessed that he had close links with Pakistan-based drug suppliers and that he was an addict for the last 15-20 years. “The accused has indicated that both consignments of heroin were purchased from a Pakistan-based supplier, Dodhi, after negotiations through WhatsApp calls,” said the AIG.The STF will produce the accused before a magistrate to seek his police custody.A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of the NDPS Act.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police get chief tech officer||The Punjab Police have appointed Dhruv Singhal as its chief technology officer (CTO), with the mandate to use technology in combating crime, including terrorism. The appointment of Singhal was made with the concurrence of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, in the Technical Services Wing of the Punjab Police.A police spokesperson said Singhal had a vast experience in the IT industry and his last assignment was as the head of technology at Amazon Internet Services, the Indian subsidiary of Amazon Web Services. Singhal graduated from the IIT, Delhi, and IIM, Calcutta, and his areas of specialisation include application integration, databases, and big data, among others.“I have worked in the UK, US and Ireland. I would now like to use my experience and knowledge to contribute to society. I will be working with the police in the adoption of new technologies like big data and business intelligence to combat crime,” said Singhal. — TNS
29-05-2020||Sangrur||Malerkotla locals stuck in Pakistan a harried lot||Many residents of Malerkotla, an area dominated by Muslims, have been stranded in Pakistan since the start of lockdown.Among the many problems that is plaguing the stranded residents is the expiry of visa.“We had plans to solemnise my sister’s wedding in April. My sister and mother went to Lahore in March to invite relatives to the wedding. However, the lockdown has delayed their arrival. Now, the wedding has been postponed indefinitely,” said Shahid, a local.“My mother had gone to Pakistan, but she could not come back due to visa problems. We understand that the government has sealed borders to prevent the spread of Covid-19, but now it should at least allow return of its citizens from Pakistan,” a local girl said.Talking to The Tribune, a resident said many families of Malerkotla had relatives in Pakistan and some of them had gone to the neighbouring country to attend family functions, but the pandemic had derailed their plans.“In March, my mother, Sayeeda Bano (77), had gone to Gujranwala to meet her sister, but couldn’t return. These days she is keeping unwell and our family is worried. I have written to the Indian Embassy in Pakistan for help,” said Amjad Khan, a local.SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey said they had not received any request from any local in this connection. “We will write to our seniors if anyone approaches to my office for help,” he said.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Traders fined Rs 11 lakh for overcharging||Two inmates escape from Sangrur jailSangrur: Two prisoners escaped from the jail here on Thursday. DSP R Satpal Sharma said both prisoners were facing imprisonment in murder and attempt to murder cases. “Gurdarshan Singh is a convict in a murder case, while Sandeep Singh is a convict in an attempt-to-murder case,” said the DSP. Sharma said it was when the jail authorities had sent the two inmates for farming in the backyard of jail that the latter made an escape. TNSMan kills wife by slitting her throatMuktsar: A man allegedly killed his wife by slitting her throat at Sahib Chand village in Gidderbaha. The deceased has been identified as Sukhpreet Kaur, wife of Gurmeet Singh. Angrej Singh, SHO, Kotbhai police station, said, “We have started investigation. An FIR will be registered once the family of the deceased records their statement.” TNSYouth Congress to promote entrepreneursChandigarh: To encourage young entrepreneurs, Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon in a live session on Facebook interacted with Ruchit Garg, who has developed an app which provides a platform to farmers for selling their produce directly to consumers. tns
29-05-2020||Aman Sood||At 7K/acre, labour rates more than double in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 28From online payments in their accounts back home to permanent residences, Punjab farmers are doing all to lure farmhand. Finding it hard to get labour for paddy, they are offering liquor, ration and mobile top-up to migrant workers, who have opted to stay back amid the lockdown.The migrants are demanding 25 per cent advance payment through phone-based apps as security. Also, the labour rates have more than doubled from Rs 3,200 per acre (last season) to Rs 7,000 per acre.The Punjab Government having sent back 3.89 lakh migrants so far, the farmers are desperately searching for farm labour, especially since the window to finish paddy transplantation has been reduced to a month.Jai Parkash, a Bihar native, says he is willing to work for anyone willing to pay him Rs 5,500 per acre. “There are only a few of us still in Punjab,” he points out.Farmer Jasdeep Singh Garcha of Doraha says he will be providing homemade liquor, CDs of Bhojpuri movies and television sets to his workers. “Earlier, we would provide bhang too. But fearing police action, we have stopped that now,” he says. Farmers say if it rains during transplantation, the rates could go even higher. The price of short-duration paddy seed, used for direct seeding, has zoomed to Rs 150 per kg compared to Rs 55 last year, they say.“Paddy was grown across 29.30 lakh hectares in Punjab last year. This year, the state has decided to grow other crops on 2.50 lakh hectares. Also, PAU, Ludhiana, has recommended direct seeding. The government proposes to bring 5 lakh hectares under this system that does not require intensive labour,” Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture, said.
