30-03-2020||Patiala||Fear is being created by fake messages says corona positive patient in Patiala after video goes viral||The 21-year-old youth from Patiala district, who has been tested positive for coronavirus, said that fear was being created by circulating a fake WhatsApp video in his name.The youngster, who is currently being treated in Ambala Civil Hospital, informed that a video—purportedly of him being gasping—was fake, however, the admission card in the video was his, he said. He said, “I am fine now and recovering very well. I want to tell all the people that it was not me in the video – which was making the rounds on social media.”Talking to The Tribune over the phone, he claimed though he was not directed by any official at the airport for self-isolation on his return from Nepal, however, he said on own his own he had home-quarantined because he was aware of the virus.“I had locked myself in a room and told my family members to wash their hands every time they came into my contact. My utensils were also being washed, regularly by the family members,” he said.The youth said as he had followed strict guidelines for self-isolation that might be the reason that his family members didn’t test positive for the virus.“Fortunately, my close contacts tested negative which was a sigh of relief for me. People should stay indoors and follow health guidelines – strictly,” he narrated.Notably, all the 14 close contacts of the positive patient, who were admitted to the Isolation ward of the Rajindra Hospital, were discharged after they tested negative for the virus.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said health department was working round the clock to keep a tab on the village.He said, “Our teams are conducting a survey and are keeping a vigil on villagers round the clock.”
30-03-2020||---||Coronavirus: CM orders sealing of Punjab borders, extends curfew till April 14||Chandigarh, March 30As the fight against COVID-19 continued on war footing, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered sealing of the state’s borders, while announcing extension of the curfew till April 14.The Chief Minister also promised special insurance for Punjab Police personnel and sanitation workers engaged in the Covid battle, on the lines of the scheme announced by the Centre for frontline health workers, if the Centre does not concede the state’s demand for these covers.Amarinder asked the Finance Minister to come out with a contingency financial plan, to overcome the COVID-19 crisis, and ensure an uninterrupted medical and essentials supply pipeline in the current battle, which he said would be a long-drawn one and would need more support from the Government of India.In another significant decision, the Chief Minister also allowed the Local Bodies Department to extend, by three months, the services of the 2000-odd sanitation workers, due to retire on March 31, in order to deal with the prevailing situation.During a video conference to discuss and review the current situation in the light of the COVID-19 crisis and the curfew restrictions in the state, the Chief Minister directed all the departments concerned to intensify their efforts to check the spread of the disease, and ensure that all essential supplies and services are maintained. He also ordered strict enforcement of the curfew, especially in rural areas, amid reports that gatherings continued to take place in villages.All restrictions should be strictly enforced till April 14, after which the state will decide in line with the Government of India’s further decision, said Amarinder, adding that the lockdown was the only way to prevent the spread of the disease.ACS Vini Mahajan informed the meeting that of the 1051 samples tested so far, 39 had been found positive and 881 negative, while results were awaited on 131. Two people had died of the disease and one had recovered. Mobile testing vans are being made operational to increase testing in Punjab, she added.Giving details of the state’s preparedness, she said 65 more ventilators, more than 1.5 lakh PPE kits and over 47000 N-95 masks, as well as 13 lakh more triple layer masks had been ordered to augment the existing equipment. Protective equipment was being procured from all possible sources, Mahajan told the meeting, adding that the PPE samples of Evershine company of Ludhiana had received approval from the Central Testing Lab in Coimbatore, paving the way for orders for the kits to be placed on priority basis.A new helpline has been started to tele-connect citizens with doctors under the IMA Punjab, and citizens can call 18001804104 or use the feature on the COVA mobile Application, said Mahajan.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal stressed the need to press the Centre for immediate release of the GST arrears of the state, and also suggested that every minister and MLA should donate a month’s salary and all government employees should give one week’s salary to the COVID Relief Fund.Earlier, the Chief Minister accepted the proposal of DGP Dinkar Gupta to seal the state’s borders to check the inflow of people, especially from Haryana. Since both Haryana and Jammu & Kashmir had locked their borders, people hailing from these states and stranded in other places were entering Punjab, the DGP pointed out, seeking the Chief Minister’s permission to block the borders.Amarinder made it clear that while no general relaxation had been provided to industry and brick-kilns to resume operations, they had been told they could utilise the services of the migrant labourers if they could provide food and shelter to them, while ensuring strict adherence to all COVID-19 related safety protocols.The Chief Minister was also informed during the conference that all arrangements were in place for procurement of wheat grain, which will commence, after some delay, around mid-April now.
30-03-2020||Sangrur||Punjab to turn schools into temporary shelters as coronavirus lockdown sparks migrant exodus||Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Monday said school buildings would be turned into temporary shelters to house migrant labourers left stranded by a lockdown to halt the spread of coronavirus.As the country faces an unprecedented exodus of migrants fleeing back after losing their livelihood to the countrywide lockdown, Singla said he had asked his officials to direct district education officers to provide food and shelter at these schools for migrants to stay.   Singla also announced that he was also postponing examinations of Class 8, 10 and 12 of the Punjab School Education Board that were scheduled to begin on April 1.  Some theory papers of Class 10 scheduled from April 3 have also been put off.New schedules will be uploaded after the situation returns to normal.Coronavirus cases in the country have risen alarmingly to over 1,000, with 27 deaths. Punjab has reported two deaths from 39 infections so far.The health crisis has prompted the central government to announce a 21-day lockdown. Experts say this is an attempt to “flatten the curve” of the virus. Punjab meanwhile has imposed a curfew with the same aim.The curfews and lockdowns have sparked another crisis---that of migrant exodus. Desperate migrants have been pouring on to the streets in several parts of the country in an effort to walk back home---a situation that health experts and government officials fear could spread the virus.Besides, reports say that over 20 migrants have died in various parts of the country while walking back several kilometres to their states.The migrant exodus has central and the state governments tighten curbs on movement in an attempt to stop the spread of the virus---the central government recently wrote to states asking them to seal their borders.Give them transportation, says Manish TewariMember of Parliament from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari has written a letter to Prime Minister Narender Modi asking him to provide transportation to take desperate migrants back home.In this letter, the MP has written that this medical emergency may fast morph into a humanitarian crisis.“Hence it’s a request to not stop them at the borders but to run some targeted railway specials which may help them to reach their homes,” the letter says.“Once they reach their hometown, they may be screened or may even be quarantined there,” he said. “This issue is not concerning Delhi alone but the country on the whole. Hence there is a need to think more deeply on this situation,” the letter said.
30-03-2020||Karam Prakash||6 medical officers asked to explain dereliction of duty after Patiala youth tests coronavirus positive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 30A day after a youth in Patiala district tested positive for Covid-19, six medical officers of the district health have already been asked for an explanation — for dereliction of duty.The Patiala Civil Surgeon has given 24 hours to the medical officers concerned, for the explanation, before he writes to the Health Secretary for their suspension.In a letter to these officers, the Civil Surgeon said the work by the officers was highly condemnable. A 21-year-old resident of Ramnagar village of Ghanaur block of the district  — who had to be admitted to Ambala Civil Hospital after being symptomatic of Covid-19 — was tested positive for the disease. Following which, the Health department, led by Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra and district nodal officers Dr Sumeet Singh and Dr Yuvraj Narang, had rushed to the village to carry out the sanitisation process of the spot.Malhotra said these officers blatantly violated the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In an official communique, the Civil Surgeon said these officers — despite having the surgical gown PPE kits in their possession — didn’t, allegedly, issue them to the multi-purpose health officials and thereby wasted the kits.   ‘Officials didn’t come out of the van’Showing strong displeasure, the civil surgeon said the paramedical staff was going from door to door while the said officers did not come out of the health van. He said it appeared that either they did not properly understand the guidelines or deliberately flouted them.The Civil Surgeon, in the order, said he had to face embarrassment owing to this.These officers are District Immunisation Officer; In-charge Community Health Centre, Ghanaur; Medical Officer, Ghanaur; Medical Officer, Primary Health Centre (PHC) Harpalpur; and two medical officers of mini PHC, Mardanpur.The Civil Surgeon said if the said medical officers failed to give the explanation, they were likely to be suspended. He would write to the health secretary to take action under the Disaster Management Act.
30-03-2020||Amritsar||Coronavirus: Malaysian tourists fly back home on special flight from Amritsar||A group of Malaysian tourists were happy to reunite with their family after they were flown on a special flight from Amritsar to their country amid a nationwide curfew in India on Monday. The Amritsar administration, in coordination with the Malaysian government, arranged a special flight around 9.30 am from the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International airport.A group of 20 tourists from had got stranded here due to the cancellation of flights. After getting their medical examination done, they were separated and put up in a hotel and SGPC-run inn.Malaysian resident Gurbachan Singh said that they had arrived in India on a month-long tourist visa on March 7 and were supposed to go back on May 21.“We are happy that today we are going back home. The Amritsar administration and police took care of us and made us accommodated in a hotel,” he said.His colleague, Baldev Singh, said that family friends back home were worried about them.“Now, they are eagerly waiting for us. We never thought that we would get stuck in such an unprecedented situation due to corona lockdown,” he said.A Chinese tourist, too, has been stranded in Amritsar.Identified as Zhong Shaoming, he was accommodated in the same hotel.  Rotary Club’s local president Surinder Singh has committed to pay his expenses, until the situation gets back to normal.“Till he gets back to his home, it would be our liability to take care of his living expense”, he said.Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon said that efforts were on to get Zhong back home.It is learnt that Zhong had landed in India on January 5. After visiting several other tourist places, he came to Amritsar on March 23, probably his last stop in India. He got stranded here due to the curfew imposed in the wake of combating the coronavirus spread.He went to the Golden Temple and approached the SGPC for help.Due to several constraints, he could not be accommodated in the traditional inns, yet he was immediately taken to the health centre for  medical examination.SGPC additional manager Rajinder Singh Ruby said,“After clearance of his health reports, he was discharged. But, owing to his safety and eating habits, the hotel was the best place for him to stay,” he said.The hotel owner Suraj Pishoria told that Zhong was staying in his hotel and was comfortable with the simple Indian food.“We could only offer him just a simple vegetarian diet and he was happy with it. We were liberal about the charges keeping in view the prevailing situation,” he said.
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew: Sangrur villages wait for ration, protest against MC in Bathinda||Residents in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab continued to venture out to purchase essentials amid the nationwide curfew which is in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Reports from several areas also indicate that people are awaiting help from governments and NGOs as ration runs out.Streets remained relatively empty and people practised social distancing in markets in most areas.Sangrur:Residents of various villages have been waiting for ration. Some NGOs have restarted distributing of ration and cooked food in Sangrur and other smaller towns of the district.There is confusion about whether banks will open or not. Residents of some villages have alleged that banks have closed ATMs in their villages. Panicked residents are calling on helpline numbers and also sending voice messages in Whatsapp groups.Solan:Solan residents queued up outside grocery shops while maintaining social distant.People turned out in large numbers to shop for groceries during the curfew relaxation hours from 8 am to 11 am.Patiala:Majority of the shops remained shut in Patiala but people's movement on roads has increased. Many are rushing to banks to draw cash, and to buy essential medicines, after reports that fresh stock has arrived at chemist shops.Muktsar:Despite the curfew, a large number of people come out on the roads in Muktsar on Monday morning.Karnal:Shimla:Residents maintained social distancing during curfew relaxation in Shimla. After home delivery of essential items was started in the city on Sunday, the footfall in markets reduced on Monday. The government will also issue a list of chemists and vegetable sellers who would home deliver shortly. The residents could log on the Facebook page of Shimla district administration for necessary information. The police are only allowing vehicles carrying essential commodities.Bhathida:Bathinda residents at the dhobiana basti shouted slogans against the state government and MC officials over not getting any ration from the government in their area.Ludhiana: People have started getting essentials at their doorsteps in the city. Products including rice, pulses, ghee, sugar, tea, vegetables, medicines and milk are being delivered at the doorsteps of residents by the vendors and shopkeepers. The residents say it is not that they get the things immediately when orders are placed, but in a day or two, things were being delivered.
30-03-2020||Karam Prakash||21-year-old Patiala youth came in contact with hundreds before testing coronavirus positive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 30The 21-year-old youth from a village in Patiala — who tested positive for the COVID-19 — had come in contact with hundreds of people before he was admitted to the isolation ward of Civil Hospital, Ambala.The carrier of coronavirus, in fact, returned from Nepal to New Delhi in an Indigo flight; thereafter he took a Haryana Roadways bus from New Delhi and reached Ambala, on March 19.On his way to Ambala, he had a meal at a dhaba at Pipli bus stand. After reaching Ambala, he, along with his friend, went to his aunt’s place in Shahpur – a village on the Punjab and Haryana border.At his aunt’s place, he is said to have come in contact with his uncle, a cousin, and two kids. He shared the room with his cousin during night. The village has already been sealed by the administration. The next day, on March 20, he went to his home in Ramnagar — a village in Ghanaur block of Patiala.In a major lapse, the 21-year-old, was not put under home-quarantine by the administration. Reason: his name was not in the list of foreign returnees.He is said to have not used his passport as an identification proof for his journey to Nepal; consequently, he didn’t come under the scanner of the administration or health department.He had been living in his joint family — at his native village — since his return. Therefore, the immediate cause of concern for the health department is to identify the number of people who have already come into his contact. It has been learned that he was roaming freely in the village since his arrival.Astoundingly, he himself got admitted to Ambala Civil Hospital after he got high fever on March 26. It has been learnt that he visited a quack before the hospitalization.Meanwhile, the health department claimed that he might have been directed by the officials at the airport to self-isolate. However, he didn’t stick to his house and possibly affected dozens of villagers. The health department said that as many as 14 people of his extended family had been already admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.The Deputy Commissioner last week had requested the village sarpanches and other residents to inform about all the people with a foreign travel history.
30-03-2020||---||Ludhiana woman dies of coronavirus; Punjab toll 3 now||Chandigarh, March 30With another patient succumbing to coronavirus (COVID-19) at Patiala on Monday, the total number of deaths due to the deadly virus has reached to three in Punjab.Apart from that with three new cases — one each from Ludhiana, Patiala and SAS Nagar, the total number of positive cases in the state has reached 41.The 42-year-old woman from Ludhiana succumbed to the deadly virus. She was brought to Patiala’s Government Rajindra Hospital with acute respiratory syndrome at 1.30 am on Monday morning. Her samples for the COVID-19 were taken but she died before the report could confirm that she was positive with the infection.Patiala Civil surgeon Harish Malhotra said her body had been, already, sent to Ludhiana as per the guidelines.Also read: Curfew in Punjab to continue after March 31; no general relaxations 21-year-old Patiala youth came in contact with hundreds before testing coronavirus positivePunjab to turn schools into temporary shelters as coronavirus lockdown sparks migrant exodusMeanwhile, a 35-year-old man with a history of Dubai travel tested corona-positive on Monday evening. He had recently returned from Dubai and was a resident of Desi Mehmandari in Patiala old city area.Malhotra said the patient's initial tests, at Safdarjung Delhi, were negative and had been under quarantine. He said the patient was admitted to the isolation ward last night after symptoms like fever and sore throat appeared. “Teams have been, already, sent to his residence to trace his close contacts and for sanitisation of the area,” Malhotra said.Another fresh case — a resident of SAS Nagar district — has been reported positive at PGI, Chandigarh. It is worrisome for the health authorities as the patient didn’t have any travel history. Now the health department is trying to trace the source of infection.As per the state health department, samples of total 1,051 suspected cases were sent for testing out of which 881 were found negative and reports of 129 were still awaited. Total 41 have been found positive. The state has reported three casualities so far.At present, confirmed 41 cases have been reported from seven districts. This includes 19 from SBS Nagar, seven from Mohali, six cases from Hoshiarpur, five from Jalandhar and two from Ludhiana, one each from Amritsar and Patiala.  No confirmed case has been reported from rest of the 15 districts.District-wise casesSBS Nagar                  19SAS Nagar                  7Hoshiarpur                6Jalandhar                   5Amritsar                     1Ludhiana                  2Patiala                       1
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Second person in Punjab to have died of coronavirus was also a 'granthi'||Punjab has reported the second death due to coronavirus, officials said on Monday. He was in a close contact with the state's lone casualty Baldev Singh and both were ‘granthis’.They had returned from Germany and Italy and mingled freely with the people despite advisory on landing at Delhi's IGI Airport on March 7 for isolation at home.Harbhajan Singh, 62, died on Sunday night and was a resident of Hoshiarpur town. He was undergoing treatment at Government Medical Hospital in Amritsar.Both -- Baldev Singh and Harbhajan Singh -- were 'granthis'.Harbhajan Singh's wife, son and daughter-in-law and a neighbour have been undergoing coronavirus treatment at Hoshiarpur.Medical history of Harbhajan Singh says he was diabetic and suffered from hypertension.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Dhillon told the media in Amritsar that Harbhajan Singh had travel history with Baldev Singh.So far approximately 70 per cent of state's COVID-19 positive cases have been traced to 'super spreader' Baldev Singh, a resident of Banga town in Nawanshahr district who died owing to a heart attack, but was diagnosed to be coronavirus positive after his death.Baldev Singh is suspected to have infected 27 people, comprising 14 of his family members.Apprehending major outbreak, the state government has been closely monitoring through contact tracing Baldev Singh's acquaintances mainly in Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar districts, the hotbed of NRIs.However, no new case of coronavirus has been reported in Punjab in the past two days. IANS
30-03-2020||---||SGPC arranges buses  for stranded J&K tourists||Amritsar, March 29Under the initiative by the SGPC to send back home outstation tourists who got stranded due to curfew restrictions, around 60 tourists belonging to Jammu and Kashmir returned through special buses on Sunday.SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said two buses left for J and K today. “Our buses would drop them at Jammu only. However, those from Kashmir valley would make their own arrangement from there. The passengers were made to sit at a distance from each other as per the directions of the health department. Besides, the buses were also sanitised and the passengers too were provided with hand sanitisers”, he said.Earlier, the SGPC had sent tourists to Delhi and Haryana in five buses. Similarly, four buses were flagged off for Shahjanahpur (UP) and Bathinda too. The buses also ferried the stranded tourists at Delhi for various parts of Punjab.At present, various tourists from Tata Nagar (Gujarat), Mumbai and Bihar too were accommodated in various inns of the SGPC.
30-03-2020||Aman Sood||Men in khaki on job, 16 hours a day||Tribune news servicePatiala, March 29In Punjab, men in khaki are working for over 16 hours every day to enforce curfew restrictions. Many of their seniors are working round the clock. As many as 40,153 personnel are on duty in 27 police districts. Also, officials at the police headquarters are coordinating efforts to battle Covid-19 spread.An ASI died while on duty recently after he suffered a heart attack. “We were told that action would be initiated against us if anyone was seen on roads during ‘Janata Curfew.’ After repeated requests to people failed, we had to use mild force against a few. Now we are serving food to the needy and trying to help migrants”, said an SI in Ludhiana.Officials on duty on the Patiala-Fatehgarh Sahib border said not all had been provided with face masks for protection against the virus.“There are no sanitisers. We wash our hands with soap every half an hour with water from a hand pump nearby. We have to carry our own food”, they said. Dr Sajila Khan, posted with the Police Lines, Patiala, said many officials were suffering from anxiety and some had cough. “We are examining every case carefully. Given the seriousness of the spread, we are not taking any chances”, she said.Commending their role, a senior IPS officer said, “They too have families and are understandably fatigued. We can use additional forces from the Government Railway Police to provide them some respite.”
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Banks to remain open in Punjab on March 30-31||The Punjab Government on Sunday announced that banks would remain open on March 30 and 31 to facilitate people in their financial transactions, amid the curfew restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“On the directives of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, the state Home Department has issued an advisory regarding operation of bank branches during curfew on March 30 and 31, 2020, and beyond,” said a government release. From April 3 onwards, all bank branches shall be open for two days of the week, on a rotation basis, it said.The DCs have been asked to extend support during the relaxation to the banking staff, the release said. — TNS
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Team CMO at work||Rising to the occasionAmritsar: Politicians and leaders of unions and associations of trade or industry usually end up their conversation with people who wield some influence, saying, "Koi seva hoi te daseo. (If you need any service, please let us know)". These days when the entire country is grappling with the shortage of medical supplies amid Covid threat, a local resident welfare association's leader desperately wanting some work to be done went on to offer sanitisers and masks in return.On mission to feed poorFatehgarh Sahib: Gurdarshan Singh Nabha Foundation, an NGO run by Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha, has come to the rescue of the poor. The foundation in collaboration with the district administration and 15 social organisations of Amloh and Mandi Gobindgarh has not only been distributing ration among the needy and serving langar to nearly 1,000 people twice daily, but also ensuring the supply of essential commodities at the doorsteps of the people.
30-03-2020||---||Punjab ramps up stock of safety kits||Chandigarh, March 29To prepare for any Covid-related contingency, the state government is aggressively building up its stocks of life-saving equipment such as masks, gloves, ventilators, PPE kits etc. A large quantity of these materials is already in stock and more is expected to be available over the next few days.By March 31, the state will have another 25,000 N95 masks, in addition to 52,500 already in stock, along with 1 lakh nitrile gloves. While the state having at its disposal 26.32 lakh triple layer masks, another 12 lakh will be added to the inventory by April 1, according to Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.To reduce dependence on outside vendors, the government has roped in local manufacturers, she said, adding that samples prepared by them were at present in testing phase.
30-03-2020||Ludhiana||‘Forced to leave as no help from administration’||“I haven’t eaten anything since yesterday. If we go out, the police beat us up. We don’t know from where to buy atta-dal,” says he. Shambu, another one labourer, says the helpline numbers are going switched off and when they get connected, there’s no help. — Manav Mander
30-03-2020||---||No case in past 48 hrs in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 29No new confirmed case of Coivd-19 has been reported for the second consecutive day in the state. The number of confirmed cases remained at 38. However, the report of 190 suspected cases is still awaited.According to the media bulletin issued by the state Health Department, so far 977 samples have been collected, out of which 38 were found positive and 749 negative. The result of 190 is awaited. All confirmed cases have been hospitalised. The condition one of the patients is critical, but stable.Officials said the case of 21-year-old resident of Ramnagar village in Ghanaur block of the district Patiala, who was tested positive for Covid, would not be counted in Punjab. He had been living at his native village in Patiala before he was admitted to Ambala Civil Hospital.As his native village was close to Ambala civil hospital, he chose to go there. Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said he would be counted in Haryana as per the guidelines of Central Government.At present the spread of the disease is limited to six districts. Of 22, 16 districts are disease free. The confirmed 38 cases have been reported from five districts. The government has directed to waive the process of biometric authentication of patients before getting treatment from the hospitals under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana.14 close contacts of patiala man -vePatiala: All 14 close contacts of the first positive case of the district have tested negative for Covid-19. “The village of the Covid patient has already been sealed for the next 14 days and all suspected patients have already been admitted to isolation ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital," Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said. Health officials have already started the process of sanitisation of the village. TNS
30-03-2020||---||May let industry to operate: Capt||Chandigarh, March 29To address the problem of migrant labourers and prevent their exodus from the state amid Covid-19 crisis, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has asked all industrial units and brick-kilns in the state to commence operations with such migrants if they have the provision to accommodate them safely within the premises.The government is also in discussion with Radha Soami Satsang Beas, which has already offered its bhawans as quarantine facilities, to allow migrant labourers to stay there as these people would be needed for wheat harvesting in two weeks’ time.The owners of industrial units and brick-kilns can commence production if they have enough space to accommodate the migrant labourers and provide them food, said the Chief Minister, while appealing to the owners to ensure that social distancing was maintained during this period.The directions and discussions came amid reports of lakhs of migrant labourers getting stranded across the nation, and the problem assuming ominous proportions with such labourers gathering in large numbers at borders in many states.Ease norms to use grants, FM urgedCapt Amarinder on Sunday urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to amend the conditions for utilisation of the 14th Finance Commission grants for emergency relief in urban areas. He asked the minister to advise the Ministries of Housing & Urban Affairs and Panchayati Raj to initiate action in this regard.
30-03-2020||Sangrur||Stranded for week, bride’s kin leave for UP||“We had planned grand functions, but had to cancel all. We also requested all relatives not to come to our house to attend the marriage due to Covid,” said groom Hitesh Kumar, a Malerkotla resident. Due to restrictions, they solemnised marriage in the wee hours of March 22 only as his in-laws family planned to go back on March 23. “All trains were cancelled due to curfew and we all were stranded here. We couldn’t hold functions as per plan,” said bride Shveta. — Parvesh Sharma
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Govt sets up 4 panels to contain virus||BBMB chips in, helps poor Chandigarh: The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has chipped in with helping the poor during the lockdown. It is not only providing hospital facilities and ambulances, but also groceries and food to the needy. Some of the vacant houses in BBMB townships Nangal, Talwara and Sundernagar have been converted into isolation wards. The BBMB helped district administrations in sanitising the three townships. Ambulances are available at all project station of the BBMB. TNS19 milk plants now functional Chandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed the Cooperation Department to ensure that all milk plants in the state were made operational so that milk producers and dairy farmers were not put to any hardship or inconvenience during the curfew/lockdown period in view of coronavirus. While 19 milk plants have already been made operational, the remaining two will become operational from April 1, according to an official spokesperson. TNSFor emergency, police launch appChandigarh: To provide emergency medical and routine services, the police have launched a Police Emergency Services App (PESA) as a pilot project. More than 1,000 persons benefitted on the first day of the launch in Sangrur district. The department has tied up with private clinics and ambulances as well as NGOs to meet medical emergencies other than Covid through the app, which also provides for veterinary doctor, plumber, electrician, LPG gas cylinder among other services, the DGP Dinkar Gupta. The link and QR code to download this app are also available on district police website (www.sangrurpolice.in). TNSState to use disaster relief fundChandigarh: Punjab has received the lion’s share of the disaster relief fund from the Centre this financial year. The money will be used to provide immediate relief to the poor during the curfew. Of Rs474 crore disaster relief fund for 2019-20, the first instalment of Rs177.75 crore has been released. It may be noted the states have to contribute 25% of the share in the fund, while 75% comes from the Centre. Of the Centre’s share of Rs355.5 crore for Punjab in this fiscal, the remaining Rs99.32 crore will be released in the next. KBS Sidhu, Special Chief Secretary, Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management, said that under the present circumstances we will give priority to use funds for Covid prevention measures. TNS
30-03-2020||Faridkot||In Faridkot, 15% hike in prices of goods||The widening gap in the demand and supply of goods has resulted in 10 to 15 per cent spike in prices in the wholesale and retail markets.In the wholesale market, the rate of edible oils has increased by Rs15 per kg and, that of pulses, the hike is between Rs20 and Rs25 per kg. The increase in sugar price in the wholesale market is Rs1.5 to Rs2 per kg but, in the retail market, buyers are paying Rs4 to Rs5 more than the usual rate.The state government is supplying wheat to flour millers at Rs2,080 per quintal, but millers are selling wheat flour at an increased price of Rs2,600 to Rs2,700 per quintal in view of the high demand.The rate of dry fodder for animals, too, has increased. The price of mustard and cotton cakes has increased by Rs200 to Rs250 per quintal. In case of choker and choker cattle feed pallets, the prices have increased by Rs400 to Rs500 per quintal.All-India Karyana Association president Onkar Nath Goyal said, “Risk to truck drivers who are transporting goods, shortage of labour and demand for advanced payment by traders before the delivery are causing supply shortage. Panic buying is driving up grocery prices.” — TNS‘Favouritism in distributing items’Moga: Despite claims by the district administration that essential items would be provided at doorsteps of people, there were reports of shortage of goods, overcharging and favouritism by panchayats in the distribution system. Vinay Kashyap, a city-based lawyer, alleged that even as the administration had claimed that goods would be provided at controlled rates, the prices of vegetables and fruits were high in local markets. Ramesh Kuku, president, Rice and Pulses Dealers Association, said they were having limited stocks. TNS
30-03-2020||---||Will clank thalis if administration fails to help: Jalandhar villagers||Jalandhar, March 29Amarjit Kaur from Bhakkhu Nangal carries a crying, ailing baby in her hand, her husband has fever and cough. She says when the family went for a treatment at a hospital recently they were turned away. Kaur says, “Sada kamm band ho gaya. (work has stopped) I don’t even have Rs50. We urgently need food. Koi davai vi nahi dinda (no one gives medicine either),”.Amarjit, a Kartarpur resident and the sole breadwinner of the family who was rendered immobile due to a recent surgery, says he has no food to feed his family.At Fateh Jalal village, a colony of 150 migrants, makes do with a diet of boiled potatoes. Residents of some villages mobilised by the Pendu Mazdoor Union and the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee have now given a call for March 31. They say they will clank thalis and other utensils on their rooftops, if they are not provided with groceries and ration.At the colonies near Chogitti and Domoriah Bridge, migrants line up with outstretched hands whenever someone comes to disburse rations. Some villages complain while the administration provided them rations several times, it’s not enough.Mangal, a panch at the Fazalpur village, says, “We are several families here mostly from Bihar. The police came and gave ration to us a week ago. Yesterday some people distributed food. The ration will last a week more at the most. Teams can’t come in daily we also understand that. We are all daily wagers and have lost livelihoods due to the lockdown. We need food to last during the lockdown or we will starve. Our homes are all here we have nowhere to go.”Maninder, 60, a resident of the Fateh Jalal village says, “Allo ubaal ke kha rahe hain (we are boiling potatoes for food). No one has given us ration any day. We need food to survive. There are 50 to 60 children and 40 to 50 women here. We used to get Rs 300 to 350 a day. Now jobs are gone. We request the administration to provide us with food.”Makkhan Singh and Daato, both over 70, of Ghug village have run out of ration. Both are diabetic, and Makkhan Singh also has high BP. Dato said she bought 5 kg atta some days ago for Rs 28 which is about to end now. There is nothing more to eat. “Davai daru, kujh na pucho. (Don’t ask of food and drink), money has ended, we don’t know where from we will eat. I can’t work either. Please ask the government to give us food or money. We have nothing,” Dato said.
30-03-2020||---||Sangrur administration claims all’s well, but residents differ||Sangrur, March 29Amid Sangrur and Barnala administrations’ claim that home delivery of all essential commodities of have begun, residents of urban and rural areas think otherwise. In some villages, residents have alleged, not a single vehicle of essential commodities has reached to date.Balwinder Singh, Jhaloor villageOur village has not received any supply of goods so far. On Saturday, our village panchayat distributed some ration, but that was given only to selected families.“We have come here to enquire about the home delivery of essential commodities as we have not received any supply yet. Though a vehicle came in our area on Saturday, but it went back after distributing ration in some selected houses. We request the Punjab government to look into the matter,” said a group of women from Sundar Basti while standing at the main gate of the Sangrur Deputy commissioner on Sunday.“In our village we have not received any supply yet. On Saturday, our village panchayat distributed some ration, but that was for only few families,” said Balwinder Singh from Jhaloor village of Sangrur.Jagtar Singh of Tolewal village said on Saturday a vehicle came to supply essential commodities. “But it was not free , as claimed by government. The persons sitting in vehicle were selling the items and we came back as we do not have money,” he said.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said 2,500 helplines have been working across district and their officers have been supervising the delivery of necessary commodities to all villages and assured to look into the matter if there is any problem.“Presently, labourers do not have money to purchase necessary. Since shopkeepers are selling their items on higher rates, they are unwilling to give grocery items to labourers on credit. Things will turn worse, if the government fails to take quick action,” said Mukesh Malaud, president of Zameen Prapati Sangarash Committee.“There is no shortage of any stock and we are delivering commodities at the houses of residents. If any resident is facing any problem, he should contact our helpline and we would redress his complaint immediately” said Barnala Deputy Commissioner TPS Phoolka.
30-03-2020||---||Medicines in short supply in Punjab||Amritsar, March 29In the absence of inter-state transportation of goods coupled with panic buying by people, several essential items such as masks, sanitisers, insulin and milk powder for infants are running out of stock. Retailers say their medicine stock won’t last a week.Kailash Ahuja, Pharmacist in RoparThe stock of insulin and medicines for patients of blood pressure and heart ailments is fast depleting. There’s been no supply from Mohali distributors.The Punjab Chemist Association has written to Dr VG Somani, Drug Controller of India, New Delhi, seeking his intervention.Surinder Duggal, president of the association, said: “We have sought permission for ferrying medicines from Zirakpur, Ambala and Himachal Pradesh in private vehicles. The state government should issue curfew passes to us so that essentials medicines can be supplied to Punjab.”Duggal, who also heads the north India unit of the chemists’ association, said similar situation was emerging in Jammu and Kashmir and several parts of Himachal Pradesh. “Around 70 per cent of the supply came from Zirakpur, 10 per cent from Ambala and remaining from Baddi,” he said.“I talked to medical store owners in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Mansa and Faridkot over phone and they told me that panic purchase by people led to the shortage of insulin. This can prove fatal in case of an emergency situation,” Duggal added.Rajesh Soi, president, Amritsar Chemist Association, said chemists would run out of medicines related to diabetes and cancer, antibiotics, gastric vaccine, dialysis kits, respiratory products and life-saving drugs in the coming days.“All districts in the state get supply either from company warehouses or from clearing and forwarding (C&F) agents. Therefore, we request the Central and the state government to allow transportation of medicines,” he added.
30-03-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Migrants won’t stay back, no matter what||Tribune News ServiceBatala (Gurdaspur), March 29Hordes of migrant labourers working in the industrial hub of Batala are walking back home too, fearing if the corona outbreak is not controlled they may either die or if at all they survive they will be ostracised by their folks back home.On a conservative estimate, of the 15,000 labourers who have made the city their home after migrating from UP, Bihar, MP, Jharkhand and Rajasthan over the last several decades, 5000 have already left.Workers, carrying backpacks, set out on foot in the morning, walking along the very roads they built and past factories where they once earned their livelihood.Despite Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq’s claims that the administration has made arrangements to ensure these people have adequate ration, they are not willing to stay back.Labourers are adamant on going back fearing that even if they catch the disease and are cured, they will have to carry the ‘corona stigma’ following which they will not be allowed to enter their villages.Vishwa Mittar Goel, general secretary, Batala Foundrymen Association, said: “I tried to convince some of them to stay calm as normalcy will soon return but to no avail. If they are not made aware that the disease is not fatal and there is no disgrace in catching the virus, more will go home.”Pathankot to Gwalior on footJalandhar: With a handkerchief tied to his face, Ram Kumar, treads along the PAP highway in Jalandhar — his eventual destination is Gwalior, 849 km from his starting point Pathankot. Ram Kumar who had come to Punjab on March 16 has had a shortlived stint at Pathankot selling golgappas. A week into his new business, the lockdown caused him to lock up his vend and head home. With no vehicles available due to the lockdown — he has decided to reach Gwalior on foot. Accompanied by another family (of his relative Gulaab) — the troupe of 11 has been traversing the state highways since Saturday on foot. Aparna Banerji
30-03-2020||---||Don’t ‘discriminate’ in relief operations: Sukhbir||Chandigarh, March 29Shiromani Akali Dal president and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal, who on Sunday announced to give Rs1 crore from his MPLAD fund for ventilators in all government hospitals in Ferozepur, requested the CM to ensure that there was no discrimination in distributing food items to the poor and needy on the basis of political affiliation.He alleged that there were disturbing reports that Congress legislators were commandeering deputy commissioners and SDMs and accompanying them to distribute ration to their supporters. “A backlash has already started against such politicisation of relief operations with people even expressing their anger at Congressmen. This has the potential to snowball into a major law and order problem. I request you to direct all DCs not to distribute food material as per dictates of Congress leaders. Rather, they can make use of helplines as well as social and welfare organisations to distribute the material to the deserving,” he said.The SAD president also requested the CM to take note of the fact that despite announcements and reassurances given by him, food material was not reaching those in need.“Widespread protests have already started in this regard. It seems that the relief which is being sent by the government is being diverted by unscrupulous elements. Strict action should be taken against these persons, howsoever influential they may be,” Sukhbir added.Ensure regular supply: CM to deptsChandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered the departments concerned to take all possible steps to ensure uninterrupted and regular supply of essential commodities and services at the doorstep of the people across the state. A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said on the directions of Capt Amarinder, the ACS, Home, had issued detailed guidelines to all administrative secretaries, heads of departments, divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners, range officers to ensure strict compliance of the orders to streamline the supply of goods. TNS
30-03-2020||---||In Ludhiana, elderly hit the most||Ludhiana, March 29Covid has made life tough for all. But vulnerable sections such as elderly people and migrants are at a double disadvantage. Senior citizens who are battling age-related ailments and are not tech-savvy complain that they are at the receiving end. Despite assurances from officials about the uninterrupted supply of essential items and medicines at their doorstep, the ground reality is different, they say.SS Chana, IFS officer (retd)Calls on helplines go unanswered. In spite of claims, there is no home delivery of medicines. Even buying groceries and vegetables is difficult.“Calls on many helplines and phone numbers published in newspapers go unanswered. In spite of claims, there is no home delivery of medicines. Even buying groceries and vegetables is difficult,” said 88-year-old retired IFS officer SS Chana, a resident of Sarabha Nagar here.“A day before, I sent an email to an MC official, requesting him to arrange for the delivery of vegetables in my locality at the earliest,” the octogenarian said.He has a request for the district administration: “Please respond to emails or messages of city residents at this critical juncture.”A retired teacher said: “As a responsible citizen, I support the lockdown. All should stay safe in their homes. But if we have to go out to buy essential items and medicines, the very purpose of lockdown is defeated. Those who are aged and are the worst sufferers.”
30-03-2020||---||Supply crunch in Punjab adds to lockdown blues||Bathinda, March 29The state government claims to providing essential items at people’s doorstep during the nationwide lockdown, but the ground reality paints a different picture.The district administration has provided people with helpline numbers of four utility stores — Reliance Retail, Big Bazaar, Best Price and Vishal Mega Mart — in case they require anything.Lack of planning: ResidentsThere is lack of planning in providing essential items to people. I couldn’t get flour for three days. I finally managed to buy it from a retail shop situated 2 km from my house by paying extra.I had placed an order with a Reliance store two days ago. Till now, I have not received the goods. I called up the store several times to enquire about my order. Every time, the phone was switched off. Bathinda residentsBut ask residents and they say the utility stores aren’t of any help. Reason: utility stores have put a condition — orders less than Rs1,000 would not be entertained.A buyer said, “I had called up the Best Price number to place an order for grocery items. Its employee asked me to place the order online on the condition that the goods must amount to more than Rs1,500. If the amount was less, the goods would not be delivered at home.”Another buyer said, “I had placed an order with a Reliance store two days ago. Till now, I have not received the goods. I called up the store several times to enquire about my order. Every time, the phone was switched off.”OfficialspeakThe district administration has been providing groceries to Bathinda residents. If people are not receiving essential items, I will look into the matter and take appropriate action. B Srinivasan, Deputy CommissionerThe non-availability of items is not the only problem; people say shopkeepers selling items secretly are charging exorbitant rates. “The district administration must fix rates of eight to 10 most essential grocery items like it has done for vegetables. Shopkeepers are fleecing buyers,” a 71-year-old resident said.Residents in Partap Nagar and Parasram Nagar in old city say the scenario is chaotic.Some shopkeepers are selling goods, but secretly.A retail grocery store owner in Partap Nagar said, “People have been calling me up for groceries as the administration has failed to facilitate delivery of goods. My shop is closed, but I cannot refuse my customers. So I have started taking the orders on phone. Customers collect the items when they feel convenient, but secretly.”Many grocery shops in the interiors of the city are running out of stock.On the other hand, those living in the periphery in Hardev Nagar, Kheta Singh Basti and Lal quarters are the worst affected. First, they did not get the supply for the first three days of the curfew and when the groceries did reach these areas, only a few received essential items.Punjab Beopar Mandal president Amit Kapoor said, “Earlier, the administration had circulated a list of 40 grocery stores which were assigned the task of supplying essential items to residents. But for some reason, it revoked the list. Now, only four utility stores have been allowed to deliver goods. These four stores cannot cater to the demand of the entire city. The state government must reissue the list of wholesalers and retailers for every area with their contact numbers.When contacted, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “We have been providing groceries to city residents and if there are any areas where people are not getting the delivery of grocery, I will get it checked and take appropriate action.”
