30-04-2020||---||Punjab CM orders village-level quarantine of those returning from other states||Chandigarh, April 30Amid grave concerns expressed by various DCs on several Covid-infected persons coming in from outside the state in recent days, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered village-level quarantine in designated buildings, while issuing strict instructions for compulsory institutional quarantine, for both positive and negative cases, of all those coming from other states.3,525 pilgrims from Nanded and 153 students from Kota had returned to Punjab in the last 4 daysDuring a marathon video conference with DCs and SSPs/CPs of all the districts, the Chief Minister made it clear that no one coming from outside should be allowed to go home without completing the 21-day quarantine period, since symptoms generally show up after some time. Where possible, those found positive and negative should be segregated in different buildings altogether, he suggested, as a measure to check the further spread of the pandemic.He directed the officials to work with sarpanches to identify schools and other buildings for quarantine purposes in villages.So far, 3,525 pilgrims from Nanded (Maharashtra), and 153 students from Kota (Rajasthan) had returned to Punjab in the last 4 days, in addition to 3,085 labourers received at the Fazilka-Rajasthan border, the meeting was informed.Of those who had returned from Nanded, test reports had so far been received for 577 persons, of whom 20% were found positive. Incidentally, of the 105 fresh cases reported in the state on Thursday, 98 were from outside.The Chief Minister directed the DCs/SSPs to ensure that all those coming from outside download the COVA app to enable strict monitoring of their movement through Geo Fencing. He further instructed tracking and screening of all those who had come from outside the state on their own.Apart from migrants and others, the meeting discussed the lockdown and relaxations in the state, as well as the procurement operations.Ruling out any relaxation at the borders, which continue to remain strictly sealed, the Chief Minister said there was no question of allowing any buses to enter Punjab without permit/approval from the respective states which are sending vehicles to pick up their people. He directed the officers to ensure strict enforcement of the sealing at the borders, asserting that “we will not allow anyone to enter without proper procedure”.Some of the DCs said they were only allowing trucks with essentials to cross into their districts.In Punjab, the Chief Minister attributed the infections to three sources – NRIs, Nizamuddin Tabligi Jamaat and Nanded returnees. While Punjabis returning home were welcome, they had to be strictly quarantined, said the CM, directing the officials to ensure not to allow any unauthorised entry at the borders. If we do not control the situation, no industry will open, he warned.Stressing that industry was critical to reviving the state’s economy, he asked the DCs to explore ways of facilitating the same. Of the 2.5 lakh odd industries in the state, only around 3600 were eligible to open, and of these, so far a mere 1,100 had chosen to open up, he pointed out.The Ludhiana DC called for permission to industries not located in focal points and industrial estates to also open up, in designated areas as per the master plan. The Chief Minister agreed, pointing out that with 95% of the state’s industry in Ludhiana, it was important for them to start operating in order to revive the economy of Punjab.The Chief Minister lauded the officers for the excellent management of the procurement operations, with more than 50% of the estimated grain already procured. A total of 68 lakh metric tonnes of wheat had been purchased so far, he disclosed. He assured the DCs that there was no shortage of gunny bags to handle the large quantities of wheat coming into the Mandis.Referring to the relaxation announced by him yesterday, the Chief Minister said maintaining law and order in the given situation was a difficult task but had to be done. He, however, told the officials that they should open up as and when, and in whatever manner they felt they could do so safely. He also directed the officials to ensure that nobody steps out without a mask.All the DCs/SSPs/CPs updated the Chief Minister about the management of the relaxations in their respective districts, with shops being opened by rotation. In some districts, the DCs had judiciously chosen to open only the shops in the rural areas as of now, and had kept the decision to open up in urban areas on hold for a couple of days.Even as all the three policemen contacts of ACP Anil Kohli were set to be discharged tomorrow after recovering completely from Covid symptoms, relaxations in Ludhiana were being implemented in a phase manner.In Jagraon, the Market and Vyapar Committees had been asked to submit their schedules for opening of shops in compliance with the guidelines. In Nawanshahr, schools have been identified with the help of sarpanches for creating village-level quarantine facilities.Moga will start implementing relaxations by rotation from tomorrow, with the DC further informing the meeting that the Nestle plant, as well as the ancillary facilities associated with it, were working on full capacity.Shops will start opening in rural areas by rotation from tomorrow in Ferozepur, with only grocery shops and chemists allowed to open initially in urban areas. The district has decided to depend on home delivery for some more time.Officers from Jalandhar expressed concerns over threat of the spread of coronavirus due to the large number of migrants staying in ghetto-like conditions.
30-04-2020||Patiala||Discrimination doesn’t deter them from their duty, say mortuary marshals||Despite facing discrimination from others, mortuary marshals—who have to shift bodies of patients who died of coronavirus from isolation ward to cremation ground—believe their work as a service to the society than a mere duty.Bharpur Singh, 36, a mortuary marshal, said the moment he donned the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to shift the body, he always felt the uniform is meant to serve the society.He said that despite high-risk of infection of the coronavirus, they had to touch the body while everyone else, including family members, refused.He said, “We also fear getting infected with the virus, but we take this job as a noble cause in the wake of the pandemic. Sometimes, family members fear to get close. But we do our job of handling the bodies as if they are our family members.”Another marshal, Baljinder Singh said their only demand was to get them regularised.He said that they (marshals) were working as ancillary staff before the COVID-19 duty of handling bodies.“Least, the government can do for us is to regularise us at the earliest,” he added.Finally, mortuary marshals said they took pride in the duty they were performing and would continue without any hesitation.One of the marshals said, “In this unprecedented time, we will continue our duty. We don’t care if we get infected while serving for society.”Face discriminationCoronavirus seems to have given a rise to new type of “untouchability” in the society because all the front line workers – including mortuary marshals – have continuously been facing a social boycott.Marshals informed that sometimes people asked them to stay away because they could spread the virus.Recalling an incident, one of the marshals said, “My colleague did not allow me to have tea at a stall because I had, directly, come from my duty.”In the meanwhile, Dr Diwan Bhullar, nodal officer of shifting the bodies, said, “These are young brave marshals who are working hard. They have not raised any issue with me, however, I will look into the matter—if there is any.”
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Within hours of launch, song for Punjab Education Department’s campaign trends on Twitter||A song for the Punjab Education Department’s campaign “Ambassadors of Hope” became an instant hit on Thursday, hours after being uploaded on micro blogging site Twitter.The song, titled ‘Hope Punjabi Di’, captures the essence of hope of Punjab and the students’ spirit to fight the coronavirus.The brain behind the video, Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, said within three hours of uploading the video on Thursday evening, there were 5 million views.Four days ago, Singla had launched “Ambassadors of Hope” an online competition that would cover over 18 lakh students in the state.The first of its kind competition invites students from all the schools to share positive ideas in the time of COVID-19 pandemic.Three winners from every district will be shortlisted who will get an Apple ipad, laptop and Android tablets as first, second and third prize respectively.“Students from Class I to XII of all the schools of Punjab are free to participate in this competition and they can share their videos with us through Facebook, Tik Tok, Instagram, Twitter and Snapchat using the #AmbassadorsOfHope so that we can view and examine them,” he said.
30-04-2020||---||At 105, Punjab sees biggest single-day spike in Covid cases||Chandigarh, April 30The situation seems to be spinning out of control in Punjab as the state reported 105 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday.Eighty-two of these cases are those who had recently entered the state either from Hazur Sahib or Kota.  It is the highest number of cases reported in a single day since the first case reported on March 5.As per the state media bulletin, the total count has reached 480 now.The fresh cases include 34 from Ludhiana, 28 from Amritsar, 13 from SAS Nagar, seven from Tarn Taran, 6 from Kapurthala, three each from Muktsar, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, two each from Sangrur and Ropar and one each from SBS Nagar, Ferozepur, Patiala and Moga.All these persons are pilgrims who have returned from Nanded’s Sri Hazur Sahib. A total of 41 pilgrims who returned back from Nanded have tested positive in Ludhiana district. The first batch was sent home and then called back and was quarantined and their samples were collected and the pilgrims who came back yesterday were directly taken to quarantine centres and samples were collected.Apart from that Amritsar district also witnessed highest cases in a single day as 23 fresh cases were reported. With this the positive patient count in district has increased to 37 from the previous count of 14.The district officials stated that all the new positive cases had returned from Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded (Maharashtra) and were quarantined at different isolation centres here.The district has so far received around 600 persons who were stranded at different places outside Punjab due to the lockdown. The health authorities stated that samples of remaining persons at quarantine centres are also being collected.Meanwhile, for Tarn Taran, with seven new positive cases today, the Covid-19 count has doubled to 15. Except for a pregnant woman who had given birth to a child at Sursingh all the patients are returnees from Nanded.Sursingh village in the district has emerged as a major hotspot and reported a total of seven cases so far.With three fresh cases, including a 45-year-old man from Nanded Sahib testing positive in the district, the total number of cases in Jalandhar has reached 89. The three persons include a 45-year-old resident of Bakkarpur village in Phillaur who returned from Nanded Sahib, a 30-year-old male patient from Qazi Mohalla currently admitted at PGI-Chandigarh and 32-year-old man from Sant Nagar – a contact of the man who had previously tested positive from Sant Nagar.A total 190 people who returned from travels across various places, have been kept at an isolation unit at the Meritorious School in Jalandhar.Meanwhile, at Kapurthala today, four people tested positive – taking the district tally to 12. They include four men aged 27, 55, 50 years – all Phagwara residents, who returned from Nanded Sahib, and a 22-year-old person who returned from Delhi and reported at the flu corner for random sampling.In Ropar, after a gap of 25 days the district has again witnessed two fresh cases, both had returned from Nanded on April 26. Both the patients are admitted in isolation ward of local civil hospital.As per the health department, so far samples of 21,205 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 17,826 samples were found negative and reports of 3439 were still awaited.
30-04-2020||New Delhi||Britain announces 7 more charter flights from Amritsar for stranded citizens||Britain has announced seven more charter flights from Amritsar to bring over 2,000 of its stranded citizens home.Once these flights are completed, over 15,000 British travellers will have been brought back from India on 59 flights chartered by the government, said a British High Commission announcement.The new flights to London Heathrow will take off from Amritsar for seven consecutive days beginning May 5.Acting British High Commissioner to India Jan Thompson said, as with the last round of flights, seats on the planes will be allocated to those who have already registered via the British government’s online booking portal.Britain is in the process of completing the fourth round of 14 special flights from Amritsar, Ahmedabad and Delhi. Almost 2,000 of them stranded in Punjab have been boarding special flights from Amritsar beginning from April 28 to May 4. The lone flight from Delhi took off today.Instead of asking passengers to pay higher charges for chartered flights, UK has provided a £75 million support for such flights to priority countries like India to help the most vulnerable people.
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt issues advisory for petrol pump operators||The Punjab government, on Thursday, asked petrol pump managers to maintain hygiene and sanitisation at filling stations and deploy only essential staffers to avoid crowding.According to an advisory issued by the government, if any worker has fever, cold or difficulty in breathing, he should voluntarily report to his manager and seek immediate medical advice.“The workers shall be advised not to indulge in any handshakes or hugs to greet/see-off each other. Petrol pump owners are advised to install foot-operated hand-washing stations for staff/workers and visiting customers,” the instructions read.“The staffers have been advised to wear cloth mask. The staff should be advised to mandatorily hand wash/sanitise in the manner prescribed before touching the refreshments during tea-break/lunch-break etc,” an official spokesperson said. They have also been asked to avoid touching surfaces, equipment etc at the filling stations.“The worker should not smoke or chew tobacco-based products such as ‘gutka’, ‘pan masala’ etc. In case of cough/sneeze, the staff/worker should use handkerchief,” the spokesperson said. PTI
30-04-2020||---||Sunny Deol urges S Jaishankar to help people stranded abroad||New Delhi, April 30Actor turned politician and Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol has urged External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar to “evolve strategy” to bring back the people of his constituency who have been stranded abroad due to the COVID-19 pandemic.In a letter to S Jaishankar, Deol mentioned that “common strategy be evolved to bring them back”.These people include students and tourists and they have limited resources and are facing cash crunch due to unforeseen overstay. They are also facing unavailability of medical facilities, Deol pointed.Also read:Government concerned about evacuation of jobless Indians in Gulf: MEASeveral of these stranded citizens or their families cannot bear the cost of travel due to deteriorating financial conditions caused by expenses incurred during overstay. Such cases should be dealt on merit…to bear their cost of travel, he wrote.Deol also requested the minister to ask Indian missions abroad to come to the rescue of these citizens.
30-04-2020||New Delhi||1984 riots: SC notice to CBI on convict Balwan Khokhar’s bail plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to CBI on an interim bail plea of former Delhi Congress councillor Balwan Khokhar who is serving life term in a 1984 anti-Sikh riot case.Khokhar — who is lodged in Tihar Jail along with former Delhi Congress leader Sajjan Kumar following their conviction in December 2018 — urged the top court to grant him interim bail or parole for eight weeks in view of COVID-19.The Delhi High Court had upheld Khokhar’s life sentence and reversed Kumar’s acquittal ordered by the trial court in 2013.Almost 3,000 people were killed, most of them in Delhi, in the anti-Sikh riots that broke out following the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984.This particular case related to the killings of five Sikhs in the Raj Nagar Part-I area in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November 1-2, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.Earlier, he was granted four-week parole on January 15 for last rites of his father.Sajjan Kumar too is seeking bail but the top court had said that it would take up his plea during summer vacation.A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde issued the notice to CBI after Khokhar’s counsel cited the top court’s order to decongest prisons to contain spread of COVID-19.It asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the CBI, that the agency should file its response.During the hearing conducted via video conferencing, senior counsel HS Phoolka opposed Khokhar’s bail plea on behalf of riot victims.Phoolka took part in the hearing from his native village in Punjab.Khokhar submitted that he was a senior citizen suffering from diabetes, hypertension and severe joint pains and has been in jail for over six years.
30-04-2020||---||Capt Amarinder writes to PM for special trains to facilitate return of migrants to home states||Chandigarh, April 30In response to the Centre’s advisory on return of stranded migrants and others, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Thursday, directed all DCs to prepare state-wise data of migrant labourers to coordinate their movement, even as he urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrange for point-to-point special trains for the transportation of such persons.The Chief Minister also announced that one officer had been assigned to each state for coordinating the return of stranded migrants.During a video-conferencing with the state’s DCs and SSPs, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with regard to the transportation of the migrants. He pointed out that Ludhiana alone had over 7 lakh migrant labourers, with over a million in total in Punjab. Though data was still being collated, approximately 70 per cent of the labourers in Punjab hailed from Bihar, the Chief Minister said, adding that movement of such large numbers was possible only through trains, with proper screening to be done at the time of departure.The Chief Minister asked the DCs, in the meantime, to start preparing state-wise database of migrant labourers to ensure their smooth return.In response to concerns expressed over shortage of food packets in some districts in view of the extended Covid-19 lockdown, the Chief Minister directed the Food Department to increase the quota of rations to be distributed to migrants and non-smart card holders. “Nobody should remain hungry,” he stressed.In his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, citing the Union Home Ministry’s orders of April 29, said given the large number of workers stuck due to the lockdown, use of buses for their transportation would not work.“Estimates indicate that nearly one million workers will need transport to go back to their states,” he observed, adding that the only feasible option in the circumstances was to arrange “special trains, which the Railways may run from point to point, keeping in view the number of persons to be transported to a given destination.”Noting that since many other states might also be facing a similar situation, the Chief Minister also sought the Prime Minister’s intervention in the matter, urging him to advise the Ministry of Railways to make special arrangements to ensure that these migrant workers reached their destination safely.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had, on Wednesday, allowed inter-state movement of migrant workers, while directing that “buses shall be used for transport of a group of persons, of course after proper sanitisation and maintaining social-distancing norms in seating.”Captain Amarinder pointed out that a large number of migrant workers who had come to Punjab for jobs/employment from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, intended to return to their respective states due to the outbreak of COVID-19.“These workers are engaged both in agriculture and industries. However, most of them either lost their jobs or could not find employment/work due to the curfew imposed in the state to contain Covid-19,” he wrote.Though his government had tried its best to look over the stranded migrants, who were needed for the state’s industries and agriculture, by providing food, shelter and other basic amenities, most of them unfortunately appeared to still wished to return to their respective native places, said the Chief Minister.He hoped that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would understand the situation and advice the Ministry of Railways accordingly.Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh said as per the protocols, the DCs had to get migrants in their respective districts screened and give certificates, following which the state control room is required to provide the concerned state the details of the migrant with contact number. There was no ban on sending the migrants in private buses, he clarified in response to a concern raised by the Ludhiana DC in this regard.
30-04-2020||---||Punjab govt resumes Shahpur Kandi dam construction||Chandigarh, April 30The Captain Amarinder Singh led Punjab government, on Wednesday, resumed construction work on the Shahpur Kandi Dam Project after due assessment on the ground with respect to labour availability at the site and Covid-19 safety precautions.The work, which had been suspended due to the nationwide lockdown, resumed in the presence of A Venu Prasad, Principal Secretary, Water Resources Department, Punjab, who guided the resumption process on the directives of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.The national-level project, being constructed on river Ravi by Punjab government at an estimated cost of Rs 2,700 crore, will reduce the outflow of the river water to Pakistan while benefitting both Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir, once it is completed.According to an official spokesperson, the Chief Minister and Minister of Water Resources Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria had directed the district administration of Pathankot to examine the feasibility of restarting of the constructional activity on the project after the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, issued guidelines on April 15, allowing resumption of construction activities on irrigation projects beyond municipal limits, provided the site did not fall under a containment zone.The district administration immediately swung into action and constituted a three-member team of officers to examine the situation. The team had visited the site on Tuesday, and found it feasible to resume work since the labour involved in the construction stayed at site sheds in the confined area with the single entry point duly barricaded. The team further found that the agency — Soma- Bureya JV — was taking adequate measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19.Based on the inputs of the team, the district administration gave the go-ahead for resumption of construction after taking assurance from the agency, in the form of an undertaking, that they would adhere to the guidelines issues with respect to Covid-19.Giving details of the project, the spokesperson said of the total estimated balance cost as on 2014, Rs 1,408 crore would be spent on power component, with 100 per cent share of the Punjab government. A sum of Rs 685 crore would be spent on the irrigation component, with a share of Rs 485 crore to be contributed by the Central Government and Rs 179.28 crore by the state government, the spokesperson added.On completion, the project will generate 206 MW of power, besides having the potential to irrigate 5,000 hectares of land in Punjab and 32,000 hectares of land in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sambha and Kathua districts.The Shahpurkandi Dam Project will provide a balancing reservoir to ensure uniform water supply takes to canal system, taking off from Madhopur Headworks. It will also ensure optimum power benefits from Ranjit Sagar Dam by using it as a peaking station.Asserting that the border belt up to Shahpurkandi would be one of the most prominent tourist destinations, the Water Resources Minister said the project would also give impetus to tourism, besides supplementing the income of residents in the region, both in Punjab and J&K.
30-04-2020||Patiala/Chandigarh||SI Harjeet Singh discharged from Chandigarh's PGI; son appointed constable||SI Harjeet Singh, whose hand was dismembered by 'Nihangs' earlier this month, was discharged from PGIMER in Chandigarh on Thursday morning.The policeman's hand was successfully reimplanted by the hospital.Dr Sunil Gaba, plastic surgeon, who led the team dedicated to Singh's treatment said, "He is absolutely fine and has been discharged two hours back. We have been providing him physiotherapy. All stitches have been removed. His is able to move his severed hand passively with the help of the other hand. The active movement will start in 2 to 3 weeks."Happy to share that SI Harjeet Singh has been discharged from PGI, Chandigarh today. I thank Doctors, Nurses, Paramedics & all the staff of PGI for taking good care of him. Before getting discharged, he was handed over his son's appointment letter with Punjab Police. pic.twitter.com/E2DnnvYIh8  Singh's son, Arshpreet Singh, has been appointed as a constable in Punjab Police. DGP Dinkar Gupta personally handed over the appointment letter to the SI in the hospital. Gupta said that he was sure that the son would serve the people of Punjab as "bravely and sincerely as his father".Patiala police welcomed the SI with a police band and neighbours showered flowers on Singh as he reached his residence.Singh was promoted to SI in recognition of his exemplary courage during the Patiala attack.
30-04-2020||Mohali||13 more test coronavirus positive in Mohali; district tally reaches 86||Mohali district on Thursday reported 13 more coronavirus cases, taking the total in the district to 86.Those infected include 10 pilgrims who had recently returned from Nanded in Maharashtra, where they had gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib.A man found positive is an employee of the PGI and a resident of Mullanpur village in the district. He was in contact with the Nayagaon resident, also a PGI employee undergoing treatment at the isolation ward at PGI Chandigarh.Two more tested positive in COVID hotspot Jawarharpur village.The 30-year-old person from Nayagaon who was working as sanitation worker in the Covid ward of the PGI, had tested positive on April 19 while four members of his family had tested positive on April 20. Later, another Nayagaon resident and also a PGI employee had tested positive on April 23.Giving details, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that of the 41 samples of the pilgrims who had arrived from Nanded 16 had tested positive. He said besides these, another pilgrim, a resident of Ambala, had tested positive.He said the pilgrims who had arrived in the city had been kept at a quarantine centre in Sector 70. He said those tested positive have now been admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Dayalan said health teams had been deputed to take the samples of the remaining members of the family and other contacts in Mullanpur village. He said that as of now 30 people had been cured of the disease while the number of active patients in the district was 52. He said of the 43 patients from Jawaharpur only 25 are active coronavirus positive cases undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital.Woman dies in isolation ward of Patiala hospital; coronavirus test result awaitedPatiala: A woman, who was admitted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital, died on Thursday morning.Hospital authorities said her sample for coronavirus was taken on Wednesday. However, the test results are awaited.Meanwhile, one more pilgrim who returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, tested positive for coronavirus.He arrived on Monday evening and was quarantined in a local gurdwara in his native village Dhanetta in Samana block of the district.The Civil Surgeon said he was being shifted to the isolation ward of Rajindra Hospital.With this, 64 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the district.23 new corona positive cases in AmritsarAmritsar: The health authorities have confirmed 23 new Covid 19 cases in the district from among the passengers who had returned from Hazoor Sahib two days ago. With this the patient count in the district has increased to 47.Meanwhile, in Tarn Taran too, with seven new cases from among those returned from Nanded, the count reaches 15.After 2 positive cases, Bathinda admn on alertBathinda: After two positive cases were reported on Wednesday evening, the district administration and health department have come into action mode. A family member of the positive case was earlier sent back home after she reported negative, but now she has been called back again to the quarantine centre and their lane in Parasram Nagar has been sealed.The positive case, Balwinder Singh Pappi, had come in contact with 16 people in the district and the teams are tracing them.Meanwhile, government ambulance drivers refused to bring in Covid-19 suspect patients as they claimed that they were not given the PPE kits. Following this, NGOs ambulances were asked to bring suspected cases.3 Nanded pilgrims test positive in GurdaspurGurdaspur: Three of the 41 samples of Nanded pilgrims have test positive.Punjab School Education Board tells students to exercise during lockdownChandigarh: The Punjab School Education Board has advised school students to start exercising daily, during the lockdown. A schedule of exercises that students can do while in their homes has been shared by the Board.Nanded pilgrim found infected with coronavirus in MogaMoga: A pilgrim who returned from Nanded in Maharashtra was found infected with coronavirus in Moga district. Has been admitted to the district hospital.Nanded pilgrim tests coronavirus positive in MuktsarMuktsar: A 40-year-old man of Kaoni village in Gidderbaha subdivision here, a Nanded returnee, tested coronavirus positive in Muktsar district on Thursday. He was home-quarantined.A total of three persons tested coronavirus positive today. One is from Kaoni village in Gidderbaha subdivision and two are residents of Muktsar town.Now, the district's total case tally is four.A Tablighi Jamaat congregation attendee, who tested positive on April 8, is already admitted to local COVID hospital.2 test coronavirus positive in SangrurSangrur: Two more people have tested coronavirus positive in this district. Health authorities have started conducting tests of all their contacts. Till date, the district has seen five positive cases. The earlier three were cured.
30-04-2020||---||Hazoor Sahib, Kota returnees lead to spike in Covid cases||Chandigarh, April 29Health Minister to blame: SADIn the highest single-day surge, Punjab today recorded 35 fresh Covid-19 cases. Most of the new patients are pilgrims and students who have returned from Nanded and Kota recently.As per the state media bulletin, the total count has reached 377 now. The fresh cases include 11 from Ludhiana, eight from SAS Nagar, three from Faridkot, two each from SBS Nagar, Patiala, Kapurthala and Bathinda and one each from Jalandhar and Sangrur.With two cases being reported from Bathinda, now only Fazilka district is left in the ‘green zone’ among 22 districts in the state. Among all districts, maximum 11 cases were reported from Ludhiana today. Confirming this, the health authorities maintained that seven of the patients had returned from Sri Hazur Sahib on April 25 while four were students who had come back from Kota on April 27.Dr Rajesh Bagga, Civil Surgeon, said all patients were asymptomatic.Pilgrims from the state had gone to the Hazur Sahib gurdwara in Nanded to pay obeisance and were stranded there for about a month. It was only after getting nod from the Maharashtra Government that the first batch of 56 pilgrims reached Ludhiana. The 56 pilgrims from Nanded and 20 students from Kota have been quarantined for 14 days.Sources said the Health Department was more worried about some ‘missing’ pilgrims as it was believed that more than 20 pilgrims had returned to the district. Fearing quarantine, these ‘missing’ pilgrims had not informed the department about their return and were staying with their family members, they said. “We are trying to identify these pilgrims,” said a senior officer in the department. A 50-year-old woman, who died on Tuesday, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar district. With this, the number of deceased in Jalandhar has risen to four.
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Online help for those stuck abroad||Waive rent of shops, demand tradersBathinda: The Punjab Pardesh Beopar Mandal has demanded exemption from rent for shops operational from government property here, citing mounting losses and zero income amid the Covid lockdown. Beopar Mandal president Amit Kapoor said, “There are 402 shops on government property in the city. Traders have been worst hit because of the lockdown. We have been incurring losses. We request the government to at least waive the rent of shops.” TNS107 labourers return from RajasthanSangrur: In all, 107 labourers — 81 from Sangrur and 26 from Barnala — have reached home from Rajasthan. The Sangrur labourers were stranded in Jaisalmer. “The district administration has put under quarantine. They will be examined medically,” said Sangrur DC Ghanshyam Thori. TNSMedical staff services extendedFaridkot: To ensure uninterrupted quality healthcare facilities to people of the state, the Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) on Wednesday decided to provide an extension in service to ministerial staff (Group C and D), who are due to retire on March 31 and afterwards, till September 30. TNS
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Government: Homeopathy  boosts immunity||The state through the Department of Homeopathy has asked its district officers to administer immunity-booster medicine “arsenicum album-30” to willing persons.In a letter issued by Dr L Verma, Joint Director, Department of Homeopathy, homeopathy dispensaries have been asked to maintain a record of persons to whom the medicine was given for boosting immunity. — TNS
30-04-2020||---||SAD  demands Rs 50L cover for depot holders||Chandigarh, April 29SAD chief Sukhbir Singh today urged the state to provide an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh as well as appropriate safety arrangements for all depot holders so they could start distribution of central relief, including wheat and pulses, among 35 lakh blue card holders.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said he had received a representation from the Punjab State Depot Holders Union, which informed him that the state and Central governments had directed 26,000 depot holders to distribute ration among the needy.“On one hand, the government has advised all citizens to stay indoors, while on the other, all depot holders have been put into service for distributing ration among masses without providing any protection to them,” he alleged.
30-04-2020||Sangrur||Sunam residents collect 1,175 quintal of wheat for food bank||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, Sunam residents have created Shaheed Udham Singh Food Bank. On the first day, 175 quintal of wheat were collected. A committee under the supervision of the SDM will run the bank.  Sunam Congress leader Daman Thind Bajwa and area residents have taken the responsibility of collecting wheat from the constituency. “This is a first-of-its-kind food bank in Punjab formed amid Covid-19 crisis. I have donated 21 quintal of wheat and in total, 175 quintal were collected on day one. Many farmers of the area have announced to donate wheat. We would store the collected wheat at a flour mill in Sunam. Then a committee will run the bank and distribute flour,” said Bajwa, Sunam Halqa incharge of Congress.  Bajwa, along with her husband Harman Bajwa, has been requesting the area residents to donate wheat. Residents of Chathe Sekhwa, Balwad Kalan, Shahpur, Arhtiya associations of Sunam and Cheema, market committees of Cheema and Sunam have come forward to support the initiative. — TNS
30-04-2020||---||Protest erupts as Amritsar dropped from e-way project||Chandigarh, April 29WAS TO PROMOTE RELIGIOUS TOURISMThe project was conceptualised to promote religious tourism by connecting two major shrines—the Golden Temple in Amritsar and Mata Vaishno Devi at Katra in Jammu & KashmirIt would have curtailed the travel time by at least 7 hoursA controversy has erupted over the proposed 575-km-long Delhi-Katra expressway as Amritsar has been dropped from the final plan of the Rs60,000 crore project approved by the state government and the NHAI .In the final plan, the expressway will be 60 km from Amritsar city. In the initial plan, this distance was 25 km and expressway was part of Amritsar district.The land acquisition process for the project was started in February in parts of Malwa and Majha.Congress MPs Gurjit Singh Aujla (Amritsar) and Jasbir Singh Gill (Khadoor Sahib) and Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik (BJP) have said that leaving out Amritsar is a serious matter.Aujla and Malik have approached Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to review the revised plan.Aujla said the initial plan was to connect New Delhi and Katra via Kharkhoda, Jind, Moga and Amritsar before the expressway was to merge into western peripheral Kundli-Mansar-Pawal expressway.In the three alignment options discussed by the Centre, there was no mention of Amritsar district. Only Patiala, Sangrur, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur were mentioned, the Amritsar MP said.Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla said: “The NHAI has opted for the shortest and viable route as the Delhi-Katra expressway is a greenfield project.”“The final plan provides the shortest and express connectivity to cities of Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Patiala with New Delhi as well as with the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The alignment was finalised after a number of meetings among representatives of Union and state government, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, and the NHAI,” he said.Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has claimed that a section of the Delhi-Katra expressway would pass through Amritsar district. The expressway would be split into two — one passing through Kartarpur (Jalandhar) and the other through Gurdaspur —before merging again. She said Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari had assured her that Amritsar was part of the project.
30-04-2020||Amritsar||Justice sought for 3 Sikhs ‘humiliated’ in custody||The SGPC has sought DGP Dinkar Gupta’s intervention in the alleged humiliation of baptised Sikhs at a police station in Khanna in June last year.The nine-second video clip of the alleged incident purportedly shows three men standing nude in front of then SHO in the police station. They were called to the police station for questioning in some matter.The SGPC alleged the three men, identified as Jagpal, his son and their acquaintance, were stripped.Dr Roop Singh, SGPC chief secretary, said committee president Gobind Singh Longowal had written to the DGP, seeking justice for the three men.“No doubt, then Khanna police station SHO Baljinder Singh was shifted, but this is not enough. The SHO and his team violated human rights of the three baptised Sikhs. We want the DGP to give exemplary punishment to the culprits,” he said. — TNS
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||High Court ends row over insurance validity||A 30-year-old controversy over the validity of an insurance policy came to an end during the lockdown phase, with the Punjab and Haryana HC ruling that a certificate of good health was required only if the premium was paid after the expiry of six months from the date of last unpaid premium.The ruling by Justice Arun Monga came in a case where the premium was paid within six months from the date of last unpaid premium. But the insurance company claimed that the policy had already lapsed and could only be renewed on production of a certificate of good health.The policy-holder’s father had moved the HC claiming that the trial court had decreed their suit for recovery of Rs1 lakh. However, the order was reversed by the first appellate court, compelling them to move the HC in 1990.The counsel for the appellant-father of the policy-holder, Rishabh Bajaj, Gaurav Chopra and Anurag Chopra argued that a clause in the policy provided a 30-day grace period, but it could be revived within five years from the date of the last unpaid premium.Justice Monga asserted a specific concession of 14 days was provided to the policy-holders due to a strike by the insurance company. The payment was, in the matter, considered to have been made within six months. Once the payment was made and accepted within time, the insurance was revived.He said there was no need for providing certificate of good health following the concession and the policy stood revived on the payment of the premium amount. — TNS
30-04-2020||---||Paid Rs 33 a day, ASHA workers protest govt ‘apathy’||Patiala, April 29The foot soldiers of the fight against Covid-19 — the ASHA workers — are on a silent protest against their meagre salary. The workers of the state Health Department are getting this money from only the Central government — about Rs33 per day for hours of work (Rs1,000 per month).Thousands of ASHA workers across the state are wearing a black ribbon as a mark of protest against the state government for failing to give incentives to those risking lives. Notably, each ASHA worker visits around 30-50 households daily to create awareness about Covid and collects data for the department. Besides, regular advisories issued by the department are also being conveyed to each household in villages by the workers.Paramjeet Maan, president of the ASHA Workers’ Union, said they won’t stop work amid the pandemic and would continue to hold the protest by wearing black ribbons.“The ASHA workers work for at least 4-5 hours daily but are being paid only Rs33 per day. A majority of the workers are from poor families. The government should give an allowance of Rs 3,000 per month during the pandemic,” Maan said.Ranjit Kaur, an ASHA worker, said a majority of the workers were not getting even basic protective gear while conducting the surveys. Dr Parivinder Sidhu, Director, National Health Mission Punjab, said the government had already decided to give some incentives to ASHA workers.Meanwhile, in Abohar, ration was distributed among 66 ASHA workers today as they approached PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s nephew Sandeep Jakhar and told him that they had not been paid wages for the past three months. Each ration kit carried 10-kg wheat, 2-kg dal and 2-kg sugar.‘No safety kits’The ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union staged a protest at Bhodipura village in Bathinda on Wednesday and demanded safety kits and a hike in salary for field surveys conducted by the workers. The protesters raised slogans against the state government and said despite rendering services on the frontline, they had not been provided safety kits.
30-04-2020||---||After 2 +ve cases, no relaxation in Bathinda||Bathinda, April 29After two positive cases of Covid-19 reported in Bathinda on Wednesday, the district administration announced that there would be no relaxation in curfew in the district from tomorrow as has been announced by the government.The order, issued by district magistrate B Srinivasan, stated that a decision regarding any relaxation would be taken after reviewing ground situation in the district in coming days. He appealed to the public to remain indoors.Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner said there was no need to worry as both patients who tested positive for Covid-19 were pilgrims who had reached here from Nanded. Right after their arrival, they were quarantine at a centre in the city and were not allowed to meet anyone, he claimed.Bathinda had been in green zone ever since the first case was reported in the state on March 5.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said, “There is no relaxation of any sort for Bathinda city for tomorrow. No industry or shop will be allowed to operate under curfew.”Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal alleged, “It is negligence on the part of the state Health Minister that pilgrims were not screened on their arrival at their native places across the state.”
30-04-2020||Archit Watts||Quarantine centres in residential areas worry Muktsar locals||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 29As stranded labourers from Rajasthan and pilgrims from Nanded Sahib have started returning to the state, people living near the quarantine centres here have appealed to the state government not to keep them in quarantine centres located in residential areas.For instance, a large number of locals came out on roads in Gidderbaha on Tuesday night, when they heard that some labourers would be kept at the quarantine centre located in Government Girls Senior Secondary School in their locality.Later, the police controlled the situation and dispersed the protesters. Though the 176 returnees were first brought to the school, later the tehsildar assured that their quarantine centre would be changed.The return of pilgrims from Nanded has also sparked fear of spread of pandemic. “Earlier, Tablighi Jamaat attendees took the Covid-19 graph up and now these pilgrims are posing a threat. We appeal to the administration to keep them at quarantine centres on the outskirts of the town,” said a resident.Meanwhile, Health Department officials today sent the samples of 63 persons, including nine pilgrims, for Covid testing. Further, it received the reports of 65 persons. All tested negative.The district’s lone Covid patient, an 18-year-old boy from Meerut in UP, also tested negative today. Notably, he had come here on March 18 after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and had tested positive on April 8. Thereafter, he tested negative, but was found positive after a gap of two days. Now, the Health Department would send his sample for re-testing, if found negative, he would be discharged.65 test negativeHealth Department officials on Wednesday sent samples of 63 persons, including nine pilgrims, for Covid testing. Further, it received the reports of 65 persons. All of them tested negative. The district’s lone Covid patient, an 18-year-old boy from Meerut in UP, has also tested negative.
30-04-2020||---||Moga youth hurt in Telangana, gets fiscal aid||Moga, April 29The district administration on Wednesday contacted the Telangana Government, requesting its officials to provide monetary assistance, free medical aid and all other possible help to a local youth who suffered serious spinal injuries while working as a labourer in the southern state.Identified as Sukhjit Singh (20), a resident of Lopo village in the Nihalsinghwala sub-division of the district, he had gone there along with a combine harvesting machine.On March 26, while working in the Armur area of Nizamabad district in Telangana, he suffered an electric shock and fell down from the machine, seriously injuring his spine.
30-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Fearing spread, patient refuses to board rickety ambulance||The district administration has marked an inquiry after the video of an incident went viral wherein a doctor drove an ambulance to the residence of a suspected Covid patient and the latter raising hue and cry over the vehicle being “contaminated”.The suspected person was the primary contact of two positive patients reported from Khemkaran yesterday. The ambulance was sent by the Health Department to shift him to a quarantine centre. When the ambulance reached his home to pick him up, he refused to sit inside it and insisted that he would follow the health team in his own car.After he raised objections over the cleanliness of the vehicle, a department employee swept the ambulance with a broom. The doctor on duty had himself driven the ambulance after receiving instructions from the authorities to shift the primary contact of two positive cases to the quarantine centre. Locals said while the role of the doctor was appreciable, the failure of the government in dealing with such emergency situations was condemnable. They claimed that the ambulance was in bad shape and full of dirt which clearly indicated the government’s ill-preparedness in dealing with crisis.A health official said all ambulances in the district were rickety and had not been used for a long time. — TNS
30-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Reports awaited, Jalandhar hospital discharges 2 patients||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29Jubilant at having been discharged from the Civil Hospital, a youth went around his neighbourhood on a bike, is greeted by friends and showered with flowers by neighbours, only to be called back to the hospital with the news that he was still positive.In a major faux pas, the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, on Tuesday evening discharged two patients with the declaration that they had recovered, even though they were still positive.‘BOTH CALLED BACK’The first negative test report of the two persons was erroneously believed to be the second due to which the situation arose. After the mistake was spotted, they were called back.TP Singh, nodal officer, JalandharReports of 10 persons, confirmed to have recovered of Covid-19 in the district, proved to be false after the department discovered that two of them had been discharged while they were still positive. As of now, a total of eight persons have recovered in the district, not 10.The only person to test negative for a second time – and get discharged on Tuesday – is a 19-year-old member of the Tablighi Jamaat.The two who had been erroneously declared recovered are 25-year-old Lal Bazaar resident who is a contact of Jalandhar’s first deceased and the 40-year-old Raja Garden journalist after whom a slew of media house cases came to the fore in the district. Luckily, despite being discharged, the Raja Garden journalist did not go back home as he wanted to stay with his daughter at the hospital, who is also receiving treatment. Late on Tuesday night, the duo received intimation that they hadn’t recovered. While the 25-year-old came back to the hospital late night, the policemen who had gone to the 40-year-old’s home to bring him back in the wee hours were told he was still at the hospital.Videos of the 25-year-old riding a bike in his neighbourhood and being greeted by friends with flowers are also being circulated on the social media. While the department is assessing the damage by his trip back home, sources said he was estimated to have met 22 people during that period.Nodal Officer for Covid Dr TP Singh said, “The first negative test report of the two persons was erroneously believed to be the second due to which the situation arose. After the mistake was spotted, they were called back. They both are under treatment and will be discharged after their second report comes out negative.”
30-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Rare birds now a common sight||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29On one hand, life has come to a standstill in the wake of lockdown and, on the other, residents are appreciating nature’s beautiful creatures. One reason for joy is that several exotic birds are being sighted frequently.What is catching the interest of residents are spring birds — coppersmith barbet, purple sunbird, brown-headed barbet, lesser goldenback woodpecker and grey hornbill — which are spotted in Jalandhar, Kapurthala and surrounding areas.Experts cite ample space as the reason for frequent visits by the birds, among many other species. Before lockdown, humans had encroached on the habitat of many species, but now, the latter can be seen reclaiming the streets.Reportedly, peacocks, koyals and lapwings were also spotted.Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, rivers, wetlands and water policy, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) India, said the birds were getting enough food and space, the two essentials for their survival, which was why they were often being seen around. “Copper smith barbet, brown headed barbet, hornbill, are fruit-eating birds and rarely feed on insects,” she said.Gitanjli said, “Post-lockdown, there is enough space, no traffic and no noise pollution, thus peafowls are flocking to the residential areas.”About goldenback woodpecker, she said the bird fed on trees and was an insect-eating specie.Jaswant Singh, Block Officer, Wildlife, from Jalandhar and Kapurthala, who clicked pictures of the birds at varied locations said the birds had moved away from cities because of unfavourable climatic conditions.Khushwinder Singh Gill, Divisional Forest Officer, Wildlife, Phillaur, said the return of birds was a testimony to clean and conducive climatic conditions.
30-04-2020||---||Dry canals to hit cotton sowing in Muktsar||Muktsar, April 29Cotton sowing in the district is set to get delayed, as some water channels still await supply of water.The optimum time to sow the crop is till May 20, however, in practice it lasts till May end.On Wednesday, some farmers said Muktsar minor, which supplied water to more than 12 villages, ran dry. “Maximum farmers in the villages sow cotton crop and they are awaiting the supply of water into the canals. Resultantly, preparation of fields for the next crop is getting delayed,” said the farmers.An official in the Agriculture Department said they had discussed the issue with the higher-ups in Chandigarh.Gurpreet Singh, an agricultural officer, said, “Muktsar minor and Kakhanwali minor run dry. The water supply in Karamgarh, Alamwala, Bhullarwala and Lalbai minors is below normal. It is affecting the sowing of cotton.”Muktsar DC MK Aravind Kumar said: “Irrigation Department officials have assured me that there will be no shortage of water for the sowing of cotton.”
30-04-2020||---||Punjab allows industry to resume operations||Chandigarh, April 29No Curfew Relief HereSujanpur (Pathankot)New Jain Market (Rajpura)Saifdipur, Kachha PatialaBathinda districtLudhiana (shops selling essential goods allowed to open)The Home Department has issued detailed guidelines to the district authorities to allow industrial activities across the state. According to the department, all kinds of new constructions in rural areas are permitted without any restrictions.In urban areas, there is no restriction on ongoing projects, including personal, residential or commercial, subject to availability of workers at the site.A spokesperson said Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Satish Chandra had issued guidelines in this regard ensuring resumption of industrial activities, already permitted by the Centre. Accordingly, the district authorities have been directed to call the industry associations for a meeting and persuade them to restart the operations in permitted areas.The spokesperson pointed out that the unit owners have been asked to implement the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in line with the guidelines of Union Ministry of Home Affairs, as per clause 15, which have permitted the industries in special economic zones (SEZs) and export-oriented units (EOUs), industrial estates, industrial townships and in rural areas to operate.Also Read: ‘Will turn challenges in shawl industry into opportunities’As per the guidelines, workplaces and industrial and commercial establishments are only required to follow the SOPs and the protocol as notified by the health authorities.The spokesperson further said that the Union Home Secretary had, on April 3, stated that no fresh licence or statutory approval was required by the industry for resumption of permitted activities.Likewise, the Ministry of Home Affairs has separately clarified that for restarting the operations, industry would require no approval of the district authorities. If the industry is satisfied that they have made adequate arrangements for implementation of SOPs and they have made a self-declaration to that effect, then they can start the operations.However, passes for special transportation of workers from the district authorities would still be required, said the spokesperson, adding that the management would also require passes for themselves and the vehicles.No action against ownersAllaying the fears of the industrialists regarding legal action in case a worker is found Covid-19 positive, the state government clarified the Union Home Secretary had, on April 23, already said there was no such clause in the consolidated revised guidelines for an automatic legal action against the management.SOPs to be followedThe SOPs require that the management would provide for special transportation of workers, in-house facility for labour, medical insurance of workers, tie-up with hospitals, arrangements for disinfecting the premises, thermal screening of employees and hand washing.
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||23.5L tonnes grain sent to other states||On the directives of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Food and Civil Supplies Department has dispatched 938 rakes loaded with 23.5 lakh metric tonnes of wheat and rice to various parts of the country to feed the poor in these trying times.Punjab has been assisting all states in accomplishing this gigantic task while the nation battles coronavirus and struggles with the challenge of feeding its citizens. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said this has been done since March 26 onwards. The initiative of the state government would help in great deal to the states to district foodgrain among the needy, he added.He said the department had set up a helpline (0172-2684000) to lodge any grievance regarding overpricing by shopkeepers selling essential commodities. — TNS
30-04-2020||---||Sub Inspector post for deceased ACP Anil Kohli’s son||Chandigarh, April 29Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has approved the appointment of the younger son of ACP Anil Kohli, who lost his life to Covid-19, as a sub-inspector, after completion of his graduation.During his first videoconference with 687 frontline field officials, which included 117 DSPs, 382 SHOs, and ADGPs, IGs, SSPs, SPs on Wednesday, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed that the conditional offer of appointment of Kohli’s son, Paras, had already been signed by him and he would be appointed as a sub-inspector once he completed his graduation.The CM had been supportive of the welfare of the police personnel working on the frontlines, the DGP said, adding he had already announced a health insurance cover of Rs50 lakh for police personnel. The DGP said he had also proposed to the state that full salary be paid as pension till the date of superannuation of the deceased police officer as also to the families of police personnel who lose their lives to Covid.The DGP said there was no dearth of protective equipment for frontline police personnel. The police had sufficient PPEs and glass visors for those fighting the Covid battle, he said.
30-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Despite odds, procurement continues in hotspot Rajpura||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29Showing grit and determination, farmers, commission agents and government officials have manged to keep the procurement process going in Rajpura despite it emerging as a Covid hotspot recently.With 42 Covid positive cases emerging in the town, many had feared that the process would be hit. However, farmers from nearby villages and commission agents here decided that the process would not be halted. As a result, 7.8 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat has been procured so far.Mahinder Arora, a commission agent, said initially it seemed that the procurement would have to be shifted to nearby mandis. “However, the grain market is located on the outskirts of the town. So we encouraged farmers to come to the mandi with their produce and assured them complete safety. Punjab Mandi Board officials have supported us,” he said.On an average, 210 farmers are being issued e-tokens to bring their produce here. Strict social distancing norms are being followed. Every 30 minutes, announcements are made through a public address system, reminding everyone to wash their hands.“We have placed seven-ft-operated machines for washing hands. The wearing of masks is compulsory and body temperature is checked before anyone enters the mandi. To ensure that a farmer spends minimum time in the mandi, the process to weigh and buy the produce is done speedily,” said Bhajan Kaur Sandhu, District Mandi Officer, Patiala.Vishwajit Khanna, Additional Chief Secretary, Development, said since Rajpura became a Covid hotspot, everything was being monitored closely.Govt yet to announce paddy sowing datePatiala: With the lockdown leading to an exodus of migrant labourers, the state government is yet to announce a date for paddy sowing. Farm unions want paddy sowing to be allowed from June 1, while the Agriculture Department wants to push it till the third week of June. tns
30-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Punjab beekeepers stung by curbs||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29Unable to sell honey owing to the lockdown, beekeepers in Punjab are in a jam. Every year they would produce mustard honey in large quantities and almost all of it was exported to the US and other countries. They are now forced to keep the honey in cold stores, an additional financial burden. The beekeepers, who have not earned any income, have had to pay for storage as well as transportation.According to official estimates, Punjab produces approximately 1,800 tonnes of honey every year. There are more than 3,000 beekeepers in the state, who transport bees to Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan every November for mustard honey as mustard crop is in abundance in these states.In March, the bees are transported back to Punjab and some sent to HP and Uttarakhand for floral honey. However, this time beekeepers could not do so. They say they have incurred losses with the bees dying because of the rising temperature.Shailender Kaur, Director, Horticulture, said as mustard honey could not be exported, “we are trying to approach big companies.” Narpinder Singh of Bee-Keeping Association said they had written to the PM for help. “While 70-80% of mustard honey is unsold, a fall in floral honey production has left us in a mess,” uation,” he said.
30-04-2020||---||Punjab curfew till May 17, shops open 7 to 11 am from today||Chandigarh, April 29Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced that curfew would be extended in the state by two weeks after May 3. He also unveiled steps for the limited lifting of lockdown restrictions from tomorrow in the non-containment and non-red zones.Based on the report of the expert committee set up to formulate the state’s exit strategy, the CM said it was necessary to continue with the lockdown restrictions for some more time.The curfew in the state will remain in force till May 17 even as shops will be allowed to open in certain areas by rotation for four hours from 7 am to 11 am every day, with 50% staff strength. The containment and red zones will, however, continue to remain under total lockdown.In an address to the people of the state, the CM said the situation would be reviewed after two weeks.The lockdown/curfew will remain in place after 11 am, said the CM, appealing to people to be back in their homes by that time, and continue to maintain social distancing. All those stepping out during the relaxation period would have to wear masks and maintain a distance of two metres from others, he said, adding that the relief had been provided only for the convenience of people and should not be used for socialising, etc.The relaxation is applicable to registered shops, except those in multi-brand and single-brand malls. Establishments dealing in services like saloons and barber shops will remain closed. Further, e-Commerce companies will continue to be permitted to deal in essential goods only.Construction can resume in safe zones, villages In Haryana, 12-hr shift on double wagesChandigarh: Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar on Wednesday announced some relaxations for industry, including increase in working hours of labourers from 8 to 12 hours on payment of double wages, in non-containment zones from April 30. Khattar said industries in 15 districts and non-containment blocks (reporting less than 10 Covid-positive cases) of the remaining seven districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, Sonepat, Panipat and Panchkula had been allowed to operate with 50 per cent work force. The IT sector would operate with 33 per cent work force, he said.
