30-10-2020||Amritsar||Two suspected gangsters arrested from drug smuggling; cop wounded in shootout||A policeman was wounded in a shootout with some suspected gangsters at Majitha Road Bypass, police said on Friday.The injured policeman was identified as Navjot  Singh, a constable with Punjab’s Crime Investigation agency.The bullet hit him on his chest, sources said, adding that he will undergo an operation at a private hospital.Sources said two suspects they identified as Prince alias Jahaj and Randhir Singh, both from Haryana, have been arrested.  Police sources said that they received intelligence that the two suspects were peddling drugs in the area, and set up a check post near the Verka bypass.Sources said they saw a car approaching and signalled it to stop, but the driver broke through police barricades, prompting the police to give them a chase. Police sources said that suspects there was firing from both sides during this time.Police were able to corner the suspects near a village, sources said.The suspects had 20 criminal cases against them, sources said.
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||433 fresh COVID-19 cases in Punjab, 19 more die||Nineteen more fatalities linked to COVID-19 in Punjab pushed the death toll from the disease to 4,187 while 433 new cases raised the infection tally to 1,33,158 on Friday, according to a medical bulletin.Two deaths each were reported from Ferozepur, Barnala, Bathinda, Ludhiana, SBS Nagar and Patiala and one each from Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Pathankot and Rupnagar, the bulletin said.The state has 4,101 active COVID-19 cases, according to the bulletin.The places which reported fresh coronavirus cases included Jalandhar (65), Ludhiana (65) and Mohali (49), it said.A total of 577 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the COVID-19 recovery count to 1,24,870 in the state.Nineteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 95 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 25,82,787 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing in Punjab, it said. PTI
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||SAD chief urges PM Narendra Modi to direct Lands Port Authority to reopen Kartarpur Corridor||Ahead of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to direct the Lands Port Authority of India (LPAI) to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor.The corridor—which allows Indian pilgrims to undertake visa-free travel to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara—was closed on March 16 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.Badal, in the letter, said easy access should be given to the pilgrims while enforcing health protocols keeping in view of the 551st birth anniversary of the Sikhism founder on November 30.The four-km long corridor links Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur in India to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan - the final resting place of Sikh faith's founder Guru Nanak Dev.India has said that a decision to reopen the Kartarpur corridor will be taken in accordance with the protocols relating to COVID-19 and easing of restrictions. Badal, in his letter, said that there was an overwhelming sentiment in the Sikh community that the Kartarpur Corridor should be reopened at the earliest so that devotees could pay obeisance."The Pakistan government had opened the corridor for travel and permission for the same was only awaited from the Indian government," he said.The SAD president said prominent pilgrimage sites across the world, which were partially or fully closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, have been reopened. Badal said history was made last year when the Indian government decided to open the corridor and it was inaugurated by the prime minister on November 9 on the eve of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev."Thousands of devotees visited the final resting place of Guru Sahib in the months following this before the corridor was closed temporarily on March 16 this year. I will be grateful if you could intervene in this matter considering that restrictions on paying obeisance at places of worship have been relaxed across the country. This will also be in keeping with the wishes of the Sikh community," the letter added. PTI
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Over 23,000 farm fire incidents in Punjab so far this season: Official data||Punjab has witnessed more than 23,000 incidents of farm fire in the past over one month during the ongoing kharif marketing season, according to official data.With many paddy growers continuing to defy the ban on burning crop residue, the authorities concerned have imposed a fine of over Rs 85 lakh on erring farmers.An official of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) attributed the rise in stubble burning incidents this year to early arrival of paddy crop and expressed hope that the number of such cases would decrease.The spurt in stubble burning incidents came despite the state government appointing 8,000 nodal officers to check farm fires, besides giving more machines for the management of crop residue.Punjab has reported a total of 23,177 farm fire incidents for the period September 21 till October 29, according to Punjab Remote Sensing Centre data.The state had seen 19,869 stubble burning incidents in the corresponding period of the last year, according to the data.On Thursday, the state reported 1,541 farm fire incidents with Sangrur district seeing 265 stubble burning cases, the highest in the state, it said.Among other districts, Patiala saw 165 incidents of farm fire, followed by 156 in Ferozepur, 127 in Bathinda and 102 in Mansa.Rupnagar district saw only one farm fire incident, according to the data.The PPCB authorities have imposed an environmental compensation of Rs 85.76 lakh in 3,172 farm fire cases.So far, about Rs 2 lakh has been recovered from defaulting farmers, an official of the PPCB said.A total of 16 FIRs have been registered so far under section 188 (disobeying orders) of the Indian Penal Code against farmers for burning residue, theofficial said, adding 39 cases had also been filed in the court under the relevant provisions of the Air Act.The state government appointed 8,000 nodal officers in paddy growing villages to check stubble burning this season.These officers were supposed to create awareness in villages through demonstration of machines used in straw management and also work in close coordination with the revenue, rural development and panchayats and agriculture departments.Besides, the state authorities had also planned to give more 23,500 machines to farmers for paddy straw management.In the last two years, 51,000 paddy straw management machines have been distributed among farmers in the state.The Punjab government has been seeking from the Centre Rs 100 per quintal as compensation to enable farmers to manage paddy straw without burning it.But farmers have been seeking Rs 200 per quintal as bonus or Rs 6,000 per acre for the management of paddy straw."Farmers cannot bear expenditure on the management of crop residue and the government should give compensation for the same to them," said Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said.Every year, Punjab and Haryana are blamed for rising air pollution and smog, caused by crop residue burning by growers. Punjab alone generates 20 million tonne of paddy stubble annually. PTI
30-10-2020||Toronto||Punjabi truck driver, who killed 16 Canadian junior hockey players, faces deportation||A Punjabi truck driver, who killed 16 Canadian junior hockey players and injured 13 others by jumping red light in April 2018, faces deportation to India.Jaskirat Singh Sidhu, 31, crashed his semi-trailer into a bus carrying the hockey players at an intersection near the town of Armley in Saskatchewan province on April 6, 2018.Driving almost at the speed of 100 kmph, Sidhu didn't heed the red light signal, ramming his semi-trailer into the bus which was already in the intersection.Sidhu, who came to Canada from Punjab in 2013, was sentenced to eight years for each of the 16 deaths and five years for dangerous driving in March 2019.Since he is just a permanent resident not a citizen of Canada, Sidhu faces deportation to India.The deportation decision by immigration authorities is likely to come by April 2021.Sidhu's lawyer Michael Greene said on Thursday that since his client has no criminal background, he should not be deported.The lawyer said Sidhu is "clearly not the kind of guy that is going to commit another offence. So put all together, it's going to be an extremely difficult decision for an (immigration) officer to make." Sidhu's deportation was a major topic on radio shows on Thursday, with Canadians divided on whether he should be allowed to stay on in the country. IANS
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM extends 100% tax waiver for bus operators till December 31||In a major relief to bus operators in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered 100 per cent waiver on Motor Vehicle Tax till December 31 for all stage carriage, mini and school buses, while deferring payment of arrears of taxes, without interest and penalty, to March 31, 2021.The move will result in total financial benefit to the transport sector to the tune of Rs 100 crore, an official spokesperson said.The Chief Minister also directed Transport Minister Razia Sultan to discuss and resolve other issues of concern to mini private bus owners by next week.The decisions and directives were announced by the Chief Minister at a virtual conference with various private transport associations in the state. Besides Razia, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and Transport Secretary K Siva Prasad were present at the meeting.The transport department had initially suggested waiver up to 50 per cent of tax till December 31.Transporters were earlier provided 100 per cent relief for two months till September 30.The decision came in response to transporters’ concerns of revenue losses. Transporters say less than 10 per cent commuters used bus services, and that their revenue could not even cover fuel costs.
30-10-2020||London||Maharaja Ranjit Singh's wife Jindan Kaur's rare jewellery auctioned in UK for 62,500 pounds||Jewels that once belonged to Maharani Jindan Kaur, the last wife of Sikh Empire ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh, and which were later inherited by her granddaughter, Princess Bamba Sutherland, were among the highlights of an auction in London.A collective lot of a gem-set gold forehead pendant, or chand-tikka, a gem-set gold mirrored roundel and a pearl-mounted gold pendant went under the hammer for over 62,500 pounds and other rare artefacts dating back to the 19th century also attracted many bids at the Bonhams Islamic and Indian Art sale this week."As the only surviving widow of Ranjit Singh, Jindan Kaur (1817-1863) led a spirited resistance to the encroachment of the British into the Punjab, but was eventually forced to surrender. More than 600 pieces of her jewellery from the legendary treasury of Lahore were confiscated, and she was imprisoned before escaping to Nepal in 1848," notes Bonhams, in reference to the jewellery.The auction house believes the jewellery in the sale this week was almost certainly within the casket of jewels handed back to Maharani Jindan Kaur by the British authorities when she agreed to live in London with her son, Duleep Singh, with whom she was reunited in Calcutta in 1861.Although Prince Duleep Singh eventually returned to Lahore, his eldest daughter Princess Bamba remained in England, where she had been born and raised, and went on to attend Oxford University and medical school in the US. A frequent visitor to her ancestral home, the Princess eventually settled permanently in Lahore towards the end of her life, presenting the jewels to her companion and friend, Mrs Dora Crowe."These are wonderful jewels in their own right, made more special still by their rich and fascinating history – the circular stoned gold and mirrored brooch was, according to Princess Bamba, formerly part of Maharajah Duleep Singh's horse harness. They represent a remarkable link back to one of the richest treasuries in the world," said Oliver White, Bonhams Head of Islamic and Indian Art.Some of the other highlights from the auction included a rare and large 19th century panoramic watercolour view of the Golden Temple and the city of Amritsar, attributed to Cyril Herbert (1847-1882). The painting, believed to be the largest depiction of the Golden Temple in watercolour ever to have come onto the market, went under the hammer for 75,062 pounds.Some of the other Indian treasures included a large and impressive portrait by Colesworthy Grant of Rajah Shere Singh Attariwala – a formidable commander during the Second Anglo-Sikh War (1848-49), once owned by the Marquess of Dalhousie, Governor-General of India."The Sikh Khalsa Army was under his command at the Battle of Chillianwallah in January 1849, one of the hardest fought battles in the history of the British Army. After defeat at the Battle of Gujarat in February 1849, he was imprisoned at Allahabad and later transferred to Fort William, Calcutta until January 1854. He died in exile in Benares in 1858,” notes the associated history.A portrait of Sikh Guru Gobind Singh, captioned in Gurmukhi script with the words 'vah vah gobind singh ape gur-chela', or wondrous, wondrous is Gobind Singh, he himself is the Guru and the disciple; and four paintings from an album depicting tradespeople, entertainers and fakirs from 19th century Punjab were also among the lots to go under the hammer. PTI
30-10-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh seal it with a kiss; singer shares new pictures from engagement||Singers Neha Kakkar and husband Rohanpreet Singh are still very much in their wedding bubble. Neha shared new pictures from their ring ceremony, with one of them featuring a kiss.Sharing pictures on her Instagram account, Neha thanked Anita Dongre for their look, and wrote: “Thank youuu sooo much @anitadongre Mam!! #NehuPreet will always be thankful to You for dressing us up for our best days.”Thank youuu sooo much @anitadongre Mam!! 😍🙌🏼 #NehuPreet will always be thankful to You for dressing us up for our best days ♥️🙏🏼 My Outfit - @anitadongre Jewellery - @anitadongrepinkcity Styled by: @ruchikapoor Rohu’s Beautiful Outfit by @tisastudio ♥️ Rohu's Footwears: @italianshoesco ♥️ Styled by: @ruchikapoor ♥️ Makeup by @vibhagusain ♥️ Hair by @deepalid10 ♥️ Photography: @deepikasdeepclicks ♥️ #NehuDaVyah #AnitaDongreA post shared by  Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar) on Oct 29, 2020 at 10:58pm PDTAmong the several pictures was an image of Neha putting a ring on Rohanpreet’s finger while another one featured the two sharing a kiss.Earlier, in the day, Neha posted pictures of her function where she wore a blood-red dress. She thanked designer duo Falguni and Peacock for the overall look.You know My #NeHearts? Your Nehu is the Happiest Bride and it’s all because of My Mr. Singh! Thank you god! Thank you @rohanpreetsingh ♥️🙏🏼🙌🏼 Best Moments Captured by one and only @deepikasdeepclicks 😍👏🏼 #NehuDaVyah #NehuPreetA post shared by  Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar) on Oct 29, 2020 at 8:30am PDTOh my god!!!! 😍@falgunishanepeacockindia Best Designers Ever! Never thought I can look this good but they made it possible!! Huge respect and love for You ♥️🙌🏼 @rohanpreetsingh and I are your biggest Fans 🥰 Special thanks to @vibhagusain ♥️ and @deepalid10 ♥️ #NehuPreet #NehuDaVyahA post shared by  Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar) on Oct 29, 2020 at 8:24am PDTPeople die to wear #Sabyasachi atleast once in life and We were gifted these dream outfits by @sabyasachiofficial himself ♥️🙌🏼 Dreams do come true but they work better if You work Hard 💪🏼 Thank you Mata Rani, Shukar hai WaheguruJi 🙏🏼 #NehaKakkar @rohanpreetsingh ♥️🤴🏻 #NehuPreet #NehuDaVyah #SabyasachiBrideA post shared by  Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar) on Oct 28, 2020 at 3:15am PDT
30-10-2020||New Delhi||Interest-on-interest waiver: Crop, tractor loans not part of ex-gratia relief scheme||Agriculture and allied activity loans are not eligible for the interest on interest waiver announced by the government last week, the finance ministry has clarified. Issuing additional frequently asked questions (FAQs) on the 'scheme for grant of ex-gratia payment of the difference between compound interest and simple interest', it said credit card dues outstanding as on February 29 would be considered for giving relief to the borrowers.  The benchmark rate applicable for such relief would be the contract rate, which is used by the credit card issuers for the purpose of EMI loans, it added. Crop and tractor loans come under agriculture and allied activities loans and are not part of the eight segments or classes eligible under the scheme, it added.The relief shall cover the following segments -- MSME loans, education loans, housing loans, consumer durable loans, credit card dues, automobile loans, personal loans to professionals and consumption loans, according to the FAQs released by the ministry earlier on Wednesday.  The Reserve Bank had on Tuesday asked all lending institutions, including non-banking financial companies, to ensure that the scheme of waiver of interest on interest for loans up to Rs 2 crore for the six-month moratorium period is implemented by November 5, as decided by the government.Last Friday, the government had announced the scheme for grant of ex-gratia payment of the difference between compound interest and simple interest for six months to borrowers in specified loan accounts.Loan accounts with sanctioned limits and outstanding not exceeding Rs 2 crore (aggregate of all facilities with all the lending institutions) will be eligible and such accounts should be standard in the books of the lending institutions as on cut off date of February 29, 2020.The period reckoned for refund shall be from March 1 to August 21, 2020, that is six months period or 184 days, it said.The ex-gratia relief will be credited to the account of all eligible borrowers without any requirement to apply, it said.As per the scheme, the lending institutions shall credit the difference between compound interest and simple interest with regard to the eligible borrowers in respective accounts for the said period irrespective of whether the borrower fully or partially availed the moratorium on repayment of loan announced by the RBI on March 27, 2020.The scheme is also applicable to those who have not availed the moratorium scheme and continued with the repayment of loans.The scheme, which was announced as per the direction of the Supreme Court, is likely to cost the exchequer Rs 6,500 crore. PTI
30-10-2020||Chandigarh/Patiala||Blockade stays, Punjab on brink||With the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) refusing to budge, rail services in Punjab continue to be suspended. All other 30 farm unions in the state have ended their stir against the Centre’s new farm laws.Joginder Singh Ugrahan, the union president, said: “We are not squatting on the main railway lines. We are only holding protests outside private thermal plants and on service tracks bringing coal to these plants as part of our ‘gherao corporates’ drive.” A three-member committee of Punjab ministers met a BKU (Ugrahan) delegation here on Thursday. However, there was no breakthrough.With the Railways refusing to resume services till the tracks are cleared, supplies have been hit. Punjab’s two of the three private thermal plants — Nabha Thermal Plant at Rajpura and Talwandi Sabo Power Limited in Mansa — have been shut. The coal stock with the Goindwal Sahib plant is depleting too. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has therefore opted for short-term power procurement at Rs 5 crore per day. The payment, as per the agreement, is to be cleared within 24 hours, said sources. — TNS
30-10-2020||---||Talks with farmers fail, no rail services for now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29It may take some more time for the train services to resume in Punjab with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) refusing to lift the blockade of the railway tracks leading to two ofthe three private thermal plants at Banawali (Mansa) and Rajpura.Even as the state government asked the union to rethink on the course of their agitation, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders today rejected the offer, saying they were not blocking the entire rail service but only sections servicing the power plants as part of their “gherao corporates” agitation.A meeting was convened by the three-member committee of state ministers with the representatives of the largest farmer union in the state here this afternoon to resolve the crisis.With the Ministry of Railways having clearly told the Congress government the services would not be re-started till the blockade was lifted, the Punjab Government through its delegation, which included Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, asked the agitating farmers to end the ‘rail roko’ stir, as all other 30 farmer unions had already halted the agitation.The delegation is learnt to have explained to the farm leaders how the state was staring at huge revenue losses and the devastating impact of the blockade on its economy. With the rail services shut, the industry is suffering huge losses as goods cannot be sent to clients outside the state, nor can they get the raw material for manufacturing goods as most shipments are sent through trains.The union leaders were told by the ministers that the state government had accepted all their demands by rejecting the Centre’s farm laws and also by passing amendments to these Acts during the recent special Vidhan Sabha session. The ministers said thermal plants in the state — both private and state-owned — had minimal coal stocks left and that the state was staring at a blackout in case it didn’t get the much-needed coal immediately for running the plants. Union president Joginder Singh Ugrahan, however, refused to lift the blockade. Talking to The Tribune, he said the state government should realise the Centre was trying to impose an economic blockade of Punjab.“We are not sitting on the main railway lines. Our agitation is only outside private thermal plants. We will not lift the blockade here. The state should think of taking over these power plants,” he said. He added the appeal made by the ministers would be discussed at a state-level meeting of the union on Friday, but they would continue with the blockade.Let’s all meet President: Capt to MLAs
30-10-2020||---||NRIs may miss flights as DC office gherao unabated||Sangrur, October 29Many non-resident Indians (NRIs) of Sangrur district may miss the flight with their passports at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in the district administrative complex (DAC), entry to which has been blocked by protesting farmers since October 23.The DAC has a majority of offices of all district-level officers, including the Deputy Commissioner; Secretary, Regional Transport Authority; District Food and Civil Supply Controller; District Social Welfare Officer; District Education Officer; and Civil Surgeon.Hundreds of staff of various departments have not been able to enter the offices since October 23 as farmers have laid siege to all three gates of DAC. The farmers are demanding financial compensation and a job to the family of a peasant, who died on October 9 during a protest against the farm Acts near Benra.“My flight is on Monday, but I have not received my passport yet. I may miss the flight as the DC office continues to be locked,” said an NRI. Though some senior officers have been working from makeshift offices at Red Cross office, Civil Hospital and PWD rest house, they are not able to complete their work with no access to files.“Passports of many NRIs, who came during the Covid pandemic, were taken at the airport and sent to the DC office. They did not collect that from our office earlier,” says Balwinder Attri, president, Sangrur DC Employees’ Union. BKU (Ugrahan) district president Amrik Singh said the protest would continue till the demands were met. Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said talks were on to resolve the issue.
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Fund denial unfortunate, will hit welfare projects, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Terming the decision to put state’s Rural Development Fund (RDF) on hold as unfortunate, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Centre to review its decision stating that the move would impact the rural development works in the state.Capt Amarinder Singh, CMMove raises doubts Doubts are being raised in various quarters about the timing of the Union Centre’s decision... the timing points to dubious motivation behind the move. Questioning the timing of the Centre’s move, the CM said never in the past had the RDF been halted over the scrutiny of utilisation of funds. Capt said he had asked Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal to go to Delhi and meet the Union Minister for Consumer Affairs to resolve the issue.He said the state government would submit all utilisation details as sought by the Centre as it had done in the past, adding that this was not the first time the Government of India was scrutinising the utilisation of funds, however, it was the first time it refused to release the RDF.Captain said amid the controversy and crisis over farm laws, doubts were being raised in various quarters about the timing of the Union Cabinet’s decision of not releasing the RDF to the tune of more than Rs 1,000 crore to the state. The timing points to dubious motivation behind the move, he said.The funds, as the Centre was well aware, were used for developing critical agriculture marketing infrastructure, such as, construction of roads in the rural areas of the state, marketing yards, said the CM. — TNS
30-10-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Farm laws will derail state’s agro economy, says Sunil Jakhar||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 29PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar addressed a farmers’ rally here today in which he accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of trying to derail the entire agro-economy of the country by bringing in a “set of Bills best suited to some selective industrialists”.Ready for debate with centre’s expertsBJP leaders and bureaucrats who have drafted the laws know nothing about the agriculture sector. I challenge the so-called experts of the Centre to have a one-to-one debate with me. -  Sunil Jakhar, PPCC PresidentHe urged farmers to be ready for a “fight to the finish as their survival depended on it”. “We have to win both the battle and the war. The Vidhan Sabha has stood by the agriculturists by negating the laws. Unfortunately, BJP leaders and bureaucrats who have drafted the laws know nothing about the agriculture sector. I doubt if they can even properly name the implements commonly used in farming. I challenge the so-called experts of the Union Government to have a one-to-one debate with me. The laws envisage that farmers can enter into a contract with private players and sell their produce at a pre-agreed price. But the Union Government is not telling the farmers that they will be the weaker players in such an arrangement in terms of their ability to negotiate what they need,” he said.Jakhar said being private companies, these players would have an edge in negotiating disputes. “The players will also have the freedom to stock foodgrain. This, in turn, means they will dictate terms to farmers which may lead to lesser prices for the cultivators,” the PPCC chief said.Referring to the ordinance passed by the Centre in which it proposed a fine of Rs 1 crore apart from imposing a five-year jail term on farmers engaged in paddy stubble burning, Jakhar said the Centre had showed its myopic attitude in solving agriculture-related problems.
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Follow Chhattisgarh on farm mandi: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the passage of a Bill making the entire state a single ‘mandi’ by Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh had exposed the fraud played on farmers by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who had played a fixed match with the Centre and refused to protect the farming community from the ill-effects of the agri-marketing laws.Sukhbir Badal, SAD PresidentCM playing into centre’s hands The CM rejected the market yard proposal saying it’s not feasible, but his Chhattisgarh counterpart does not feel so. This makes it clear the CM is playing into Delhi’s hands.Addressing a virtual conference here today, the SAD president said even as Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan governments passed similar laws to protect their farmers, Capt Amarinder left the farmers of the state at the mercy of the Centre.“The Congress government has deliberately amended the Central Acts under the trade subject, which is on the concurrent list, instead of bringing in legislation under the agricultural head, which is on the state list, as done by the Chhattisgarh government. This amounts to selling off the interests of the state to the Central BJP government,” said Sukhbir.The SAD President said he had all along suggested that Punjab should bring in legislation to ensure its farmers did not face exploitation at the hands of private players.“It was mooted that a Bill be passed to make the entire state a single mandi (principal marketing yard) to negate the implementation of the three agriculture laws in Punjab. — TNS
30-10-2020||Abohar||Hit by labourers’ strike, farmers demand relief||It was only after SDM Jaspal Singh Brar and State SC ST Commission member Karanveer Singh Indora intervened that the stand off between the Labour Union and farmers on the highway was resolved today. Members of the Tola Mazdoor Union were protesting for the third day against the Cotton Corporation of India after the latter denied increasing their wages. Union president Amar Nath alleged that cotton-laden trailers were being unloaded directly in factories due to which the labourers were denied wages.On the other hand, a contractor claimed that he couldn’t afford to pay them more.Hundreds of farmers, who were affected by the labour strike, blocked the national highway outside the grain market. Subsequently, the police tried to pacify the farmers. However, the farmers said they were suffering losses, as they were not able to sell their produce due to the strike. — OC
30-10-2020||---||It’s attack on federalism: Harpal Cheema||Chandigarh, October 29The state unit of the Aam Aadmi Party has termed the Narendra Modi government’s move to withhold the Rural Development Fund (RDF) to the state as another “brazen” attempt interfere in the state’s internal affairs.AAP urges govt to lift basmatiAddressing a press conference here on Thursday, AAP legislator and the Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema made a letter public which was sent by the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution to the state government on October 20, wherein the former had ordered for blocking of the RDF.Cheema said, “The challenging situation amid which the Central Government has withheld a whopping Rs 1,000 crore RDF reflects Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s revengeful attitude towards Punjab, besides his meddling in the state’s internal affairs. The move is an assault on the federal structure of the country, an attempt to implement the black laws on agriculture, which the Aam Aadmi Party vehemently opposes.”The Leader of Opposition said the alleged misappropriation of the RDF by the ruling state government and the previous Badal regimes had emboldened the Central Government to withhold the RDF.Cheema demanded Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh immediately issued a white paper not only on the RDF used during his tenure, but also during the tenure when the Badals were in power.
30-10-2020||---||SAD working panel member Inder Singh Namsot joins AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) received a jolt today when its working committee member Inder Singh Namsot from Fatehgarh Sahib joined AAP.Namsot was formally inducted into the party here in Chandigarh by Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, MLA and in charge of state affairs Jarnail Singh, and State General Secretary Harchand Singh Barsat.An active leader of SAD for more than two decades, he is also a member of SAD’s Central Working Committee and Senior Vice President of the Youth Akali Dal. He was also the district president of the Bazigar Front and president of the Nambardar Union of Fatehgarh Sahib.
30-10-2020||---||Freight trains not running, clarifies railways||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, October 29The Railways today categorically refuted reports that the freight movement had been resumed in the state and 97 goods trains had arrived or departed on Wednesday, the power production further dipped with non-availability of coal at thermal plants.Northern Railway Ferozepur Division Additional Divisional Railway Manager Sukhwinder Singh said the goods train traffic in the state remained suspended and no fresh decision in this regard had been taken.He said the discussion on resumption of goods train movement, which remains suspended due to farmers’ agitation – were continuing at various levels but no final decision had been taken. “Railways, in any case, are prepared and the movement of goods trains would be resumed immediately as and when decided by the headquarters,” he asserted.
30-10-2020||Aman Sood||Punjab spending Rs 5 cr a day to buy power||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 29With two of the three private thermal plants, including Nabha Thermal Plant at Rajpura and Mansa-based Talwandi Sabo Power Limited, shut and GVK’s 540-MW power plant at Goindwal Sahib left with little coal stock, Punjab stares at a grim power scenario.One pvt thermal plant functionalJust one private thermal power plant is functional with less than two days of coal. Also, two state-run plants with limited capacity have four days of stock left. The state can see a blackout anytime. - PSPCL OfficialThe shortfall of power generation is costing the state dear as fixed charges that have to be paid to private plants stand at over Rs 5 crore daily.Sources confirm that the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has been left with no option but to buy short term power costing Rs 5 crore per day from various suppliers to meet demand in the wake of suspension of goods train. “This power comes with a condition that the cost has to be cleared within 24 hours, which means that the PSPCL is facing a huge financial burden”, they said, adding that this additional cost will ultimately be passed to the consumers.Already reeling from debts of around Rs 25,000 crore, the PSPCL management has to further pay fixed charges to the tune of over Rs 2,000 crore per annum despite the shutdown of private thermal power plants.The state-owned Rupnagar and Lehra thermal plants are left with five-day stock but are currently shut. “We are trying to manage with power we are buying from the open market”, said A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL.According to official data, the state generates 13,653 MW from own sources. The private thermal plants have a generation capacity of 3,920 MW and two state-owned thermal plants 1,760 MW. Hydro power generation stands at 1,018 MW, while solar 1,359 MW. Bhakhra Beas Management Board supplies 1,161 MW. The state is drawing 4,434 MW from the central pool to meet the shortfall.The total demand in the agrarian state varies from 14,000 MW during peak paddy season to 6,000 MW the rest of the year.“The purchase of 700 MW on daily basis is expensive and will also impact power banking for summer months due to the generation loss”, says Vinod Gupta, spokesperson, All-India Power Engineers Federation.
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||New pollution law to harm farmers, alleges Sikander Maluka||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has criticised a new law brought through an ordinance by the Centre Government that has a provision for Rs 1 crore fine and imprisonment of up to five years for causing pollution.SAD Kisan wing head Sikander Singh Maluka said though the Centre government had brought the ordinance to tackle the problem of air pollution in the Delhi-NCR region, but it would have ramifications all over the country. “It seems the BJP-led NDA government aims to use this law to harass farmers who are protesting against the Central farm Acts already,” Maluka said.He said the pollution in the Delhi-NCR region was mainly vehicular and industrial and the Delhi and Central governments had been wrongly blaming Punjab farmers for causing the smog by burning the paddy residue. “This allegation is wrong. Several studies in Punjab have already proved it,” said Maluka. — TNS
30-10-2020||---||18 months on, Bathinda tech university to get VC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29After a delay of over one-and-a-half years, the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), Bathinda, will get a new Vice Chancellor (VC).The search and selection committee, headed by Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, in its meeting held yesterday, shortlisted a panel of three candidates from seven aspirants, who had appeared before the committee. The Board of Governors of the university will meet soon to approve the names. A total of 24 candidates had applied for the post of VC.The meeting of the search and selection committee had been postponed thrice in the past, after one of the applicants, Narinder Paul Singh, former dean, Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, dragged the state government to court over the composition of the selection committee.Yesterday, a Bench of Ravi Shanker Jha, Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Justice Arun Palli, dismissed a letter patents appeal that the former dean had filed against the single-Bench order. Earlier, the single-Bench order had dismissed his plea challenging the selection process for the post of the VC. The Punjab Government will now go ahead with the ongoing selection process. The Board of Governors has recently ordered a third-party audit of the project for the construction of an administrative block, a lecture theatre and departments at an inflated cost.
30-10-2020||---||Govt approves 150 MBBS seats for Gian Sagar college||Faridkot, October 29The Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) today granted permission to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur, to admit 150 students in the MBBS course for the academic year 2020-2021. The medical college was closed three years ago due to various controversies over financial mismanagement.The DMER has allowed the college to make admissions after the Medical Council of India (MCI) and Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) had given their nod, and the college had deposited a bank guarantee of Rs 1.4 crore in favour of the Medical Education Department.Earlier, the state government had issued essentiality and an NOC to the college on August 29, 2019, and BFUHS had also allowed provisional affiliation to the college on April 28.With these 150 MBBS seats, there will be total 1,375 seats in the course in all nine medical colleges in the state. This includes 600 seats in three government medical colleges at Faridkot, Patiala and Amritsar, 100 seats in DMC, Ludhiana, 75 in CMC, Ludhiana, 150 in SGRD Medical College, Amritsar, 150 in Adesh Medical College, Bathinda, and 150 in PIMS, Jalandhar, other than 150 in Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, for this academic session. The admission process has already been started by the BFUHS.The MCI and the Dental Council of India had withdrawn the recognition of the medical college of the Gian Sagar Educational and Charitable Trust in 2017 after the management failed in coming up with any concrete revival plan for the institute, which was facing a financial crisis. The government at that time had also shifted around 1,500 medical and dental students of the college to other medical institutions operating across the state to complete the remaining years of their courses.
30-10-2020||Chandigarh/Barnala||SC panel seeks report in Barnala rape case||Taking suo motu notice of the alleged rape of a four-year-old girl at Dangarh village in Barnala district, the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission has sought a detailed report from the SSP.Fast-track hearingThe CM has directed all senior officials to accelerate the process of grant of compensation to the victim. The case will be handed over to a fast-track court for prompt justice to the victim. - Kewal Singh Dhillon, Barnala Ex-MLATejinder Kaur, chairperson of the commission, said she learnt about the “shocking incident” through media reports and that the commission had asked the SSP to submit a detailed report by November 2, besides taking stern action against the accused.Meanwhile, the district administration has started the process of providing financial aid to the victim following the intervention of CM Capt Amarinder Singh. A 16-year-old youth was arrested within hours of the alleged crime on Wednesday.State Congress vice-president Kewal Singh Dhillon, also a former Barnala MLA, along with DC Tej Pratap Singh Phoolka and other senior officers, today visited the victim at a local hospital. Meanwhile, the chairman of the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Rajendra Singh, met the family of the victim at the hospital today. He promised speedy justice to the victim. — TNS
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Slight increase in active cases; 10 more succumb in Punjab||The state recorded 468 fresh cases and 10 deaths in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of cases has risen to 1,32,727 and the toll has climbed to 4,168.In the district-wise breakup of cases, Jalandhar topped the list with 67 cases, followed by Bathinda (66), Ludhiana (50), Amritsar (47) and SAS Nagar (40). Witnessing a slight increase, the number of active cases stands at 4,266. At present, 102 patients are on oxygen support and 21 on ventilator support.Meanwhile, after a teacher tested Covid-positive, Government Senior Secondary School at Hajara Singh Wala village in Ferozepur, has been closed for a week. — TNS
30-10-2020||Balwant Garg||SP-rank officer got smuggled gun as ‘gift’ to favour accused||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 29The Punjab Police’s Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) has levelled serious allegations against an SP-rank police officer, accusing him of taking a foreign-made smuggled weapon as a gift from an accused. In lieu of the gift, the SP presented the prime accused as a witness in the case, says the OCCU in its chargesheet presented in a local court on October 27 in the five-year-old weapons smuggling case.Modus operandi of gangstersThe police officer, Bikramjit Singh, is also a prime accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing incident of October 2015.In the chargesheet, the OCCU alleged a large number of weapons were trafficked in an organised manner into India and then to Punjab through Bihar and UP by gangster Ranjit Singh Dupla and his associates though smugglers from Bihar and UP.A challan has been presented against Satish Kumar of Chandigarh; Pankaj Bansal of Moga; Ranjit Singh, alias Dupla, Parampal Singh, Anantdeep Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Guru, and Gurcharan Singh, all of Faridkot; Kulbir Singh of Bathinda, Amar Lal Setia of Abohar and Rajesh Kumar of Bareilly in UP.The accused were using the weapons in their nefarious activities of extortion, contract killing, assault and intimidation of general public, it is alleged.The sophisticated foreign-made weapons had higher potency than those made in India and were used by gangsters to create terror among the public. Gangster Dupla allegedly trafficked these illegal weapons into Punjab and hatched a conspiracy to get these registered against the arms licenses of his co-accused who posed as “buyers”.The weapons were kept in the custody of these “buyers” for safe-keeping and whenever the gangsters needed to carry out their nefarious activities, they used these before depositing them back with the “buyers”.The chargesheet alleged Chandigarh-based gun dealer Satish Kumar purchased around 50 foreign-made weapons when he was in contact with Dupla, a proclaimed offender in the case.Some weapons were sold between Rs 9 lakh and Rs 10 lakh. During the course of investigation, 21 of these weapons were recovered from Kumar, claimed the OCCU. Bansal, a Moga car dealer, allegedly acted as a conduit in the illegal trade and gifted one of the weapons to the SP-rank police officer in Faridkot to buy his favour in the case. In lieu of the gift, Bansal was made a witness, instead of being nominated as an accused in the case, says the chargesheet.
30-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Mistakes of tender age must be handled with tenderness: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29In a judgment that is liable to change the outlook of the courts towards runaway couples, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that “mistakes of tender age ought to be handled with certain tenderness”.Justice Arun Monga asserted the court was left pondering “whether it was worthwhile to criminalise such activities of children? Would not making them criminals leave a lifelong scar on their minds, from which they may not be able to ever recover?”Justice Monga further asserted the law envisaged that a consensual relationship with a minor regardless of her consent was a criminal offence. But he was of the view that it was not in the interest of a child generally to criminalise his/her activity as a straitjacket formula. Each case was required to be analysed on its own facts and circumstances.Taking up a protection plea, Justice Monga observed petitions were almost daily being filed from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The newly-weds initially sought protection from the state and rushed to the courts on failure to get relief.Also, one often heard of honour killing in the name of protecting family pride, not giving two hoots to the rights of the runaway couples. The problem appeared to be pan India — north to south. “It is a fight of ‘love versus honour’! One wonders, what kind of mindless pride/honour is this, which so much blinds the family members/parents as to even kill their own, the ones they gave birth to and/or to eliminate her/his chosen partner?”Justice Monga added he had to deal with many cases where one of the partners was not of marriageable age. Yet, orders were passed for granting protection as right to life envisaged under Article 21 stood on a higher pedestal vis-à-vis alleged violation of statutory requirements of matrimonial law.“It is certain that even if there is violation of statutory requirements of matrimonial law, as alleged, the person/party violating the same, cannot be hounded to be killed in the name of protecting honour of the family. Human life, therefore, has to be protected. It is the very basic ethos and the scheme of our Constitution particularly Article 21.”Justice Monga made it clear that the court could not delve further on the issues as the petition was withdrawn. “The questions posed are left open to be decided in the appropriate proceedings,” the Bench asserted.
30-10-2020||Bathinda||Staff union protests pending DA arrears||Members of the Punjab and UT Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha staged a protest against the state government, demanding to release the outstanding DA instalments, and to abolish Rs 2,400 development tax.Members took out a protest march in different parts of the city and raised slogans against the state and the Centre. Ravinder Luthra, state convener of the union, said, “Unemployment is increasing at an alarming rate and government employees are given forced retirements. There are attempts to give reins of public sectors in the hands of corporate houses.”Luthra said the DA instalments had been lying pending for the past 158 months, and the government had imposed development tax, causing additional financial burden of Rs 2,400 on employees annually.The protestors demanded regularisation of the contractual and outsourced workers, who had been rendering services in different government departments. — TNS
30-10-2020||Ropar||NHM director checks healthcare facilities||Kumar Rahul, director, National Health Mission (NHM), visited the Ropar Civil Hospital today to take stock of the health facilities available in the district, especially to tackle Covid-19 cases.Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri, had brought to the notice of the mission director that there was a dire need to strengthen health infrastructure in Nangal, Nurpur Bedi and Chamkaur Sahib.The Deputy Commissioner told him that the Nangal Civil Hospital hospital had been facing acute shortage of doctors and paramedical staff, due to which patients had to visit Anandpur Sahib or Ropar for treatment.“It is risky for critically ill patients to travel 60 km to reach Ropar,” she said.The project director assured to look into the matter. He said he would visit other hospitals in the district to know about the difficulties being faced by medicos and residents. — TNS
30-10-2020||Vishav Bharti||Accused of hurting sentiments, poet Surjit Gag takes asylum in Europe||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29Haunted by the government as well as Khalistani and Hindu fundamentalists alike, young Punjabi poet Surjit Gag has taken political asylum in a European country. He was underground for almost two years.It’s not easy to live in exile. One gets a feeling of alienation among the people whose culture and language are not related to you. -  Surjit GagHe said he had been granted political asylum on Wednesday. Surjit, who hailed from Gag village in Anandpur Sahib, was booked thrice under Section 295A (outraging religious feelings) of the IPC in 2017 and 2018.Related:Surjit, who initially eked out his living as a television technician and later as a clerk at a private institute, belongs to a new generation of Punjabi poets who shot to fame on Facebook. He has been extremely critical of religious ‘middlemen’ in his creative expression. “I became active on Facebook in 2010. Within a year, controversies started erupting around my poems. Soon abuse and threats by fundamentalist groups became a routine,” he said.His two works ‘I and Nanak’ and an essay on Dasehra in which he critically looked at the Hindu mythology remained the most controversial. “I was booked in 2017 on a complaint given by the head granthi of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib. I had to spent two months in jail, where I was attacked,” he says.Soon, two more cases were slapped against him. “Perhaps, he is the only Punjabi poet who faced such a serious threat from the state and religious bigots. It is also a case when a democratic country failed to protect its citizen’s fundamental rights,” says Prof Jagmohan Singh, president, Association for Democratic Rights, Punjab, who once led a delegation to the police for his protection.Writer Surjit Patar says, “When a poet has to live in exile, it indicates that his motherland is not ready for a dialogue with him,” he says.
30-10-2020||Moga||16-yr-old raped in Moga||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a village youth in Dharamkot sub-division of Moga district, police officials said today.The police have arrested the suspect, Sooraj Singh, and will produce him in a local court for remand. A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault), 363 (kidnapping), 368 (conceal kidnapping), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against him. — TNS
30-10-2020||---||Police fail to present challan, ‘ultra’ gets bail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 29In a major embarrassment to the Punjab Police, a sessions court today granted bail to alleged Khalistani operative Gurmit Singh, a resident of Amritsar, after the Amritsar rural police failed to present a challan in the court even after the lapse of three months. Gurmit was nabbed in June.The police had claimed to have busted a terror module with the arrest of two alleged Khalistani operatives. DGP Dinkar Gupta, during a media briefing at the time, had claimed the two were preparing to carry out a series of terror attacks and targeted killings at the behest of their Pakistani mentors and handlers. The other accused was identified as Vikram Singh.The police had claimed Gurmit was in regular touch with Pakistan intelligence service ISI and anti-India elements. “It is conceded that a period of more than 90 days has elapsed since the custody of the accused. The police have not submitted the challan while application for extension of time beyond 90 days has already been dismissed by the court. Therefore, the accused is ordered to be released on bail on his furnishing personal bonds,” the order issued by Sessions Judge BS Sandhu read.
30-10-2020||Jalandhar||PUDA server glitch rectified||After The Tribune highlighted the problem faced by applicants at PUDA in getting a no objection certificate (NOC), the department has finally resolved the month-old issue.The PUDA office issued a release saying, “The issue that had cropped up in the server has been resolved. The public will not face any problem now. From now onwards, the applicants can apply for NOC on the portal www.punjabregularization.in”. — TNS
30-10-2020||Amritsar||Gurdwara clash: SAD  says Congress backing activists||The cases registered following a clash between SGPC officials and Sikh activists in the precincts of the Golden Temple on October 24 have not gone down well with both sides.SAD spokesperson Virsa Singh Valtoha, who visited the injured SGPC officials and staff members at Sri Guru Ram Dass Hospital in Amritsar, demanded dismissal of the case against the SGPC staff members. He said those who created ruckus and attacked SGPC officials inside the Golden Temple enjoyed patronage of the Congress government.The satkar committee and other Sikh outfits visited the Police Commissioner’s office to challenge the grounds under which the SGPC got their members booked under sections of the IPC.Valtoha said, “They locked the gates of the SGPC headquarters twice to provoke an altercation. Had the police took cognisance of SGPC’s repeated complaints about the intentions of protesters and took timely action, the unfortunate clash could have been averted.”Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee head Balbir Singh Muchchal said the Sikh activists were booked on frivolous grounds and hence the FIR should be quashed. — TNS
30-10-2020||---||Elderly couple found brutally murdered in Sultanpur Lodhi village||Kapurthala, October 29An elderly couple was found brutally murdered in their house at Shikarpur village in Sultanpur Lodhi here this morning. There were deep cuts on the victims’ necks.The victims, identified as Jarnail Singh (75) and his wife Joginder Kaur (65), were found lying in a pool of blood by their neighbours, who informed the police about the incident. The couple had been living alone for the past many years. The couple has two sons, one is living abroad and the other (Balwinder Singh) runs a medical shop in Sultanpur Lodhi.The police are clueless about the assailants. SP (Headquarters) Mandeep Singh, SP Sarabjit Singh, Sultanpur Lodhi DSP Swaran Singh Bal and SHO Sarabjit Singh reached the spot to inquire about the incident. The police said that they were exploring all angles to investigate the blind double murder case. Teams of forensic experts and dog squads had been called in. Fingerprints too were taken in the house and all CCTVs in the area were being scanned.Victim Jarnail Singh’s cousin Gian Singh said when he came to their home this morning, he found the couple murdered. “After the attack, sacks of grains were used to press their bodies and suffocate them to death. There were injury marks on the back of their ears as if they had been attacked with a sharp-edged weapon,” he said.Villagers said some looters could be behind the incident as the belongings of the couple had been found to be ransacked. The police did not investigate the case from that angle.While the police suspect that it could also be a case of vengeance, his son Balwinder Singh denied any such possibility. DSP Swaran Singh said a case of murder against unknown persons had been registered. “We are investigating it and will apprehend the accused at the earliest,” said the DSP.
30-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers’ protest taking toll on their health, produce||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 29Continuous protests are taking toll on farmers’ health, their personal lives and work as well. Notably, almost a month has passed since the farmers had been voicing their concern regarding the farm laws by holding dharnas in the state. Farmers who are coming to the protests on a daily basis have also been facing trouble back in their families and fields.Satnam Singh Sahni, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), said continuous dharnas had affected his health. “I am not worried about my health, but I am always thinking about my mother as she doesn’t keep well. Also, I have no one to look after my fields. You can imagine what personal loss I might have been going through,” he said. Sahni said sowing of wheat has also got delayed due to continuous protests.“We just want our rights, which nobody can take away from us,” said a farmer.Manjit Rai, chief of the union, said at this point, he usually sows fodder for his cattle, but he couldn’t do it because he was busy strategising for future moves and attending meetings at the state and central level.“No one can understand the problems we are going through. It is such a tiring work. We are fighting for our rights, but are also missing out on looking after families and fields,” he said.Farmers protest outside Reliance store Hoshiarpur: A demonstration was held in front of the Reliance store by the Kul Hind Kisan Sabha headed by former sarpanch Jagdish Singh and Ajit Singh. Addressing the protesters, Punjab vice-president of the Kul Hind Kisan Sabha Darshan Singh Mattoo and secretary Gurnek Singh Bhajjal said their demands included getting three ‘anti-farmer’ laws and Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 revoked and getting the movement of goods trains restarted in Punjab. For this, a demonstration would be held at the Banga Chowk, Garhshankar, on November 5 where they would block the road from 12 to 4 in the evening. They said the agitation would continue till their demands were met. Subhash Mattoo, Comrade Harbhajan Singh Gulpur, Capt Karnail Singh Panam, AAP’s farmer wing leader Gurdial Singh Bhanot, Prem Singh Rana former sarpanch and former sarpanch Jagdish Singh also addressed the protesters. OC
30-10-2020||---||Punjab Roadways staff flay merger with PRTC, to hold series of protests||Jalandhar, October 29Protesting against the merger of the Punjab Roadways into the PRTC and flaying the recommendations of the Montek Singh Ahluwalia Committee, members of the Permanent Roadways Workers and Contractual workers held a joint meeting at the local city bus stand here.The meeting was led by members of the Punjab Roadways Joint Action Committee and Contract Workers Union. Agitating against the policies of the Transport Department, leaders of the committee stated that the government was taking up privatisation of government-run buses.“There is a monopoly of private buses in time table and roadways buses have been given lesser routes. And this has been causing huge losses to the earning of the Punjab Roadways.”He added, “Besides, demands of the roadways workers have still not been fulfilled,” added Chanan Singh, general secretary, Punjab Roadways Contractual Workers Union.Major demands of the workers include regularisation of contractual workers, discontinuation of salary cuts, cancellation of mergers of roadways buses into private buses, no implementation of Montek Singh Ahluwalia Committee recommendations, time table of roadways buses to be scheduled fairly, release of installments of dearness allowance, implementation of the old pension scheme and others.The roadways staff also announced to hold an intensified protest on October 31 at Ludhiana, on November 4 at Jalandhar and on November 20 at Amritsar. Presidents of various unions Harjinder Singh Cheema, Satpal Singh Satta, Daljit Singh, Baljit Singh, Gurjit Singh,Amrik Singh Gill, Davinder Pal Singh, Balwinder Singh, Ramandeep Singh, Ruplal Chanan Singh, Paramjit Singh and others were present in the meeting.
