31-03-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Watch: Nabha residents shower sanitation worker with affection, flowers amid corona crisis||Chandigarh, March 31In a benevolent gesture, residents of Nabha in Patiala district appaluded a sanitation worker doing the crucial job of keeping the city clean amid coronavirus crisis.His hand-cart in tow, the sanitation worker was in for a pleasant surprise as he was crossing a lane. People clapped for him and showered him with flower petals.Some went a step ahead and offered him garlands of currency notes.Pleased to see the applause & affection showered by people of Nabha on the sanitation worker. It’s heartening to note how adversity is bringing out the intrinsic goodness in all of us. Let’s keep it up & cheer our frontline warriors in this War Against #Covid19. pic.twitter.com/tV2OwVa86wThe video tweeted by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh drew an applaud from netizens."Pleased to see the applause & affection showered by people of Nabha on the sanitation worker. It’s heartening to note how adversity is bringing out the intrinsic goodness in all of us. Let’s keep it up & cheer our frontline warriors in this War Against Covid19," Amarinder said.
31-03-2020||Patiala||Quarantined coronavirus patient booked for escaping isolation ward in Patiala||Patiala Police booked a person quarantined for coronavirus for fleeing an isolation ward at a local hospital, officials said on Tuesday.The patient, who was admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital and is still awaiting his test results, escaped after he had an argument with the about having his ward changed. He had been insisting on being moved to another ward because he did not want to share space with a coronavirus positive patient.The patient was brought back to the hospital on Tuesday morning, and was booked for assaulting a public servant on duty (Section 353); obstructing a public servant from doing his duty (section 186); disobeying an order by a public servant (section 188) and doing something that could spread an infection (Sections 269 and 270) of the Indian Penal Code.The criminal charges came after the district health department wrote asking police to take action.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said that the patient was endangering others around him.“We are doing our best, but still people are not ready to cooperate. They (people) are not following the health guidelines. I have already written to the police to book the patient for his irresponsible behaviour,” Malhotra said.
31-03-2020||---||Health dept staff, doctors, patients in Punjab won’t need curfew passes: New guidelines||Chandigarh, March 31Health department staff, doctors and regular patients in Punjab will no longer require curfew passes, while Banks/ATMs will be allowed to operate the whole week, subject to maintenance of COVID-19 protocols, under the revised guidelines issued on Tuesday by the state government.The new guidelines have been issued by the Home Department, following yesterday’s review of COVID-19 preparedness with the Group of Ministers by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, according to an official spokesperson.According to the new instructions, the District Magistrates have been formally asked to extend curfew beyond March 31, 2020, up to April 14, 2020.  While the relaxations already granted would continue, the post offices and courier services have additionally been allowed to operate under the fresh guidelines. Banks and ATMs have been allowed to operate for the whole week as against two days a week allowed earlier, subject to the condition that social distance norms are maintained.Also read: Punjab residents returning from other states to be screened; coronavirus death toll 4Coronavirus: Medical staff at Patiala hospital protest against lack of safety equipmentPolice claim they were attacked as they enforced curfew in Moga, injury to SHOQuarantined coronavirus patient booked for escaping isolation ward in PatialaEmployees of the Health & Medical Education Departments have been now permitted to work on the basis of their identity cards issued by their concerted departments. Hence, they would not be required to take separate curfew passes.Similarly, all the doctors of the private hospitals/nursing homes/diagnostic laboratories would be allowed to work without curfew passes on the basis of their photo ID Cards issued by the Punjab Medical/Dental Council or Indian Medical Association. Other employees of private nursing homes would be granted bulk curfew passes on the request of the administrator of the hospital concerned.Patients would now be allowed to visit all hospitals, including private hospitals, nursing homes and diagnostic laboratories, on the basis of patient cards/prescription slips issued by the hospital and nursing homes. New patients would be allowed movement against e-pass. However, serious patients would be allowed to go to hospitals without any pass or cards.The guidelines further stipulate that the drug-dependant persons would be allowed to visit OOAT/de-addiction centres on the basis of the prescription slip/cards issued by the centre.The District Authorities have also been instructed to ensure strict adherence of protocol for foreign travellers as already applicable to such persons.Any person entering the state from other states will need to be home quarantined, if asymptomatic, and hospital quarantined or to be kept in isolation ward if symptomatic, as per the guidelines of the health department, as per the guidelines.
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Services of Punjab Police personnel due for retirement extended till May 31||Amid the continuing curfew and lockdown in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered extension in the services of all retiring police personnel and home guards by two months.Further to ease the pressure on the police force, of whom 44,546 were in the field duty today to enforce restrictions and conduct relief operations, around 1300 cops have been judiciously withdrawn from VVIP duty, including a significant number from the CM’s security. Capt Amarinder had earlier authorised DGP Dinkar Gupta to pull out any number of police personnel from his (chief minister’s) personal security, or that of other VIP protectees, for deployment for COVID-19 crisis management, as he may deem fit.Expressing concern about the welfare and morale of thousands of police personnel, who had been performing field duties without rest or relief, over the past several days, the chief minister had directed mobilisation of maximum police force through withdrawal from security duties.The DGP said further withdrawals would be made based on evaluation of the threat scenario, which was in progress, and through graded reduction.More security persons from district force and Armed Battalions will be withdrawn and organised into reserves, he said, adding that extensive mobilisation of the force had been planned and will be undertaken in a phased manner.The DGP said due care was being taken to deploy the police personnel in their home districts as far as possible.The chief minister, who is personally monitoring and reviewing the outbreak of COVID-19 and curfew related situation on a day-to-day basis, has also asked the police and civil administration to ensure all steps to protect and provide for the homeless and the migrant labour stranded in Punjab due to the sudden lockdown.He also spoke to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and apprised him of the arrangements being made for such migrants from Bihar.Capt Amarinder also asked Nitish to assure the families of these migrants back in Bihar that they were being fully looked after by Punjab and Punjabis during these testing times.To boost the morale of the frontline workers, Capt Amarinder continued to reach out to the doctors, police and administrative officials working in the field and personally spoke to several of them during the day.He assured them of the state government’s full support in their war against this unprecedented crisis.
31-03-2020|| Chandigarh||Gathering of devotees on Baisakhi not appropriate in times of coronavirus, says Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal President Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Tuesday that a gathering of devotees on Baisakhi may not be appropriate at a time when the country was trying to contain the spread of coronavirus.In a video-conference with eight journalists, Sukhbir accused the state government of discriminating on political basis with people in the relief distribution and other help in the ongoing crisis.“We are giving full co-operation with the government as this is no time to play politics and indulge in critical statements against the government but we have received reports from or workers that the Congress leaders were reaching out to their workers first. This is condemnable.” Sukhbir said.In response to a query by The Tribune on whether Baisakhi celebrations will be held as already similar gatherings on HOLA Mohalla has been criticised, Sukhbir said he believed now was the time to stay indoors and restrain from any such activity. “I hope the Akal Takh Jathedar and religious heads are discussing the issue as they are the proper authority on this,” he said.Baisakhi festival marks beginning of the traditional new year in Punjab. It also heralds the harvesting of wheat crop. Devotees throng gurdwaras for a holy dip and to seek blessings for the new year and offer thanks giving for the crop. This kind of religious gathering is a high risk for spread of virus.  Reports said a large number of devotees at a religious gathering at Nizamuddin had contracted the coronovirus. He also asked the government to stop tarnishing the image of NRIs who are being accused of spread the virus.“Punjab is their home. They got virus from somewhere and are the victims. The virus is all over the world. Anyone could have got. Some of those who are said to be NRIs were tourists who had visited some country.”Sukhbir also took on the CM capt Amarinder Singh for not checking confusion and chaos in the state, “The chief minister, like his counterparts in other parts of the country, should speak to the public every day and brief about factual cases and efforts taken by the government”. “Even the President of USA, is briefing the nation every day,” he said with a chuckle.He also called upon the chief minister to direct deputy commissioners to check the flow of migrant labourers to their homes: “This labour is the backbone of our agriculture and industry. The government should provide them food and shelter so that they are available for harvesting season”.He also advised the chief minister to rope in private hospitals in the fight against coronavirus and subsidise the cost of testing.
31-03-2020||Patiala||Coronavirus: Medical staff at Patiala hospital protest against lack of safety equipment||Nurses and paramedical staff at the Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Tuesday protested against the authorities for allegedly failing to provide safety gear meant for treating coronavirus patients.The nurses also had held a protest on Monday night, at around 11 pm, outside the office of the Medical Superintendent. The nurses said that the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits were faulty and they were being provided just to the staff in isolation wards. However, the staff in the emergency department are the first ones to encounter patients, said the protesters.They said that authorities were not showing any concern for the safety of the staff who had to come into the direct physical contact with the patients.A 42-year-old Ludhiana resident, who had positive for coronavirus, died in the hospital on Monday. She had been in the ward for 12 hours, leading to a scare among the nurses.Randeep Kaur, a staff nurse, who is posted in the isolation ward, said, “I was handling the covid positive patient—the entire night before she died. PPE kits, provided by the hospital, do not cover the entire body which exposes us to the virus. The authorities are compromising the lives of nurses – the backbone of the health system.”Nurses say that PPE kits are being provided only to the nurses of the isolation ward, while the doctors and staff nurses who have to examine the suspected patients — before they are sent to the isolation wards — are without PPE.Sandeep Kaur Barnala, staff nurse union leader, said, “The authorities are not providing nurses and doctors the safety gear which has created a fear among us.”Barnala demanded that every doctor and other staff, who examine suspected COVID-19 patients, should be provided with PPE kits.Hospital authorities had earlier said kits would be provided to the staff at the isolation ward only in line with the guidelines of the government of India.Dr Paras Pandove, medical superintendent, Rajindra hospital, said, “We have already asked them to get quarantined at the hospital itself. They were being provided everything as per the COVID-19 guidelines. PPE Kits are provided to staff at the isolation ward only.”In the meanwhile, DK Tiwari, Medical Education Secretary, said that he had a word with the hospital authorities and matter has been already resolved.
31-03-2020||---||Punjab residents returning from other states to be screened; coronavirus death toll 4||Chandigarh, March 31Taking the COVID threat head-on, the Punjab government has said all residents of Punjab, coming back from other states will be screened, even if they do not have any foreign travel history in past 14 days.The orders have been issued under The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. All deputy commissioners in the state have been asked by Principal Secretary, Health, Anurag Aggarwal, to ensure that all such persons found asymptotic, are home quarantined for 14 days.If they are found symptomatic, tests would be conducted in government facilities and the health department's protocol for management of such persons would be followed. The surveillance officers and Rapid Response Teams, put in place for international travellers, have been asked to keep a vigil on domestic travellers too.Though no new case was reported from the state but a 65-year-old man from SAS Nagar succumbed to COVID-19 at PGI, Chandigarh. With new death the total number of casualties due to deadly virus has reached four in the state.According to health officials all his 31 contacts have been placed under home quarantine under the supervision of the Health Department authorities. Besides this, 18 contacts, all residents of Mohali, of a resident of Sector 30B Chandigarh who was found corona virus positive on Monday, have also been put under home quarantine.As per the state health department, so far samples of total 1,198 suspected cases were sent for testing out of which 1,009 were found negative and reports of 148 were still awaited. Total 41 have been found positive. At present, confirmed 41 cases have been reported from seven districts. This includes 19 from SBS Nagar, seven from Mohali six cases from Hoshiarpur, five from Jalandhar and two from Ludhiana, one each from Amritsar and Patiala.  No confirmed case has been reported from rest of the 15 districts.
31-03-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Sikhs around the world send meals to thousands of people in coronavirus isolation||The Sikh community of Sydney has spent over $4,000 Australian dollars on a food donation program for elderly folks stuck in self-isolation.The group—“Turbans of Australia”—have so far donated more than 1.5 tons of food. The food will be delivered to residents, who are unable to purchase basic non-perishable foods.In New York, the Sikh Center of New York prepared and packaged more than 30,000 meals—this time for Americans stuck in self-isolation.Because 30 times more food was being handled in New York than Melbourne, strict hygiene procedures were observed that involved wearing gloves and masks, social distancing, and sterilisation of equipment and surfaces, according to reports. In UK, a “free mobile food support” initiative has been taken in Slough, a town in Berkshire, England.The service provides “healthy and nutrition” food by the Sikh community of the town. Mostly to the people above the age of 65, and quarantined.Taking to Twitter, an associate of the community Harjinder Singh Kukreja said: "Are you 65+ plus? In #Coronavirus isolation? Need support to get food? Sikhs in Slough, UK have come up with Mobile Food Support for the elderly & isolated & are Providing FREE HEALTHY & NUTRITIOUS essentials to help them! Pls share!"Facebook posts:Are you 65+ plus?In #Coronavirus isolation?Need support to get food?Sikhs in Slough, UK have come up with Mobile Food Support for the elderly & isolated & are Providing FREE HEALTHY & NUTRITIOUS essentials to help them! Pls share! #COVIDー19mx #CoronavirusOutbreak #Sikh pic.twitter.com/l0kqpATzk9
31-03-2020||Ludhiana||COVID: Deceased Ludhiana woman was referred to Patiala as Civil Hospital’s ventilators not operational||Ventilators at the Civil Hospital in Ludhiana have been gathering dust for a year and patients who need the breathing device are being referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. The isolation ward set up for COVID-19 patients at the hospital does not have a single ventilator. The Ludhiana-based COVID-19 positive woman, who died on Monday at Rajindra Hospital, was referred to Patiala as she needed a ventilator. She was 42. In fact, the family struggled to arrange an ambulance after the woman was referred to Patiala.Also read: Ludhiana woman dies of coronavirus; Punjab toll 3 nowSukhwinder Singh, the brother-in-law of the patient, said that she was referred to Patiala at around 6 pm. He claims that the family kept trying the 108 ambulance service for three hours but it the ambulance did not turn up.After 9 pm, the family arranged the ambulance on their own by paying Rs 4000. “If the ventilators would have been here at Ludhiana, the treatment would have started earlier,” he said.The Civil Hospital had purchased 14 ventilators a year ago, which include nine for newborns and the remaining five for the operation theatre. The cost of these ventilators is around Rs 2 crore.The hospital, which is already grappling with a staff shortage, will need at least ten staff nurses and resident doctors to kickstart the ventilator service. In addition to this, there is no centralised suction system and no 24-hour oxygen back-up in the hospital. On most days, nearly 7-8 patients, who are in need of ventilators, are referred to other places by the hospital.Senior Medical Officer Dr Ravi Dutt said that he was making arrangements to make the service operational.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that he was aware of the fact that ventilators were not operational at the Civil Hospital.“I have asked them to make the ventilators operational and we are ready to spend the money as required. I will be chairing a meeting in the afternoon and all the necessary decisions pertaining to these will be taken today,” he said.
31-03-2020||---||Punjab Waqf Board to contribute Rs 50 lakh to CM for COVID-19 relief fund||Punjab, March 31Punjab Waqf Board unanimously decided to sanction an initial contribution of Rs 50 Lakh to Punjab CM for COVID-19 relief fund for purchase of medical equipments and support to the needy households.The board also allocated an amount of Rs 50 Lakh for free distribution of essential items to the underprivileged in the difficult times that have arisen due to COVID-19.Further, in order to support more than 4,500 widow pensioners and orphans registered with the board, they decided to release the pension amount of last 5 months that has been pending due to the change in policy.The aid to Madrassas and Honorarium of the Imams was also ordered to be released.The board also resolved that all Imams shall ensure that Masjids remain closed during the lockdown period and directions of the government authorities are followed in letter and spirit.Further, board requested all to generously contribute to the Central and State Government relief funds and also to look after the poor families in their neighborhood.The board has also appreciated the decision of the employees of the Punjab Waqf Board to contribute their one-day salary to CM COVID-19 relief fund.
31-03-2020||Sangrur||In Sangrur, panchayats seal villages with the help of youth squads; DC, SSP offer help||Seeing the rise in Covid-19 cases in the country, many panchayats in the Sangrur district, with the help of youth squads, have sealed the entry and exit points of their villages.After seeing the sealing of their neighbouring villages, others have also started following, while police have also been encouraging the same.Officials sources in Sangrur told The Tribune, that till date, the district had not seen even a single positive case of coronavirus and the samples of all 11 suspects tested negative. Panchayat members are confident that by sealing their villages, they will be able to prevent the infection.“From the last two-three days, we were discussing sealing our village to prevent the spread of infection. After taking the consent of all, we have sealed all four entry and exit points of our village. We are only allowing the entry and exit for emergency purposes only,” said Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Dhandoli village.Residents of many other villages have also set special ‘nakas’ while youngsters with sticks and sanitizers in their hands have been thoroughly checking all. Apart from checking the antecedents of all, they have also been offering sanitizers.“We have been encouraging residents of all villages to seal their respective areas. But allowing it only by Panchayats and senior citizens to avoid any problems by youngsters. I have directed all SHOs and other officers to offer all help to all Panchayats” said Sandeep Garg, SSP Sangrur.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori said that they had been ensuring the supply of all essential commodities to district residents.“We have 2500 helpline numbers across the district and if anyone has been facing any problem, he should call us on given numbers. There is no need for residents to come out. Many panchayats have taken a good initiative to seal their villages,” he added.
31-03-2020||Kulwinder Sandhu||Police claim they were attacked as they enforced curfew in Moga, injury to SHO||Tribune News ServiceMoga, March 31Police have claimed that they were attacked by a group of villagers at Nurpur Hakima village in Dharamkot of Moga.According to details, Dharamkot police station SHO Balraj Mohan, along with a police party, went to the village when the panchayat called him alleging that some miscreants were not obeying the curfew order.The panchayat had taken steps to prevent people from stepping out of their houses. But, some miscreants were not cooperating with the panchayat, it was said.When the SHO reached the spot to enforce the curfew and to resolve the issue, a group of people allegedly attacked the police party. The police party were allegedly pelted with bricks and stones. The SHO was reportedly injured in the incident.Later, the police registered an FIR against 27 people. With the help of the panchayat the police arrested six people but the others are evading arrest.
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Last date for applying for posts in Punjab govt bodies extended||The last date for applying for various posts in departments, PSUs, autonomous bodies, universities, PPSC, SSSB, under the Punjab government should be postponed to April 30, or later, Punjab Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh directed on Tuesday.
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Deploy members from my security for crisis management: Amarinder to DGP||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday authorised Punjab Police DGP to pull out any number of police personnel from his security and deploy them for crisis management during the coronavirus outbreak.‬The DGP has been authorised to do the same with other VIPs in the state.
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab curfew till April 14, borders sealed||Curfew in Punjab has been extended till April 14 in conformity with the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by the Centre. The state’s borders have been sealed. Stressing on the need for doing so, CM Capt Amarinder Singh said as Haryana and J&K had shut their borders, those stranded were making their way into Punjab.The CM, after a video-conference with Cabinet Ministers and officials, promised insurance on the Central pattern for health workers. Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra is learnt to have suggested a three-month cover of Rs 50 lakh per person.The CM ordered masks and sanitisers for policemen and directed the DGP to deploy personnel on rotation. He agreed to extend the services of 2,000-odd sanitation workers, due to retire on March 31, by three months. — TNS
31-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Satsang centres to be turned into relief camps for labourers||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 30Inspector General (Ropar zone) Amit Prasad today held a meeting with the Deputy Commissioner, Senior Superintendent of Police and civil administration officials to review arrangements during 21-day national lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 scare.MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra lauded the administration and the police for supplying essential items on doorsteps and meals to the needy.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Amrit Kaur Gill said the Inspector General was briefed about various steps being taken to provide essentials to residents. Prasad went to Mandi Gobindgarh and was informed about steps taken to stop exodus of migrants from the industrial town.The DC said keeping in view the movement of labourers, Radha Soami Satsang centres will be turned into relief camps. The DC asked politicians, including MLAs, to stay indoors as people surround them whenever they come out and the purpose of social distancing gets defeated. The SSP said labourers were being offered meals.MLA donates Rs 1 lakh for community kitchenThe Faterhgarh Sahib MLA, Kuljit Singh Nagra, has donated Rs 1 lakh from his own pocket to the district administration for providing food and ration to the needy. The MLA has already donated his one month salary to the Chief Minister COVID Relief Fund. He handed over Rs1 lakh cheque to Deputy Commissioner (DC) Amrit Kaur Gill.He said that the state government was committed to provide food to all. Special arrangements were being made so that no one remained without food, he added.He appealed to all NGOs and people, who want to distribute ration and serve langar to the needy, to register with the DC Office. They would be allocated the area to serve food.
31-03-2020||Amritsar||Miri Piri Academy closes||FaRmers allowed to harvest mustardFazilka: The state government has granted permission to farmers to harvest mustard in the district in spite of curfew restrictions. District Magistrate Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said, "The crop has already ripened. If it is not harvested now, it will be damaged and farmers have to incur losses." Sources say mustard has been sown on nearly 6,000 hectares in the district. The District Magistrate has directed farmers to maintain distance at the time of harvesting in view of Covid spread. OCVardhman Group donates Rs 6 croreLudhiana: In order to support the Centre in its efforts to protect the country from the menace of Covid, Vardhman Group has announced a sum of Rs 5 crore for the Prime Minister's Covid relief fund. Additionally, the group has announced a contribution of 1 crore to the Punjab Government, with Rs50 lakh to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund and Rs50 lakh for procuring critical medical supplies in government hospitals. DL Sharma, managing director, Vardhman Yarns and Threads, handed over a cheque of Rs50 lakh to the Deputy Commissioner, Ludhiana, Pradeep Aggarwal. TNSAmid curfew, pensioners crowd banksAbohar: When local banks opened on Monday only to facilitate Central and state government offices to carry out financial year's transactions and load ATMs, pensioners turned out in large numbers to enquire about their pension. The pension is yet to be credited in the accounts of the beneficiaries. Meanwhile, students of Sarvhitkari Vidya Mandir here prepared posters on dos and don'ts in times of Covid and pasted them outside their houses. OCGovt Teachers give one day’s salaryChandigarh: The Government College Teachers Association, Punjab, has decided to donate one day's salary of all regular teachers working in all government colleges for the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to help fight the present situation arising due to the Covid outbreak, said Prof BS Tohra and Prof Jatinder Gill, president and general secretary, respectively. Meanwhile, serving and retired employees of Punjab Mandi Board and market committees also decided to contribute their one day's salary, amounting to nearly Rs1 crore, to the fund. TNS
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Give sops to industry: SAD||The SAD on Monday requested CM Capt Amarinder Singh to help the industry by waiving all fixed electricity charges till the situation does not normalise. In a statement, former minister Bikram Majithia also urged the CM to extend subsidies to industrial units to enable them pay their labour for March and April. “At the same time, the government should ensure that only units who are able to ensure absolute safety of their workers,” he said. — TNS
31-03-2020||---||Submit self-declaration forms, government tells NRIs||Chandigarh , March 30The state government has issued a self-declaration form for NRIs and foreign travelers, who have arrived in Punjab after January 30, and have not been contacted by civil administration, health or police officials so far.An official spokesperson said many NRIs/travellers had already contacted and submitted their details to the authorities.He said all such persons should submit this form at “112” national emergency response system (ERSS).He said the NRIs/foreign travellers could also furnish their details at “Dial-112 App” or email (dial-112@punjabpolice.gov.in). He said if anyone was unable to send the requisite details at the given email or portal, such details could be sent at WhatsApp number 97799-20404.
31-03-2020||---||Ropar hostel opens door for workers||Ropar, March 30Nearly 22 migrant labourers were lodged at a hostel of a government college in Ropar. They were going to Bulandshahar in Uttar Pradesh on foot. The labourers had been working as daily wagers in Una district of Himachal Pradesh. After they reached Sirhind, the police noticed them and sent them back.According to information, the migrants, including Arif, Ayub, Anwar, a woman along with a four-year-old girl, had left from Una in the morning on foot to reach Bulandshahr. They also took lifts from trucks at many places before reaching the Sirhind railway station.When they were passing near Ropar town, someone informed Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri, who reached the spot and made the arrangement for their stay at the hostel.Giri said the management of Radha Swami deras in the district had shared a list of 18 locations where they could accommodate nearly 3,000 such needy people.Give them shelter in schools: Singla
31-03-2020||Shivani Bhakoo||Industry ready to resume operation to plug exodus||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 30Some industrial houses here are ready to resume operations and claim that they will take care of labourers, but on one condition: in case any labourer gets infected with Covid, they should not be held accountable.A few industrialists, who have the raw material, want to restart the production to meet their pending orders. They are more than willing to help the labourers — be it with food, medicines or shelter.They say they also need the labour for maintaining their expensive machinery.Rahul Ahuja, president, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Punjab, said, “The state government has not made it mandatory for the industry to resume operations. If some industrialists restart the production, they will ensure good care of their labourers though it will not be profitable to run units with a handful of workers. But we will be able to stop the exodus of labourers. Many businessmen have written to the Director, Industries, in this regard.”Anil Gupta from Regal Plastics said he had 32 rooms in three units where 50 to 60 workers could be accomodated.“I have the raw material and I want to run my unit. But I am scared because if any labourer falls sick, the government will take me to task. If I am taking all precautions and the authorities are conducting random checking regularly to ensure social distancing and hygiene, I should not be held accountable for any mishap. A labourer can be infected with Covid at their dinghy accommodations,” he said.The industrialists said labourers could be shifted from their dinghy accommodations to factories and, hence, they would be quarantined and at the same time resume work.Ensure coal supply, demand kiln owners
31-03-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||Malerkotla gurdwara feeds madrasa students||Tribune News Service Sangrur, March 30 Apart from serving langar to around 1,000 needy and poor people every day, the authorities of Gurdwara Sahib Haa Da Naara in Malerkotla have been supplying food to Muslim students as well. They say they will ensure that not a single Muslim student of local madrasas goes hungry. “After the imposition of curfew, we got to know that the authorities of local Tajweedul Quran Madrasa were facing problems in arranging food for their 40 students, belonging to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. We immediately decided to provide food to them,” said Narinderpal Singh, head granthi of the gurdwara. The sewadars with the help of local women have been preparing langar for over 1,000 residents every day. On the first day, when the gurdwara committee members went to the madrasa with food, they faced problems as the students did not have the required utensils. “The next day we also took utensils from the gurdwara. We request the area residents, NGOs and social workers to come forward as we all need to get united and help the poor to save our country,” said Bahadur Singh, president of the gurdwara committee. Janab Salim, maulvi of the madrasa, said all students were from other states and they had tried to send them back to their parents. “But after the imposition of curfew, the trains were cancelled. Since we did not expect sudden curfew, we couldn’t make required arrangements. But we are thankful to the gurdwara committee for taking care of it. They always help whenever anyone is in trouble,” he said.
31-03-2020||Ropar||In Ropar, 424 panchayats seal villages on their own||More than 420 panchayats have decided to put their villages in isolation voluntarily to protect residents from the Covid. Ropar SSP Swapan Sharma said the district police, with participation of panchayats, roped in village youth clubs and other volunteers. Sharma said with this initiative of panchayats, nearly 70 per cent of villages and 74 per cent of population in the district had voluntarily quarantined itself. Sarpanch of Gardale village Mohan Lal said the measures were being taken for the safety of village residents. The panchayat members talked to the people and motivated them not to go out of the village till the government declares it risk-free, he said, adding that “no one is being allowed to visit their relatives and even outsiders are not allowed to enter the village”.  Sarpanch of Balamgarh village Jaswant Singh said it was their responsibility to motivate people to remain at homes. — TNS
31-03-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers offer extra ration, medicines||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 30Providing extra ration to workers, calling them up repeatedly asking for their well-being and stocking up medicines for them — this is how farmers are taking care of farm labourers these days. They are visiting chemist shops with labourers to get them medicines and other essentials items.All this is being done to ensure that farm labourers don’t return to their native places, especially when the harvesting season is around the corner.In cities, it seems difficult to stop labourers from returning to their native places, but farmers in rural areas are making sure they don’t face shortage of labour.Chemists from rural areas said several farmers asked them to provide farm labourers with basic medicines. “More than their own well-being, farmers are worried about the health of their workers. Some farmers accompanied their labourers to make labourers have enough stock of medicines,” a medical shop owner said.Kirpal Singh, a farmer from Jalandhar’s Moosapur village, said he was sending ration to deras, where migrant workers were putting up. “Before the lockdown was announced, at least 10 of my workers came from Bihar. Since then, I have been giving them food. Since they came by train, I asked them to quarantine themselves for 14 days. But I am providing them with every essential item,” he said.On Monday, three of his labourers told Kirpal Singh that they wanted to return home. To this, he requested them to stay put and assured them of every possible help.Manjit Singh Rai, a farmer from Hoshiarpur, said: “A farmer is dependent on labourers the most. It is important that labourers remain here for the coming harvesting season. From the humanitarian point of view, everyone is ensuring that nobody suffers at this point of time.”
31-03-2020||Neeraj Bagga
||Won’t be able to pay staff after lockdown: Traders||Tribune News Service Amritsar, March 30 Organised industrial units are paying salaries to their staff during the 21-day national curfew but have expressed inability to continue it further due to the already existing critical economic condition owing to a slowdown in the economy.  They said the lockdown period was spread across two months and they would incur losses in footing wage bills, paying rent, taxes, property tax, licence fee, property tax and other expenses.  They feel the government had only paid lip service and did not extend any meaningful package for the units.  They fear the 21-day curfew could spell another recessionary phase for the manufacturing units, already battered by the demonetisation and Goods and Services Tax (GST).  Piara Lal Seth, operating a shawl manufacturing unit and president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said a majority of the industrial units in the state in general and in the border district in particular fell under the MSME sector. He turned down the government’s offer permitting to run only those units which had the capacity to offer boarding and lodging facilities.  He said it was not practically feasible as only a partial number of employees would join the units and the remaining would not attend. Those attending would seek more wages in comparison to others.  Kamal Dalmia, chairman of the Focal Point Industries’ Association, said traders were extending help to workers without any government aid. He said no relaxation in paying power tariffs was given and the government did not include them in any kind of package.
31-03-2020||---||SGPC extends helping hand, provides langar to needy||Amritsar, March 30The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has been providing langar to around 2 lakh needy persons every day so that they don’t sleep on empty stomach amid the curfew.Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC president, said 79 gurdwaras under the SGPC’s control was collaborating with the state and district administrations in providing the needy with food in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh.“Dal, rice, vegetable and chapattis are being served. The food is distributed in slum colonies and hospitals. Langar is also served to police personnel, who have been deployed to observe law and order amid curfew restrictions,” he said.The kitchens at the Golden Temple and Gurdwara Shaheedan in Amritsar have been catering to more than 50,000 persons daily. The SGPC has deputed more than 100 staffers to prepare and distribute food.“The SGPC has spared six vehicles for ferrying food to the needy,” Longowal said.At Takht Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib, food for about 40,000 persons is prepared by 30 persons daily. Gurdwaras in Sangrur, Patiala, Ludhiana, Ropar, Gurdaspur, Barnala, Bathinda, Tarn Taran, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Pathankot, Batala, Kapurthala and Ferozepur are also chipping in.In Haryana, six gurdwaras have been providing langar to 12,000 persons every day.Punjabis from Gujarat stuck at border
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Call state helpline for medical advice||To effectively address and resolve medical and stress-related issues during the lockdown, the state government on Monday launched a special helpline 1800 180 4104 for citizens to connect with a network of senior doctors over teleconference and get medical advice on Covid-19 and other related concerns. Over 1,800 senior doctors have been empanelled through the IMC for this purpose, who have been duly trained about the platform, its protocol and functionalities, said Additional Chief Secretary, Governance Reforms and Public Grievances, Vini Mahajan. She said the incoming calls would be first answered by an IVR. This IVR shall filter the calls based upon the type of assistance required and those requiring medical advice on Covid or other health issues shall be asked for more information such as recent travel history and symptoms. — TNS
31-03-2020||Saurabh Malik
||Release accused on bail without surety bonds: High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 30 In a significant judgment that will change the way prisoners are being let out following Covid outbreak, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed all subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to release the accused on bail without enforcing the condition of surety bonds/bail bonds. Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill also directed that all accused would be released from the jail only after complying with the administrative instructions issued in view of the outbreak, including maintaining social distance and preventing community transmission. The directions through videoconferencing came on a petition filed by Ishu Gover through counsel Abhayjeet Singh. He was seeking issuance of appropriate directions to the subordinate judicial authorities and the local administration for better coordination and for working in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court and the High Court. The Bench was told that Grover was granted regular bail in two cases, one of theft and the other snatching. But the orders were neither uploaded, nor copies provided to the petitioner. Abhayjeet Singh added that the petitioner had not been released till date due to “utter ignorance of the orders granting regular bail”. Justice Gill said: “I deem it appropriate to direct all subordinate courts to release the accused, who have already been granted bail either by this court or by the subordinate courts on bail on furnishing their personal bonds without enforcing the condition of surety bonds/bail bonds.”
31-03-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Never felt more helpless: Hoshiarpur victim’s son||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 30Life has been throwing tough challenges to people amid the Covid-18 outbreak. The situation is more worrisome for the families of patients who got infected or worse,died of the disease.As his father passed away last evening battling Covid and three other members of the family hospitalised, Ramandeep Singh, who works as a driver in Delhi, has not been able to join them in these trying circumstances.A native of Moranwali village of Hoshiarpur, Ramandeep turned emotional as he shared over the phone from Delhi that he had last come home during Diwali. “When I heard about dad falling ill, I told my mother that I was coming home. But my two brothers and sisters who were there said that they would handle it. Within days, my mom, brother and sister-in-law also got hospitalised and were declared coronavirus positive. I again insisted on coming home, but was advised not to.” He said, “At this juncture, everyone else in Hoshiarpur, including my two sisters and a brother, told me to stay put. They say even if I somehow managed to come home, the doctors would not let me meet them. The restrictions imposed by health experts are such that I won’t be able to support them in any way. They told me that my elder sister, who is married at Mahilpur, was also not able to visit them. Even the two kids of my brother, who is hospitalised along with his wife, have not been allowed to meet anyone. I never felt this helpless.”He said, “My dad was diabetic and hypertensive. Perhaps these two problems compounded the illness.”
31-03-2020||
||Ludhiana woman dies, toll 3; cases rise to 41||Chandigarh, March 30 With another patient succumbing to Covid-19 in Patiala, the total number of deaths due to the virus has reached three in the state. Apart from that, with three new cases one each from Ludhiana, Patiala and SAS Nagar, the total number of positive cases in the state has reached 41.  A 42-year-old woman from Ludhiana today died at Patiala’s Government Rajindra Hospital. After suffering acute respiratory syndrome, she was admitted to the hospital at 1.30 am on Monday. Her samples for the Covid-19 were taken, but she died before the report could confirm that she was positive with the infection. District health officials said she had no travel history and was referred to Patiala from Ludhiana last night. Confirming the development, Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said her body had been sent to Ludhiana as per the guidelines. Meanwhile, a 31-year-old man with a history of travel to Dubai was tested positive for Covid on Monday. He had recently returned from Dubai and was a resident of Desi Mehmandari in Patiala old city area. Malhotra said his initial tests at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi were negative, but was put under quarantine. He said the patient was admitted to the isolation ward last night after symptoms like fever and sore throat. “Teams have been sent to his residence to trace his close contacts and sanitisation of the area,” said Malhotra.  Another fresh case has been reported positive from PGI Chandigarh, where a resident of SAS Nagar was admitted. It is worrisome for the health authorities as the patient didn’t have any travel history. The officials are now trying to trace the source of infection. As per the Health Department, the samples of 1,051 suspected cases were sent for testing, of which 881 were found negative and the reports of 129 were awaited. A total of 41 were found positive. The state has reported three causalities so far. The confirmed cases have been reported from seven districts.
