31-12-2020||Mukesh Ranjan||BJP ropes in party veteran Saudan Singh to look after Punjab, Haryana affairs||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 31Feeling the political heat amid farmers’ protests, as it received a setback in the recent mayoral polls in Haryana, the BJP has brought in key party veteran Saudan Singh to shoulder organisational responsibilities in Punjab and its neighboring states, besides beefing up party’s Dalit outreach.The saffron party today appointed Singh as the vice president of the orgainsation with the responsibilities of giving “special attention” to Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh.The decision appeared to be in line with an assessment of the tough political challenges posed by the farmers’ protests. Singh, who will now have his base in Chandigarh, was the joint general secretary (organisation) earlier, and was mostly seen in action in Rajasthan.The BJP has also appointed the party veteran V Satish as a “Sangathak (organiser)”, with the responsibilities, including SC-ST Morcha coordination, as he will look after the Parliamentary office coordination. Additionally, the national joint general secretary of BJP Shiv Prakash, with base in Bhopal, will look after the party’s affairs in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal.  Saudan Singh’s task has been cut out as the ripple effect of the farmers’ agitation is also showing impact in Haryana where the saffron outfit is in power in an alliance with the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) led by the deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala.In Himachal Pradesh, the BJP will be bracing up for the Assembly elections in 2022 amid the recent trends of the incumbent governments voted out by the people.   Hathras gangrape incident in western Uttar Pradesh had for a while shown the BJP’s weakness in lacking credible Dalit leadership. The western UP has also been seen emerging as a laboratory of young Dalit leadership, which is seen in the rise of Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan.The BJP leadership will be counting upon the veteran Satish, who has vast experience in the RSS and the party, to work on the strategy to consolidate support base among the Dalit, which is seen electorally formidable in the western UP, while the state will go to the Assembly elections in 2022.
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||10 more Covid deaths, 286 new cases in Punjab||Ten more COVID-19 fatalities in Punjab on Thursday pushed the death toll to 5,341, while 286 fresh cases took the infection count in the state to 1,66,522.There are 3,685 active cases of the disease in the state now, according to a medical bulletin.Among the fresh cases reported, 42 were in Jalandhar, 41 in Mohali and 36 in Ludhiana.A total of 453 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,57,496, as per the bulletin.Sixteen critical patients are on ventilator support, while 73 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 39,00,473 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. PTI
31-12-2020||Ludhiana||Punjab police arrest Halwara Air Force station employee working for Pakistan’s ISI||An employee of the Halwara Air Force station, who was allegedly working for Pakistan’s intelligence agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), has been arrested in Sudhar area here, police said on Thursday.The employee has been identified as Ram Singh. Two of his associates are on the run.“Ram Singh, an employee of Halwara Air Force station, has been booked and arrested for allegedly working for Pakistan’s ISI, in the Sudhar area of Ludhiana, Punjab. Two of his associates are on the run,” said Ludhiana (Rural) Senior Superintendent of Police Charanjit Singh Sohal.Singh was working as a diesel mechanic at Halwara Air Force Station in Ludhiana.The police have registered a case under Sections 124A, 120B and 153A of the Indian Penal Code, relevant sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Official Secrets Act. (ANI)
31-12-2020||---||Capt Amarinder trashes Punjab BJP’s false propaganda on state’s law & order situation||Kharar (Mohali), December 31Lashing out at the state BJP president for spreading false propaganda to further his party’s political agenda, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday said Ashwani Sharma’s desperate attempts to falsely project a law-and-order problem in Punjab reflected the party’s fear of complete annihilation in the upcoming civic polls.Interacting informally with mediapersons after dedicating the Chandigarh-Kharar elevated corridor to citizens, the Chief Minister said the state BJP’s request to the Governor for postponement of the civic polls on the baseless grounds of law-and-order situation collapse showed that the party leadership was in a complete panic at the prospect of facing the elections at a time when the people were angry at them over the black Farm Laws.“Faced with the wrath of the people of Punjab, Ashwani and his party colleagues were now resorting to desperate measures to wriggle out of the polls,” he said.Pointing out that Punjab had been voted as number 1 state in India on the law and order front in the ‘States of State’ annual survey conducted by India Today, the Chief Minister said the bogey of law and order problems in Punjab was being created by the BJP only to save itself from the anger of the farmers.“Their frustration was evident from their bid to pass off pictures of his old meetings with some corporate leaders as a collusion against the farmers,” he added.Dismissing as ‘atrocious’ BJP state leadership’s charges that the Congress was responsible for the damage to mobile towers, and the resultant loss of studies to the students, the Chief Minister asked” “Are we responsible for the farmers’ angst against the BJP?”“We were not the ones who enacted the Farm Laws, it was the BJP-led Central government. We, in fact, negated them by passing the amendment Bills in the Assembly,” he added.While these incidents were unfortunate, the fact was that these were happening as a result of the spontaneous outburst of farmers as their genuine demands had not been conceded so far, said the Chief Minister, trashing Punjab BJP leaders’ claims that the Government of India had been accepted the demands of the farmers from the outset.“Had their demands been conceded, the farmers would not have been sitting out in the winter chill at Delhi’s borders,” he said, adding “the power-hungry BJP leaders had remained untouched even by the fact that some 50 protesting farmers had died, including some by suicide.”Asked to comment on the acceptance of two of the key demands of the agitating farmers by the Centre at their last round of meeting, Captain Amarinder Singh said the issue was now between the farmers and the Government of India. He hoped the Centre would soon accede the remaining demands of the farmers too.Replying to a question regarding Local Bodies elections in the state, the Chief Minister said the process was already under way and the dates would be finalised and announced soon, as Constitutionally, the Government was bound to hold these elections before February 15, 2021.
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||In pictures: Cold wave intensifies in Punjab, Haryana||The ongoing cold wave conditions in Haryana and Punjab intensified at many places on Thursday, with Hisar reeling at minus 1.2 degrees Celsius.A thick blanket of fog again enveloped most places in the two states early in the morning, reducing visibility levels, Meteorological Department officials here said.Also read: Hisar records coldest December day since 1973; crop yields expected to take hitThe minimum temperatures hovered well below normal limits as a few places experienced the season's coldest night so far.Hisar in Haryana recorded the season's coldest night so far and the mercury dropped eight notches below the normal.Among other places in the state, severe chill gripped Narnaul, which also recorded the season's coldest night so far at minus 0.5 degree Celsius, down six notches against normal limits.Sirsa, Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak and Bhiwani, too, experienced a cold night recording respective minimums of 1.5, 3.6, 4.1, 4.2 and 4.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also recorded the season's coldest night so far at 2.7 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal limits.Cold wave conditions also persisted in many places in Punjab.Bathinda reeled under severe chill recording a minimum temperature of 0 degree Celsius, the season's lowest so far, while Amritsar and Faridkot, too, braved the chill at 1.6 degrees Celsius and 1.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.Pathankot, Halwara, Adampur, Ludhiana and Patiala also recorded below normal minimums at 2.2, 3.1, 4.8, 4.1 and 4.8 degrees Celsius, respectively. PTI
31-12-2020||New Delhi||How the ice was broken during sixth round of talks between govt and farmers||The lunch diplomacy of Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has played an instrumental role in shaping up a positive development following the sixth round of talks between the government and the representatives of farmers' organisations.Unlike the previous five meetings that ended on an inconclusive note, the sixth round of talks held here at Vigyan Bhawan on Wednesday saw the government and farmers coming on the same page on two key issues out of four.The way the Wednesday meeting between the farmers and the government happened, the possibilities of solving the farmers' movement have increased.Farmer leaders are also hopeful that the way the government on Wednesday agreed to the demands like keeping farmers out of the purview of stubble burning and continuation of electricity subsidy, in the same way, the meeting on January 4 will also be positive.The agenda for the January 4 meeting has been set.This meeting is to be held on two issues like the three agricultural laws and the guarantee of MSP.Also read: CM Pinarayi Vijayan moves resolution against central farm laws in Kerala AssemblySeveral Delhi border points remain closed due to farmers' protestUndeterred by bitter cold, more farmers leave for DelhiDuring the lunch break at Vigyan Bhawan on Wednesday at 2.30 pm, two hours after the sixth round meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Union Minister of State Som Prakash reached out to the farm leaders when they were getting ready to eat the 'langar' meal.Since the last two meetings, the farmer leaders have been eating the langar meal instead of the food being provided by the government during the meal breaks.Agriculture Minister Tomar, addressing a farmer leader, said: "O Paa ji ... you are eating alone?" Responding to this, the farmer leader said: "No... no Sir... let's arrange some meal plates for you." Soon, the three ministers of the Narendra Modi government also took a plate in their hands and started queuing up to eat the langar meal.According to sources, the ice was broken mainly during the lunch break. What could not be seen happening during the presentation of the officers in the meeting of Vigyan Bhawan happened during a casual conversation between the ministers and the farmer leaders.Eating lunch with the ministers and then later having tea break together also sent out a positive message among the farmer leaders.Tomar also agreed to continue the power subsidy, along with withdrawal of provisions for action against farmers for burning stubble in the ordinance brought to prevent air pollution in Delhi-NCR during lunch and tea break.At the same time, he tried to find a middle path by asking the farmer leaders to form a committee on MSP and all three agricultural laws. According to sources, this softening in the attitude of the government was appreciated by the farmer leaders due to which the representatives after resolving the issues related to stubble and electricity, willingly approved to attend the meeting on January 4 on Agriculture Law and MSP.What did farmer leaders say?Farmer leader Shivkumar Kakka told IANS: "A total of four issues were taken up in today's meeting, out of which the government has agreed to two demands from farmers. Now agriculture laws and MSP are to be discussed further." Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), told IANS that the conversation took place in a positive environment.Harpal Singh Bellary of the BKU told IANS: "The government has agreed to issue the order, agreeing on two issues related to electricity and stubble. The repeal of the three laws and the guarantee of the MSP could not be done yet. Now, these two issues will be discussed in the January 4 meeting. " — IANS
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Special sexual assault response teams on anvil||The Punjab Police will soon be equipped with Sexual Assault Response Teams (SARTs), which will crack down on perpetrators of crime against women. The Cabinet gave the approval to SARTs at a meeting here on Wednesday. The SARTs will be established in all districts. Its staff will be made up from the sanctioned strength in a revenue-neutral manner, which means without putting any financial burden on the exchequer, by re-designating the post of Sub-inspector.  The restructured police force, with 716 new critical posts against 820 existing non-essential or vacant ones, will focus on the core areas of women’s safety, counter-terrorism, crowd control and anti-riot measures. — TNS
31-12-2020||---||7 kg heroin, three pistols seized at border||Chandigarh, December 30The police on Wednesday seized a consignment of weapons and narcotics pushed from across the International Border in the Dera Baba Nanak sector of Gurdaspur district.A joint search operation by the Amritsar (Rural) police and the BSF led to the recovery of 7.31 kg heroin and three China-made .30 bore pistols from the Metla border out post (BoP).As per inputs, which are to be corroborated during the investigation, the consignment was pushed into the Indian territory by Belgium-based terrorist Jagdish Singh, alias Bhura, who has links in Pakistan. He is a proclaimed offender in three terror cases.A case has been registered under Sections 411 and 414 of the IPC, Section 25 of the Arms Act, and Sections 21 and 23 of the NDPS Act at the Gharinda police station.During investigation, it was found that drug peddler Ranjit Singh, who is lodged in the Ludhiana jail, played a key role in the smuggling of the consignment. The jail authorities searched his belongings and recovered a smartphone from him.He has been nominated in the case and will be brought to Amritsar on production warrant for questioning and investigation into his network of contacts.Ranjit was recruited as a constable in the 80th Battalion of the Punjab Armed Police (PAP) in 1989. He rose up to the rank of an ASI. In 2011, he was booked for his involvement in a drug case after 23 kg heroin was recovered from him. A year later, he was dismissed from service. Ranjit faces five criminal cases of drugs and arms smuggling.
31-12-2020||Amritsar||Ruckus at Jor mela: SGPC seeks action||Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC president, has sought police action against those who had resorted to “sloganeering and hooliganism” outside Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib during the Shaheedi Jor Mela on December 28.Without naming any organisation, she objected to the intention of protesters. She said the protesters had hurt the religious feelings of devotees who had come to pay obeisance to the younger Sahibzadas. — TNSRelated: Sukhbir shown black flags in Fatehgarh Sahib
31-12-2020||---||Sidhu says sorry for pics with Sikh symbols||Amritsar, December 30Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has tendered an apology for hurting religious sentiments by draping a piece of cloth embossed with Sikh religious symbols around his shoulders.In a message uploaded on his Facebook account, he said, “If I have unknowingly hurt the sentiments of even one Sikh, I apologise.”He, however, added: “Millions wear the revered symbols of Sikhism on their turbans, clothes and even carve tattoos with pride. I, too, as a humble Sikh, wore the shawl unintentionally.”Soon after his objectionable pictures were circulated on social media, the Sikh Youth Power of Punjab, a religious body, had approached Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, seeking strict action against the politician. In the communiqué, its office-bearers claimed that the piece of cloth contained Sikh religious symbols such as “Ek Onkar” and “Khanda” that amounted to sacrilege.
31-12-2020||---||Licence of Bathinda blood bank suspended for 15 days||Bathinda, December 30The licence of the blood bank unit at the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, has been suspended for 15 days by the drugs control authority after it found “glaring anomalies” in the functioning of the unit. Notably, HIV-positive blood was transfused to four thalassaemia-affected children and a woman patient over the course of two months at the blood bank unit recently.Glaring anomalies foundAfter a thorough scrutiny of the records, medical infrastructure and functioning of the blood bank unit at the Civil Hospital, we found some glaring anomalies. Following this, we suspended its licence. Dr Ramandeep Gupta, Drug InspectorTalking to The Tribune, drug inspector Dr Ramandeep Gupta said, “After a thorough scrutiny of the records, medical infrastructure and functioning of the blood bank unit at the Civil Hospital, we found some glaring anomalies, a list of which was shared with the Health Department seeking its response on it. In the reply by the department, it admitted to the shortcomings and stated it had made required changes in some of the points mentioned in the report.”“Following this, we have suspended the licence of the blood bank unit. We will conduct inspection after the suspension period and also ensure constant vigil to avoid occurrence of such incident in the future,” Dr Gupta said.A department official said considering it a public health institution, the suspension of the licence was done for only 15 days as in case the period was longer, the patients would have suffered.A senior executive member of the Bathinda Thalassaemia Society said, “The decision of suspension is a cosmetic solution to the problem as it will barely serve any purpose. Apart from thalassaemia patients who require blood transfusion at regular intervals, accident patients or those requiring blood in emergency medical situations will have to bear the brunt. Those requiring blood will be coerced to shell out Rs 500 to Rs 900 per blood unit at private blood banks in the city, which many cannot afford. If the authorities concerned have suspended the licence of the blood bank unit, they should have made alternative arrangements for blood transfusion.”
31-12-2020||---||Faridkot varsity extends MBBS admission date to January 15||Faridkot, December 30The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Wednesday announced to extend the last date for admission to MBBS course from December 31 to January 15.In view of Covid-19 and in accordance with the directions of the National Medical Commission (NMC), the university has extended the date of submission of joining letters for the provisionally allotted colleges during the mop-up round from December 30 to December 31. The stray round of counselling has also been extended from December 31. The revised date is yet to be announced.Though the last date of admission to MBBS and superspecialty medical courses for the academic session 2020-21 was August 31, the entrance exams for these courses were conducted in October due to the Covid pandemic, and the counselling is still going on.The NMC had filed applications in the Supreme Court, asking for extension of the last date of MBBS admission for the academic year 2020-21 from August 31 to January 15, 2021. “In view of reopening of medical colleges after the lockdown, the prescribed time schedule could not be followed. Accordingly, the NMC filed applications in the Supreme Court to extend the deadline,” said RK Wats, secretary, NMC.The NMC has also revised the academic scheme and the time limit for completion of internship training programme of MBBS students across the country to May 31, 2021 from March 31, 2021 to compensate for the lost period of “clinical checkship” due to the lockdown, said Wats.The NMC has also allowed relaxation regarding submitting of thesis by postgraduate medical students. The thesis have to be submitted at least six months before the theory and clinical/practical exams, but the Postgraduate Medical Education Board has decided to relax the regulation and allow the students of batches 2018-19 and 2019-20 to submit their thesis at least three months before the exams.The condition requiring the postgraduate students in broad specialties and superspecialties to present one poster presentation, read one paper at a national/state conference and present one research paper published or accepted for publication during the period of postgraduation for being eligible to appear for the exams has also been relaxed. The students of the 2018-19 batch can appear for exams, even if they have not made a poster presentation.
31-12-2020||Ropar||10 stolen bikes recovered||The police recovered 10 two-wheelers, including four Royal Enfields, on Wednesday and arrested the accused, identified as Paramjit Singh, alias Pamma, of Rurki Hiran village near Chamkaur Sahib. SSP Akhil Chaudhary said the vehicles were stolen from Chandigarh, Mohali and Ropar.    The accused already faced four cases of theft in Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib districts, the SSP said. — TNS
31-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||A year of innovations in govt schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 30School education has been among the top performers for Punjab in facing the challenges of the Covid outbreak this year. Catering to more than 60 lakh students in approximately 25,000 schools, the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) faced the never-seen-before challenges of enrolment, teacher training, teaching, and teacher-student interaction.And, for the first time, everything had to be done online. Besides internet on normal computers, the exercises were designed for smartphones.The first roadblock was getting the teachers ready for computer education. The department introduced ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya’ for digital education through TV/ radio channels and YouTube. Teachers were taught to use the Punjab Educare app and training sessions were organised at the Indian School of Business. The second obstacle was unavailability of smartphones, particularly with poor students. A small section did not have even one in their family. So far, about 1.3 lakh students studying in Class XII have been provided smartphones in two phases by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. A big number of students in the junior classes have been left out.The department claimed an increase of 2.1 lakh in student enrolments this year. A study ‘Making Quality Education Accessible to All: Policy Perspective on School Education in Punjab’ by Punjab University Rural Centre, Kauni (Muktsar), indicated that closure of schools could lead to “huge dropouts” from schools. The majority of students who shifted to government schools came from private schools which had closed down.A section of teachers said the picture was not as rosy as claimed by the department. The Democratic Teachers’ Front said government schools had a shortage of at least 30,000 teachers. It added that going by the ideal teacher-taught ratio of 1:30, Punjab needed at least one lakh more teachers. The department clarified that nearly 35,000 recruitments had been made in the past little over one year and the process was continuing.Secretary (School Education) Krishan Kumar said, “We are doing our best for the students and teachers under the existing circumstances. Besides recruitment on merit, we made teacher transfer online to end all allegations of favouritism.”Initiatives in digital education bring results
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gears up to check mutated Covid strain||In order to check the mutation of strain (N501Y) SARS-CoV-2 virus in Punjab, the state government has decided to send 5 per cent positive samples per week to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, and NCDC, Delhi-Division of Biotechnology, Epidemiology and Central Surveillance Unit.Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, DK Tiwari said it was part of the master plan conceived by the state government led by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to contain the spread of the new virus in Punjab. Tiwari said Punjab had sent 80 random positive samples from Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory, GMC Patiala, 40 each from VRDL, Amritsar and VRDL, Faridkot, to NIV, Pune, to check the emergence of the new strain. — TNS
31-12-2020||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Gang passing secret info to Pak agent busted||The Ludhiana (Rural) police have busted a gang that allegedly passed secret information and pictures of the Indian Air Force to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Three members of the gang — identified as Rampal Singh, Sukhkiran Singh from the district’s Toose village, and Shabar Ali of Kala Amb in Himachal — have been booked under Sections 124-A, 153-A and 120-B of the IPC, Sections 10, 16 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and Sections 3, 4, 5 and 9 of the Official Secrets Act, 1923. Sources say the main accused, Ram Pal, has been rounded up at a CIA centre in Jagraon. The police received a tip-off that Ram Pal and Sukhkiran, who have a criminal record, were passing secret information an ISI agent, identified as Adnal, in Pakistan.  Rampal’s mobile phone was recovered. The perusal of his WhatsApp chat showed that he was in talks with Adnal about a consignment of arms and ammunition. — OC
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM launches DigiNest app||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday virtually launched a mobile application ‘DigiNest to give people access to the state government’s directory, which can be synced with a smartphone.The Chief Minister also rolled out an online Punjab Advertisement Release Order System to bring transparency and efficiency in the process of releasing state advertisements and payments to media houses. The system, he said, would help streamline the process of issuance of advertisements and release of payments.He said the two initiatives would be instrumental in creating synergy between the PR Department and the stakeholders concerned. — TNS
31-12-2020||Fazilka||5 kg heroin seized in Fazilka district||In a joint operation, sleuths of the second battalion of the Border Security Force (BSF) and CIA staff recovered 5 kg heroin (worth Rs 25 crore in the international market), a pistol, two magazines and two live cartridges from across the barbed wire fencing in the area of BOP, Santokh Singh Wala, in Jalalabad subdivision of Fazilka district today.   The CIA staff, Ferozepur, apprehended Dharm Preet Singh, an alleged drug peddler. — OC
31-12-2020||New Delhi||Tailoring stall comes up at protest site||In the list of facilities available to the farmers camping at the Singhu border point of Delhi, the latest is a tailoring stall, with two sewing machines, catering to the growing stitching needs of the protesters.From standard clothing alterations such as hemming and sewing to zipper replacement, hole and tear repair, and velcro placement, nothing is out of bounds for Dalbir Singh, a professional tailor from Punjab's Barnala district who is running the stall."I had come to the protest site a week ago with my friends. That is when I realised that there is a lot of wear and tear in the clothes people are wearing."Later, someone came to my shop in Barnala and said 'stitch my clothes I need to go Delhi for protest'. That is when the idea of opening this stall at Singhu struck us," said the 38-year-old Singh.He has found a helping hand in Baljinder Kaur (35) from Ludhiana who until recently sew clothes as a hobby. PTI
31-12-2020||---||Counter-terror capacity of cops to be enhanced in Punjab||Chandigarh, December 30Amid increasing cases of smuggling of weapons and drugs via drones from across the border, the state government has decided to enhance the counter-terrorism capacity of its police force and establish a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to augment its technological capacity.As part of the Police Department’s restructuring plan approved by the Cabinet, the SPV will be set up on the lines of the Excise and Taxation Technical Services Agency (ETTSA) established by the Excise Department.Online platformThe SPV will establish a Unified Communication Network of police and civil officers, besides undertaking the development of an online intelligence sharing platform. Dinkar Gupta, DGPChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who will be the chairman of the SPV as the minister in-charge, has been authorised to take further steps to establish the SPV.It has been decided to give the SPV the flexibility to hire experts and consultants in various frontline areas of police technology as per the evolving needs of the police.The DGP, Dinkar Gupta, said: “The SPV will work on establishing a Unified Communication Network of senior police and civil officers, besides undertaking the development and deployment of an online intelligence sharing platform in the state.”
31-12-2020||---||Punjab Government to recruit 50K; 10 depts to be restructured||Chandigarh, December 30The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday decided to recruit 50,000 officers this fiscal as part of the restructuring of 10 departments.The new recruitment will be made possible by surrendering or abolishing the existing posts. The focus is on creating relevant posts and doing away with non-essential ones, many of which have been lying vacant for years.Road Safety Associates to be hiredFresh recruitment in the Prosecution DepartmentIn all, 15 posts of Road Safety Associate to be createdThe 10 departments to be restructured are Labour, Technical Education and Industrial Training, Public Works Department (B&R), Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Dairy Development, Tourism and Cultural Affairs, Local Government, Printing and Stationery, Sports and Youth Service Welfare, Defence Services Welfare, and Cooperation.The Cabinet meeting, held through video-conferencing chaired by CM Capt Amarinder Singh, also decided that the new recruits will receive pay scales recommended by the Seventh Central Pay Commission to fresh recruitments. For this, it amended the Punjab Civil Services Rules.“The new pay scales on the pattern of the Seventh Central Pay Commission mean the new recruits will receive salary 10 to 15 per cent less than the existing employees. The employees’ unions have been demanding implementation of the recommendations of the Punjab’s Sixth Pay Commission,” said Sukhchain Singh Khera, convener of the Sanjha Mulazam Manch, an apex body of employees’ unions.The Cabinet amended the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005, which regulates agencies transporting cash in the state. The agencies will be required to obtain a licence from the state as per the Cash Transportation Rules, 2020.To digitally empower residents, the Council of Minister approved the Punjab State Data Policy to track progress and provide them with greater access to services.
31-12-2020||---||BJP burns MP Ravneet Bittu’s effigies over ‘hate speech’||Bathinda, December 30Irked by the statement of Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Bittu on the farmers' protest, BJP leaders and workers today staged a protest and burnt Bittu's effigy at the fire brigade chowk in Bathinda.The controversyThe protest was headed by BJP Bathinda urban president Vinod Kumar Binta. BJP workers shouted slogans against Ravneet Bittu.The BJP leaders also gave a complaint against Ravneet Bittu to the police demanding registration of case against him for making an inflammatory statement. They alleged that Bittu was instigating the protesting farmers.They claimed that Ravneet Bittu in a media statement has said the ongoing farmers' protest would not end “and to achieve our objective, we can even pile up bodies, shed blood and go to any extent.”While talking to mediapersons, Vinod Kumar Binta said, "It is shameful that a senior MP of a national party has made such a statement. From this, it is clear that the Congress government and its leader are trying to disturb peace which will not be tolerated at any cost."In Fatehgarh Sahib, on the state-level call of the BJP to protest against Bittu, BJP leaders led by district president Pardeep Garg on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to the SSP against the MP.The BJP leaders demanded registration of a case under various Sections against him for making provocative statements. Garg alleged that Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu is working to tarnish the unity, integrity and secular image of the country. He is hell-bent on creating a volatile atmosphere by making statements during the ongoing dialogue between the farmers and the Centre.He alleged that to divert the attention of the people from its failures, the Congress is provoking the farmers for agitate. He said the BJP is not scared of anyone but doesn't want clashes with anyone.
31-12-2020||---||Stop damage to mobile towers, says Assocham||Chandigarh, December 30Perturbed over the rising incidents of sabotaging telecom towers in Punjab, The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) has written a letter to Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and sought his intervention. Nearly 1,500 telecom towers in the state were damaged during the ongoing protest.Take steps: GuvIn the letter, Vineet Agarwal, president, Assocham, stated that such incidents (damage to telecom towers) not only resulted in a huge national loss, but also severely dented the image of a progressive state.The continuation of the agitation, especially with incidents of damage to the industrial and other infrastructure, would turn investors away from the state.“We urge you to step up the efforts to ensure that such incidents do not take place,” the letter further stated.Earlier, Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) also condemned disruption of telecom services as a form of protest. “While we respect people’s right to protest on any issue, sabotaging the telecom network infrastructure and disrupting services is strongly condemned,” said SP Kochhar, DG, COAI.On Monday, the Chief Minister had directed the police to take action against vandalism of mobile towers and disruption of telecom services in the state during the farmers’ stir.
31-12-2020||---||BKU seeks relief, job for deceased farmers’ kin||Mansa, December 30Demanding compensation to families of deceased farmers who died during the ongoing protest at the Delhi borders, government job to the next of kin and debt relief, scores of farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) staged a protest in front of office of Deputy Commissioner, Mansa.The union members have announced that if these “genuine” demands are not fulfilled by the district administration and state government, the protest would continue indefinitely.Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, district president of the union, said, “While on the one hand, the state government has been expressing grief over the deaths of farmers at protest venues at Delhi borders, on the other hand, its shying away from providing adequate help to the family members of the deceased farmers. The body of Darshan Singh, a farmer who had died over a week ago, is lying at government hospital, Budhlada. Not even a single government representative has met or expressed solidarity with his family till now.”“Octogenarian Tej Kaur, a resident of Varhe village, had died during a protest in Mansa 19 days ago, but demands made by the family members and union have not been fulfilled by the administration till now,” added Bhaini Bagha.The union has demanded that Rs 10 lakh as compensation to the family of deceased farmers and labourers, a government job to the kin of the deceased and waiver of all debts.
31-12-2020||Abohar||Protesters picket more highways||Farmers today made passage through the Netewala-Mahiyanwali plaza toll-free during their protest against the three laws. Another group of farmers laid siege to both toll plazas on the Padampur-Sriganganagar highway.All India Kisan Sabha district spokesperson Ravindra Tarkhan, Kisan Sangharsh Samiti district president Amar Singh Bishnoi and Gramin Kisan Samiti vice-president Harjinder Singh Mann were leading the protests.Speaking on phone from the Shahjahanpur protest site on the Jaipur-Delhi highway, Amra Ram, former MLA and national vice-president of the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, said further action plan would be decided on the instructions of the ‘kisan morcha’ tomorrow. The number of farmers of Rajasthan and Haryana was continuously increasing at the protest venue. “The new farm laws are like death warrants for farmers. We are continuing the historic movement in a completely peaceful and disciplined manner. There were repeated efforts by the Centre and a section of the media to discredit the movement, but they failed,” he added.Meanwhile, students Federation of India volunteers who reached Shahjahanpur have decided to organise ‘Kisan Classes’ to educate villagers about the “hidden agenda” of the Centre behind enacting the three farm laws. — OCAlso read:
31-12-2020||Jalandhar||Indian-Americans write to envoy Sandhu over stir||After the US lawmakers, several Indian Americans, including Mayors, have expressed concern over the ongoing farmers’ protest.In a joint letter addressed to Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, they have wrote, “Over the past several weeks, many farmers across India have engaged in peaceful protest against legislation they believe will lead to economic ruin of their agricultural communities. They have made it clear that the legislation will benefit corporates, creating monopolies. Farmers have travelled from their homes to protest on the streets of Delhi, demanding change in the government policy.”The letter further stated, “During their peaceful travel, the police have impeded the farmers by blocking roads, attacking them with tear gas, using water cannons and engaging in assaults, to stop them from exercising civil rights granted to all citizens.”The Prime Minister and law enforcement authorities should immediately halt their campaign of abuse against the peacefully protesting farmers, they stated in the letter. — TNS
31-12-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Farmers plough back govt fund for protests in Capital||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, December 30Last week, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi transferred the first tranche of funds under the PM-Kisan Yojana directly to farmers’ accounts, little did he know that these very funds would be ploughed back to sustain the protests being held on the outskirts of New Delhi.On December 24, Rs 2000 each was directly credited to the accounts of 9 crore farmers. This was the first part of the Rs 6,000 annual package to be given to farmers under the Union Government’s mega-outreach plan.Don’t help, repeal lawsEarlier, whenever villagers would receive the PM-Kisan scheme grant, they would feel happy. Now they are livid. They do not need this compassion. All they need is repeal of the farm laws. — Sehaj Pal Singh Randhawa, law studentA majority of villagers who received this money were quick to transfer it to the accounts of those protesting along Delhi’s borders.Satbir Singh Sultani, general secretary, Punjab Kirti Kissan Union, led the way by donating Rs 2,000 to the community kitchen at Singhu. “We have enough funds to sustain ourselves. But then every bit counts.”Sultani said he had received reports that hundreds of villagers were donating money received under the Central Government scheme to ensure ration at the kitchens did not run out.Septuagenarian Hardyal Singh of Dorangla village, located near the international border, said he had transferred the money to his son’s account who is protesting in New Delhi.“On the one hand we are fighting a proxy war instigated by Pakistan, but on the other our own PM is waging a bigger war against us. We do not need his money. We have better ways to keep the agitation going,” he said.Sehaj Pal Singh Randhawa, a law student hailing from Khunda village, near Dhariwal, said he had been part of the Delhi protest for the past 15 days and was amazed at the farmers’ resolve to go in for a protracted battle.“Never had I seen such determination and fortitude among my farming brethren. Earlier, whenever villagers would receive grants from the PM-Kisan scheme, they would feel happy. Now they are livid. They do not need this compassion. All they need is a total repeal of the farm laws,” he said.
31-12-2020||Muktsar||Night patrol on bikes at Singhu border||Sanyukt Kisan Morcha members have started night patrolling the Singhu border on motorcycles to ward off notorious elements. Initially, four motorcycles, which have been given a special look, have been pressed into service. Earlier, teams of farmers patrolled the protest site on foot.  Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian) spokesperson Ravneet Singh told The Tribune over phone: “Several youths have volunteered for night patrolling. To ensure these youths stand out in the crowd, the motorcycles have been painted green. Soon, they will be provided with a uniform. The initiative will be replicated at the Tikri border.” He further said, “Women, children and elderly persons are putting up in tents and tractor-trailers. So it becomes our duty to protect them.” — TNS
31-12-2020||Patiala||Undeterred by bitter cold, more farmers leave for Delhi||It’s a foggy Wednesday morning and a re-purposed trailer, with almost dozen elderly men sitting cross-legged and singing morning hymns, slowly passes through Patiala. Following it are more such Delhi-bound vehicles, with the agitation flags flying on the front and the rear, and hundreds of young and the old shouting: “Nawa saal, Dilli naal.”When the elderly people elsewhere are keeping themselves safe from the cold wave, farmers — both, the young and the old — continue to leave Punjab to camp at the Singhu border to welcome the New Year.Undeterred by the bone-chilling conditions, hundreds of farmers are leaving for Delhi to show solidarity with protesters at the Delhi border. “We are 13 relatives going to back our farmer brothers and celebrate the New Year with them. Our tractor has everything from a makeshift bedroom to a kitchen”, says 21-year old Manpreet Singh of Baran village.Niranjan Singh of Sanaur has packed a week’s clothing and woollens for his two boys and wife as he is ready to see the first sunrise of 2021 at the Delhi border. “When I was young I celebrated New Year at various places, but this will be special. It will be like a pilgrimage for the entire family,” says the septuagenarian.Also read:CM Pinarayi Vijayan moves resolution against central farm laws in Kerala AssemblySeveral Delhi border points remain closed due to farmers' protestHow the ice was broken during sixth round of talks between govt and farmersFarmers have been protesting at different borders of the National Capital since November 26 against the three farm laws. The protests have disrupted normal lives in Delhi-NCR as several borders linking Delhi to cities in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are closed.“I went there first on November 30 for three days and had to come back to take care of my ailing mother. As soon as my 83-year-old mother got well, she ordered me to go to the border and return only when the agitation is over”, says Rajpura farmer Jasbir Singh. “If our mothers can be brave enough, there is no power that can stop us. I am going with four of my friends and we will do whatever work the farmers offer us. It will be our small contribution to this huge agitation,” he says.The farmers insist they won’t settle for anything less than the withdrawal of the laws. “Amid thousands of protestors are a number of non-Sikh, non-Punjabi demonstrators from neighbouring Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerela and Maharashtra. The protest in itself has proved that we are all brothers divided by petty politics. Farmers from Bihar will soon join and this would be one of the biggest peaceful protests witnessed ever in the country. And we are ready”, says Amarjang Singh, who is willing to spend his entire next week at the Delhi border.“After every 10 days, we return home and then again leave for Singhu. It is more of a festival for us where minds across the country discuss nothing but farming,” he says.
31-12-2020||---||Act against those defaming Khalsa Aid: Aujla to PM||Amritsar, December 30Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla on Wednesday shot off a communiqué to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, calling for action against those defaming the Khalsa Aid and its founder Ravi Singh.“The Khalsa Aid is a charitable organisation, which believes in the Sikh principle of ‘sarbat da bhala’. It helps people ravaged by war and natural disasters,” he said.The MP claimed, “Certain media outlets do not approach the organisations for their comment, but merely use their platform to generate hatred and false information.”He requested the PM to intervene and ensure strict action against those trying to undermine the spirit of the Constitution.
31-12-2020||---||Central pay scales for Punjab new recruits||Chandigarh, December 30In a bid to cut its salary bill, the Punjab Government on Wednesday decided to pay salary to new recruits as per the 7th Central Pay Commission.In a meeting of Council of Ministers, approval was given to recruit 50,000 employees by surrendering or abolishing existing posts in 10 departments.The move will not affect the existing staff. The new recruits will, however, not get the benefit of the state pay scales, which are on the higher side. The decision will also affect the contractual staff who were earlier given relaxation in the upper age limit for recruitment in regular pay scales.A 20-member task force set up by the state under former Chief Secretary KR Lakhanpal to devise a lockdown exit strategy had, in its report in April this year, pointed out that “Haryana pays salaries equivalent to the Centre whereas Punjab pays about 25 per cent more without any justification”.Punjab spends almost 45 per cent of its annual revenue on the payment of salaries and pensions.
31-12-2020||Karam Prakash||Covid hits Punjab immunisation drive, leaves children at risk||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 30The Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the child immunisation programme in Punjab. Children up to 6 years of age could not receive scheduled doses of vaccines, particularly during the lockdown period.One-year-old Navneet Kaur of Harbans Colony in Samana is among hundreds others who could not be immunised against various diseases in a timely manner. Her parents kept postponing the vaccination as they feared their family could contract Covid if they visited hospital.Her mother Sharanjeet Kaur said: “After a delay of over six months, we finally gathered courage to take Navneet to a health centre today and got her two doses of Pentavalent.” Pentavalent protects children against five major diseases.Dr Harshinder Kaur, paediatrician, Rajindra Hospital, admitted that the pandemic had severely affected the immunisation drive.An official said: “Health workers were busy in contact tracing of Covid patients, which took toll on the vaccination programme.” Dr Balwinder Kaur, Immunisation Officer, claimed they had been successful in meeting the target after the restrictions were eased.Don’t jump schedule, caution med experts
