03-11-2020||Jalandhar||Garbage mounds raise a stink, is anyone listening?||Tonnes of garbage remained piled up in the city for the third consecutive day due to the silent strike being observed by the Municipal Corporation’s Sanitation Workers’ Union here on Monday.While there wasn’t any formal agitation by workers, the garbage lifting process was halted on Saturday and Sunday. Even on Monday, the lifting was done around 12 pm.Apart from condemning the MC authorities for not fulfilling their demands, sanitation workers said the lack of dumping space at Wariana dumping ground, which is the main dumping ground, had raised an alarm in the city. They said they were forced to lift limited amount of garbage from various dumping sites for the past few weeks. The condition of the main dumping ground of the district had worsened to such an extent that it was taking more than two hours to unload a garbage-laden truck.Rakesh, one of the sanitation workers, said: “It was difficult to move across the path leading to the Wariana dumping ground due to the debris that has accumulated. It has reached up to the knee level. Hence, workers have to wait for hours to unload the junk.”Moninder Pal Singh, a commuter, said: “Owing to this, commuters are at the receiving end as the accumulated garbage not only raises stink, but also occupies half of the road.” Heaps of garbage could be seen at the dumping sites of Plaza Chowk and fish market as well. Although lifting was conducted on Monday, a huge quantity of unlifted garbage still reflected a poor sight. Moreover, dumping areas have become a breeding ground for stray animals, causing inconvenience to the public living in nearby areas.The union members, had allegedly halted the lifting process due to the prevailing uncertainty over the regularisation of sanitation workers.Shami Luthra, vice-president, Sanitation Workers Drivers Union, said: “The MC officials have failed to repair vehicles used in the lifting process and are forcing us to conduct zone-wise lifting. Around four months ago, when the Balraj Thakur Committee was formed, we were assured that we would be paid extra for working on weekends. However, nothing has been done so far. Therefore, we preferred not to work on weekend. In addition, the demands of regularising drivers and repairing vehicles have also been not been considered yet. The department should not be privatised.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garbage-mounds-raise-a-stink-is-anyone-listening-165277
03-11-2020||Jalandhar||Multiplexes resume amid low footfall||A day after cinema halls resumed functioning after a gap of over seven months, the footfall of visitors remained very low.In fact, there were only two visitors in the afternoon show of the PVR here on Monday. While nearly 25 people watched movies at PVR MBD Neopolis, the occupancy was around 15 at PVR Curo mall. The footfall was even lower on Sunday. Though the state government has given its nod to open cinemas, except PVR, the gates of the rest of the cinema halls remained closed. Anticipating more number of movie buffs during Diwali, discounts and offers are also being offered by PVR owners.What’s in storeVisitors will be greeted with thermal scanners and sanitisers, wearing a mask is compulsory, food will be sterilised, every alternate seat has been sealed to practise social distancing, the timings of intervals of two shows would be different. Now, people will have to wait for their food orders and won’t be served inside the hall by workers. A notification will be sent on their phone numbers after their order is prepared. Besides, to avoid contactless payments, people will be asked to pay online.Earlier, the Chief Minister had announced the opening of cinema halls in October, but, the decision was withdrawn considering the Covid-19 threat.Vishal Kumar, a movie buff, who had come to watch a movie with his friend, said: “Ever since the lockdown was announced in March, I was missing going out and watching movies. We were fed up of watching content on OTT platforms and when we came to know that the cinemas are scheduled to open, we immediately booked tickets and reached here. I’m hoping that all safety norms are being followed. In the beginning, we will avoid ordering food and enjoy the movie only.”John, a hairdresser, said: “Watching movies and enjoying pop corns is our great escape from boredom and this was our routine schedule during weekends before the Covid-19 outbreak. Finally, we are sitting in front of the big screen. Proper safety measures have been put into place at the entrance and inside the halls. Seats have been sealed so that social distancing can be taken care of and food was delivered without any physical contact.”Cinema hall managers claim they have made robust arrangements for contactless functioning at theatres. Gautam Dutt, CEO, PVR, said considering the safety of visitors, they have circulated their own set of rules. “Apart from following government guidelines, anti-microbial films were glued on every doorknob and other places of physical contact, Ultra Low Volume (ULV) cabinets have been installed at food counters and the entire premise has been sprayed with Virus 256 verosil disinfectant solution that lasts for around a month. After every show time, all seats will be sanitised,” Gautam said. An extra ticket will be given for free with a ticket booked for watching a Punjabi movie by paying only Rs99, besides a 25 per cent discount on food items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/multiplexes-resume-amid-low-footfall-165278
03-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||When five men turned the tables on the British establishment||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 2At the main stage of the 29th Mela Gadri Babeyan Da on Sunday, a huge picture (right) depicted five turbaned men; in kurtas, kachehras and clapped in irons, staring into the camera on a morning of 1938 at the Amritsar railway station — it invoked the sacrifices made by Ghadarites during the pre-Independence era.These are the faces of iconic peasant movement leaders. Ghadarites Baba Santa Singh Gandhiwind, Darshan Singh Ferumaan, Fauja Singh Bhullar, Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna and Baba Karam Singh Cheema, who were arrested for organising the groundbreaking Amritsar Kisan Morcha in 1938 (total 145 arrests were made). Copped at the Bhandari bridge while on way to the courts at Amritsar, they had recently been beaten up by burly policemen.Going by the current snowballing farmer protests, very few know that the present-day struggle is strikingly similar to the pre-Independence campaign of the Ghadarites. Hardened with the blood, sweat and tears of these men, who fought to get the Mandi Board, farmers tasted emancipation for first time in late 1930s.They were among leaders, who, guided by senior Gadarites mobilised, held meets, fought for peasantry and went to jails to get farmers their rights. The late 1930s were very busy years owing to repeated meetings and farm congregations across Doaba and the state. While Kirti Kisan Party (established in 1928) had been exhorting the state’s peasantry through its mouthpiece the “Kirti” in the 1930-38 upsurge, farmers found a voice and movement the numbers which shook the British establishment.Chiranji Lal Kangniwal, Ghadar historian and member of the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee, recounts, “Each of these men made substantial contribution. They were mobilised by stalwarts like Baba Jwala Singh Thatthiyan and others who left farms in US and Canada to whip up peasantry. They mobilised Kisan Bandhobast by Punjab Kisan Sabha in 1938 and were punished for it. Their non-violent stirs and patience in the face of lathi charge or other government provocation raised questions on the Unionist government’s pro-farmer image.”Why is it contextual to present-day stir?The Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, which came into being in 1939, was a sweetened fruit of these men’s moiling. Also called the Mandi Act, it is this very historic legislation farmers are now fighting for. The Act passed by Sir Chotu Ram freed farmers from decades of exploitation and earned him titles from both Hindu and Muslim peasants — ‘Deen-bandhu and Rehbar-e-Azam’.Farmers revere Gadarite leaders. The systematic preparations for the farmers’ agitation today remind historians of the Gadarite penchant for farmer mobilisation. At a conference held at Cheema Kalan in June 1936, a huge pandal with four gates titled Marx, Lenin, Ramkishan and Kissan Nagar were made. The latest stirs also employ Gadarite and Marxist imagery to make its points – witnessed at the Mela as well.Kangniwal says, “A huge mobilisation took place. It was through the uprisings of Nili Bar and Ganji Bar in Lyallpur (present-day Pakistan) and Muzara movements that the very first foundations of the bristling peasant movements and subsequent kisan morchas were laid. Jwala Singh began mobilising farmers in 1934-35. Under pressure from peasants led by him, Union government’s Agricultural Minister Sir Chotu Ram and Agricultural Department secretary ML Darling had to relent. The unionist party had to bow to the huge surge in farmers’ emancipation and enlightenment.”Devinder Sharma, agricultural analyst and economist, shares, “People are oblivious to the contribution of many unsung heroes. Partap Singh Kairon and later Lachman Singh Gill, who stayed state CM for six months, earmarked funds for roads to the mandis on advice of MS Randhwa. The mandis have protected farmers for ages. The US and the West open markets is a flawed model and emulating them would doom farmers here. It’s important we learn from history and mistakes of other countries and listen to the farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-five-men-turned-the-tables-on-the-british-establishment-165279
03-11-2020||Jalandhar||One of their kind: A relative of Ghadarite at Yadgar Mela||Farmer Gurtej Singh from Mehatpur comes every year to Desh Bhagat Yadgar Mela because he has a deep connection with the Ghadarites.He is a kin one of them who had fought for farmers’ rights during a protest by the Kisan Morcha in 1938. It had led to the arrest of five, one of whom was Sardar Santa Singh and Gurtej is a grandson of his brother. Gurtej shared that his father used to tell stories about his brother Santa and would always share that how he always wanted to see farmers getting their rights.As the issue is on the boil these days, Gurtej got himself clicked with the grand poster showing that how farmers were still fighting for their rights even after these years. Recently, when a statewide protest was held on September 25, Gurtej was accompanied by his children Gurshaan Singh and Paramraaj, who have grown up listening to the stories of Sardar Santa Singh.Like the great Ghadarites, Gurshaan Singh (13) and Paramraaj (10) have also resolved to fight for the cause of farmers. “Mere dada ji kinne saal kisaana de hak layi lade si, te ajj mere bete vi ladan ge. Par kisan da haal ajj vi ohi ne (my grandfather fought for the rights of farmers for years, and now my sons shall follow suit. The condition of farmers remains unchanged),” the father said.Gurtej, who is peddling to the villages motivating people from remote areas to join the protests, is now planning to visit Sardar Santa Singh’s birth place as well, where he would encourage people to come forward to keep the legacy of the great Ghadarites alive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-of-their-kind-a-relative-of-ghadarite-at-yadgar-mela-165280
03-11-2020||Jalandhar||Leading Punjabi artistes mobilise support for protesting farmers||“Theatre during the farmers’ stirs is coming out of a myth. A myth that theatre dies in tent and canvas canopies or in the open. The protests reaffirm that theatre is of the people. It is committed to tell the stories of the people,” says playwright Dr Sahib Singh.In more than one way the angst of the agitation manifested at the 29th Mela Gadri Babeyan Da at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall here on Sunday, the theatre groups active amid the stirs across the state lent wholehearted renderings during the cultural night at the fair. Subjects such as farmer stirs, migrant crisis, Hathras rape incident ruled the roost on the night.A woman carrying a child on a suitcase (migrant crisis), a play warning of the perils of a madari making the public dance to its tunes, a satire on opportunist politicians were the themes echoing on the stage. In Sahib Singh’s play “Rangkarmi Da Baccha”, five children born on the highways during the crisis, asked the audience what their birthplace was.Amolak Singh, cultural convener, Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee, said, “Amid farmer agitation, themes of theatre took digs at the political system in the country and aligned themselves with people’s issues. Art and theatre have had a major role to play in the agitations and farmers’ groups are also actively supporting newer voices and ways which assert their demands.”Interestingly, it isn’t the fringe groups or small theatre troupes which support the stirs but the leading theatre luminaries in the state have channeled their resources to supporting the farmers. As farmers of the BKU extended solidarity with the Mela leaving their morchas, so did the members of myriad theatre groups active during the protests across the state. In the past months many theatre groups have trailed farm agitations holding plays at toll plazas, petrol pumps, roadsides, streets and grounds.Kewal Dhaliwal, playwright and founder Manch Rangmanch, Amritsar, whose group has been performing plays across the morchas in the state, said, “We brought our plays ‘Agg Di Jaai Da Geet’ based on the Hathras rapes and the play ‘Haarhian Sawnian’based on the farmers’ agitations.” They have travelled the state and performed at Barnala, Sangrur, Mansa, Bathinda among other places. “People in thousands watch and identify with plays. At least 12 to 15 groups, including those of Dr Sahib Singh, Kirti Kirpal, Ikattar Singh and Moga groups have all been actively engaging with farmers.”Playwright Dr Sahib Singh, whose play “Rangkarmi Da Baccha” stirred audiences, said, “Theatre in Punjab isn’t a mainstay of the auditoriums anymore. A wall has been breached. During the stirs, it has found a new platform. It has been successful in engaging with the audiences. For ages, it was thought theatre can’t survive in the open or in tents. That myth is busted. It doesn’t need plush auditoriums. We have performed 22 shows at villages, toll plazas, railway tracks and theatre has asserted its voice everywhere. Farmers have expressed keen interest in all the themes of the plays.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/leading-punjabi-artistes-mobilise-support-for-protesting-farmers-165281
03-11-2020||Jalandhar||Administration alert on illegal sale of crackers||To keep a check on the illegal stocking and sale of firecrackers in the district, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday issued helpline numbers 8556918229 and 0181-2224417 where people can register their complaints.The Deputy Commissioner said people could file their complaint through phone calls or WhatsApp following which a time-bound action would be ensured by the administration. The government recently imposed a ban on the sale of imported firecrackers and launched a crackdown on the stocking and sale of such products, he said.The DC said the district administration had constituted a three-member committee of the administration, the police, and the Municipal Corporation to ensure stringent action against the unauthorised storage and sale of firecrackers in the district. The team comprising ADCP Vatsala Gupta, SDM Rahul Sindhu, and Joint Commissioner Municipal Corporation Harcharan Singh would ensure the best of the coordination among the departments concerned, besides expediting action on the complaint received by the authorities, added Thori.The DC said only six permanent licences were issued by the Commissionerate Police in the city to a firm, Braco Fireworks at Khambra village, which have the validity period from March 2021 to March 2023. He further mentioned that as many as 20 temporary licences had been issued by the Commissionerate Police under their jurisdiction to sell firecrackers within the designated premises of Burlton Park. However, no such licence was issued by the administration for the area outside Police Commissionerate jurisdiction (Jalandhar rural).Thori categorically stated that unauthorised stocking and sale of firecrackers outside these designated places would be dealt with iron hands and stern action initiated against the violators.The DC said joint teams of the district administration, the police, and the MC were keeping a round-the-clock vigil against such unauthorised activities and called upon people to lodge their complaints on the helpline numbers to ensure the implementation of the government orders in the district and the safety and security of citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administration-alert-on-illegal-sale-of-crackers-165282
03-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||The pathways taken here should literally be travelled less||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 2The roads connecting the centrally located Lamba Pind Chowk are the ones that should really be taken less – literally – courtesy, the negligent attitude of civic body towards developing new or repairing the existing courses. Hundreds of motorists and commuters on the Lamba Pind Chowk, which connects railway station, Jandu Singha and industrial area, have been facing a harrowing time due to the muddy and pebble-ridden stretches. A quick tour reveals the chowk’s pathetic condition at several places and countless pits on the adjoining roads, especially towards the Chugitti bypass road, posing a grave threat to the lives of commuters.“The road is frequently used by heavy vehicles heading towards PAP, Hoshiarpur, and other districts. And the kutcha stretch is unable to bear the volume of traffic further causing more damage to the road,” says Arjun Singh, a city-based transporter. One could witness heavy traffic on the route. It is majorly used by transporters entering or leaving the city with goods and raw materials. Besides, people heading to Amritsar and Ludhiana also take the same road.The 1m-long link, connecting the busy GT Road with the Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur road, is also going through the same delinquency. Starting from chowk and going up to a railway overbridge (ROB), it is in dire need of repair for it hasn’t been mended for over two years.However, the worst of all is the stretch near the intersection where crater-like potholes have developed. “These get filled with rain water during monsoon and have been proving fatal for the motorists, especially for two-wheeler riders who often meet with accidents,” adds Arjun.The traders of the area also bearing the ill-effects, their businesses have been hampered due to this. Amit Singh, another transporter, who also runs a taxi service near Lamba Pind Chowk tells, “The roads here are damaged to such an extent that they don’t even get proper space to park vehicles. Owing to which, we are forced to use the footpaths which are also broken at several corners. The collision of vehicles is a routine and many have lost lives. We have been operating our transport business here for the past several years and despite several complaints, there is no end to our woes. Proper levelling of road is one of the main task that needs to be done for the smooth flow of traffic,” he suggests.Satnam Singh, a traffic police in-charge, says: “One of the roads was repaired in the last by-elections, however, the situation is same now. The accident usually occurs due to the concrete and soil spread making it difficult for the commuters to take turns or change directions.” The open and overflowing sewage is yet another problem.Meanwhile, Mayor Jagadish Raja, said: “Major portion of the roads at the chowk fall under the Public Works Department (PWD) and the stretches that come under the MC will be reviewed and repaired shortly.”CommuterspeakThe road is frequently used by heavy vehicles heading towards PAP, Hoshiarpur, and other districts. And the kutcha stretch is unable to bear the volume of traffic further causing more damage to the road.— Arjun Singh, A city-based transporterOne of the roads was repaired in the last by-elections, however, the situation is same now. The accidents usually occur due to the concrete and soil spread making it difficult for commuters to take turns or change directions. The open and overflowing sewage is yet another problem. — Satnam Singh, Traffic police in-chargeOfficialspeakMajor portion of the roads at the chowk fall under the Public Works Department (PWD) and the stretches that come under the Municipal Corporation will be reviewed and repaired shortly. — Jagadish Raja, Mayor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-pathways-taken-here-should-literally-be-travelled-less-165283
03-11-2020||---||Father Thomas KJ honours 50 divyangs||Jalandhar, November 2Father Thomas KJ, executive director, Roshni (NGO), celebrated the golden jubilee of his priesthood in a unique way.On the occasion, he felicitated 50 differently-abled persons and shared how he helped them bring back in the mainstream. He said, “I wish to drive away the darkness in the form of deformities and be a beacon of light and hope to distressed persons as taught by Guru Nanak and Jesus Christ. I am just striving to have a better world just the way Mother Teresa and Bhai Ghaniya wanted it to be.”He informed about Harpal (38), a resident of Bholia village in Amritsar, who was suffering from post-polio residual paralysis and was operated upon by corrective surgeries in 1992 enabling him to stand and walk with the help of crutches. The NGO helped him in his studies and provided him a DJ system for his livelihood. Now, Harpal is blessed with two children, he said.Sonu and Michael, who also suffered from polio, were corrected similarly. The NGO helped John Chand 28, who suffered from muscular dystrophy to study till Class XII. He now teaches tuition to students for his livelihood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-thomas-kj-honours-50-divyangs-165284
03-11-2020||Our CorrespondentJalandhar||Students demand reopening of colleges, hold protest in Jalandhar||Responding to a call given by the Punjab Students’ Union (PSU) to reopen colleges in the state, the city-based students of different colleges sat on a dharna outside Lyallpur Khalsa College on Monday.Students said the protest was an indefinite one and would continue until the state government doesn’t issue guidelines regarding reopening of the colleges. They said they would attend their classes while sitting on the dharna.Varjit Kaur, district chief, PSU, said, “Almost all the institutions, including multiplexes and transport had been opened, but institutes of higher education had been kept closed.” “The government is creating an atmosphere of fear in the country by closing down educational institutions in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is affecting studies of students and their placements. It is being used as a mean to keep students away from political activities,” alleged protesting students.District secretary Ramandeep Kaur said in the name of online education, students were being forced to pay fee to colleges.“Online education cannot be a substitute for education received in classes as it is very important for students to have access to classes, libraries, playgrounds and labs for the overall development. However, instead of chalking out a plan on how to reopen the institutions, the government is running away from its responsibilities and boosting online education,” said district committee member Sonia.Student leaders also demanded stern action against the culprits of 1984 Sikh genocide. “The courts have been so slow in delivering the verdict that many people have passed away while waiting for justice,” said students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-demand-reopening-of-colleges-hold-protest-in-jalandhar-165285
03-11-2020||Jalandhar||Soaring prices: Cong workers hand over veggie hampers to Manoranjan Kalia||The District Women’s Congress Committee on Monday held a protest over inflating against the BJP-led Centre in a unique way by taking a basketful of vegetables to the residence of ex-Minister Manoranjan Kalia.Led by Jasleen Sethi, president of the committee, about 50 women Congress workers got hampers of vegetables, including onions, potatoes and tomatoes, packed and offered them to Kalia. The women leaders raked up the issue of soaring prices and said that even poor man’s vegetable like potato was getting out of the reach of the common man.Kalia asked the Congress leaders to first explain the problems like Tanda rape incident and shoddy treatment meted out to the SC students on Post-Matric Scholarship scheme. Sethi reverted saying the state’s police had already held the rape accused and even issued challans against them in 10 days. On scholarship scheme, she said that the state government had already released its new scheme for the SC students. The Congress workers said that the main issue affecting all households these days was escalating prices of vegetables and the Centre was to be squarely blamed for it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soaring-prices-cong-workers-hand-over-veggie-hampers-to-manoranjan-kalia-165286
03-11-2020||Jalandhar||Factory goes up in flames||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/factory-goes-up-in-flames-165289
