06-11-2020||---||Councillor’s son opens fire as spat turns ugly||Jalandhar, November 5A minor argument between two groups took an ugly turn after one of the groups allegedly opened fire to threaten the other. The gunshot was reportedly fired by a councillor’s son.Panic gripped residents of Basti Bawa Khel here, when two bullets were allegedly fired after a heated argument between the councillor of Basti Peerdad area and area residents. However, no one was hurt, except a few injuries to some youth.The incident was reported around 11:30 am at Basti Peerdad area in Jalandhar West constituency over poor water supply in the area. Peeved over the unavailability of water connection in their homes, residents protested outside the residence of area councillor Lakhvir Singh Bajwa.The area falls under Ward Number 76 and the residents of newly built colony were reportedly troubled due to the poor water supply. Despite complaining several times, continuous water supply was still a dream.As per the information provided by the Basti Bawa Khel police station, locals on Thursday gheraoed the house of the councillor and got engaged in a verbal spat with him. Things turned ugly, when Bakwa’s house was attacked and within minutes, a large number of people arrived and started fighting.Sunny, who was among the group questioning the councillor for unavailability of water, told the police that Rahul Bajwa (the councillor’s son), interfered in their protest and threatened them with untoward action. SHO Basti Bawa Khel said, as per the statements of Sunny, Rahul had come with his licenced pistol and even hit him with the gun on his head and later shot two bullets in the air.After reaching the spot, the police confirmed about the gunshot. They however claimed that only one bullet was fired as only one bullet shell was recovered from the area. “Those who were injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital for their treatment and statements of both parties were taken. MLR has been registered and investigation will be done against whosoever was found guilty,” the SHO said.While Rahul maintained that he opened fire to save himself, his father Lakhvir Bajwa couldn’t be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillors-son-opens-fire-as-spat-turns-ugly-166852
06-11-2020||---||Farmers’ stir gets massive response, commuters irked||Jalandhar, November 5Farmers, under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), continued to hold agitation near the PAP Chowk here on Thursday.The nationwide call to hold protests against the three contentious farm laws implemented by the Centre brought traffic to a complete standstill in the district from 12 noon to 4 pm.The Phagwara-Jalandhar-Amritsar national highway remained closed for traffic and heavy police force was deployed to thwart any untoward incident and divert vehicles. Numerous passengers got stranded at the bus stand and PAP Chowk. Commuters preferred to walk for several kilometres instead of waiting for auto-rickshaws or buses.Most troubled were the passengers who had come from other parts of the state. Mehmood Khan, who had come from Hoshiarpur to visit his relatives in Nakodar, said, “I was aware about the protest, but I thought I will make it before 11 am to Jalandhar, and will board a bus to Nakodar. However, the bus arrived around 11.30 am. Later, no bus left the bus stand.”Rashleen Kaur, a student, who had come from Amritsar, and was looking for a bus to reach Chandigarh, remained stranded till 4 pm. All national and state highways across the district were blocked by protesting farmers. The PAP Chowk intersection is crucial as traffic from Jalandhar towards Amritsar, Phagwara and Ludhiana passes from here. Despite repeated requests, protesters didn’t let the convoy of the Armed Forces to cross. Youths, including sportspersons, were high on spirit and ensured that the protest was successful.As internal roads of the city were not blocked, vehicles could be seen plying, but the overall traffic flow remained thin. Demanding immediate withdrawal of the three farm laws, Mandeep Singh, chief, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), said, “We don’t want farmers to suffer in the state. We are fighting for their rights and want that farm issues should not be politicised.” Threatening to intensify their protest, Mandeep said they would hit the road in New Delhi on November 26 and 27 along with other farm unions. Farmers had arrived on the highway at 12 noon and concluded the protest at 4 pm.HighlightsSweet gestureWell aware of the situation in Punjab and dwindling farm rights, Trilok Singh Khalistani, a social worker from Kapurthala, supported farmers and labourers by serving food and sweets. “I reached here at 11 am and with the help of community members, we prepared langar for around 500 people at a nearby gurdwara and served it at the protest site. In the evening tea was also served to farmers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-stir-gets-massive-response-commuters-irked-166853
06-11-2020||---||Nothing illuminating for potters this Diwali||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, November 5 With Covid-19 taking the sheen off the festive season, very few people are coming out to buy diyas to decorate their houses. The sales have gone down severely as compared to the last year. Though the diya makers have been trying their best to make their diyas sell, nothing much has been achieved. The artisans rue this time, their orders got reduced by 50 per cent. Bhagwan Dass (61), a potter who lives in Kumhar Mandi near Sofi village in Jalandhar Cantonment shared that he had been into this work for the past 40 years, but had never seen any such a situation. “The festive season brings cheer to us, but the muted celebrations have taken a toll on us. We keep waiting for the festivals so that we could earn something, but this year has been different,” he shared. The diya makers shared that people were ordering diyas and they were making the same on order, but not the way they used to do in the previous years. “On normal days, we would start making diyas near Baisakhi in April, but this time, we started in July when there was a little relaxation in the lockdown. We also faced issues in getting the soil required to make diyas.  There is an extended family of about 100 persons in Kumhar Mandi that remains extremely busy these days. Everyone, ranging form the 90-year-olds to the 25-year-olds and even school-going children, remain busy making dough of clay, churning out designer diyas, drying them, painting them and taking them to the shopkeepers for sale. Dinesh, a 25-year-old said their diyas go to other states too. “Even this time, we are receiving the orders, but not in the numbers we used to receive. There is nothing like before,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nothing-illuminating-for-potters-this-diwali-166854
06-11-2020||---||Two murder 15-year-old for ransom in Balachaur||Nawanshahr, November 5In a shocking incident in Balachaur, a 15-year-old boy (Tarunveer), was allegedly murdered by his neighbour for ransom.The accused have been identified as Jatinder and his accomplice Sachin Bhati. The accused committed crime in order to realise his foreign dreams as he didn’t had money for the same.Nawanshahr Senior Superintendent of Police Alka Meena said the accused wanted Rs15 lakh to go abroad and thus he along with his friend planned to kidnap Tarunveer.As per information, Jatinder had called Sachin from Noida, and made arrangement for his stay in a dharamshala in Balachaur.The police said Jatinder knew the vicitm, who used to go out in the evening. On day one, the accused and his accomplice saw Tarunveer with another boy, thus they dropped the idea to kidnap him. On day two, they took a car and brought a cold drink and rat killer. In the evening, the duo asked Tarunveer to accompany them in their vehicle.“As Tarunveer was neighbour of Jatinder, he sat with them. When Tarunveer asked the accused where they were going, the accused offered him a cold drink laced with a rat killer. The accused strangled him with a rope and threw the body,” said the SSP.The accused confessed during interrogation that they were about to call the vicitm’s family for ransom after murdering him.As Tarunveer did not return, his mother filed a complaint with the police.A case under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of of the IPC has been filed against the accused. The police said as many as 13 cases were registered against Sachin and five against Jatinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-murder-15-year-old-for-ransom-in-balachaur-166855
06-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||1 dies, 28 test positive in Hoshiarpur||With 28 new infections, the tally of positive patients has increased to 6,328 in the district. With the death of one patient, the district toll increased to 216. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 1,304 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Thursday, while 28 new cases were reported out of the 1,512 reports received on Thursday.  The total number of samples taken so far in the district has reached 1,63,698, of which 1,57,122 were negative, while the report of 1,381 samples were awaited and 133 samples were invalid.  He said the number of active cases was 209 in the district, while the number of patients who have recovered was 5,903.  Of the 28 positive cases found on Thursday, five cases were related to the city. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-dies-28-test-positive-in-hoshiarpur-166856
06-11-2020|| ---||Building of Army Public School inaugurated||Kapurthala, November 5         A new building of the Army Public School in Kapurthala Military Station was inaugurated today by Lt Gen Sanjeev Sharma, General Officer Commanding, Vajra Corps, and the senior patron of the school. Nandini Sharma, zonal president, Army Wives’ Welfare Association, was also present during the inauguration ceremony.  The construction of new school building has provided the value addition and has further augmented the existing school infrastructure. The GOC commended the efforts of various agencies for re-locating and setting up of the new school building. The new school building is equipped with well-furnished classrooms, laboratories, library, a conference room and a multi-purpose hall. The school aims to increase its student strength from 500 to 1,000 with the introduction of Classes XI and XII in all streams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/building-of-army-public-school-inaugurated-166857
06-11-2020||---||Excise Dept makes huge recoveries in 15-day drive||Jalandhar, November 5Considering the festive season in mind, a special drive was initiated a fortnight ago by the Excise Department, wherein the field staff made huge recoveries of illicit liquor from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Hoshiarpur.DC (Excise) of Jalandhar Zone Jaspinder Singh, along with Assistant Commissioner (Excise) AS Kang, on Wednesday held a press conference, saying that the drive was carried out under operation Red Rose of the Punjab Government to crack a whip against illicit liquor smuggling and trading. “To detect and recover illicit liquor, the field staff was put on special duty under the operation,” an official said.While 3,56,000-ml illicit liquor was recovered from Mukerian, 2, 33,000 ml of country made liquor was recovered from Hoshiarpur. From Dasuya, 57,000-ml liquor and 1,180 l beer was recovered. The recoveries are mostly made from areas along the Sutlej.The Excise Department officials said villages were situated far away from residential areas and there was an easy and free availability of water as well. “It becomes difficult for officials to reach there because of the location,” an official said.While 3,56,000-ml illicit liquor was recovered from Mukerian, 2, 33,000 ml of country made liquor was recovered from Hoshiarpur. From Dasuya, 57,000-ml liquor and 1,180 l beer was recovered. The recoveries are mostly made from areas along the Sutlej.The officials said villages were situated far away from residential areas and there was an easy and free availability of water as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/excise-dept-makes-huge-recoveries-in-15-day-drive-166858
06-11-2020||---||‘Awareness can end gender discrimination’||Jalandhar, November 5The NSS wing of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, celebrated the Vigilance Awareness Week with the objective of making young students aware of gender issues prevalent in the society.NSS volunteers also took a pledge to follow a right path in life, neither take nor offer bribe, perform all tasks in an honest and a transparent manner, to act in the public interest, follow integrity in personal behaviour and take a stand against unfair things happening around.Dr Navjot Deol from the Department of English was the chief spokesperson during the lecture. She said gender bias was a global issue. She highlighted the gender discrimination prevalent in the society.Talking about the action plan, she said all of us need to take a stand against this bias. Talking to boys, she directly put forth the need to empathise with girls. They should share the household responsibilities and not indulge and support others passing sexist remarks and while talking to girls. She opined, “Even in the 21st Century, gender discrimination is widely prevalent among the people in the society and we ought to fight it.Dr Sucharita Sharma, Director, Apeejay Education Society, appreciated the NSS team for taking up this subject to discuss with students. She said achieving gender equality and empowering all girls wasalso one of the goals of the United Nations of Sustainable Development.She said, “Being the responsible citizens of our nation, it becomes our moral responsibility to respect others’ rights as well not put up with any kind of discrimination, sexism or prejudice in our life.”‘Act in the public interest’NSS volunteers took a pledge to follow a right path in life, neither take nor offer bribe, perform all tasks in an honest and a transparent manner, to act in the public interest, follow integrity in personal behaviour and take a stand against unfair things happening around.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awareness-can-end-gender-discrimination-166859
06-11-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Centre trying to disrupt farming’||Hoshiarpur, November 5The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Samiti blocked all roads leading to Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Himachal Pradesh, Phagwara and Chandigarh on Thursday.The kisan unions urged the Centre to revoke the three farm laws and raised slogans against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the Centre.The Azad Kisan Samiti (Doaba) leader Harpal Singh Sangha said the NDA government at the Centre was trying to drive farmers out of the state.Manjit Singh Rai of the Azad Kisan Samiti said, “The Centre wants to disrupt farming and give all the profit to a few corporate houses, which farmers will never allow.”He said the BJP leaders were using abusive language against the farmers who had been fighting for their rights. The duo said they would hold a protest in Delhi on November 26 and 27.Meanwhile, the protest at Lachowal toll plaza continued for the 26th day. Farm leaders said the farmers’ associations were protesting against the black laws all over the country and people were becoming aware of the BJP’s deadly policies. Satranjan Singh Dhugga and volunteers of the Khalsa Aid distributed langar while Avatar Singh Sandhu performed kirtan on the occasion.Agri laws will kill us, say farmers in NawanshahrNawanshahr: Farmers comprising women reached at Behram toll plaza for a chakka jam early in the morning in Nawanshahr. Ajab Singh, a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), said no matter what happens, farmers would not relent until the Centre repeals the farm laws.“I am above 70 years of age and have come to take part in the protest. Do you think that we like to come on roads? The Centre has passed the laws, which will kill us and we cannot let that happen,” he said.“Meri tabiyat sahi nahi hai, par fer vi aa rahea aan, apne hakk layi,” said Sarwan Singh (58). He added that there was hardly any hope, but they would fight, no matter what. Agitating farmers didn’t let anyone cross Behram. Davinder Singh, a member of the union said, “We have already lifted dharnas from the railway tracks. We are protesting to ensure that our concerns are addressed by the Centre.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-trying-to-disrupt-farming-166860
06-11-2020||Jalandhar||Illegally stored firecrackers seized, 1 held||Cracking the whip on illegal storage, sale and supply of firecrackers, the city police on Wednesday arrested one person and recovered firecrackers and Chinese string from his godown.Both the illegal substances were stored in the godown in heavy quantity. The suspect has been identified as Gurdeep Singh, alias Gora.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar stated that on the directions of the state government and the High Court, regular checking and surprise raids were being conducted in the city.A police team on Wednesday, after receiving information, raided a warehouse in the Pucca Bagh area and recovered the illegally stored items. The estimated price of the crackers and Chinese dor was Rs 10 lakh, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegally-stored-firecrackers-seized-1-held-166861
06-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Mobile phone, beedis found in Hoshiarpur jail||Hoshiarpur, November 5 The Central Jail administration has recovered a mobile phone, bundles of beedis, tobacco and some other articles from an envelope allegedly thrown in the jail from across the wall. According to information, Des Singh, assistant superintendent, posted at the Central Jail here, stated in his complaint that a prison employee, Gurjit Singh, was on his duty and when he reached near tower number two, he saw an envelope lying there. He informed the jail administration about it and when the said envelope was opened, a mobile phone, four packets of tobacco, three bundles of beedis, a head phone and two data cables were found from it. The city police have registered a case against unidentified persons in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mobile-phone-beedis-found-in-hoshiarpur-jail-166866
