08-11-2020||---||Green crackers — CSIR's ‘gift’ this Diwali||Kapurthala, November 7The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research Labs (CSIR-NEERI) has been successful in developing various environment-friendly fireworks, including sound-emitting crackers, flowerpots, pencils, chakkar and sparkles, said Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, during a webinar on 'Green Diwali' held at Pushpa Gujral Science City on Saturday.Around 300 students and teachers from different educational institutions, including residents participated in the event.These fireworks, based on new formulations developed by the CSIR, were available in the markets for consumers, she said. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic many states banned green crackers to protect residents from respiratory infections, she said.Prof Vinod Kumar Garg from the Department of Environment Sciences, Central University, Bathinda, said bursting of firecrackers during festivals was a common practice in India. A number of chemicals used to make traditional crackers included copper, cadmium, lead, magnesium, zinc and sodium, he said and added that chemicals can cause several health issues, including irritation, asphyxia, metal fume fever, burns and respiratory problems. In addition, environment pollution increases several folds after fireworks, he said.He informed that the Supreme Court had already suggested regulating polluting aspect of cracker industry and to use green crackers during festivals. Further, green crackers produce minimal toxicity and minimal fumes in the environment and can absorb particulate matter and significantly reduce nitrous oxide and sulphur dioxide, which were harmful tohealth. He said if green crackers were used for fireworks, pollution level would reduce around 40 per cent.Dr Kinder Pal Banger, consultant, TB and Chest Disease, advised parents to always keep a first-aid kit ready as well as supervise their kids bursting crackers.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, appealed children and their parents to celebrate Diwali without firecrackers. He urged the participants to go green this festive season.The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research Labs (CSIR-NEERI) has successfully developed various environment-friendly fireworks, including sound-emitting crackers, flowerpots, pencils, chakkar and sparkles. These fireworks, based on new formulations developed by the CSIR are available in markets for consumers. Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science CityA number of chemicals used to make traditional crackers are copper, cadmium, lead, magnesium, zinc and sodium. These chemicals can cause several health issues, including irritation, asphyxia, metal fume fever, burns and respiratory problems. Green crackers produce minimal toxicity and minimal fumes in the environment. Prof Vinod Kumar Garg, Central University, BathindaThe air is already polluted due to burning of paddy residue and increase in number of vehicles. The suspended particulate matter (SPM) levels can cause throat, nose and eye-related problems. It can cause headaches and reduced mental acuity when it reaches the level of 100 ppm. Dr Kinder Pal Banger, consultant, TB and Chest Disease||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/green-crackers-%E2%80%94-csirs-gift-this-diwali-167598
08-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Music as good as it gets, lyrics as deep as ocean||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 7Having made a big name for himself in the field of Punjabi music as a singer, music director, lyricist and even actor, Nirmal Sidhu, 59, is still a name to reckon with.Best known for his song ‘mere dil da khidona’, Sidhu has made a mark in the world of music for over 40 years. He has whipped up a number of albums and even composed music for Punjabi ones like ‘charkha di kook’ and films like ‘Truck Driver’, ‘Purja Purja Kat Mare’ and ‘Lohri Di Raat’ and ‘Charda Suraj’. He also worked in the Bollywood from 2000 to 2002 and for over a decade has been composing music and performing in the UK.The best part about his music is that the lyrics have always given a message. Anyone who sings his popular song ‘uda aeda’ can learn the 35-Akhar Mala of Punjabi. His song ‘vigdi aulad’ teaches a lesson to spoilt children and ‘maa peyo’, with its powerful videos, tries to inculcate family values. He has also written songs on drug addiction problems, unemployment and most recently produced a track ‘kisaani masle’.Sidhu, who originally hails from Faridkot but has done most of his art in Jalandhar, recalls his initial days, “My father was engaged in agriculture work. Belonging to a religious, I was a professional pathi in a gurdwara since my childhood. As a pathi, I began touring Delhi, Rajasthan and Mumbai. I even started performing kirtan getting inspired from Bhai Kartar Singh Khalsa and served as dhadhi as well.”It was his senior kirtan performer Naginder Singh Chahal who changed his life. “I gave up studying before the age of ten years and he told me that this won’t do any good in future. He inspired me to go to school again and I joined Pracheen Kala Kendra and did Visharad. I learnt classical singing with an aim to become a music teacher in a school or college,” he shares.In 1980s, he went to Ludhiana, then a big market for Punjabi music. He began playing harmonium for all top singers, including Surinder Chhinda, Lal Chand and even Chamkeela. In 1988, his song ‘mere dil da khodona’ made him an overnight star. “Three years later, I came to Jalandhar and appeared for a radio gradation exam which I cleared. I even became an approved music director for the DD,” he tells. It was around this time that he recorded the first song for Master Saleem ‘charkhe di kook’ which again took the limelight.Sidhu a proud father as his two sons have carried forward his legacy. Nav Sidhu and Robin Raj Sidhu are now settled in the UK. “The elder is a civil engineer by qualification but has established himself as a singer, composer and a writer. The younger one is a professional video director,” he reveals.The second stageAfterwards came the era of his music composition and lyrics writing for Punjabi movies. In 2000, he stepped into Bollywood coming up with a music album ‘sheeshe ka dil’ which had two Hindi and six Punjabi tracks. He even collaborated with Zee Music and singers like Jaspinder Narula. His track ‘daru teri mari’, too, became a hit. From 2007-16, Sidhu developed his set up in the UK. From working on tumbi and dholki, he inched towards Punjabi pop music which was the demand of the changing times. “I evolved and began working on drum, dhol and bass creating fusion music and doing some hip-hop. In four decades, the music industry has transformed completely. Had I not adapted myself, I would have been forgotten. Change is the biggest necessity. Whether I am in Jalandhar or Faridkot or UK, I still work and create at least one track a month. My most favourite track since my UK days has been ‘hurrrrr Punjabi’, followed by ‘sher Punjabi’ and ‘putt jattan de’. I also set up my label titled Hit Maker Recordz,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/music-as-good-as-it-gets-lyrics-as-deep-as-ocean-167599
08-11-2020||Jalandhar||Covid-19: 2 succumb to virus, 77 test positive in Jalandhar district||The coronavirus cases saw a slight spurt with 77 persons testing positive for the disease and two people succumbing to the virus on Saturday.With this, the total number of confirmed cases in Jalandhar has become 15,597. The number of active cases so far stands at 670. Of these, 440 are in home quarantine, 13 admitted to the Civil Hospital, nine in Military Hospital, six in Patel Hospital, 17 at NHS Hospital and four in New Ruby Hospital. The death toll due to Covid has touched the 480 mark. The sample report of 2,725 patients was still awaited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-2-succumb-to-virus-77-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-167600
08-11-2020||---||More schemes needed for economically backward: MLA Pargat Singh||Jalandhar, November 7The Jagda Punjab held a seminar ‘Future of Dalits and Minorities in Indian Democracy’ on Saturday. The event was organised at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall.MLA Pargat Singh said Punjab’s economic condition was dwindling and spoke on the need to have more social and welfare schemes for economically backward groups.Prof Manjit Singh threw light on the objectives of the Jagda Punjab and appealed people to join the platform.Appurva Anand explained how Indian democracy marked by communal fissures weakens secular fabric.He exposed the hypocrisy of Indian politics by citing opposing response to victories of Indians in foreign political institutions and election of foreign originated Indian politician. He pointed out that venality of minorities under the present rule of majority community asserts its domination against violating the constitution spirit. Asserting the states’ rights over centralisation of political power, he said what’s wrong if various cultures identify with their own cultural flags and symbols while also respecting tricolour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/more-schemes-needed-for-economically-backward-mla-pargat-singh-167601
08-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||The hidden treasures inside of us!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 7People like Rekha Kashyap (37), a city-based social activist is making a difference in the lives of specially-abled children. With a passion to serve disabled kids, Rekha prepares them for sports and para activities. She has been in this line of work for past 20 years. And most of her wards so far have either excelled in sports or academics.Rekha Kashyap (centre), Social activistYoung minds with disabilities face more denial, discrimination and inadequacy when it comes to physical activities and recreation. Considering that their children won't be able to play any sport, most of the parents are unaware of the games designed particularly for the specially-abled children. I believe every child possesses a special skill and if utilised in a right direction it can do wonders. “Young minds with disabilities face more denial, discrimination and inadequacy when it comes to physical activities and recreation. Considering that their children won’t be able to play any sports, most of the parents are unaware of the games designed particularly for the specially-abled children. I believe every child possesses a special skill and if utilised in a right direction it can do wonders,” she says.The focus of her work is on providing such children an environment conducive for them to explore their abilities. “We basically do research on disabled children for three-four years prior to putting them into activity. Me and my team spend time with children between 4 and 7 year-olds and try to get friendly with them. Participating in a sport not only makes you feel lively but also boosts your confidence and energy levels. Hence, the children are later on engaged in sporting activities,” Rekha adds. Being a sports enthusiast herself, she tries to fully resonate and understand the transformation that the research programme brought about in the attitude of the children.The year when it was foundHer interest first rooted in 2001, in the first year of her graduation, as part of a college assignment, Rekha was asked to work with a few disabled children to understand their behaviour and interests. Her efforts at the time hauled in laurels from her mentors and the children under her watchful gaze also had responded well. Subsequently, she joined Red Cross society and continued to work with the specially-abled children and nurtured them for Special Olympics. The professional journey started in 2006 and she collected all the necessary qualifications required for the field.At present, she is training nearly 35-40 children in the state. She says, it feels good when her children clinch state or national-level medals. “This is the only motivation for me to go forward with this profession. My aim is to train more children for the “Young Athlete Development Programme,” Rekha, who is presently the Special Olympics Bharat Programme coordinator, says.A resident of Gopal Nagar, she was conferred upon with the best sports educator by the administration. In 2018 and 2019, she was awarded with ‘Best Unified School Award’ by Special Olympics Bharat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-hidden-treasures-inside-of-us-167602
08-11-2020||---||Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, rolls out lightweight parcel coach mark-II||Kapurthala, November 7Achieving another milestone, the Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, has rolled out a new version of parcel coach — LVPH Mark-II.Earlier in January, the RCF had rolled out the first 24 ton capacity LHB parcel van Mark-I to deliver light goods to every nook and corner of the country at high speed. These parcel coaches become very useful to the Indian Railways which is facing a stiff competition in the parcel business. Since then, the RCF kept on producing these parcel coaches on a massive scale. The RCF has already delivered 212 parcel coaches in present fiscal.Now, by bringing some significant design changes and reducing the tare weight of Mark-I by 3 tonnes, the RCF has introduced new version LVPH Mark-II, which is well-endowed to carry heavier parcel goods at faster speed thus giving an impetus to the parcel business.Under the major design improvements, mild steel luggage racks have been replaced by lightweight stainless-steel racks, while the board and metal flooring has been redesigned to all-metal flooring. The weight of the coach has also been reduced by converting the panelled interior wall to directly painted wall and modifying the design of the roof panel.The first LVPH Mark-II coach was flagged off from RCF by general manager Ravinder Gupta. Gupta said the Indian Railways, and particularly the Rail Coach Factory, had gone from strength to strength even during the pandemic. During the Covid crisis, RCF continued to manufacture parcel coaches, so that the Indian Railways could transport essential goods in various parts of the country.Also, the monthly LHB coach production rose to all-time high in the last 18 years, while achieving an outturn of record 5.88 coaches per day in October 2020. With the commissioning of this lighter weight mark-II parcel coach to service, it will make possible to parcel the heavy goods at a high speed and trains now will be able to ferry extra parcel goods equivalent to two coaches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rail-coach-factory-kapurthala-rolls-out-lightweight-parcel-coach-mark-ii-167604
08-11-2020||Jalandhar||Smart schools inaugurated in Jalandhar district||Students end five-day protestJalandhar: The Punjab Students’ Union concluded their five- day protest outside Lyallpur Khalsa College on Saturday. They were protesting against the discontinuation of regular classes in colleges. Agitators urged the administration and college authorities to reopen higher institutes immediately. They sought the withdrawal of an FIR against a poet of the SC community. Varjit Kaur, district chief, Punjab Students’ Union, said “The government should reopen colleges in the state so that students can attend classes. There are many students who cannot afford gadgets to study online. If malls, multiplexes, schools and markets can reopen, why can’t colleges?” The government should devise a strategy for students pursuing higher studies. Students holding placards raised slogans against the government. Student leaders said the New Education Policy was directly linked to privatisation and commercialisation of education system and they strongly condemned it. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smart-schools-inaugurated-in-jalandhar-district-167606
08-11-2020||Jalandhar||School awarded||Online contest held for tiny totsJalandhar: Innokids, a pre-primary unit of Innocent Hearts School conducted an online activity for tiny tots. Students presented their views on ‘My favourite toy’ and ‘My favourite cartoon character’. The little ones presented their views on Doremon, Peppa pig, Shin Shan, Oggy, car, teddy bear and Barbie doll. Innokids in-charge Alka Arora said speaking activities enhance vocabulary and instill confidence in kids. Winners of the contest included Anahita, Manreet, Naman Bhat, Ishan Goyal, Harleen Kaur and Rudra Gaba.Diya-decoration competitionJalandhar: IVY World School will soon hold a diya-decoration competition, go green event and science model making, for students of Class I to III. Principal S Chauhan said, “The way to spread light is to either be a candle or mirror. The school is making tremendous efforts to help reflect the light of goodness in young and energetic souls through such activities.” The Principal appreciated educators for putting in tireless efforts to make school life for little angels as lively as possible. Chief of the Vasal Education Society K KVasal, chairman Sanjeev Kumar Vasal, director Ena Vasal and CEO Raghav Vasal lauded the staff and students.Debate held on drug de-addictionJalandhar: HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School organised an online debate contest on drug de-addiction under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. The event started with lighting of the lamp and reciting of gayatri mantra. Prof Sareen addressed students and said by organising such competitions, students get aware about the ills prevailing in society. “We can inculcate a positive attitude in them, which can help them in becoming a responsible citizen,” said Sareen. Students came out with their views on drug de-addiction, its hazards and laws made by the government to curb the menace in the country. Ira Bhatia, a student of Class XI (medical stream) stood first, Glory of Class XI (Humanities stream) ranked second and Pragati Wadhora, a student of Class XI (Humanities stream) stood third, in the debate. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-awarded-167607
08-11-2020||Jalandhar||BSF organises 20-km cycle rally||As part of a ‘Fit India Movement’ amidst the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Headquarters of Punjab Frontier of Border Security Force (BSF) organised a 20-km cycle rally here on Saturday.While various physical activities like marathons were being organised, this one saw a huge participation. Jawans, officers and even their families participated in the event this morning. Since cycling involves keeping of social distance, the BSF personnel had already been used to. IG BSF Mahipal Yadav flagged off the rally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsf-organises-20-km-cycle-rally-167608
08-11-2020||---||Punjab Governor chairs Lovely Professional University’s award ceremony virtually||Jalandhar, November 7Lovely Professional University (LPU) organised an annual award ceremony for the third edition of Transforming Education Awards (TEA) and 1st study grants distribution at its campus, where Governor Punjab VP Singh Badnore made a virtual address and bestowed 667 awards.The awardees included principals, teachers and meritorious school students selected from across the country. Based on unique and novel idea, the event saw a direct or indirect participation of more than five lakh students, teachers, and parents from across India.Mentioning teaching profession as selfless service, Badnore shared that “a good teacher acts as building block of a strong nation by helping children to become good citizens. It is a profession which has proved its worth of being a profession which teaches all other professions”. He emphasised that “during current time of Covid-19 pandemic, teachers had to put lot of extra efforts in getting acquainted with the new way of teaching, and also to keep the students’ motivation and aspirations high. It is because of the dedication of the teaching fraternity that we have been able to navigate during this time of pandemic with the same quality education to young talents of our proud country.”The awardees had reached LPU campus from across India to attend the ceremony, where it was held under strict observance of social distancing and other related government-issued directives. More than Rs 2.5 crore were awarded to 412 inspiring principals, teachers and students of 107 schools, and 255 meritorious students selected from across the country.LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal shared that the awards would motivate and encourage more teachers for betterment of education in the country. Also present on the occasion were LPU Pro Chancellor Rashmi Mittal; executive deans Dr Lovi Raj Gupta, Dr Sanjay Modi; senior dean Dr Monica Gulati; HD admissions Dr Rajeev Sobti; and jury member for awards Vikram Puri, head agro tech advisory, farm division, Mahindra & Mahindra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-governor-chairs-lovely-professional-universitys-award-ceremony-virtually-167609
08-11-2020||* DC hands over a cheque for Rs 50K||Love, aid start pouring in for 70-yr-old Paranthe Wale Bebeji||* Women panel chief pays visit, offers the elderly entrepreneur a few goodiesTribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 7Touched by a viral video showing her persistent efforts to sustain herself even at the age of 70 by making paranthas at the roadside near Phagwara Gate market, the district administration as well as the Punjab State Women Commission have come forward to offer Paranthe Wale Bebeji some financial support.Kamlesh Kumari, popularly known as Bebeji, has been working from 7 pm till 1 am at her shop for the past over 30 years. Peddling her cycle and carrying stuff, including wheat flour, boiled potatoes along, she has been a popular face in the city.After her video went viral on social media, the women commission chief, Manisha Gulati, paid a visit at her stall last night. She sat there and savoured her parantha. She also took along some gifts for her, including a blanket, and said she would take up the matter with the administration asking the officials to enquire as to why an elderly woman had to strive so hard at this age and why her children were not taking care of her.Bebeji, however, said her children does not earn enough to meet the expenses of her medicines and other needs and hence, she always found it more convenient to work and make her own income. She said she had no grudges against her son and daughter. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday issued her a cheque for Rs50,000.SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh accompanied by District Social Security Officer Varinder Bains on Saturday visited the house of Kamlesh Kumari in Parkash Nagar locality and handed it over to her besides enquiring about her well-being.Thori said on the direction of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, financial assistance from the CSR funds had been provided to her as an encouragement to this elderly entrepreneur. In addition to this, the CM has also announced a financial help of Rs1 lakh for her. The DC said this aid, too, would be provided to Kamlesh Kumari soon. Further, the CM has directed the administration to offer its services to the old woman and help her in meeting her daily needs, the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/love-aid-start-pouring-in-for-70-yr-old-paranthe-wale-bebeji-167610
