10-11-2020|| ---||Using hands as weapons, school girls to get training in self-defence||Kapurthala, November 9 To provide a great sense of security to school girls in Kapurthala, the district administration on Monday launched a 45-day self-defence programme, in which Asian gold medallist in martial arts Gurpreet Rozy Sethi would provide his services.  Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, who is personally looking after the implementation of this noble initiative under Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao programme across the district, said: “Being a woman, I want girls to deal with people with bad intentions with an iron hand and the district administration would provide all kind of assistance to girls for that.”  The training programme was launched at various government schools in Kapurthala, Phagwara, Bholath and Sultanpur. In Kapurthala, it was launched by ADC General Rahul Chabha. In the first phase, a batch of 500 girls will be trained from Class IX to XI. Eight martial arts trainers would be a part of the team.  In charge of the team Rozy Sethi said the training programme has fully professional approach, as it would be on the basis of ‘Locks and Chokes’ art. It will prepare girls to use their hands as weapons to save themselves besides using pens, pencils, bags, clips for their defense. The trained girls would receive certificate from the Education Department, which will be fruitful for their future.  Rozy Sethi, who used to train the US Marines in Philippines from 1991 to 1992 besides providing training to security troops of Philippines President from 1994 to 1998, said the training would be a game changer for society, as it would not only provide a sense of security, but also boost their morale in a great way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/using-hands-as-weapons-school-girls-to-get-training-in-self-defence-168689
10-11-2020||---||Close shave for 2 as car catches fire||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/close-shave-for-2-as-car-catches-fire-168690
10-11-2020||Jalandhar||Four held with illegal weapons||The division number 7 police on Sunday held four persons with illegal weapons.  SHO Ramandeep Singh said ASl Surjit Singh had received a tip-off that the accused were crossing the area with the consignment. A check-post was arranged near the PIMS hospital.  The accused, identified as Navjot Singh, alias Jodha; Manpreet Singh, alias Goldie; Soni Lal, alias Soni; and Manpreet Singh, alias Mannu, were held. Along with weapons, a four-wheeler bearing registration number PB08-AX-2700 was also impounded.  A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Illegal Weapons Act was registered against the accused. The inspector said the accused had hidden one 7.65 mm rifle, two magazines of 7.65 mm and 20 live cartridges from the vehicle. The cops are further investigating the case to trace the supply of illegal weapons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-held-with-illegal-weapons-168691
10-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Bizmen in quandary over suspension of goods trains||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 9The Centre’s decision of not resuming goods trains in the state has affected the industry badly. Jalandhar has pipe fittings, surgical instruments, valves and cocks, hand tools, auto parts and sports industry concentrated in the city.Thus suspension of goods trains has put industrialists in a difficult situation. As a result, traders, exporters and manufacturers had been hit hard.Narinder Saggu, a leading industrialist of the city, said, “Although the industry is concentrated in Jalandhar, hardly any raw material is available in the state.”“Raw material, including pig iron, iron, coal and oil comes from other states in goods trains, which have been stuck at Agra and Panipat due to which rate of raw material has increased. Price of pig iron has increased to Rs 5 per kg. There is a double whammy. We will have to bear the brunt in coming days as well,” said Saggu.“To export finished products, we are using road transport. We are paying Rs50,000 extra for a single container,” he said.Rakesh Chawla, a manufacturer of pipe fittings, said it was getting very difficult due to non-availability of raw material.Recently, Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said the industry was facing an unprecedented crisis due to non-operation of goods trains as export and import worth Rs 2,000 crore was stuck.Kamna Raj Aggarwalla, Regional Chairperson, Engineering Export Promotion Council, highlighted the problems faced by industrialists. She said the issues such as non-movement of containers from Ludhiana, scarcity of empty containers for exporters and unavailability of raw material has been troubling industrialists.Oaykay Tools owner Sharad Aggarwal said, “As holidays are around the corner in Europe, USA and Russia, most orders from these countries come during festive season. This situation is tarnishing reputation of Punjab-based exporters.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bizmen-in-quandary-over-suspension-of-goods-trains-168692
10-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||Train cancellations add to passengers’ woes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 9As the agitation by farmers against the contentious farm laws continues to gain pace all across the state, the cancellation of several long route and other passenger trains continues to give a tough time to passengers. Following the bandh call on November 5, farmers have announced to halt railway tracks until their demands are met. After November 20, farm outfits have decided to hold intensified protests and are likely to move to Delhi to get their voices heard.While the Railways had earlier announced bringing more trains on tracks, considering the festive season, cancellation/short-termination and diversion of trains has been extended till further orders. As many as 24 mail and express trains including ‘Puja Special’ have been cancelled and nearly 15 have been short-terminated from Ambala and Saharanpur.The untimely cancellation of trains has left passengers at the receiving end. Worst affected are those, who couldn’t have access to online ticket booking and cancellation facility. There are many passengers, mostly migrants, who could be seen thronging the city railway station to book and cancel their tickets and enquire about the resumption of trains.Shashi Kumari (32), a migrant who has been staying in Jalandhar for the last 10 years, rued that this was the first time that she would be unable to join her family during Diwali. “Every year, we have this ritual of meeting our loved ones during Diwali and greet them with sweets. But the cancellation of trains has affected our celebrations. Apart from the festival of lights and candles, we also celebrate ‘Chhath Puja’ together, as it comes right after Diwali. My sister is also getting married on November 25 and we are unable to go back to our homes. The usual train that we used to travel through has been cancelled and there is no certainty over its resumption. We hope to be with our family at least for the marriage,” she said.Those CancelledThe list of cancelled mail and express trains announced by the Ferozepur railway division include the 02425/ 02426 (New Delhi-Jammu Tawi-New Delhi Rajdhani Express) special train journey commencing on November 9; 22439 /22440 (New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra- New Delhi Vande Bharat express); 02461 (New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra express special train); 02462 (Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi express special train); 02011/ 02012 (New Delhi-Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi express), 02029/ 02030 (New Delhi- Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi express), 02054/ 02053(Haridwar-Amritsar-Haridwar Jan Shatabdi express) cancelled on November 10.No ‘Puja Special’ trains02422 (Jammu Tawi-Ajmer express special train), 02421(Ajmer-Jammu Tawi express), 09613/09612(Ajmer Amritsar express) cancelled on November 9 and 10. 02920 (Katra-AmbedkarNagar express) and 02587 (Gorakhpur-JammuTawi express).Trains short-terminated, short-originated02903 (Mumbai Central-Amritsar express train) to be short-terminated at Ambala; the 02904 (Amritsar-Mumbai Central express train) to remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala; 02925 (Bandra Terminus-Amritsar express train) to be short-terminated at Ambala; 02716 (Amritsar-Nanded express) to be short-originated from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi; 04649 (Jaynagar-Amritsar express) to be short-terminated at Ambala. Consequently, 04650 (Amritsar-Jaynagar express special train) will remain short-originated from Ambala and partially cancelled between Amritsar and Ambala; the 09026 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus express special journeys commencing on November 11 will short-originate from Ambala. It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar. The 02356 Jammutawi-Patna express special train; 02237 (Varanasi-JammuTawi puja special) will be short-terminated at Saharanpur and 02238 (JammuTawi-Varanasi puja special train) will short-originate from Saharanpur and partially cancelled between Saharanpur-JammuTawi-Saharanpur.Those divertedThe 05909 (Dibrugarh-Lalgarh) will be diverted to run via Rohtak-Bhiwani-Hisar-Hanumangarh and the 05910 (Lalgarh-Dibrugarh) will be diverted to run via Hanumangarh-Hisar-Bhiwani-Rohtak.Short-terminated/originated parcel special trains00901(BandraTerminus-JammuTawi) express will be short-terminated at Ambala and 00902 (JammuTawi-Bandra Terminus) will short-originate from Ambala and remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Jammu Tawi-Ambala.‘Had no option but to take loan to buy bus tickets’ In the absence of long-route and festive special trains, passengers are forced to take private buses that run illegally in the state and overcharge from people of other states. A large number of migrants at the city bus stand were seen paying Rs2,000 to Rs3,000 to bus operators just to board the bus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/train-cancellations-add-to-passengers-woes-168693
10-11-2020||---||Jalandhar district reports 2 more Covid fatalities, 77 new cases||Jalandhar, November 9After recording an all-time low caseload for the last two weeks, the district on Monday reported 77 fresh Covid positive cases. While reports of 1,540 tested negative, 59 patients were discharged.In addition to this, two people succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 84. Concerned over the sudden spike, the administration has appealed residents to remain vigilant about threats of the virus and to fully comply with the guidelines issued by the government.Three succumb to virus, 46 test positive in HoshiarpurThe total number of positive patients in the district has risen to 6,437 after 46 new cases were reported in the district, of the 1,633 samples reports received on Monday.Three people also succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 223.The number of samples taken in the district has increased to 1,68,861 so far with 1,489 new samples taken from people with suspected flu-like symptoms. According to lab reports, 1,62,437 were negative, while 1,159 reports were awaited and 133 were invalid.The number of active cases in the district is 188, while the number of recovered patients is 6,026.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of 46 positive cases found today, nine were related to Hoshiarpur city, while the remaining 37 were related to various health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-2-more-covid-fatalities-77-new-cases-168694
10-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||Five killed, 5 hurt in 3 road accidents in Hoshiarpur district||Five persons were killed while five others were injured in various road accidents in the district in the last 24 hours.Mandeep Singh of Basi Kalan in his complaint said his brother Hardeep Singh, along with a friend Sandeep Singh of Handowal, was on a bike, when a vehicle hit them, seriously injuring them. They were taken to the Civil Hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead.In another case, Paramjit Singh of Bainsatani village said his uncle Mahinder Singh was hit by a car on Tanda Road. Due to a deep head injury he died. A case was registered. In the third case, Gurdev Singh of Puar village said his brother-in-law’s son Lakhwinder Singh’s bike collided with a car parked wrongly. He died at a hospital. Meanwhile, a devotee returning from Chintpurni was killed and five others critically injured on the Hoshiarpur-Phagwara road. The police are investigating the case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-killed-5-hurt-in-3-road-accidents-in-hoshiarpur-district-168695
10-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||67-yr-old could not be more content after his retirement||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 9Jaspal Singh, a 67-year-old retired Punjab Roadways employee is giving retirement goals to several people of his generation through his hobby of gardening. Though, he grew up watching his ancestors grow foodgrains and vegetables, he discovered his green thumb around four years ago.After his retirement in 2012, he only used to grow vegetables and a few seasonal fruits. But it was after the sad demise of his wife in 2015 that he found solace in nurturing plants and increasing green cover around his house in Sarai Khas village in Kartarpur., he began to find solace in growing plants. Now, he not only grows trees but also encourages people in his village to take to afforestation.With lush green plants and date palm trees, his house is a delight to watch. Birds chirping on the branches of trees further add to the beauty of his abode, he says.It’s been over a year since he started distributing various varieties of plants for free. He has nearly 1,500 saplings and around 50-100 trees that he has kept for free distribution. Apart from the locals in his village, even people from nearby villages and plant lovers visit him for taking plants.“Seeing buds grow out of a plant tended by you gives you hope,” he feels. Jaspal also gives medicinal and other useful plants to his friends and relatives. “When I was young, my father used to tell me, how his grandfather turned an entire area of the village into a green space. He was very adamant upon protecting the environment. Similarly, the extra time during my retirement days gave me an opportunity to give it back to the nature in the form of gardening. Besides, the idea of distributing plants occurred to me after the 550th celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev. I was quite fascinated by his teachings and his zest for protecting the environment. Hence, I resolved to plant around 2,500-3,000 plants in a year,” said, Jaspal, who took to this green hobby to make most of his ample time at hands.His daily routine starts with watering the plants and removing waste grass. He also supplies his plants with natural manure. He has also grown over a dozen different varieties of fruits. The list does not end here, his garden also boasts of several medicinal plants and vegetables. Jaspal said, it was after his retirement that he realised the benefits of staying close to nature. He says, providing respite from the regular hustle of life, gardening is a healthy retreat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/67-yr-old-could-not-be-more-content-after-his-retirement-168696
10-11-2020||---||Hockey Punjab chief Nitin Kohli inspects coaching camp organised by Surjit Hockey Society||Jalandhar, November 9Hockey Punjab president Nitin Kohli met players participating in the coaching camp organised by the Surjit Hockey Society today. On the 50th day of the coaching camp, president of Hockey, Punjab, Nitin Kohli, inspected the coaching camp, which started from October 8. While addressing the participants of the coaching camp, he described it as a great initiative and said it would definitely benefit Punjab and Indian hockey in future.Nitin Kohli appreciated the efforts made by Surjit Hockey Society President-cum-DC Jalandhar Ghanshayam Thori and his entire team, especially secretary of society Iqbal Singh Sandhu PCS (Retd) and Chief Public Relations Officer Surinder Singh Bhapa to promote hockey in Jalandhar.Kohli announced to provide Tracer shoes to around 100 participating players and assured the Surjit Hockey Society of all possible help by Hockey Punjab. He also appealed to parents to send their children to learn hockey in the camp for their better future. Today, Hoshiarpur-based player Sukhchain Singh was honoured with a hockey stick by Nitin Kohli.Iqbal Singh Sandhu, Secretary, Surjit Hockey Society said the camp started on October 5 by the Surjit Hockey Society with five players and today more than 100 players are attending this camp. These players are being coached by Olympians Rajinder Singh, Davinder Singh, Avtar Singh Pinka and Yadvinder Singh Johny coaches. In addition to fruits, soaked almonds are being given as a daily diet to all participating players. According to Sandhu, no fee is being charged to attend this camp and the training is also free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-punjab-chief-nitin-kohli-inspects-coaching-camp-organised-by-surjit-hockey-society-168697
10-11-2020||Phillaur||Harish Rawat to participate in tractor rally at Nakodar today||Former Punjab Youth Congress President and Phillaur Assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary said AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat would participate in a tractor rally at Nakodar tomorrow.The rally would be held against the recently passed ‘anti-farmer’ laws and Rawat would be accorded a welcome by Congress party workers. To make preparations for his visit, Vikramjit Chaudhary had called a meeting of local Congress leaders and workers.He stated that former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat would be received at Sutlej Bridge, Phillaur, by Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary along with him and Congress party workers. Thereafter, he would be welcomed in Ganna Pind and Partabpura route to Nakodar.Zila Parishad members Surjeet Singh Pehelwan, Harmesh Lal and Gurpreet Kaur, Block Samiti Phillaur Chairman Davinder Singh Lasara, Vice-Chairman Block Samiti Phillaur Jaswinder Singh Jassi, Phillaur Market Committee Chairman Makhan Singh Khaira, Phillaur Market Committee vice-chairman Vijay Kumar Billa, Goraya Market Committee Chairman Dara Singh Rai, Goraya Market Committee vice-chairman Ram Lubhaya, Rurka Kalan Block Congress president Rakesh Duggal, Goraya city Congress President Manish Jain, Goraya city Congress vice-president Sanjay Atwal, Goraya municipal council president Kamaldeep Singhwere among those present during the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harish-rawat-to-participate-in-tractor-rally-at-nakodar-today-168698
10-11-2020||Jalandhar||Five-day Diwali exhibition kicks off at Virsa Vihar||Emphasising the importance of arts, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today urged the youth to take up any form of art in our lives as it reflects upon the brighter aspects of our personality. The Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam was speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the exhibition ‘Diwali 2020- Lockdown Expression’ at Virsa Vihar by Apeejay College of Fine Arts. The DC visited the exhibition and interacted with the budding artists to explore more about their creations. Addressing the gathering of art lovers and the local artist community at the Stya Paul Art Gallery of Virsa Vihar, recalling his tryst with music, the DC explained how he took up various music arts to explore more about this passion. He said the extracurricular activities, be it sports, art and craft, writing, reading, or anything else play a pivotal role in exploring and examining ones’ true being, besides reflecting the brighter aspects of their personality. The DC visited the exhibition of paintings, sculptures, murals, photographs, tapestries, designer furniture, terracotta, colorful dupattas, and handbags, handmade lamps, maks, pillows, trays, chocolates, etc. prepared by the students. He lauded the talent of these young students by terming them as preservers of the glorious history. Director of Apeejay College of Fine Arts Sucharita Sharma introduced DC to paintings, sculptures, and other art forms with a detailed account of their making. The exhibition would continue between 10.30 am to 6 pm. It is on till November 13. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-day-diwali-exhibition-kicks-off-at-virsa-vihar-168699
10-11-2020||Dasuya||Four arrested with 1-kg opium||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-arrested-with-1-kg-opium-168701
