12-11-2020||---||France-based NGO brings back ashes of 8 from Punjab||Jalandhar, November 11It was seven months after his death that the family of Satnam Singh Basra (25) from Alaman village of Gurdaspur was able to receive his mortal remains today. An illegal immigrant to France, Basra had reportedly committed suicide on April 2 when he was detected Covid-positive. Unable to get back his body on their own owing to bad financial state, his brother Harnek Singh and brother-in-law Hardeep Singh had sought the help of France-based philanthropist NRI Iqbal Singh Bhatti, who reached Jalandhar today.Kulwinder Kaur, wife of Amrik Singh Wait ended with his deathMy husband worked as a painter in France. Since he could not get permanent residency there, he could never return and the wait ended with his death on April 24. He had contracted Covid and remained hospitalised for long.Like Basra, there were seven other families of Punjab who had come to receive the ashes of their loved ones.“My brother-in-law had such a traumatic experience going illegally to France that our family cannot recover from the loss. Since he had left from here illegally three years ago, it took him one year to reach France. We learnt that he had saved 1,500 Euros, but we have not been able to get the amount. We also have been told that his body had both his hands tied, so we also expect that it could be a case of murder as we had spoken to Satnam hours before his death and he was sounding normal,” Hardeep said.Even more tragic is the story of 71-year-old Geeta Rani of Nadalo village of Hoshiarpur, whose son Labh Kumar died in an accident on May 29 in Paris. Receiving his ashes today, she said, “It has been 18 years since my son went to France. Since he was an illegal immigrant, he quietly kept on doing menial jobs all this while and could never return back. I could not even get a chance to see his body for one last time. It is his ashes which have finally come to me.”Bhatti, who has managed to send 178 bodies of Indians free of cost through his NGO Aurore Dawn since 2003, said 13 Indians died since the pandemic this year. “I managed to send the bodies of two persons. I got cremated the rest of them and have now got their ashes along. Three families took ashes of their loved ones from me at the airport on my return day before, while eight of them, who were from Punjab, received them today,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/france-based-ngo-brings-back-ashes-of-8-from-punjab-169378
12-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||Despite ban, sale of crackers goes on unabated||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 11While the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has been continuously advising people to shun burning crackers this Diwali and the administration limiting the number of firecracker shops in the district, the illegal sale of firecrackers goes on unabated in most of the residential colonies here.Unaware of the ban, local retailers are even selling last year’s stock comprising banned crackers.Notably, with a daily score of over 250 (in the Air Quality Index Chart), the district has already been included among the four districts in the state with poor quality score. Despite that, crackers being the major carriers of pollutants are being sold illegally by shopkeepers.After conducting a lucky draw on October 26, the officials of the administration had authorised only 20 dealers to sell firecrackers at Burlton Park cracker market. The illegal sale of crackers has started in the city without the permission of the district administration. Apparently, the police have failed to check the illegal sale of crackers. Shopkeepers have put up stalls and are selling firecrackers illegally outside their shops, putting the lives of people in danger.Besides, contrary to the NGT instructions that only green crackers will be put on sale, most of the crackers being sold in the market are not eco-friendly.When asked, shopkeepers said they were not aware about the NGT orders on crackers. However, through newspaper reports they got information that only limited number of cracker dealers were authorised to sell the same in the city.“I also had my stock from last Diwali, so I thought to sell it this year. Residents sometimes prefer purchasing crackers here instead of going to the market,” Gurkirpal, a shopkeeper, said.Other shopkeepers said they were selling firecrackers and nobody was stopping them from doing so. In fact, during Dasehra also, retailers claimed to have sold crackers. Meanwhile, Commissioner of Police, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, assured that strict action would be taken against those practicing this illegal activity.“Apart from authorised dealers, no one can sell firecrackers, especially in residential areas. A police team will be assigned to take action against the erring shopkeepers,” the CP said.Apart from authorised dealers, no one can sell firecrackers, especially in residential areas. A police team will be assigned to take action against the erring shopkeepers. —Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Commissioner of PoliceThe state government on Tuesday announced a two-hour window for the use of green firecrackers on Diwali and Gurpurb across the state. The timings have reportedly been kept between 8pm 10pm.8 licences issued in NawanshahrIn a public draw for the sale of crackers ahead of Diwali held on Tuesday, the district administration has issued eight licences in Nawanshahr. Deputy Commissioner Sheena Aggawal said the draw had been taken out in a very transparent manner. While four of the eight licences have been issued for sale in Nawanshahr subdivision, two licences each have been issued for Banga and Balachaur subdivisions. A total of 74 applications were received, of which 53 were from Nawanshahr, 12 from Banga and nine from Balachaur. For sales in Nawanshahr city area, the licence holders have been allotted space in Doaba Arya School, Rahon Road. For Banga, the licence holders will be able to sell crackers on Dasehra ground of Banga and for Balachaur, the sales would be allowed at Dasehra ground of Balachaur. — TNSWhat are Green Crackers As per the environment experts, green crackers are sans barium salts or compounds of antimony, lithium, mercury, arsenic, lead or strontium chromate. They produce minimal toxicity and minimal fumes in the environment. While a number of chemicals used to make traditional crackers are copper, cadmium, lead, magnesium, zinc and sodium. These chemicals can cause several health issues such as irritation, asphyxia, metal fume fever, burns and respiratory problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/despite-ban-sale-of-crackers-goes-on-unabated-169405
12-11-2020||---||Gang of robbers busted, 5 held||Jalandhar, November 11The Police Commissionerate has been successful in arresting five members of an 11-member robbers’ gang and recovered three pistols, bullets and stolen items from them.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused have been identified as Nihal Singh of Gautam Nagar; Rohit Kumar, alias Makkar, of Bank Colony Kabir Vihar; Vicky of Raj Nagar; Jagpreet, alias Gopi, from Chuna Bhatti, Raj Nagar; and Rohit Sharma of Krishna Nagar. The police have recovered as many as three pistols, 10 live bullets, stolen and robbed items, silver ornaments, and two-wheelers besides cash. He said the consecutive operations of the Police Commissionerate against gangsters would certainly deter criminals leading to crime control besides tracing some other cases too.The gang members were between 21 to 26 year old, the CP said. The police have registered a case against the accused under the Indian Penal Code.Bhullar said the arrest of all these accused has led towards the tracing of previously unsolved 14 cases of theft, robbery, and stealing, etc. He said the police were conducting raids at the hideouts of other members of the gang, and many more cases were expected to unravel during further investigation.The CP said one pistol, three live bullets, one pair of gold earrings, one stolen inverter, two stolen cylinders, 28 pairs of stolen readymade pant-shirts, stolen and robbed cash of Rs17,800, stolen registration certificate (RC) of a motorcycle (used during a crime incident), a motorcycle, two Activa scooters, two boxes of stolen oil and a pipe-wrench (used to break locks of shops and houses) were recovered from them.The CP said the team of CIA staff headed by in charge Harvinder Singh would be honoured for their commendable services.Modus OperandiRevealing the modus operandi of this gang, the CP said the accused had been indulging in many incidents of robbery, stealing and theft in the past, adding that they used to rob people at gunpoint besides ransacking shops and residential areas at night. He mentioned that one of the accused was an expert in breaking shutters of shops as earlier he had been working as a shutter mechanic. They used to target shops which didn’t have central lock in the shutter. Further, the accused had also imparted training of breaking shutters to other members of the gang.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-robbers-busted-5-held-169406
12-11-2020||---||‘Gold Kitty’ scam: Victims protest, seek CBI probe||Jalandhar, November 11After demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into an infamous ‘Gold Kitty’ scam, victims of the alleged fraud, burnt effigies of the owners of Wiz Power outside PPR mall and criticised the police for not taking any action against the accused.The protesters raised slogans against the Jalandhar Police Commissioner for failing to nab the accused who had been identified as Ranjit Singh, alias Raja Singh, and his brother-in-law Gagandeep Singh.The scam had come to the fore in July after the company owners couldn’t be traced by people who had invested in their schemes. As many as 8,500 people were cheated by the firm after its owners collected money on the pretext of gold kitty and the victims suffered losses in crores.Gold Kitty scamAll legal proceedings have been initiated and apart from issuing a challan. The properties of the accused have also been attached. —Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Jalandhar Police CommissionerThe police had registered an FIR against four persons, including the two owners of the company for deceiving the victims. After registration of the case, both the accused had been on the run.The duo started the company in 2015 and gradually trapped gullible people. With money of their clients, the accused built new luxury houses and bought vehicles. The accused had allegedly collected Rs 50 crore. They had opened their office with the name ‘Gold Kitty’ at PPR mall.Deepak Kumar, a victim, said, “I invested major part of my savings in Gold Kitty. Though legal action has been taken against the accused, we haven’t received our money. The police have presented a challan of Rs7 crore 82 lakh, however, the actual amount was much more. We want the state government to handover the case to the CBI.”Sanjay Kumar, another victim, said, “I came in contact with the company through his wife and lost a good part of his savings.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gold-kitty-scam-victims-protest-seek-cbi-probe-169407
12-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||There are still signs of life in her!||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, November 11For nearly 12 years, Mangla Sahni has been battling life-threatening disease Scleroderma. Even though there are many complex problems because of this auto-immune disease, she is still taking life head-on.It was during her graduation in 2008 that she got detected with it, but ever since, has completed her Masters, done M Phil staying at a Punjabi University hostel in Patiala for one and a half years and is now pursuing her PhD. Alongside, she has cleared her UGC-NET and is also serving as lecturer for past few years now.A lively girl since childhood, she has shed a lot of weight as the tissues in her body have shrivelled. Her otherwise fair glowing skin has developed black and white patches on the face. The fingers have gotten slightly deformed, while area around mouth has sunken. She needs a hand with her daily chores, even if the task is changing clothes or using a washroom. Living on a semi-fluid diet, she often gets bouts of vomiting due to acidity and low blood pressure is also a routine happening.I went into depression after doctors told me seven years ago that I might not live beyond six months. My health kept on deteriorating. People started commenting on my looks. Many would ask me if I have had an acid attack or a burn. Others would ask if I suffered from albinism and I would cry for hours. —Mangla SahniThe changes in Mangla’s body were certainly shocking for both her and family initially. She recalls, “I endured depression after doctors told me seven years ago that I might not live beyond six months. My health kept on deteriorating. People started commenting on my looks. Many would ask me if I have had an acid attack or a burn. Others would ask if I suffered from albinism and I would cry for hours.”She developed inferiority complex and won’t venture out. But there have been friends and well-wishers, and family, who restored the positivity. “I began saying to myself that I am beautiful. I started dressing myself up and doing all the make-up and hair-do. I began enjoying taking selfies and posting my pictures on the Facebook,” she adds.Close to endSharing how it all started, she says, “My elder’s sister’s marriage was round the corner when I developed rashes on my skin. Since I was to wear a sleeveless dress, I wanted to get the rash treatment done. I myself approached a dermatologist and he asked me to call in my parents as he suspected something more precarious than a rash. It was in the midst of the marriage days that I got detected with the disease, not knowing back then about its repercussions and progressive nature.”She has had several near-death experiences. She speaks of one. “Some years back, a friend offered me a gol gappa and I got tempted. I made it completely soggy before I ate it. Sometime later, I realised that there was something in my food pipe and it started causing me breathlessness; it was the black channa. I had to visit a doctor who massaged my back for hours before it finally came out of my mouth.”However, what keeps her going? “I do chanting and meditation for long hours which has made me stronger and helped healing in a far better way than medicines. Had it not been my paternal uncle Surinder Sahni or my mother Anita Sahni, my friends Neha Joshi and Kanwarpreet S Narula, my teacher Dr Kamlesh Duggal, my shiksha gurus Arun Sangar and Shashi, I would not have gone so far,” says Mangla, who is a devout follower of Lord Krishna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/there-are-still-signs-of-life-in-her-169408
12-11-2020||---||Getting subsidy for solar panels a distant dream||Jalandhar, November 11The city-based residents who had installed solar power panels on their rooftops said they were facing double whammy.On the one hand, the Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) has not given any subsidy to date, and on the other hand, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has started asking for fixed charges despite not consuming even a single unit of power other than from own solar panels, alleged irate residents.A retired government engineer, Pawan Kumar Chadha, said he had installed 4 kilowatts (KW) solar plant on his rooftop. “For the last two years, I have been running around officials of the PEDA to give me subsidy, but to no avail. I have even contacted their head office. Adding to the woes, the PSPCL has started levying fixed charges, which they were not charging earlier,” he said.We are just a reimbursing agency. The subsidy comes from the Government of India. As we have not got any payment from the Centre, we have not been able to reimburse it to the applicants. —Supinder Singh, Joint Director, PEDAChadha showed his bill in which he had been charged Rs 3,550. “It is as if I am being doubly taxed. I spent Rs 2.75 lakh on installing solar panels. I have been making every effort that my production matches my consumption except for the peak load months. Now, I regret using renewable source of energy and spending so much from my own pocket.”He said, “I approached PSPCL officials who showed me a copy of new orders of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission. As per the order, anyone like me who had a permanent domestic supply of 101 kWh to 300 kWh will have to pay Rs 6.59 per kWh as fixed charges. This is a grave injustice to us.”Rajinder Kumar, who has installed a solar panel on his rooftop at Tagore Nagar, said, “I spent Rs 3.15 lakh on installing a 5 kW solar panel around a year ago. Ever since, I have not been able to even apply for the subsidy as the PEDA’s website is non operational. There is no provision to apply it offline.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/getting-subsidy-for-solar-panels-a-distant-dream-169409
12-11-2020||---||Government teachers hold protest against Central pay scale for new teachers||Jalandhar, November 11Members of the Government Teachers’ Union on Wednesday protested against the letter released by the state Education Department for the implementation of Central pay scales for the newly appointed teachers. They held a rally opposing the letter. They also burnt an effigy of the state government and the copy of the letter recommending Central pay scales for the newly appointed teachers.General secretary Ganesh Bhagat said the Government Teachers’ Union had been struggling for long for the demands of teachers. He said despite airing their concerns, the government was shying away from a dialogue with them. They said amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had been regularly releasing letters against teachers and was also systematically sidelining the previous demands.Teachers demanded dismissal of the letter for Central pay scales for newly appointed employees. They said teachers should not be made to work for 18 hours even during holidays in the name of education, online meetings and classes should be held as per school timings, and schools should not be pushed towards privatisation and commercialisation. They said the long pending demands of teachers regarding victimisation, promotions, transfers should be addressed and the state government should end its silence over the issue.They also sought implementation of the old pension scheme, 6th Pay Commission etc. Teachers also expressed full support for farmers’ stir and called for huge participation of teachers in the November 26 stir by trade unions and employee federations at the national level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/government-teachers-hold-protest-against-central-pay-scale-for-new-teachers-169411
12-11-2020||---||BJP activists celebrate victory in Bihar elections||Jalandhar, November 11Activists of the BJP on Wednesday celebrated the party victory in the Bihar Assembly polls by distributing sweets and congratulating each other. They gathered outside the party office and celebrated the victory by dancing to the beats of dhol.BJP leaders Manoranjan Kalia, KD Bhandari, Mohinder Bhagat, district urban president Sushil Sharma among others were present on the occasion.Manoranjan Kalia said, “The Bihar victory has sent many messages. The first is that the aura of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is very strong. People have once again placed their faith in the party under his leadership. Nitish Kumar shall be appointed the CM for the fourth time. The message Bihar sent out is that Congress is fast moving towards zero in the country. The results of Bihar elections have also proven all exit polls wrong.”District urban president Sushil Sharma said, “Bihar is an agriculture rich state where there are a sizeable number of farmers. An absolute majority in such a state means that the farmers of the state back the BJP’s farm policy and the farm laws. The Congress was losing its viability in the country and is misleading farmers on the farm laws. The people of Bihar have rejected the Congress in Bihar.” Anil Sacchar, Vinod Sharma, Dewan Amit Arora, Surinder Mahey among others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-activists-celebrate-victory-in-bihar-elections-169412
12-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||2 die of Covid in Hoshiarpur, 19 +ve||Bribery: VB nabs asi, InspectorHoshiarpur: The Vigilance Department has arrested an inspector, in charge of Economic Crimes Branch-2 and an ASI for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs25,000 for getting a compromise in a case. Sources said the Vigilance Department received a complaint that Inspector Manoj Kumar, in-charge Crime Branch-2, Hoshiarpur, and ASI Pawan Kumar have demanded Rs25,000 to settle a case. After receiving the complaint, the Vigilance team arrested them. Confirming the arrest, District Police Chief SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the operation was carried out jointly by the teams of Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar Vigilance Department. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-die-of-covid-in-hoshiarpur-19-ve-169413
12-11-2020||Jalandhar||Webinar on uniform civil code||Jaspreet outshines in BComStudents of KCL Institute of Management and Technology have secured top positions. In B Com VI semester, Jaspreet Kaur stood first by scoring 10 SGPA. In BBA VI Riya stood first by scoring 9.79 SGPA. In BCA VI, Kudrat stood first by scoring 10 SGPA. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (director, academic affairs) congratulated the students and their parents. He said teaching using the latest pedagogical tools, including case studies, group discussions, simulation games etc. provide them the environment in which they were able to explore themselves to the maximum. Dr SK Sood (Director, KCLIMT) congratulated the students. TNSDiscussion on AtmaNirbhar BharatDr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology organised a national-level panel discussion on ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat and National Education Policy 2020’. The directors of fifteen National Institute of Technology (NITs), including Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi from NIT, Jalandhar, participated in the event and shared their views. S C Ralhan, Chairman BOG of NIT, Jalandhar, and Prof Chandra Shekhar, chairman BOG of NIT, Hamirpur, were the chief guests of these sessions. Prof Anish Sachdeva, Dean, Student Welfare, welcomed the guests and introduced the panelists. The first session was concluded by Professor A Mukhopadhyay, Dean, Academic, and the second session by Prof R K Garg, Dean, Faculty Welfare. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-uniform-civil-code-169414
