16-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Air quality worsens post-Diwali||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 15The air quality index deteriorated this Diwali in the city as compared to the previous year. Unlike the air quality index levels of 282 last Diwali, the air quality index this year reached 328, which is marked as very poor air quality posing several health risks.The city witnessed the violation of time limit with residents bursting crackers all day and late into night much past the time limit of 8 pm to 10 pm fixed for bursting crackers.Stubble fires coupled with vehicular and cracker pollution made it one of the most polluted Diwalis witnessed in recent times. Simultaneously, the air quality in the district also took a turn for the worse with haze enveloping the city on Saturday and Sunday. Showers in the afternoon brought some respite from the choking pollution.Unlike last year, a huge rush was witnessed at the Burlton Park around the Diwali festival this year. People in large numbers converged on the park to burst firecrackers. Streets, thoroughfares, housing societies, etc, were found littered with cracker waste. At many places, crackers like used shells of rockets and anaar, bomb and chakri stubs lay in the middle of streets. Crackers were also burst on Sunday by many after it stopped raining in the evening.The ambient air quality also worsened this Diwali. From 282 ug/m3 last Diwali, PM 2.5 (fine particulate matter) rose to 328 ug/m3 this year; PM 10 (minute particulate matter) rose from 236 ug/m3 last Diwali to 304 ug/m3 this year, NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) rose from 19 ug/m3 last Diwali to 30 ug/m3 yesterday and O3 (troprospheric or bad ozone) rose from 10 ug/m3 last year to 22 ug/m3 this year.Kuldeep Singh, Environmental Engineer, Jalandhar, said, “The air quality in Jalandhar has indeed worsened this year. Both firecrackers and stubble burning is responsible for the scenario. Unfortunately, from Delhi to Lahore, the AQI index is very bad. Stubble fires from Pakistan also impact air quality here. A sources apportionment study of six cities in the state is also being conducted to nail the specific cause for the air quality going bad. It will point to the primary causes resulting in bad air – be it stubble fires, firecrackers, vehicular pollution or industries. IIT Delhi will submit a report on the issue by December 31. We will be in a better position then, to ascertain why the air quality has gone so bad.” 14 FIRs registered for defying cracker ban in district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/air-quality-worsens-post-diwali-171010
16-11-2020||Jalandhar||DC distributes blankets to shelterless||Showing a humanitarian gesture, the district administration on Wednesday night provided blankets to shelterless people in the district.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori visited city and cantonment railway stations, Pathankot Bypass chowk, Devi Talab Mandir and other public places and distributed the blankets.The DC said the district administration would cover all homeless persons to provide them with a warm refuge so that they don’t face any hardship during the winter season. Further, he issued a helpline 8556918229 and exhorted people to call this number if they found anybody in need of a blanket adding that the administration’s team would personally visit the spot and provide the blankets. Meanwhile, the DC reviewed the arrangements at various night shelters in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-distributes-blankets-to-shelterless-171012
16-11-2020||Jalandhar||Rotary Club donates 100 blankets||In the memory of Lt Col Tarundeep Singh Bedi, his parents Maj Gen Rotarian JDS Bedi and Ravinder Bedi, donated 100 blankets to the inmates of Kusht Ashram, near Devi Talab Mandir, here. “Keeping in mind the upcoming winter season, the club promised more such projects for the needy such as distribution of blankets and jackets,” informed club president Prabhpal Singh Pannu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rotary-club-donates-100-blankets-171013
16-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Covid norms thrown to the wind, cases spike||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 15There has been a consistent rise in the Covid-19 positive cases in the last few days. For nearly a month, cases were reported between 70 and 100, however, 113 cases were reported in Jalandhar on November 13 (a day before Diwali) and 111 positive cases on Sunday. With these 111 cases, the district tally reached 16,253, which stood at 14,517 on October 16. On November 14, 66 cases were reported.In the last one month, 1,736 cases had been added to the district tally. The toll was 458 till October 16, which reached 503 on November 15. The death tally was 498 on November 13, which increased to 503 on November 15.Crowded markets, people roaming without masks and defying social distancing norms became common during the festive season. The police drive against violators failed to deter people from staying indoors.Around Diwali, markets, malls and religious places witnessed massive rush. At some places, crowd surpassed even previous years. Jams were witnessed on almost every stretch as shoppers thronged markets.Crowd, pollution and winter led to surge in the virus as it was warned about by experts. As positive cases have increased drastically in Delhi, similar fear persists in Jalandhar as well.TP Singh, Nodal Officer, Covid (Jalandhar), said, “There has been increase in cases in the last few days. But one can’t say that a peak will be witnessed immediately after Diwali. We will have to wait a week or so to see whether festive crowd leads to increase in cases. At present, we have witnessed some increase in cases. However, it is too early to predict whether there will be a peak in winter.”“It is true that many people threw caution to the winds during the festive season. An unprecedented amount of people thronged markets. It is important that people abide by the protocol with due care. Many don’t even pay attention and roam around without masks. An intelligent citizenry plays pivotal role in keeping the virus at bay,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-norms-thrown-to-the-wind-cases-spike-171014
16-11-2020||Jalandhar||Webinar on skincare||Aagaaz -2020Students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya presented a kaleidoscope of dances, songs and poems on the virtual platform marking the occasion of Aagaaz-2020. The colourful and vibrant event was organised under the coordination of Dr Ashmeen Kaur and Urvashi Mishra. The event began with the recital 'Gayatri Mantra' and 'DAV anthem'. Manvi stood the second runner-up, Avleen Kaur got the first runner-up position and Nivya got the title of Ms HMV.”Gurpreet Ist in MA psychologyStudents of (Semester IV) of MA psychology from HMV College have shown outstanding results. Gurpreet Makkar bagged the first position by securing 1860/2300. Jagriti Nagpal got the second position by securing 1692/2300. Manpreet Kang secured the third position by securing 1688/2300. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students and the faculty of PG department of psychology on this remarkable success.Prize distribution functionUsing global technology network, a one of its kind virtual prize distribution function, was hosted by Mayor World School for Classes VI to XI and Classes III to V. A nationwide spectrum of audience joined through the YouTube link shared by the school. The occasion was graced by the presence of the vice chairperson, members of the Mayo College General Council, Ajmer, the director principal, the deputy vice principal and the headmistress, Mayor Galaxy. In her opening address the director principal Sarita Madhok welcomed the gathering and congratulated the winners. Cultural performances added vivacity to the function.Webinar on ‘Scratch Software’State Public School organised a webinar on 'Scratch Software' for Class V and Class VI conducted by Seerat Mahajan. It was of two hours duration. The webinar focused on connecting to the real-world application and practical knowledge through innovative methods. Scratch helps young mind to learn, to think creatively, to reason systematically and work collaboratively which are essential skills for the life in 21st century. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-skincare-171015
16-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Two lawyers burnt alive as car catches fire after hitting tree||Hoshiarpur, November 15A senior advocate of the district and former BJP district president, Bhagwant Kishore Gupta and his junior advocate Geetu Khullar, alias, Sia Khullar were burnt alive in a road accident late last night when their car caught fire after colliding with a tree. Since the central locking system of the car failed so they could not come out to escape and were burnt alive. Gupta had earlier served as Deputy Advocate General of Punjab Government. People living near the accident site told the police that they had come out of their houses after hearing the horn of a car blowing continuously for long and saw the car in flames. SP RPS Sandhu, Model Town SHO Karnail Singh, along with police party, reached the spot and informed the fire brigade. The team reached the spot and extinguished fire with much difficulty. Later, two badly charred bodies were found in the car.SP RPS Sandhu told the media at around half past ten at night, it was reported that a car had caught fire at the said place. The police reached the spot and informed the fire brigade. It took around two hours to extinguish the fire. The bodies were completely charred and could not be identified. Later, the car’s ownership was traced from its chassis and engine number. Based on this information, the identity of the woman advocate was confirmed and later the advocate Gupta’s identity was also confirmed. SP Sandhu said Advocate Bhagwant Kishore Gupta, along with his Assistant Advocate Sia, was returning after sharing gifts on the night of Diwali. As they turned towards Chandigarh from the bypass, the car rammed into a roadside tree and caught fire. He said investigation into the accident was currently going on. SHO Model Town, Karnail Singh said the case is being investigated after recording the proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-lawyers-burnt-alive-as-car-catches-fire-after-hitting-tree-171016
16-11-2020||---||Come November 25, fly for Mumbai from Adampur||Jalandhar, November 15While Adampur-Delhi air service would resume from November 20 after a halt of around eight months, Spice Jet has announced to operate a direct flight (90-seater plane) to Mumbai from November 25. The flight would take around three hours to reach its destination. The airfare for an economy class would be Rs 4,197, which would depend on route, booking time and availability.An official of the Spice Jet said, “All the norms of the Ministry of Civil Aviation will be followed in the flight to avoid the spread of the Covid-19. The online booking for the flight has been initiated.”“The Mumbai-bound flight (SG 2402) will take off from Mumbai around 10.05 am and will land at Adampur airport at 1.35 pm. After a halt of 30 minutes, the flight will commence its journey at 2.05 pm and reach Mumbai at 5.25 pm.”While the flight will operate throughout the week, the schedule of the Delhi-bound flight has been reduced to three days (Friday, Saturday and Sunday). The authorities announced that Adampur-Jaipur air services, which were scheduled to commence in March, would remain cancelled for the time being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/come-november-25-fly-for-mumbai-from-adampur-171018
16-11-2020||Garhshankar||Four injured in bus-car mishap||Three booked in firing incidentJalandhar: A firing incident was allegedly reported at Sangat Singh Nagar on late Friday Night. The incident took place outside the house of gangster Kalu, who was arrested for Jassa Murder Case. Kalu’s parents reportedly had a minor escape after the bullets were fired by 2-3 assailants at their house. On the statement of Kalu's mother, the police have registered a case against Prince, alias Billa, a resident of Tilak Nagar, Gurpreet Gopi and Prince Randhawa. The police informed that the incident took place around 11.30 pm. As per statements of the family members, the assailants first knocked on the door of their house and when they didn't open it, they opened fire on the gate. However, none was hurtin the incident. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-injured-in-bus-car-mishap-171020
16-11-2020||---||Life isn’t all sunshine & rainbows||Jalandhar, November 15While the Civil Hospital here is among the best-equipped district government facilities with 18 ventilators, it has also been one of the busiest. In the scenario, the anaesthetists have been the most important frontliners involved in tackling the Covid.In the nine months of the pandemic wave a team of 12 has been involved in handling the most critical of patients — those who require ventilators. As many as 150 to 200 patients have required a ventilator, of whom, majority were put on non-invasive ventilators. Amidst the pandemic, a life marked by extreme protocols and isolation from family and a hectic schedule, has left little breathing space for these doctors.Dr Paramjit, anesthetist, Civil Hospital Jalandhar, said, “At the hospital, we have been providing level-3 Covid care since day one. Our medical care is on par with the medical college facilities in the state. Since the first patient who died taking treatment on invasive ventilator, there has been no looking back.”Of the 12 anaesthetists, majority suffered from fever, cough or minor illnesses during the peak time of Covid. One of them also had bronchial asthma. Having braved all the odds, they stayed put amidst gruelling schedules.The facility at present has 18 ventilators, four HFNCOs (High Flow Non-Invasive Cannula Oxygen Therapy) and six BiPap machines (used for facilitating breathing), Jalandhar has had a steady stream of critical patients needing ventilator care. As of now, five of the patients need invasive and non-invasive ventilators. The doctor added, “Earlier, we had ten. But the district administration provided us equipment whenever need arose. We are the best equipped district government facility in the state.”Dr Neelkant, another anesthetist, sanitises even keys before he enters his home. “Both my father and mother have respiratory problems. Our lives have totally changed from March 22 onwards as we are doing duties continuously. In the beginning it felt very tricky but now we are used to it.” He doesn’t even meet his young daughter until he has sanitised each and everything, taken a bath and changed clothes.As many as 70 per cent of the Covid patients were diabetics, 10 per cent had kidney diseases and many were already suffering from lung diseases or COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). This doesn’t stop here. “We got at least 25 to 40 snake bite cases as well and grappled with Covid cases side by side. With the approaching peak, we are on our guard. The most gruelling time was between September 10 and 30 when the district saw as many as 45 cases,” Dr Paramjit said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/life-isnt-all-sunshine-rainbows-171021
16-11-2020||‘I wielded pen to share my encounter with virus’||‘I wielded pen to share my encounter with virus’||Prof Ajay Sharma (60) is a renowned Hindi novelist. A BAMS by qualification, he is also a playwright. He contracted Covid-19 in mid-September. Sharing his experience, he said, “I got fever, which lasted for 10 days. I undertook a typhoid test, which came out to be negative. It was on September 26 that I felt some trouble in my chest and I got admitted to a private hospital. They immediately tested me for Covid-19 and positive report came out the next day. I informed everybody and told them to get tested.Four of my six family members came out to be positive. My two sons and their wives also tested positive while my wife and my grandson tested negative. My sons and their wives only got mild fever, which got over soon, but they remained isolated at home for 16 days in their respective rooms.I was taken care of quite well in the hospital and returned after seven days. My medical care cost me around Rs 1.75 lakh. Even after I came back, I was told to stay quarantined at home for 10-12 days in my room and did not step out of the house for more than 40 days.Ever since March, I was a little conscious of not contracting the disease. So, I confined myself to my home and went out rarely, may be just four-five times. It was my wife who being a pharmacist at the ESI Hospital was going out everyday and was at the risk of contracting the disease. But ironically, she remained safe and I contracted the virus. It was perhaps because of the fact that she was very particular about following the health guidelines, removing shoes outside and taking bath immediately after reaching home.During all this while, it was my wife who came under a lot of work pressure, but she handled it very boldly. Since all our helpers were gone for a good time, it was she who was keeping the house clean, doing all the dishes, cooking food and even washing clothes. While doing all this, she also had to take care of our grandson.Having written three plays during the lockdown, I have started working on a Hindi novel, the title of which will be ‘Covid-19 positive, kamra number 909’. I am still in the process of conceiving the complete plot of the story to give it the most interesting narration.(As told to Deepkamal Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-wielded-pen-to-share-my-encounter-with-virus-171022
16-11-2020||Do you think non-resumption of goods trains is due to state vs Centre politics?||No time for games, delay can lead to turmoil in state||Immediate dialogue with farmers neededThe Centre’s decision to keep the goods trains off the track in Punjab in view of ongoing farmers' agitation against the farm laws is nothing more than a political gimmick. Since the state government has supported the demands of farmers and even enacted laws to safeguard their interests, the Centre is nurturing a revengeful attitude and appears to be bent upon teaching a lesson to the state which is ruled by a non-BJP party. This is very unfortunate and is contrary to the spirit of federalism as envisaged in the Constitution. But this political game of the Centre is fraught with dangers and the issue needs to be dealt with cautiously. There must be immediate meaningful dialogue with the farmers' organisations for an enduring and viable solution as per their aspirations. The trains, both freight and passengers, must be started immediately without any conditions as the economy of the state has already suffered a lot due to the Covid-19 crisis and playing dirty politics at this critical juncture must be shunned for larger good of the people.Jagdish ChanderCentre-State apathy normal in federal govtThe new farm laws, since first go, ushered in an era of distrust and turmoil. The farmers’ unions, notably in Punjab and Haryana, are holding dharnas and 'rail-roko' protests to assert their viewpoint. As a result, goods as well as passenger train services were discontinued. As of now, the protesters upon the appeal of state government have cleared the tracks paving way for movement of trains, but train services are yet to be restored. In federalism, this kind of apathy in the Centre-State relations is absolutely unacceptable. Taking mileage of the ongoing stalemate, political parties also jumped in, vitiating the law and order. Our economy crippled due to Covid-19, after a severe blow of demonetisation and unplanned GST, it has further been impacted by this standoff. In Punjab, power crisis is looming large owing to non-supply of coal to run thermal plants. The trade and industry is adversely hit due to non-transportation of raw materials and merchandise. This politics must end for peace and prosperity of the nation. The Centre must initiate dialogue rather to resolve the major irritants. Nothing is impossible before an undaunted will to clear the impasse.J Singh ChatrathThis stalemate speaks of tardy governanceFor over a month and a half, the country has witnessed strong protests against the Centre's recent contentious farm laws passed unilaterally in the Parliament. Being the major contributors to the nation's granary and more apprehensive of the central government's intentions, the farmers in Punjab launched a peaceful agitation and blocked the railway tracks along with toll plazas on national highways. To their utter displeasure, the main political parties in the state also jumped into the fray to win brownie points with the voters in the next Assembly elections in 2022. This ultimately resulted in the suspension of goods and passenger trains, which brought the state to a virtual standstill and triggered a cascading effect on Himachal Pradesh, J&K and Ladakh. The non-availability of coal, fertilisers and other essential commodities adversely impacted the power, agriculture, industry, infrastructure sectors and ignited an alarming rise in the inflation. It also caused humongous loss to the railways. Even when farmers have cleared the rail tracks of their own volition or on the persuasion of the state government, the concerned ministry has not resumed train services citing operational and safety constraints. The ongoing stalemate is untenable and speaks volumes of tardy governance at the central and state levels. Besides greatly inconveniencing the common man, the present situation will also undermine our federal set up enshrined in the Constitution, create security and strategic risks for the country and stall the much-needed economic recovery. It is time not for dirty politicking but for cooperative and constructive politics in the larger national interests. The state government should maintain law and order and the Centre should shun its adamant, dictatorial and vengeful attitude. Considering its grave wider repercussions, it needs to revisit the ill-conceived decision, resume freight movement and resolve the farmers' indefinite agitation at the earliest.DS KangDon’t delay, things may go haywire soonIt's very unfortunate and wrong on part of the central government and Railway Ministry to not resume goods trains to Punjab. Though the farmers were holding dharnas on rail tracks previously, but they have stopped now - only the railway platforms or outside the stations is their abode. What is the delay about? As a result of their hardening attitude, Punjab's economy is suffering. Because of coal shortage all the thermal power plants are virtually shut, chances of frequent power cuts are looming large for all. Though the Railway Minister Piyush Goyal was sympathetic to Punjab but the Railway Board chairman was more belligerent. How can he overrule the minister's decision? Though they are putting the onus on Punjab government for protection of railway property and personnel, then what's the railway protection force meant for? Not only Punjab but the neighbouring states of Himachal and J&K and Ladakh will also suffer because of this. The central government is not taking the agitation of the farmers seriously. If remedial steps are not taken, the situation may go out of hand. The central government is insisting only on placating the corporate houses. It is in the interest of the country and Punjab that the trains should be started at the earliest lest things worsen.Dr JS WadhwaCan farmers be blamed for the clutter?Yes, it is true that the non-resumption of goods train may cause power crisis in the state and problems for the industry. It is a very serious issue and farmers need to understand the current scenario. They have acted as a boulder in the path by sitting on the railway tracks and sabotaging the whole railway system. I must say it is not a commendable move. The coal comes from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal and it is only possible if goods train service is resumed. Otherwise, we will have to face power crisis in Punjab. The only truth is that government will not change their decision and farmers must accept this.Shailja ThakurQUESTIONAs the ban on firecrackers went up in flames this year, what according to you must be done to enforce the rules in letter and spirit next time? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 19).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-time-for-games-delay-can-lead-to-turmoil-in-state-171025
