17-11-2020||Jalandhar||Police arrest 4 drugs smugglers; 11 kg heroin recovered||The rural police on Tuesday arrested four drug smugglers. They recovered 11 kg of heroin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-arrest-4-drugs-smugglers-11-kg-heroin-recovered-171640
17-11-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Shape, size of every pot in his garden matches ‘mood’ of plant||Hoshiarpur, November 16A teacher by profession, Jasjit Singh has a plant fetish. His affection with plants dates back to the times when his father was alive. It has been three years that he lost his father, who was also fond of growing plants. Jasjit took to planting and nourishing flowers at his home in Hoshiarpur Enclave on Dasuya road. Dedicating his passion to his father, he keeps on making several additions to his vast ‘Pot Garden’ every now and then.His love for plants is such that whole of the house is adorned with several varieties of plants not only in a small lawn of his house but also in pots of various shapes and sizes.The rooftop of the house has dozens of plants and there are more than 100 pots of several designs on various stands and racks dedicated for the purpose. Soon after coming from the school begins his tryst with the green world. He gets busy in taking care of his blooming buddies. It takes 2-3 hours every day for him to take care of them, water them, removing dry leaves and doing all sort of daily care. “This daily care is followed by a weekly-care programme dedicated to softening of soil, watering, weed removal, fertilising and planting the new ones,” told Jasjit.Jasjit has more than 225 different pots and they are not just the ordinary ones. “Every pot’s shape and size matches the ‘mood’ of plant. For cacti, the pots are grim, dull-coloured, showing the symbolising the serious mood of the succulent plant. For green leafy plants, the pots are dark coloured, large in size to match the plants that remain green for the whole year while the pots for the seasonal flowery plants are the ‘smiling ones’.Mischievous looking shapes of the planters express the joyous mood of the flowers,” said Jagjit in lighter vein. Jasjit has more than 30 different varieties of cacti, around 100 different flowery plants of more than 25 types, besides 12-13 varieties of different-coloured roses, yet hibiscus is his favourite one. “I have 9-10 different coloured hibiscus and they are my favourite because every colour depicts a different mood and fits to different situations. This adds hues to my life,” said Jasjit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shape-size-of-every-pot-in-his-garden-matches-mood-of-plant-171250
17-11-2020||---||Attendance thin as colleges reopen for postgrad students||Jalandhar, November 16Even as the state government had allowed colleges and universities to reopen from today onwards, some institutes opened only for postgraduate students.While Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology and Kanya Maha Vidyalaya had opened their campuses for postgraduate students, Lyallpur Khalsa College also joined the league. Today, 80-plus students doing postgraduation out of 400 turned up on the campus.Principal Dr Gurpinder S Samra said, “We called only day scholars for postgraduate classes. Those from outside who require a hostel accommodation have been asked to wait as of now and we will be delivering online classes for them on weekends. We told our students who turned up today to stick to the seats that they occupied today for coming days as well as inter-changing will not be allowed. We ensured that they all kept wearing their masks throughout.”Regarding practical classes, he said, “We will start practical classes after a week’s time. We have already told our science and computer teachers to undergo Covid-19 tests before we are able to start practical work. Subsequently, even the students could be asked to take Covid tests.”The college today also started the canteen services, but only for takeaway. “No sitting is allowed as of now,” said the staff. The college is yet to take a decision on starting regular classes for undergraduate students.“We want to start everything in a phase-wise manner. We want classes of postgraduate students to get streamlined first before calling in undergraduate students,” said Dr Samra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/attendance-thin-as-colleges-reopen-for-postgrad-students-171251
17-11-2020||---||MP Santokh Chaudhary tests positive||Jalandhar, November 16Days after he led a tractor rally at Nakodar in favour of the protesting farmers, Jalandhar MP Santokh Chaudhary tested positive for the Covid-19 contagion on the day of Diwali.His family said he might have contracted the virus during the rally held to mobilise support for the farmers. The 74-year-old MP, who had been active in various events and shobha yatras, has been advised complete rest by doctors. He is under home quarantine.The tractor rally on November 10 saw the presence of AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, Congress leader Jagbir Brar, Shahkot MLA Hardev Singh Ladi Sherowalia and Chaudhary’s son Vikramjit Chaudhary, who is in-charge of the Phillaur Assembly constituency.The rest of the members of his family, including his wife, son and daughter-in-law, have not tested positive.“As I have tested positive for the Covid, I request everyone who has come in contact with me to get himself tested for the virus. Stay safe and take care,” Chaudhary tweeted this message from his Twitter handle on Diwali.On Monday, Vikramjit Chaudhary said, “We think father may have contracted the virus during the tractor rally because he got ill for two days soon after it. He is resting but is expected to be up and about soon. His four doses, as per the medicine course recommended were also completed today.” Chaudhary’s family members have also gone into self-isolation.Meanwhile, Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari also tested positive for the Covid-19 disease on Monday. He also took to Twitter to share this information. He said he got himself tested after running a mild fever.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-santokh-chaudhary-tests-positive-171252
17-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Holding & attending online classes with pre-school kids is not a game||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 16This year in April, while it was the time for many kids to step into playway schools for the beginning of their formal education, the pandemic confined them to home again. Their whole first year of education revolves around a daily dose of 45 minutes of a class, that too, with their mothers sitting along in front of a screen.The learning of all concepts, including colours, numbers, alphabets, five senses, identification of fruits, vegetables and flowers, etc all is being done through these classes made very interactive to keep the tiny tots engaged. Of course, the mothers were also put to work; getting daily assignments and activities done with the child, before sending the videos of their activities back to the teachers.Archie Sehgal, owner of Cynosure International Prep School, says, “We are doing classes on Zoom since April 1 and we have not missed a day. All our video sessions have a lot of teacher-child connection. There is a lot of brainstorming that is done before we plan the next day’s class.”Just ahead of Diwali, the teachers made the kids understand the concept of cleanliness. “Our teachers even enacted Ramlila to make the children get the concept of Dasehra. Now that the Guru Nanak gurpurab is arriving, children are being made to understand the concept of ‘kirat karo, vund chhako teh naam japo’. This way we keep on evolving our lesson plans and keep doing creative things,” she adds. The videos are also sent to help grasp the concepts better by watching it.Quite visibly, the schools are fully conscious of the fact that their education videos are being uploaded on social media as well. Earlier, it was only the parents who knew about the activities that a particular school was performing but now the whole world could watch how they taught concepts. So, clearly much more efforts have to be made.The playschools have clearly cut down on the staff. In the past, a teacher was tending to classes for 15-20 kids, now they are catering to as many as 100 kids in one class.Gunjan, a mother of a 3-year-old and a college lecturer, shared her grouse, “Being a working parent, I had thought that my child would be out for some hours and I would be going to college in a more relaxed mode. But owing to Covid, his schooling could not start. Worse is that while I have my own online lectures to deliver, his teachers expect me to be around all the time.” However, a sigh of relief was heaved when the school assured that for working mothers like her there will be special evening sessions held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/holding-attending-online-classes-with-pre-school-kids-is-not-a-game-171253
17-11-2020||---||Sikh bizman gets ‘Community Hero’ award for service||Jalandhar, November 16A California-based businessman, Sandeep Singh Chahal, was awarded on behalf of the California Assembly on October 2 as a 'Community Hero'. The award was presented to him by Assembly member Kansan Chu for his volunteer services during the Covid-19 pandemic.The award ceremony was hosted as the 6th Annual Community Hero Awards Ceremony at the San Jose City College Milpitas Extension (Parking Lot) located in Milpitas. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, this year's ceremony was a 'drive-through' for honourees and those who nominated them.Speaking on the occasion Chahal said the award was for all members of his team who worked day and night along with their family members to serve the community during the Covid-19 pandemic.He said that we not served only to get this award but to follow the teachings of great Gurus. Later assembly member Kansan Chu presented a plaque and certificate to Sandeep Singh Chahal.The community hero awards ceremony is an annual tradition started by California Assembly and community awards are being presented by assembly member Chu. He said for the last five years, honourees were nominated because they dedicated their time and efforts to make the community a better place to live, work, play, and retire. This year, Covid-19 has impacted our community tremendously, but with that impact, we have also seen a rise in the number of unsung heroes that dedicated their time to give back to the community.”We have received the most amount of nominations this year as compared to previous years. “I am so proud to represent a community that is home to so many selfless heroes," said assembly member Kansan Chu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sikh-bizman-gets-community-hero-award-for-service-171254
17-11-2020||---||City residents get tips during safety awareness drive||Kapurthala, November 16A safety awareness drive involving tree plantation and mask distribution to maintain a clean environment was initiated by lawyer Harpreet Sandhu at the historic Gurudwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi.Special amla fruit trees were planted within Gurudwara Ber Sahib and masks were also distributed as safety measures to fight Covid-19 for the gurudwara management and within the sangat as a step initiated by the Sewa Sankalp Society through Sandhu, projecting the recent safety guidelines laid by the state government for making wearing of mask compulsory for the citizens.A self-safety slogan drive was also initiated with the launch of brochures depicting message for citizens of Sultanpur Lodhi regarding Covid-19 safety norms with a sole motive to promote Mission Fateh.Member of Legislative Assembly Sultanpur Lodhi Navtej Singh Cheema also joined the noble cause and distributed masks to the sangat. People were sensitised to taking precautions from contracting the virus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-residents-get-tips-during-safety-awareness-drive-171255
17-11-2020||---||Admn assures city industrialists of widening of roads in Dhogri zone||Jalandhar, November 16 Industrialists of the city today expressed their grouse before a visiting team of the district administration as they rued lack of civic amenities in the industrial zone at Raipur-Rasoolpur and Dhogri villages. DC Ghanshyam Thori, accompanied by General Manager Industries Sukhpal Singh and Senior Industry Officer Manjit Singh Lali, visited some of the industries and assured support from the district administration to the industrialists, especially in these trying times. As the DC visited the site today, he assured them that the widening, strengthening, and construction of link roads in the industrial zone would begin soon as the Punjab Government has already approved the estimates for the 4.72 km-long stretch at Rs 3.25 crore.  The DC said after the state government granted administrative approval to construct the industrial road, the e-tendering process for the road was underway. He expressed hope that the construction, widening, and strengthening of this road would commence soon, which would benefit a large number of industries of Dhogri, and Raipur Rasulpur villages. Terming industry as the backbone of our economy, Thori mentioned that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government was fully committed to address all concerns of the industry. He added that the government has already taken many pro-industry decisions besides launching different schemes to benefit the industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-assures-city-industrialists-of-widening-of-roads-in-dhogri-zone-171256
17-11-2020||Jalandhar||Farmers observe ‘black’ Diwali to mark protest||Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee observed ‘black’ Diwali and burnt effigies of the Centre at various places on November 14. Salwinder Singh Jania, district chief, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said they protested against the farm law, as they would break back of the farming community.  Jania said protests would continue until the Central Government revokes the ‘draconian’ laws.  He said farmers throughout the country were opposed to the farm laws. Farmers also hoisted black flags atop their homes. The opposition to the laws were witneesed at Jania, Mehrajwala, Kang Kala, Kang Khurd, Jalalpur Khurd, Jalalpur Kala, Sardarwala, Chak Badala, Gatta Mundi Kasu, Mudi Chohlian, Mundi Shehrian, Mandala Channa, Fatehpur, Gatti Peer Baksh, Siani, Nawa Pind Aklaian, Kohar Kalan, Kotli kamboj, Kakar kalan, Nawan Pind Khalewal Araiwal, Nal, Killi Vara, Gidderpindi, Naseerpur, Ball Nau, Mallian Khurd, Fazalwad, Chakk Bahmanian and Purbi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-observe-black-diwali-to-mark-protest-171257
17-11-2020||Our Corespondent---||‘Brothers’ kill migrant labourer||Hoshiarpur, November 16 A migrant labourer from Jharkhand residing in Kharkan village on the Hoshiarpur-Una road was killed by his brothers after a minor altercation over having liquor late night. A labourer William from Jharkhand was staying at a farm house of Rajnish Kumar Babbi in Kharkan village. The brothers hit William on his head with a stick after which he lost his life.  The suspects escaped from the spot. According to the police, William’s family members do not even know the names of his brothers. The Sadar police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC against the three suspects in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brothers-kill-migrant-labourer-171258
17-11-2020||---||Scholars discuss ways to liberate Sikh body from politics||Jalandhar, November 16Sikh philosophers on Monday gathered at the KL Saigal memorial to participate in a seminar ‘Dasha te Disha’ to mark the occasion of the centenary of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.All speakers raised a demand to liberate the Sikh body from the control of politicians. Ex-Pro Vice Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University Dr Prithipal Singh Kapoor said the SGPC should not be used as tool to take over its reins but to follow the principles on which it was founded, ie, primarily to maintain the sanctity of Sikhism and the Sikh panth. For this to happen, he emphasised on the need to improvise the election system to the body. He said that it can be worked upon only if there is an overhaul of the gurdwara system so that it can be freed of any kind of politics.He also added that politics is based on complete lies and false claims but SGPC should be all about truthfulness and total transparency.Dr Balkar Singh, former HoD of the Department of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Studies, said that Sri Akal Takht, SGPC and Shiromani Akali Dal have traditionally been the three main Sikh organisations.All three bodies have been using one another directly or indirectly. “So, the Badals cannot be defeated just by mere accusations but the panth needs to chalk out a strategy for the same wherein it needs to specified about ways and means to bifurcate religion from politics,” he also suggested to rope in retired IAS, PCS and officials from other departments to facilitate it.Rajya Sabha MP, Sukhdev S Dhindsa, said he had already specified that the SGPC elections should be allowed to be contested by those who have a pure religious bent of mind and no political thinking.Harjeet Kaur Talwandi, daughter of ex-SGPC chief Jagdev S Talwani, ex-MP Paramjit Kaur Gulshan, SGPC member Paramjit Singh Raipur, Jagjit Singh Gaba and Gurcharan S Channi were among those who attended the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scholars-discuss-ways-to-liberate-sikh-body-from-politics-171259
17-11-2020||---||Notorious criminal held with illegal weapons||Jalandhar, November 16 The police have arrested a notorious criminal and recovered a consignment of illegal weapons and live bullets from him. The accused has been identified as Ajaypal Singh, alias Nihang, a resident of Basti Seikh. Jalandhar Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused was arrested by the team of Police Division No. 5 during checking from Dashera Ground T-point on Kala Sangha road. During his search, cops recovered a .32 bore country-made pistol with five live bullets from him. The police have also recovered six more weapons and 112 live rounds from the accused. The recovery includes four pistols of .315 bore along with 16 live bullets and 16 rounds from his house.  Similarly, a .32 bore pistol, 2 magazines, 80 live rounds and .a 315 bore pistol were recovered from his in-laws’ house from Green Avenue, said Bhullar. He added that most of the weapons were hidden in backrest of beds. Bhullar said Ajaypal was wanted in a ransom case, which was registered against him on October 21 last year by Rajat Bhatia, a spare parts seller. He said as per the FIR, the accused along with his accomplices Pawan, alias Tikka, and Roop, had asked for ransom of Rs 2 lakh from the complainant by putting a pistol in his mouth. The Police Commissioner said after completing matriculation, Ajaypal started helping his father in his business. Thereafter, he indulged in illegal activities and remained lodged in jails in Kapurthala and Patiala. Bhullar said two murder cases had been filed against him in 2009 and in November 2017. Besides, he had a case under Section 382 of the IPC registered in Adampur police station on September 25, 2009, besides four more cases of the Arms Act, the NDPS Act were registered against him in Jalandhar, Nawanshahr and Patiala. He said the police were investigating the source of bulk supply of weapons and ammunition to the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/notorious-criminal-held-with-illegal-weapons-171260
17-11-2020||---||Rain makes Jalandhar weather clearer, colder||Jalandhar, November 16The temperature plummeted after the city received rain on Sunday evening. The cold winds swept the region throughout the day.Residents were seen plying on the city roads wearing jackets, pullovers and woollen caps. Even as the daytime temperature remained around 21 degrees Celsius, the minimum temperature fell to 11 degrees Celsius. The good part has been that smog, which engulfed the entire region due to farm fires and post-Diwali pollution seemed to have settled with weather seemingly becoming clearer.As the residents have not seen a bright sun for the last one week, meteorologists predicted it to be sunny from tomorrow onwards and night temperature dipping to 8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rain-makes-jalandhar-weather-clearer-colder-171261
17-11-2020||---||Lambra school sealed after 3 teachers infected||Jalandhar, November 16	Within a month of reopening of schools in the district, Government Senior Secondary School at Lambra was sealed after its three teachers tested positive. The teachers tested positive on November 13. While attendance has been thin in the government schools across the district ever since the schools reopened, at some schools where attendance picked up the number further dipped during the Diwali week. Notably, even though officials of the Education Department said all precautions were being taken in the schools and everyone was being tested before they entered them, the three teachers of a school testing positive raises concerns about the safety of students. DEO (Secondary) Harinder Pal said, “The Lambra school has been sanitised and sealed. Three of its teachers tested positive on Friday. This is the first time that teachers of a secondary school have tested positive in the district. Only about 20 per cent of the students are turning up at schools. Mostly students from the science and commerce streams are attending schools while the majority of the students from other streams are staying away.”The DEO further said, “All students are being sent only with the consent of parents. Everyone is being tested before they entry to school. An SDM has also been deputed to specially make sure that testing of staff and students takes place smoothly.”We are strictly abiding by all norms and precautions are being taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lambra-school-sealed-after-3-teachers-infected-171264
17-11-2020||On November 10||Eighth anniversary of Avtar Radio!||ADMN offers Loans for youthKapurthala administration has taken a unique initiative to provide self-employment to youngsters. DC Deepti Uppal said in order to assist youth, loans shall be provided under the 'Mudra Yojna' and 'Stamp India'. The Deputy Commissioner said loans to young people are often being denied on the basis of small objections due to which their ventures fail to grow. She said those trained under the District Employment and Entrprenurship Bureau shall be able to apply online and fill a google form on http//bit.ly/self-employment-kpt. She said the code is available on the bureau's social media account. Uppal instrsucted the employment bureau to immediately forward applications to the department concerned or lead manager. A helpline number 98882-19247 has been released for those wishing to apply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eighth-anniversary-of-avtar-radio-171576
17-11-2020||Nawanshahr-based activist Parvinder Singh Kitna||A request to the media!||A place for community gatheringsNawanshahr MLA Angad Singh has inaugurated a multipurpose community hall readied at a cost of Rs26 lakh for Ward No. 2 residents on Garhshankar Road. The MLA said the residents of the area would be able to use the hall for marriages, meetings and other functions and would be able to benefit from the facility. He said the pace of development works in his constituency would not get affected because of the coronavirus. Executive Officer of Municipal Council Rajeev Sareen and representatives from the area were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-request-to-the-media-171577
