19-11-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||3 die, 54 test +ve in Hoshiarpur||The reports of 1,488 samples were received in Hoshiarpur district on Wednesday, of which 54 new positive patients were detected, taking the tally to 6,679.Three more deaths were also detected due to Covid raising the toll to 233.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said with 1,663 new samples taken from people with suspected flu like symptoms on Wednesday, the total number of samples taken in the district so far has increased to 1,79,800. According to lab reports, 1,72.416 were negative, while 1,923 reports were awaited and 133 samples were invalid. The number of active cases is 207, while that of recovered patients is 6,239. Of the 54 positive cases, there were 17 cases from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining 37 were from other health blocks in the district. Covid led to three deaths in Hoshiarpur district, of which, a 70-year-old woman of Chakk Nariala died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur, while a 62-year-old patient of Mohalla Neel Kanth died at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital and a 60-year-old Puar village (Mukarian) resident died at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-die-54-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-172596
19-11-2020||Jalandhar||Covid-19 testing camp held at district judicial complex Jalandhar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-testing-camp-held-at-district-judicial-complex-jalandhar-172597
19-11-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Jhinglan village sarpanch alleges police inaction||If the current sarpanch related to the ruling party has to stumble to get justice, what will happen to the general public, asked sarpanch Shilpa of Jhinglan village, while addressing a press conference here on Wednesday.She said her brother-in-law Jasvir Singh Bittu of their village was washing his scooter on November 15, when a villager had a quarrel with him. After this, the accused brought around 8 to 10 armed men. They tried breaking the doors and forcibly entered their house. They attacked Jasvir Singh and his family members including Savita, Suram Singh and Sowit with sharp weapons, leaving them severely injured. The victims were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Mukerian. She said despite the incident being three days’ old, the police had not taken any action so far. Not only this, the accused roam freely and spread terror in the village. She said the police had not even reached the village yet. Sarpanch Shilpa said she met the MLA of the area regarding the case, but no action has been taken so far. She demanded from the higher police officials to take strict action against the accused, so that the atmosphere of terror being created in the village could end. A number of village residents were present on the occasion, including numberdar Jagdish, Panch Pratap Singh, Panch Karan Singh, Panch Kishan Singh, Sunita Devi, Gurmeet Singh and Madan Lal among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jhinglan-village-sarpanch-alleges-police-inaction-172598
19-11-2020||Kapurthala||RCF rolls out double-decker coach with 160 kmph speed potential||The Rail Coach Factory (RCF) on Wednesday rolled out a double-decker coach, which has the potential of running at a speed of 160 kmph and has many novel advanced features in its design.With significant inputs having gone into the upgrade of tracks and signaling system, the RCF team felt it was necessary to develop the designs of passenger coaches that can carry more passengers in a single train in shortest possible time. The double decker coach rolled out by the RCF is specially aimed at fulfilling such requirements, especially for the busiest routes.To make passengers’ travel pleasant and comfortable, the new double-decker coach is equipped with modern amenities and design.“With a total capacity of 120 seats, the upper deck has 50 passenger seats, while lower deck has 48. The middle deck on the rear ends has 16 seats on one side and six seats on the other. It has transverse 3x2 seating with adequate legroom, optimised aisle width for a comfortable journey, plush interiors, overhead luggage rack, mobile and laptop charging sockets, GPS-based Passenger Information System and LED destination board among other passenger-centric features. Entry to passenger area is through automatic sliding doors. A mini-pantry, too, has been built in each coach to store and serve hot or chilled refreshments to passengers,” the RCF team shared.The coach has advanced state-of-the-art air spring suspension system fitted on the advanced FIAT design of bogies. The 160 kN air springs ensure smooth and safe journey for passengers. Additionally, CCTV cameras and fire and smoke detection system have been installed for the safety and security of onboard passengers.The RCF is the only production unit in India that has produced double-decker coaches for the Indian Railways. The first batch of non-AC double-decker coaches were manufactured by RCF on conventional “ICF-type” design pattern in the ’90s. Thereafter, the first AC double-decker coach with 130 kmph speed potential was rolled out in March 2010. Later in March 2019, UDAY double-decker coaches were produced with more features.Today, the coach with 160 kmph speed potential was rolled out by RCF General Manager Ravinder Gupta. The coach will be sent to Research and Design Standard Organisation (RDSO Lucknow) for further oscillation trials before putting in commercial service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rcf-rolls-out-double-decker-coach-with-160-kmph-speed-potential-172599
19-11-2020||Jalandhar||All-girls cycle riders’ club pedals its way||A group of 15 girls from various parts of the city have formed the first all-girls bicycle riders’ club. Named ‘Ride to roar’, the girls participate in a cycle expedition twice a week.Getting together near BMC Chowk or other suitable centre points in the city, they ride 40-50 km towards Haveli, Lovely Professional University, Pushpa Gujral Science City, CT Institute and even Kartarpur.Sharing the details, chief of the group, Disha Sachdeva, said, “During the lockdown, I got inspired from the Hawk Riders’ Club and developed a passion for cycling and covering long distances. I had never done this earlier. When my friends got to know about this, they also showed keenness in cycling with me. Slowly the number of girls started increasing. We started enjoying more among ourselves and took out our separate girls’ ride around August. We actually felt quite emboldened and motivated.”Sachdeva, who is an undergraduate, said since then they were planning a girls’ riders’ club, which they formed recently. “We have also started putting our pictures on facebook and other social media platforms and our pages run by the name ‘Ride to roar’. Getting a good response, we have opened our registrations for girls and women between 12 and 50 years of age. Our youngest rider is Bhavleen.”Simran Arora, a founder member, said they had also formed executive members for their club appointing Manu Gupta, Khushi Marwaha, Surbhi, Liza Verma, Vinita Goswami, Venus and Ruchi Walia.The girls said in the last two months, they had improved on speed, planning and coordination. They said since the Unlock happened and winter season had set in, they were also appeased over fewer vehicles on roads. “This makes our passage clear and rides smooth,” girls said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-girls-cycle-riders-club-pedals-its-way-172600
19-11-2020||Jalandhar||I am a true-blue Punjabi at heart: Tajinderjit Singh Taji||There is a lot that a new-age Punjabi singer-actor is expected to do other than just riyaaz. He needs to hit a gym every early morning. A proper diet regime has to be followed. The wardrobe has to have the finest range of clothes. Salon styling also a must.Being a part of the Punjabi music industry for the past four years, Tajinderjit Singh (industry name Taji) says he does all that in a routine. Having learnt a bit of modeling and some singing, he ardently followed rapper Bohemia. The 27-year-old budding singer from Bainswan village of Tanda in Hoshiarpur has already cut seven music tracks. His track ‘Thok Thar Di’ which got released in 2018 got 1 million views on the social media.Taji shares that he did his schooling from Tanda but went to Germany for his higher education where his father also runs a business. “After completing my college, I chose to come back and now stay with my mom in the village. My passion has always been in Punjabi singing which I can enjoy being in my home state. In the past few years, I developed contacts in the past few years and I am trying to give my best in every new track that I record,” he shared.Sharing his daily routine, he says, “I get up early and go to the gym. I do some riyaaz and then enjoy with my friends at my village. I spend some time writing lyrics for my own songs. Once I have readied lyrics for a song, it is time to move on to catch up with my contacts running music studios in Jalandhar. After the music is finalised, recording work gets started. I prefer getting my recording done early morning for I feel that this is the time when my voice gives the best result. Recording a song usually takes 2-3 days. After recording, I plan videos and decide locations with the video makers. The shooting of a song usually involves two weeks or so. Once that is done, it is time to strike a deal with the music companies. Overall, a song takes a month to be launched in the market.”Taji says that he has been uploading his songs on his YouTube channel TajiOye. “Most of my songs have an urban touch. I prefer singing romantic numbers,” he adds.While Taji’s father is in Germany, his sister is settled in Canada and brother runs his business in the US. Though he has learnt German as well, he says he is Punjabi by heart and is comfortable in his mother tongue only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-am-a-true-blue-punjabi-at-heart-tajinderjit-singh-taji-172601
19-11-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar's Rangla Vehra sealed again||The tehbazari wing of the municipal corporation on Wednesday carried out an anti-encroachment drive and removed encroachments from PNB Chowk, Jail Chowk, Jyoti Chowk, 120 ft Road and Kala Sanghian Road here.The drive continued for five hours and Rangla Vehra situated near Bhagwan Valmiki Chowk was also sealed. It is for the third time in the month that the superintendent of the department, Mandeep Singh, had to come to seal the basement of Rangla Vehra. “Every time we lock it, we find its locks broken. But I would not let this happen again,” he said.Notably, the issue of mafia operating in the basement parking of Rangla Vehra was raised in the general house meeting too, after which the department had also asked for police help to deal with the mafia.The anti-encroachment drive could not be carried out due to the outbreak of the pandemic but now the department has swung into the action again. “Now, such drives will continue. We had already planned that after the festival, we will carry out the drive and continue with it,” said the superintendent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-rangla-vehra-sealed-again-172602
19-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||Tanda rape: Next hearing on November 25||Man nabbed with 200-gm opiumGarhshankar: The police have arrested a person, allegedly involved in smuggling, and recovered 200-gram opium from him on Wednesday. SHO Garhshankar Iqbal Singh said the Beniwal outpost in-charge Satwinder Singh was patrolling near Hajipur village with his team, when he saw a person standing in suspicious condition. When SI Satwinder Singh tried to talk to him, he started running away, but was nabbed. When questioned, he disclosed his identity as Manjit Singh, a resident of Denowal Khurd village. SHO Iqbal Singh said when searched, two hundred gram of opium was recovered from the accused. He said that a case had been registered against the accused and further interrogation was on. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tanda-rape-next-hearing-on-november-25-172603
19-11-2020||As the ongoing academic session 2020-21 is drawing to a close||‘Attendance up to mark, syllabus covered online’||How have the offline classes for IX to XII standards taken off so far?We have 700 students from Classes IX to XII but when we called them to school after the GOI and state government guidelines, only 15 students came. All were of Class X. Not even a single student from Classes IX to XII came. So, we judged that the response was not so positive and the parents are still worried. We sanitised the entire campus well. All the students had their masks on. We ensured that they maintained proper distancing but parents fret that they would take all the liberty once their wards were outside.So, did you not call the students again?We did. We called our Class XII students to attend practical classes. The attendance was almost cent percent. Just one or two students did not turn up on the scheduled date. But they came later and the teachers made them attend their missed practical classes.Is the staff coming to the school regularly?Yes, we have called the teachers from tomorrow onwards. All Class XI teachers will be taking online classes of the students from the school. All HoDs will also start coming from tomorrow. We will have discussion and brainstorming on the campus tomorrow to discuss the further strategy on how and when to call the students again.Do you intend to call Class IX to XII students on a regular basis?We will go step by step. As per the plan already devised, we will first call Class X and XII students for face-to-face interaction with teachers basically for getting their doubts removed. If things begin to move well, we will proceed further in a planned, safe manner.How has been the response of CBSE so far? Have they come up with any schedule?A recent communiqué that we received from the CBSE was regarding scheduling board practical examination from January 1 to February 8. We are yet to announce a datesheet but we have conveyed about this CBSE circular to the students and their parents.How much syllabus of Class X and XII has been covered in the school?We are done with the full syllabi of both the board classes. It got covered through online classes at a greater pace than the regular classes. The reason for this was that there was no disturbance in online sessions as is usually there in the school. The teachers have been taking full time classes. There have been no school functions, no annual day or sports events. So, classes went smoothly.The CBSE has lightened the syllabus of board classes. Will it impact students’ knowledge?Nearly 30 per cent of the syllabus has been reduced this time but we completed the entire syllabi for the students in our online classes. One reason was that by the time we got the notice for deletion, our teachers had already covered that portion. Since our students will get complete syllabus in NEET and JEE exams, we wanted to cover it in the school as well for better understanding. Being a lecturer of physics, I can personally say that some topics which have been deleted were very important and some less important topics like that on ‘mirrors’ ,which the students have already done in Class X, are still part of the syllabus.What has been your take about the online examination conducted and how do you intend to take the pre-board exams?We have taken two online examinations, one of which was MCQs and the other was subjective type. I do not think that it was a proper assessment because I believe that only a few good students have genuinely taken these. Many students probably cheated. So, I would say that it was not a genuine evaluation that we could do. Now, if everything goes well, we will take pre-board examinations in an offline manner. We will call the Class X and XII students to the school in January. We will make just 12 students sit in one classroom maintaining all the SOPs.Can the ongoing session 2020-21 be termed as a gap year?No, it will not be a gap year especially for the students of good schools like ours who have been extra cautious and have covered proper syllabus through available online modules. In fact, I believe that our students have understood the concepts in a far better way as we provided videos, PPTs, YouTube links besides the traditional blackboard method.How far is the idea of running a proper school for all classes?I do not think that proper school would be possible till all the students are vaccinated against the virus. So far, even the government orders are only for Classes IX to XII.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/attendance-up-to-mark-syllabus-covered-online-172604
19-11-2020||Jalandhar||Kids dribble ball, Covid blues on field||Around 100 children  regularly take part in a coaching camp being held at Surjit Hockey Stadium, Jalandhar. The Surjit Hockey Society has been holding the camp for the last 58 days.Initially, there were just five children. The camp was started by Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghansham Thori.Iqbal Singh Sandhu, secretary, Surjit Hockey Society, said more than 100 players were participating in this coaching camp to stay fit and lead a drug-free life.Surinder Singh Bhapa, director (Training), said they had not expected such a response due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “We have seen students coming with their wards. All they want is that their child plays and remains fit. This is the main objective of everyone during the pandemic,” he said.The kids are being trained by experienced coaches, including Olympian Rajinder Singh, Dronacharaya Awardee, Davinder Singh, Avtar Singh Pinka and Yadvinder Singh Johnny.“No fee is charged from those attending the camp. “Apart from hockey sticks and fruits, soaked almonds are given to U-14 and U-19 participants daily,” said Sandhu.He said they were taking every precaution to ensure safety of children. “We ask them to sanitise their hands, hockey sticks and then play,” he said.The office-bearers said former Indian hockey skipper and Padma Shri Pargat Singh along with Olympian Sanjeev Kumar Dang and Gundeep Kumar, would bless the players and tell them tricks to be followed on the field on November 21.Surinder Singh Bhapa urged parents to send their wards to the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kids-dribble-ball-covid-blues-on-field-172605
19-11-2020||Jalandhar||Event held on gamification||The AICTE ATAL sponsored online faculty development programme on gamification was inaugurated by Prof Lalit K Awasthi, director, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology.The programme is being organised by the department of electronics and communication engineering. Professor SK Sinha, Dean, research and consultancy; Dr Ramesh Kumar Sunkaria, head, department of electronics and communication engineering; and Prof Arun Khosla, FDP coordinator, were present in the inaugural function along with the participants who joined the event online.Prof Awasthi briefed participants about the initiatives taken by the institute in the domain of gamification. Dr Ramesh Kumar Sunkaria presented the department profile and also various ongoing activities. FDP coordinator Prof Arun Khosla shared the details of the programme.The keynote address was delivered by Dr Timothy Hew, University of Hong Kong. The title was ‘Introduction to Gamification: What makes it work?’. More than 100 participants have registered for this programme across India. Eminent persons and gamification experts would be conducting sessions.What is gamification?Gamification is a technique in which designers insert gameplay elements in non-gaming settings to enhance user engagement with a product or service. The increasingly popular trend of gamification has proved powerful in many areas such as education and marketing and has started making its way to the corporate environment. By weaving suitably fun features such as points, badges and leaderboards into an existing system, designers tap users’ intrinsic motivations, so they enjoy using it more. It can also be defined as a set of activities and processes to solve problems by using or applying the characteristics of game elements. Gamification commonly employs game design elements to improve user engagement, organisational productivity, learning, employee recruitment, exercise, voter engagement and more.A collection of research on gamification shows that a majority of studies on gamification find it has positive effect on individuals. The gamification market size is growing fast with a projection to grow from USD 9.1 billion in 2020 to USD 30.7 billion by 2025, at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 27.4 per cent, say experts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/event-held-on-gamification-172606
19-11-2020||In Nawanshahr||Health teams receive calls for Covid tests||Farmers’ stir continuesFarmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) and other unions can be seen sitting near toll plazas everyday without fail. Early in the morning, a few farmers are found lying on mats and some other preparing food. Avtar Singh Sekhon, a member of the BKU (Doaba), had been coming to the toll plaza almost daily and prepares langar for his fellow farmers. Another farmer, Davinder Singh, said, “When there was ‘chakka jaam’ on November 5, women had also come to feed those who were sitiing on the protest. This is not going to stop anytime soon.”Mission 100% enrolment of first-time votersThe Additional Deputy Commissioner urged the representatives of the political parties to encourage youths who have attained the age of 18 years to enroll themselves as voters with the Election Commission of India. He said they must take help of their workers to encourage youths. He said migrant workers and transgenders, who are not in the list, should also be enrolled.(Contributed by Aakanksha Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-teams-receive-calls-for-covid-tests-172607
19-11-2020||Jalandhar||Certificates awarded to students||Show on Indus Valley civilisationStudents of the department of history of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya were given presentation on various aspects of Indus Valley civilisation. The presentations were given by the students of BA (Sem-I). It was a week-long activity in which students explained in detail the technology and engineering of Indus Valley civilisation that was in practice 2,500 years ago with the help of PowerPoint presentation. Students also gave chronology of the civilisation and also explore the economic and political system of that period. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that these type of activities helped in developing critical aptitude in the minds of the students wherein the students try to analyse the history in a scientific way. She lauded the efforts of Dr Gurjot, Head, Department of History, fprovided guidance to the students.Inter-house debate heldStudents of the department of history of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya State Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, organised an online inter-house debate competition inside the school premises. It was a good opportunity to display the unmatched efforts of students from all four houses participating in the event. It brought forth a lovely amalgamation of intelligence, research and creativity. Not only did the students gather information but also found innovative ways by putting them into ideas. The topic of the debate was ‘Technology is making people dumber than smarter’. Randeep from Sahibzada Zorawar Singh House bagged the first position while Armaan from Sahibzada Ajit Singh House stood second and Harshika from Sahibzada Ajit Singh House got the third position. Chief of State Public Schools Dr Narotam Singh and principal Savina Behl appreciated the students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/certificates-awarded-to-students-172608
