21-11-2020||Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Kumar flagged off an awareness van to apprise people regarding non-communicable diseases on Thursday. The Civil Surgeon said they want to inform people about sugar||Creating awareness on non-communicable diseases||New protocols for sportspersonsKapurthala District Sports Officer Jasmeet Kaur held a meeting with coaches on Thursday and instructed them to build rapport with players to reduce the risk of the Covid-19 spread. The meeting was held in order to give a fillip to sports amid the pandemic, which has impacted training of sportspersons. Coaches were informed that coaching centres would be sanitized. Coaches were asked to make entries in a movement register. She said the Sports Department task force committee would ensure that every player submits a letter stating that they agree and are aware of the risks posed during the pandemic. Staff was instructed to hold screening of players and staff ahead of training sessions. The RT-PCR tests of all players coming from Special Olympics Campus would be held. Coaches were directed to ensure at least two-metre distance during training. Coach Pradip Kumar, Satwant kaur and Inderjit Kaur, among others, were present on the occasion.‘Ensure completion of development works’Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti directed officials of the Rural Development and Panchayat Department to complete development works under the ‘Smart Village’ scheme at the earliest on Thursday. The Deputy Commissioner said works started with grants issued under the ‘Smart Village’, MGNREGA and the 15thr Financial Commission should be completed on time and certificates regarding the same should also be submitted within 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/creating-awareness-on-non-communicable-diseases-173582
21-11-2020||TWO months ago Yashika Sharma (29) got to know that her husband had developed a mild fever. Without any further delay||‘Positive approach can do wonders’||"When I lost my sense of taste and smell, I got to know that I have contracted the virus too. We both isolated ourselves in separate rooms. Although I didn't have any major symptom, I did feel a little weak. But Covid never lowered down my spirit. Albeit, the feeling of not being able to smell and taste anything did freak me out in the beginning. I knew I will overcome this. And thus, I started paying more attention towards my eating habits during those days. I started consuming vitamin C enriched food, as advised by doctors. I used to have concoctions of herbs on a daily basis. I ate fruits, healthy and green vegetables. One thing I didn't miss out during that tough phase was exercising. I kept on doing physical activities along with breathing exercises. These things gave me the strength to fight the virus."Also, I was in touch with my family and friends over phone calls and messages. Within days, I got my sense of taste and smell back. I would like to tell others who are suffering from Covid-19 to not panic and get themselves isolated the moment they develop any symptom because that helped me and my husband tackle the virus without any problem. Also, don't get depressed, think positively and believe that everything will be fine. Positive approach towards everything can do wonders and I have understood this while spending 14 days in isolation."Since my brother's wedding functions are on these days, I was tense as to how will I attend it. So, its excitement pushed me and helped me defeat the virus at the earliest without facing any severe problem. Now, I am ready to rock again at the wedding and am proud to call myself a Covid survivor." (As told to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/positive-approach-can-do-wonders-173585
21-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Pandemic driving women to the edge, say experts||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 20A 19-year-old girl committed suicide after she was prevented from meeting her friend by her father on November 16. On Wednesday night, an 18-year old, unable to bear penury and her mother’s separation from her father, also ended her life. On Thursday morning, an elderly woman committed suicide as she was under depression induced by her husband’s death and her separation from her children living abroad.Many such cases are being reported on a regular basis. As many as 80 suicides were reported in the district during the lockdown until August.Speaking about the 18-year-old girl, a student of Class IX, who committed suicide, SHO Bhargo Camp, Bhagwant Bhullar said: “The girl’s father went away two years ago. She lived with her mother. She was traumatised by the problems between her parents and also by penury. She was found dead by her mother on Wednesday evening, when she returned home after working at a factory.”While mental health experts say financial constraints and Covid-induced anxiety are among the key reasons for driving people to the edge, women being homemakers are the worst affected by the scenario.Psychiatrist Dr Nirdosh Goyal said: “There has been an increase in depression cases, especially among women during the pandemic. It wouldn’t be wrong to say that women are the worst sufferers. They themselves battle their own mental health issues. If a kid can’t go to school or a family member has a health problem, the mental impact of that, too, is borne by a woman. Women are bearing the brunt of Covid-induced anxiety. Previously they used to go out and meet friends, but that outlet was blocked during the pandemic. Their freedom has been curtailed, due to which they suffer from depression and anxiety. In many cases, mothers bear the impact of whatever goes wrong in their families. Middle class is the worst affected because not having money for healthcare induces panic and anxiety.”A psychiatrist at the Civil Hopistal, Dr Sanjeev Khanna, said: “There was an alarming rise in the cases of mental health during the lockdown. The situation improved after the lockdown restrictions were eased. But mental health continues to remain an issue. In a majority of cases which we have seen, financial constraints and pandemic-induced anxiety remain the top causes of depression. Many working women who lost jobs and are unable to sustain households are reeling under depression. The pandemic has also acted as a trigger for some cases in which people are under depression, but healing. However, during Covid, their mental health condition aggravated again due to panic and anxiety.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-driving-women-to-the-edge-say-experts-173567
21-11-2020||Our Correspondent---||MLA raises concern over  contagion||Hoshiarpur, November  20 Covid cases are on the rise and countries are heading towards a lockdown again. Hence, we all need to be vigilant for everyone’s safety, including our families, said Dr Raj Kumar, MLA, Chabbewal.  He was addressing a meeting of Corona Task Force (CTF), a team constituted for spreading awareness and distributing essential items to counter the Covid-19 pandemic, which has been reactivated owing to a rising number of cases. He emphasised that personal hygiene, use of masks and sanitisers, maintaining social distance were the key factors to save ourselves. People have developed a relaxed attitude towards  the disease and that’s more alarming. Hence, the responsibility of the CTF members has increased. He motivated participants asking them to educate people around about the severity of the pandemic.  Masks and sanitisers were distributed among participants during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-raises-concern-over-contagion-173568
21-11-2020||---||4 deaths reported, +ve tally reaches 16,670||Jalandhar, November 20With 94 new cases surfacing, the caseload in the district reached 16,670 on Friday. Four deaths were reported as well. As many as 15,266 people have been discharged to date and the active cases are 883. Also, as many as 593 people are under home isolation currently. At Kapurthala, eight people tested positive for the virus.One succumbs, 23 new cases in HoshiarpurThe Health Department reported 23 new Covid-19 positive on Thursday. As a result, the number of positive patients has increased to 6,731. With death of one person, the toll has reached 236 in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said they took 1,520 samples of people with flu like symptoms today. With this, the total number of samples taken till date in the district has touched 1,82,845.As per reports, 1,75,525 samples were negative while reports of 1,821 samples were still awaited and 133 samples were invalid.The Civil Surgeon said the number of active cases was 203 while 6,292 patients had recovered so far. Out of 23 new positive cases, four cases were related to the city while remaining came from various health blocks of the district.Jalandhar round-up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-deaths-reported-ve-tally-reaches-16-670-173569
21-11-2020|| ---||Fully prepared to tackle second wave of Covid-19:  Health Adviser||Jalandhar, November 20 Adviser, Health, Medical Education and Research Dr KK Talwar on Friday said Punjab was fully prepared to beat the second wave of the novel coronavirus if it hits the state in the coming days.  Presiding over a meeting with district officials, doctors from Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Civil Hospital and 51 private hospitals offering Covid treatment, the adviser said Punjab had acquired a lot of knowledge from the first wave of the deadly virus in the past eight months.  He said: “If the second wave surfaces, we will be in a better position to deal with the virus, as we have now strengthened health infrastructure, manpower, improved ICU care facilities, and made ventilators and oxygen available.” Dr Talwar asked doctors of private hospitals to ensure quality treatment to level-II patients on their premises during the golden period (one-week), so that they do not get converted into level-III and can be cured at an earlier stage. He also asked them to ensure that every patient gets treated perfectly and report to their institutions, asking to contact him or the administration without hesitation in case they need any support. He said mask was the only vaccine to tackle the novel coronavirus. Referring to countries such as Japan, Hong Kong that witnessed fewer cases as people have adopted facemask culture, Dr Talwar asked people to follow the SMS (social distancing, mask and sanitisation) principle in their routine life to contain Covid in state. He said people must undergo an RT-PCR test immediately in case they develop influenza-like symptoms, so that treatment can be started and mortality can be brought down. Managing director Punjab Health Systems Corporation Tanu Kashyap said the Health Department was already carrying out massive recruitment drive of MBBS doctors, specialists, nursing staff, lab technicians, and others, which would be instrumental in dealing with the pandemic in the state. She said the health infrastructure at the local Civil Hospital was already improved and soon the work of the oxygen generation plant would start there. On the complaints of some doctors that unqualified professionals were treating and delaying treatment to Covid patients which was leading to higher mortality, the Deputy Commissioner said any unqualified professional treating Covid patient would be prosecuted and strict action would be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fully-prepared-to-tackle-second-wave-of-covid-19-health-adviser-173570
21-11-2020||---||Phagwara Gate murder: Kin protest, block market||Jalandhar, November 20Relatives of Yovinder Singh, a 60-year-old dhaba owner who was murdered on Thursday over a petty issue, held up the Phagwara Gate market for over an hour on Friday in protest against his brutal murder.Keeping his body at the shop where he died, they held up traffic and the market for over an hour. A huge jam was witnessed at the spot. The son of the deceased Yovinder Singh who was allegedly murdered by his neighbour Manohar Bhalla, said while the police had lodged an FIR, the accused was still at large.Relatives were adamant on moving the body from the spot unless the culprits were caught. They moved from the spot later in the afternoon after the police officials pacified them that the culprits would be caught.The caseSixty-year-old Yovinder Singh was allegedly beaten up with rods by his neighbour and his son, following which he succumbed to his injuries.A dhaba owner, Yovinder, used to run Jaggi Naan shop opposite Pratap Bagh in Jalandhar. He had an altercation with his neighbour over some utensils kept outside their shop. The feud reached to such an extent, that his neighbours Manohar Bhalla and his son Rinku Bhalla thrashed Yovinder badly, after which he died. Yovinder’s son Harjot Singh (32) also received injuries, but was out of danger.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-gate-murder-kin-protest-block-market-173571
21-11-2020|| ---||Rally against attack on peaceful protesters||Jalandhar, November 20  Members of the Pendu Mazdoor Union took out a cycle march on Thursday across Mehatpur, Shahkot, Lohian, Khas and 42 villages of the district in protest against the attack on Dalit protesters and PMU members, who were holding a peaceful protest demanding residential plots for Dalit peasants. Members riding bikes and carrying red flags marched across various sub-divisions and villages alleging that some Dalit families and silent protesters were holding a morcha in favour of residential plots at Sardarwala village in Lohian Khas, where they were attacked on October 27 and their culprits were still walking freely. A memorandum was also submitted to the DC over the issue.  PMU members also exhorted the peasantry and village labourers to gather at the district-level protest to be held at Shahkot on November 23 and subsequent nationwide protests on November 26 and 27. State leader Hans Raj Pabwan said those who attacked silent protesters on October 25 were walking free and the police weren’t arresting them. He said no action had been taken by the Lohian Khas police against those who thrashed Dalit women and children on October 16 and 17 either.  He said those beating activists have been emboldened. He demanded that people indulging in such acts be arrested immediately.  He said despite a government notification, the poor were being denied their rights to residential plots. He said the MGNREGA scheme and employment to be provided under it was also falling prey to corruption and politics.  He exhorted the peasantry to extend wholesome support to the protest on November 23 and the national strike on November 26 against anti-labour revisions in labour laws and the Dilli Chalo Andolan on November 26-27 against farm ordinances and Electricity Act 2020.  PMU leaders Tarsem Peter, Kashmir Singh Ghushore, Vijay Kumar Bath among others were present on the occasion.  Their prime demands include arrest of those guilty of attack on protesters, residential plots for poor and Dalit villagers, strict implementation of MGNREGA scheme, increasing daily wage amount under MGNREGA to Rs500, pardoning of farmers’ debts and hefty electricity bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rally-against-attack-on-peaceful-protesters-173572
21-11-2020||Our Correspondent---||Police Hospital gets ambulance||Hoshiarpur, November 20 To strengthen the health services being provided by the Police Hospital located in the Police Lines here, Vardhman Yarns and Threads provided the hospital with an ambulance equipped with modern facilities to ensure health services in a more efficient manner. Vardhman Yarn and Threads officer Tarun Chawla and JP Singh handed over the ambulance to SP (H) Raminder Singh, DSP Tanda Daljit Singh Khak and SMO of Police Hospital Dr Lakhvir Singh. Company officials lauded the health services rendered by the police hospital to the people of the city including the police personnel during the corona epidemic. They said the Police Hospital had also made a significant contribution in providing services to the people during the current epidemic crisis. They assured that the company would continue to contribute for further strengthening of the required infrastructure of the hospital. SMO Dr Lakhvir told mediapersons that the ambulance provided to the hospital had modern facilities like stretcher, oxygen machine etc. which are much needed in today’’s times. He thanked the management of the company and said that the police hospital would ensure better health services in the future. On the occasion, line officer Balbir Singh, staff nurses Kamaljit Kaur, Amandeep Kaur and Raj Rani, ward attendant Gurpreet Goldie, ASI Tarlochan Singh, Jaswant Singh etc. were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-hospital-gets-ambulance-173573
21-11-2020||Jalandhar||Ward No.66 councillor eyes tube well connection||The Finance & Contract Committee meeting will be held on November 24 and will be attended by Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur, Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Singh Bunty and members of the committee — councillors Gian Chand and Gurwinderpal Singh Bunty Nilkanth.One of the agendas that will be tabled during this meeting includes the installation of a tube well in Ward Number 66.Notably, ward councillor Davinder Singh Rony had been asking to install a tube well in his ward for the past two years months. He had held several protests and lodged complaint that the Mayor had promised to install a tube well in Gopal Nagar, which falls in his ward, and a proposal for the same was also cleared. The councillor said not only the proposal, but the tender was also cleared and an order also passed.“When I got to know that the tube well was rather proposed to be installed at Aman Nagar in Ward No.61, I felt betrayed and we held a dharna in front of the Mayor’s residence,” the councillor said.The councillor said residents have been suffering for the past several years. “I have been raising the issue even before I became the councillor, but when the approval was finally given for it, such a thing happened which is not acceptable,” he said.The councillor said it seemed they were living in a village, where there was no Municipal Corporation to look after the matter. “Even a tube well was not installed in an area where people are suffering due to shortage of water,” he said.But now, the agenda in the meeting gave some hope to the councillor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ward-no-66-councillor-eyes-tube-well-connection-173574
21-11-2020||Jalandhar||Sewa Kendra services for street vendors||The Sewa Kendras of Jalandhar will start offering services to street vendors under the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi scheme from Saturday. A spokesperson said the services of application for loan (street vendors) and application for a letter of recommendation would be available at the Sewa Kendras throughout the district from Saturday. He said a fee of Rs30 has been fixed. He said street vendors can visit their nearby Sewa Kendras with relevant documents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sewa-kendra-services-for-street-vendors-173575
21-11-2020||Jalandhar||Dr Neerja new Principal of Apeejay College||Dr Neerja Dhingra, known for her research in the field of education and arts, has been appointed Principal of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar. Dr Sucharita Sharma, Director, Apeejay Education Society, welcomed her. Dr Dhingra said she was always interested in fine arts. She has often been a part of inspection team for the NAAC. She said she did research on Foreign Research Investment and published three books and 24 research papers. She added that she would do a research on ‘Gender education and higher education’. Dr Dhingra had been the editor of the journals- assimilation and UGC-approved emphasis. She has also been an approved guide from Panjab University, Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-neerja-new-principal-of-apeejay-college-173576
21-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||College students in a fix over admission to postgrad courses||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 20Even as the results of exit classes of the undergraduate courses are still being declared, authorities at Guru Nanak Dev University have almost shut the doors on admissions in the postgraduate courses. Any student seeking admission in MA, MCom or MSc course now, after seeing the result, will have to deposit Rs25,000 as late fee to get a seat at this stage.While the GNDU calendar mentions that the PG admissions can be held at least 10 days after the declaration of the UG final year examination, the university authorities had this year asked the students to take provisional admission in PG courses till their results are out, but the orders were not well-received by the students of colleges in Jalandhar, Phagwara and Kapurthala, which fall under the GNDU.Since the university does not allow students with compartments to take admission to PG courses in its colleges, the students who have been fence-sitters had been awaiting their result to take a final call. They were reportedly also worried if their result does not make them eligible for further admission, the fee required to pay might not be refunded soon and the amount could get blocked. The panicky students from Jalandhar colleges are reportedly now visiting the GNDU campus in Amritsar seeking withdrawal of the orders of Rs25K late fee.The college authorities said while the MSc seats in most colleges had got nearly filled, majority of the seats in MA were vacant. The members of Principals’ Association who met on Friday alleged that it would be a great financial loss as well if the seats are not filled.Principal Dr Ajay Sareen of HMV College said there were a lot of queries from the students seeking PG admissions but getting to know about the high late fee charges of the university, they were not coming forth. Principal GS Samra of Lyallpur Khalsa College, too, said admissions in all PG courses at the college had faced a big hit due to delay in examination and result of final year graduate courses. “We are in the process of writing to the GNDU to allow relaxation in the exorbitant late fee for some days,” he said.However, the students feel they are at the receiving end because of a late decision following a conflict between the Centre and the state government over decision to take examination due to the pandemic. They said earlier the state government had announced that there would be no examinations, the UGC made it mandatory for all universities to hold it for the final year.Upasana, a student seeking admission in a Kapurthala-based college, said, “The fight between the two governments had got dragged to the Supreme Court after which the examination could be conducted only by mid-October and results came around mid-November. Why are we being punished? How could we apply without knowing the result of our previous examination? Why should we be made to waste a year? This is injustice and GNDU must resolve the issue in the interest of the future of its students in these difficult times.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/college-students-in-a-fix-over-admission-to-postgrad-courses-173577
