24-11-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar ready to host 3 passenger trains||Authorities at the Jalandhar railway station carried out a security drill as rail services are slated to begin on Tuesday after a gap of nearly two months.The Railway Protection Force staff roped in the dog squad and conducted a long recce of the track area leading to the railway station. The technical staff checked the track. The platform staff carried out cleanliness drive. The commercial railways staff, too, remained busy rechecking the inventory of the huge stacked up parcels and moving these to far-off locations via the goods train that began to chug off on Monday.Railway Station Superintendent SS Walia said: “We sent off some goods trains on Monday. On Tuesday, three trains including Frontier Express from Mumbai, Paschim Express from Bandra and Flying Mail from New Delhi are expected to reach here in the day.”The reservation counter at the railway station, too, had more people waiting to get their tickets booked. As some passenger trains are slated to resume tomorrow, several people had come for inquiry purpose as well.“We have a marriage in our family in Mumbai next month and we still have not done any preparation. I am here just to confirm if Paschim Express will be shuttling around December end,” said Sukhdeep Singh, a resident of Pholariwal.Barinder Singh, a government employee from Amritsar, however, said he was peeved over the fact that the railway services may not resume between Jalandhar and Amritsar owing to members of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee still maintaining a stand over continuing to block railway track over the issue of three farm laws brought out by the Centre.“Owing to my job in Jalandhar, I have to commute here daily from Amritsar. It is always easy to come here by train than by bus. The fact that rail services will resume brought me joy but I am still not sure as to when will I be able to come here via train from Amritsar.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-ready-to-host-3-passenger-trains-175042
24-11-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Lawyer’s husband among 3 booked for double murder||Days after city’s famous lawyer Bhagwant Kishore Gupta and his assistant advocate Sia Khullar were burnt alive, after their car “caught fire” on Diwali night, the case took a new turn today. The Model Town police have booked three suspects, including the husband of the female lawyer, and a case has been registered against them for conspiring to burn the bodies after killing them.The allegationSumanender Gupta, son of city's famous lawyer Bhagwant Kishore Gupta, alleged that the husband of Advocate Sia Khullar, Ashish Kushwaha, along with his two companions, Sunil Kumar and Rahul Kumar, alias Kapil, a resident of Manglaur, village in Bulandshahr (UP), killed Bhagwant and his assistant Sia, put the bodies in their car, took it to the Puriharan bypass and set it on fire. Prima facie, it appeared to be an accident and the police even recorded proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC immediately after the incident.Karnail Singh, SHO in-charge of the Model Town police station, said, in a complaint lodged with the police, Sumanender Gupta, deceased Bhagwant Kishore Gupta’s son, alleged that the death of his father Advocate Bhagwant Kishore Gupta and his assistant Advocate Siya Khullar on the night of November 14 was a well- planned murder and that the car had not caught fire itself, but was set afire after killing both of them.Citing a deep controversy, he said, the husband of Advocate Sia Khullar, Ashish Kushwaha, along with his two companions, Sunil Kumar and Rahul Kumar, alias Kapil, a resident of Manglaur, village in Bulandshahr (UP), killed his father Bhagwant and his assistant Sia, put the bodies in their car, took it to the Puriharan bypass and set it on fire. Prima facie, it appeared to be an accident and the police had even recorded proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC immediately after the incident.On the basis of a complaint lodged by deceased’s son, a case has been registered against the three accused under Sections 302, 201, 120B of the IPC. The investigating officer said an investigation would be conducted by arresting the accused at the earliest. After the incident, the police had approached the husband of deceased Sia Khullar to join the investigation.When he started avoiding the investigation process, this further sparked suspicion.The police have sent samples from the car to lab in Mohali for forensic examination to ascertain whether the car caught fire itself or was set on fire by spraying a chemical or petrol on it. The police are also verifying the Closed circuit television (CCTV) footage.As per the statements of Sia’s husband Ashish, he was also in the same car with his wife Sia and Advocate Bhagwant Kishore Gupta, but he later left for Noida in a separate car while both of them left for the Purheeran bypass on the night of Diwali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lawyers-husband-among-3-booked-for-double-murder-175043
24-11-2020||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiHoshiarpur||Para-cyclists’ Infinity Ride reaches Hoshiarpur||Infinity Ride-2020, an initiative of Aditya Mehta foundation, in association with the Border Security Force reached Hoshiarpur, on Sunday and started with the next phase of its journey on Monday from Subsidiary Training Centre of the Border Security Force, Kharkan Camp, 17 km from district headquarters.BSF 2 IC Manoj Painuli, the expedition leader, said: “The ride comprising 20 Indian para-cyclists, including four women of international repute, was flagged off by Rakesh Asthana, Director General, BSF, from Nishat Bagh, Srinagar, on November 19. The ride will culminate at Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari, on December 29 after traversing a gruelling route of 3,801 km through 34 cities in 41 days.”Indira Penubolu, the coordinator of the ride, said: “Aditya Mehta, founder of Aditya Mehta foundation, is India’s first para-cyclist and an inspiration for para-talent in the country. The aim the ride is to create awareness about para-sports and discover budding para-sporting talent in the country.”The infinity ride moved on for Chandigarh this morning at 7 after a night’s halt at STC BSF Kharkan Hoshiarpur. The dauntless para-cyclists’ group was received by SS Mand, Commandant (Trg). “These para-athletes have proved with their mettle that if you have a firm resolve to move ahead, nothing can stop you.”Gur Lal, from the BSF who’s an Asian medalist in para-cycling,, said: “I lost my left foot in a mine blast, but it didn’t stop me. I resolved to make a difference and went for training at AMF’s centre at Hyderabad and now, I am cycling since 2017 and it’s my fifth expedition.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/para-cyclists-infinity-ride-reaches-hoshiarpur-175044
24-11-2020||Jalandhar||With 171 cases, Jalandhar Covid tally crosses 17K mark||With 171 people testing positive for the virus on Monday, the total number of Covid cases in the district reached 17,071.The district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 535.As many as 15,517 patients have been discharged in the district until now. The active cases in district are 1,019, while 648 persons are under home isolation in Jalandhar currently. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, four persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.2 succumb to virus, 31 test positive in HoshiarpurWith the arrival of 31 new positive patients in Hoshiarpur district, out of the reports of 1,277 samples received on Monday, the number of positive patients has increased to 6,796, while with two more deaths, the toll reached 244.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh told the mediapersons that as many as 1,119 new samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Monday taking the total number of samples taken till date to 1,85,690.According to reports received from the lab, 1,79,132 were negative, while 1,021 reports were still awaited and 133 were invalid.The number of active cases is 190, while the number of patients who have recovered is 6,362. Of today’s 31 positive cases, the city Hoshiarpur has 12 patients, while the rest of them are from various health blocks of the district.Samples collected 3,52,821Negative 3,19,514Positive 17,071Active cases 1,019Discharged 15,517Death toll 535Samples inappropriate 3,010Result awaited 325||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-171-cases-jalandhar-covid-tally-crosses-17k-mark-175045
24-11-2020||Jalandhar||Crushing capacity triples  at region’s oldest sugar mill||Punjab Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday inaugurated the renovated, modernised and expanded Bhogpur Sugar Mill with enhanced capacity of 3,000 tonnes of cane per day (TCD) from 1,016 TCD besides 15MW power generation plant on its premises. The crushing season was also started by Randhawa in the mills on Monday.10 sugarcane farmers honouredThe first 10 sugarcane farmers who arrived with the crop in the mill including Bikramjeet Singh, Sewa Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Kashmir Kaur, Harpreet Kaur, Iqbal Singh, Sarbjeet Singh, Gurbachan Singh, Jaswant Singh, and Joginder Singh were also honoured by the minister.Sugarfed and Cooperative departments have completed the revamping of the oldest sugar mill of this region, which has led to the strengthening of the crushing capacity of this mill. Further, the new power generation plant will help in collecting additional revenue worth Rs42.50 crore, which would ensure timely payment to farmers from their resources.FACTFILEAddressing the inaugural ceremony, Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said to drive out a farmer out of the traditional crop cycle of wheat and paddy, sugarcane farming holds a lot of potential, which can further encourage crop diversification in the state. Randhawa said as of now, about 1 lakh hectares of agricultural land was under sugarcane farming, adding that this area would further increase in the coming years especially after the revival of sugar mills. He said to make sugarcane farming a profitable affair and encourage farmers, the strengthening of sugar mills was crucial.Randhawa said the state government had shifted the plant machinery worth Rs20.27 crore of closed sugar mill of Faridkot to Bhogpur sugar mill, which had enhanced its capacity from earlier 1,016 TCD to 3,000 TCD.The 15 MW power-generation plant has also been established here, of which 8.54 MW power would be sold to the PSPCL at Rs6.29 per unit with an enhancement worth 18 paisa per annum. He said the department had signed an agreement with the authorities concerned in this regard.Further, with the inception of this sugar mill, an additional revenue worth Rs11 crore in 2020-21, Rs15 crore in 2021-22, and Rs16.50 crore in 2022-23 would be collected.Present on the occasion were former Minister and Punjab Technical Education Board Chairman Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Tanda Urmar MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian, Kartarpur MLA Surinder Singh Chaudhary, former MLA and former Chairman Kanwaljeet Singh Lally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/crushing-capacity-triples-at-regions-oldest-sugar-mill-175046
24-11-2020||Jalandhar||Transforming open space into sprawling garden||A 40-marla farmhouse here is widely known as the ‘green house’ in Mand Maur village. Situated on the Kartarpur Road, the house does complete justice to its name. Enter the house, and the vast green space is likely to sooth your nerves.Trees laden with fruits and blooming plants greet the visitors. The owner of the house advocate Gurmit Singh Shugli (73) enjoys the luxury of having tea under the calming shelter of trees. It is this corner of the house where all family members sit together. The couple, nearly in their 70s, looks after the green space and both of them ensure that every plant and tree remains healthy.“I transformed my home into this ‘greenhouse’ around 45 years ago. This inclination towards growing trees is hereditary. My father had a keen interest in growing plants. People would come to our place and have jamuns and mangoes tended by my father. I have dedicated my space, time and effort towards looking after the plants and now even my son and grandchildren are into the same,” he says with great pride.There are more than 300 plants with bright and beautiful flowers. The couple has grown litchi, mango, kinnow, grapes, papaya, rama tori, methi, brinjal, spinach, coriander, radish, lemon, garlic in their home. The main attraction of the house is a long bougainvillea climber that has grown till second floor and looks resplendent as it adorns the top of the house.Advocate Rajinder Singh Mand, son of Gurmit Singh, said jokingly, “We are so emotionally attached to our plants and trees that it has now become our weakness. Saareya nu pata hai ki asi fruit mul leya ke kha skde haan, kisi nu todan nahee de skde (everyone in our village knows that we can buy and eat fruits, but we don’t let pluck either fruits or flowers from our farmhouse). We just admire the beauty from a distance,” he said. “Even the children in the house cannot touch any of the plants. Our plants are very much like our family members,” he added. Some of the new saplings he had got from Lucknow and the newbies in the house are attracting a lot of colourful and beautiful birds. Mand said he is in habit of collecting flowers from every place that he visits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/transforming-open-space-into-sprawling-garden-175047
24-11-2020||Jalandhar||Science model-making competition||Online placement driveVarious placement drives via online medium were conducted for management, commerce, computer applications and engineering students of 2020-21 passing out batch of CT Group. The leading industries namely JARO Education, Impinge Solutions, HIKE Education and Oceana Tech conducted their rounds as per their protocols via group discussion, online test and followed by video conferencing for personal Interview rounds. As per their eligibility criteria, as many as 311 students from CT Group appeared for the interview. Out of these, 157 students got shortlisted for the final interview. CT Group Managing Director Manbir Singh wished luck to the students for their future endeavors and said that such online placement drives have become need of the hour, keeping in mind the present situation.BCom students win laurelsStudents of BCom (Sem VI) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya brought laurels by securing various merit positions in the examination conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University. Bhavisha Bhanot bagged the fourth position by securing 1677/ 2100. Shefali Goyal stood at the fifth position by securing 1675 marks. College Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated Head of the Department Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, faculty members and students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/science-model-making-competition-175048
24-11-2020||Jalandhar||Sambar strays into Jalandhar city, rescued||A sambar strayed into the city area on Monday. The animal was caught by a team of the Forest Department after two hours of struggle. It was released in the jungles, near Chauhal Dam, here this evening.The sambar was first spotted at Govind Avenue, following which PCR teams alerted forest teams. It subsequently moved to Kishanpura, New Prthivi Nagar and a host of other area before finally rescue at Santokhpura.A hoax call of a tiger straying into the Goraya belt also caused an interruption as some of the team members were diverted to the area, but did not find any animal.Notably, with contracting jungles and rampant construction projects in the hills, the city has seen very frequent sambar sightings this season. In this month alone 15 to 20 sambars have strayed inside the city area. The police also expressed helplessness due to repeated chaos with sambars frequently straying in.While the alarmed sambar hopped from factory to street to residential areas, a cautious and anxious set of team officials and residents were seen trying to haul a blue net over it in a desperate attempt to catch it.Minor confrontations also ensued at several spots where a cornered animal barged into the crowds with its burly antlers in an attempt to free itself. It hopped over doors windows and high walls escaping to the next locality until forest officials were finally able to rescue it at Santokhpura.SHO of the Rama Mandi police station said, “Every other day we get a call. It is a huge diversion. Too many sambars have been straying into the city recently. However, PCR teams called forest officials and they eventually caught it.”Jaswant Singh, Range Officer, Wildlife, Jalandhar and Kapurthala, said, “There have been 15 to 20 events of sambars straying into Jalandhar this month alone. A hoax call regarding a tiger from Goraya sighting also diverted our attention today. But eventually the forest teams caught the animal after a two-and-a-half hour struggle. The animal was not tranquilised as it might have caused it harm. It was simply caught and rescued in a net and released near Chauhal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sambar-strays-into-jalandhar-city-rescued-175049
24-11-2020||Our CorrespondentGarhshankar||Pranav Kripal is PPYC spokesman||A function was organised in Garhshankar on the occasion of Pranav Kripal becoming the spokesperson of Punjab Pradesh Youth Congress (PPYC), in which Cabinet Minister Sunder Sham Arora was the chief guest. Addressing the gathering on the occasion, Arora said the youth of Punjab was real asset of the state.To fight for the rights of the youthCabinet Minister Sunder Sham Arora, who was the chief guest on the occasion said it was a matter of pride that the AICC had given an opportunity to Pranav Kirpal to raise his voice for the rights of the youth by appointing him as the youngest spokesperson of Punjab Pradesh Youth Congress at the age of 19 years. He hoped that Pranav would fulfil his responsibilities diligently.He said it was a matter of pride that the AICC had given an opportunity to Pranav Kirpal to raise his voice for the rights of the youth by appointing him as the youngest spokesperson of Punjab Pradesh Youth Congress at the age of 19 years. He hoped that Pranav would fulfill his responsibilities diligently.He said Capt Amarinder Singh had always stood with the farmers. Speaking on the occasion, senior Congress leader Pankaj said, “About half of the city’s population lives in Ward No. 5, 6, 7 and 8, the east side of the railway gate of Garhshankar, but there is no sewerage system.Kirpal urged the minister to resolve the issue of area residents at the earliest. The Cabinet Minister said the sewerage issue would be addressed after taking up the matter with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. He announced a grant of Rs 5 lakh for the development of Ward No 8. Pranav Kirpal thanked the party leadership for his appointment and said that he would discharge his responsibilities diligently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pranav-kripal-is-ppyc-spokesman-175050
24-11-2020||Jalandhar||1,100 students participate in virtual cultural contest||Lovely Professional University (LPU) organised one of the biggest virtual cultural competition ‘Spectra-2020’. The annual ‘Inter-School Cultural Competition’ was held in three virtual rounds for 17 categories in five areas of music, dance, theatre, literary and fine arts.Even as the campus remains shut owing to pandemic, more than 1,100 students of various programmes had registered from across the country and foreign lands for virtual showcases. A total of 450 students were selected in the second round, thereafter the finale was conducted among top six candidates shortlisted in each of the 17 categories. The school of computer science and engineering of the university has been declared ‘Overall Champion’, with the best performances of a large number of its students.Every year, LPU schedules a variegated ‘Spectra’ fest in the first semester of a new session to identify the talent, particularly, of new students. Winners at the university are further guided to perform at bigger national-international level platforms, including AIU Nationals, Youth Vibe, One India, One World and more. In fact, the spectacular event brought forward true-artists living within would-be engineers, managers, bio-technologists, journalists, judges, and fashion designers at LPU. Inspiring all winning and participating students, LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal invoked them to sharpen their talents under the guidance of nationally and internationally qualified instructors at the university.In the final results, the school of computer science and engineering lifted the overall trophy of Spectra 2020; directorate of distance education was declared the first runner-up; and schools of electronics and electrical engineering and physical science and chemical engineering shared second runner-up position. The trophy for best performing school in the categories of music, dance, theatre and literary was won by the school of computer science and engineering; whereas, the best performing trophy of fine arts was won by the school of architecture and design.The event forwarded high-spirited experience through different categories of competitions held. Music area included competitions for vocal solo, classical vocal solo, instrumental (percussion solo/ non-percussion solo), folk singing solo, and western solo vocal. For dance, competitions were for classical/ semi classical solo, folk solo, western free style solo. For theatrics, competitions were for beat boxing, histrionics, mimicry. Similarly, competitions were organised in painting, cartooning, poster making, charcoal portrait, elocution, declamation, news reading and more.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-100-students-participate-in-virtual-cultural-contest-175051
24-11-2020||Jalandhar||Licence must for biz establishments||Rs6 crore for road workGarhshankar (Hoshiarpur): The PWD released Rs6 crore for the completion of the road between Banga and Garhshankar. This was disclosed through an official a communication by the department concerned to the Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari. Tewari said: “With this, the long pending demand of the residents of the area has been met. Besides, it will provide immense relief for travellers coming to and from Chandigarh to different parts of the city towards Doaba and Majha region.” OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/licence-must-for-biz-establishments-175052
24-11-2020||Jalandhar||2 Covid deaths in CDPO office,  Jalandhar ashram on toes||The entire staff of Gandhi Vanita Ashram was tested for Covid-19 today after two senior assistants in the office of the Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) East died from the infection.One of the assistants died yesterday, while the other on November 20. Both were 50 years of age. The twin deaths have set alarm bells ringing at the ashram as the CDPO office is the hub of child development and protection services in Jalandhar.The CDPO office plays a supervisory role at the ashram which houses four shelter homes – Children’s Home, Children’s Home for Girls, Observation Home (with a combined strength of about 180 inmates) and the Widows’ Home. The offices of the Child Welfare Committee, Juvenile Justice Board and Pension Department and Government Girls High School are on the ashram premises. Officials are worried about Children’s Home (for runaway girls) which currently has 100 inmates – double the sanctioned limit. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Das Thori said the testing of inmates had been scheduled for tomorrow.Three supervisors of the CDPO (East) are also currently displaying Covid symptoms. The office remained closed today. Alarmingly, no formal intimation regarding the deaths was made to any of the Gandhi Vanita homes or offices by the District Programme Officer (DPO).CDPO (East) Amrik Singh said: “Two of my junior assistants have died of Covid and three supervisors are symptomatic. We have all been tested today. There is no further instruction yet.”Amarjit Singh Anand, Senior Member of the Child Welfare Committee said, “We have received no formal intimation from the DPO about Covid deaths. Children’s Home houses more inmates that it’s sanctioned capacity. These are basic protocols that need to be followed in the Covid times.”“The entire staff at Gandhi Vanita and DPO office has been tested. They shall be in quarantine until test reports come. After that those who test positive shall be sent for 17-day quarantine. The DPO will examine the scenario and give a recommendation by tomorrow,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-covid-deaths-in-cdpo-office-jalandhar-ashram-on-toes-174861
