25-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||Single mom wrestles odds to make a comeback after 7 yrs||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 24Comeback in sports has never been easy, especially for a single mother.However, if determined, anything can be achieved, believes, Gursharanpreet Kaur (36), an international wrestling player. Posted at Punjab Armed Police (PAP), Jalandhar, as Sub-Inspector, Kaur, after suffering an unexpected turmoil in her personal life, made a comeback in the game last year. Before starting her second innings, her last bout on the mat was in 2012. With her extraordinary performances in several championships last year, she is now preparing for senior Wrestling World Cup to be organised by the United World Wrestling Organisation in Serbia next month.Kaur was fuelled up for her comeback journey in 2017 after she left her in-laws’ home with her 1-year-old daughter, as she was given a choice either to choose her daughter or husband. She was even threatened by her husband that he would kill their daughter. Having already suffered enough atrocities in her married life for three years, for which she even bid adieu to her game, she didn’t want her little girl to face the same. Helpless, Gursharanpreet left her in-laws and moved back to her mother’s home in Tarn Taran.She got married in 2013 and her husband, a drug addict, was also a cop. The wrestler said: “My in-laws told me that they wanted to have a boy and when our daughter was born, they beat me and asked me to leave. It forced me to take a decision for myself and get myself out from numerous miseries.” Considering her daughter to be her biggest motivation, she wants to create history, so that women and young girls can look up to her.She was informed about her participation in the World Cup on Saturday and now, apart from improving her techniques, she has to reduce 10-kg weight to fit into the 72-kg bout.Unfortunately, amid her preparations to victory, she had to travel to Amritsar and Chandigarh for the hearings of the divorce case that her husband had filed against her.Back in 2000, she was admitted to the state police after her stellar performance in the inter-state athletics meet, where she participated in the hammer throw event. However, impressed with her strength and performance, one of the officers asked her to join wrestling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/single-mom-wrestles-odds-to-make-a-comeback-after-7-yrs-175548
25-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Amid pandemic, his farmhouse is a perfect getaway||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 24As the coronavirus has started affecting lives, many people are looking for ways to regale themselves while keeping safe at the same time.In his pursuit to keep himself fit and engaged, Retd Indian Air Force pilot Air Vice Marshal Sarvjit Hothi has set up a farmhouse, almost 15 km away from the city, where he spends his day, rides his tractor, takes a stroll and tend to his hens. Hothi, who resides at Ranjit Nagar here, has established his farm on 1.75 acre land at Ballan village on the Pathankot road.Completely fenced from all sides and gated, he says he finds it a safe and secure place, where he can spend his entire day with his wife, Pearl. “We both come here in the morning, spend time doing landscaping and look after our fruit trees and vegetables. We enjoy basking in the winter sun. By evening, we push off and go back home,” he said, adding that he had been practising this since the past three months or so and has managed to have plush green lawns and fresh vegetables to harvest daily.Having flown MiG-21 and MiG-23 aircraft for the defence forces for most of his life, Hothi says it was time to engage in some agricultural work. “It is perhaps because of the ‘Jatt’ factor in me that I am passionately enjoying my tractor rides. I have grown hundreds of fruit trees, including several varieties of mangoes, oranges, lemons, chikoos, guavas, bananas and litchis at my farm. From carrots to radish, cauliflowers, broccoli, chillies, turnips, tomatoes, lettuce and salad leaves, I have grown all vegetables, of course with the help of my gardeners,” he said.Hothi has also begun raising hens. “I just love their sound and the way they run around in the farm. They have started laying eggs. Next, I intend to keep bees and get fresh honey extracted from them.”His wife Pearl, who has set up a one-bedroom with drawing room and open kitchen apartment at the farm, says: “I enjoyed designing and setting up this small house away from the one in the city. We have not put any curtains, as I want to enjoy the natural light. Having made the kitchen workable, she said she even enjoys cooking her own lunch at the new house.”The couple adds: “Since both our children (a son and daughter) are settled abroad, we did not have much to do here. Our kids would often tell us not to go out because of the coronavirus scare. We also did not have any guest for a long time and there could be no party. One day, both of us decided to kill this boredom and hence, we began working and planning this farmhouse which has added all that freshness in our lives.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-pandemic-his-farmhouse-is-a-perfect-getaway-175549
25-11-2020||Our Correspondent||One held from UP, three still at large||Hoshiarpur, November 24The district police have nabbed an accused from Bulandshahr district in Uttar Pradesh in connection with the double murder of two lawyers on the night of Diwali. The search for the main accused, the husband of the deceased woman lawyer, and his two accomplices is on in full swing.Disclosing this at a press conference, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the police arrested one of the alleged accused Rahul Kumar, alias Kapil Kumar, from Manglaur village in Bulandshahr district of UP. The SSP told the reporters that a special team was formed to investigate the matter under SP (Investigation) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu, including DSP Jagdish Raj Attri, Model Town SHO Karnail Singh and the CIA in-charge Shiv Kumar, to carry out an investigation into the matter.The investigation revealed that on Diwali night, deceased lawyer’s husband Ashish Kushwaha, a resident of Noida, along with Sunil Kumar, Kapil Kumar and an unidentified accused had carried out the incident. An FIR under Sections 302, 201, 120-B of the IPC has been registered by the Model Town police in this regard, on the complaint of Bhagwant Kishore’s son Sumnender Gupta. After this, teams led by DSP Prem Singh conducted raids at various places in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, during which accused Rahul Kumar alias Kapil Kumar was arrested.According to the SSP, the accused confessed that Ashish and Sia entered into an argument and Advocate Gupta was trying to strike a compromise between the two, but Ashish did not like Gupta’s intervention. So, he plotted to kill both of them with the help of his three accomplices. During interrogation, it was revealed that Ashish, along with one of his accomplices, reached his wife Sia Khullar’s house in Hoshiarpur on November 13 in an SUV from Noida and on November 14, two more accused, Rahul Kumar, alias Kapil Kumar, and his friend Sunil Kumar also reached Hoshiarpur in a car.The SSP said as per the plan, Advocate Bhagwant Kishore Gupta was called to the house of Sia Khullar. There Ashish Kushwaha and his accomplices poisoned both of them. Their bodies were put in Sia’s car which was later set on fire near the Purihiran — Chandigarh bypass to destroy the evidence. Later, Ashish left for Noida along with an unidentified accused while the other two suspects, Sunil and Kapil, went to Manglaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-held-from-up-three-still-at-large-175550
25-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Cases to spike by December first week, say experts, advise caution||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 24Drastic increase in the number of Covid cases in the district has set alarm bells ringing. According to experts, this wave would be more severe and dangerous in the coming days as temperature will dip further. Hence, experts have warned everyone to be more cautious.Senior Medical Officer Dr AS Duggal said: “People are not at all serious, there is a kind of fatigue among them, but that doesn’t mean one should stop taking precautions. Deaths are increasing, cases are on the rise. We are expecting that the numbers will increase by the first week of December.”“People didn’t bother about taking appropriate measures during the festive season, which is why we are expecting another spurt. If we analyse, we are seeing more number of deaths than before,” he said.He said if people have symptoms, they still don’t get tested because in case they test positive, they will have to be on rest for two weeks. “Here’s when they commit a mistake. What they do is, if they have symptoms, they just wait at home and rest. The lapse occurs when they feel better in four or five days and symptoms disappear. They go to work, meet people become potential carrier of the virus. Here is when the problem starts and we don’t know how many such carriers are roaming outside,” Dr Duggal said.“This is the issue that remains to be addressed. Also, we are seeing people dying of Covid who didn’t even have any comorbidity. I have seen several cases. Young people, having no other problem, who got late in getting treatment have died. So, people should be aware enough to quickly act the moment they see any symptom,” he said.A Kapurthala-based pharmacist also raised the same concern. He said people come to him and ask him to give medicine that will treat their fever and flu-like symptoms. “When I ask them to go get tested, they simply deny saying they won’t and in fact do treatment at home,” he said.Dr Duggal advises people to keep themselves warm and keep on having warm water and doing gargles to avoid suffering through severity of the disease.60 deaths reported in last 24 daysWithin a span of just 24 days, the district has reported a surge in deaths due to Covid-19. While 470 people had succumbed to the virus in the district till November 1, the toll increased to 538 on November 24. Similarly, the tally of positive cases surged by 1,967 cases in 24 days as 15,198 people were reportedly tested positive by November 1, whereas it spiked to 17,165 on November 24. Medical Officer Dr Kashmiri Lal said: “The number of deaths has increased this month as compared to previous days. The cases will increase in the winter months. Hence, proper precautions are necessary.”3 die, 94 fresh cases in JalandharAs many as 94 Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 17,165. Apart from this, three deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 538. According to reports, total 3,57,353 samples have been collected in the district so far, of which 3,21,177 were negative and the results of 3,475 samples were still awaited. There are total 1,037 active cases in Jalandhar and 15,590 people have been discharged after being cured of the virus so far. TNS25 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe reports of 845 samples was received in the district on Tuesday, of which 25 new cases have surfaced taking the tally of Covid-19 cases to 6,821. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 1,708 new samples of people with suspected flu symptoms were taken on Tuesday, taking the total number of samples taken till date in the district to 1,87,398. According to reports received from the lab, 1,79,858 were negative, while 1,986 reports were still awaited and 133 were invalid. The number of deaths due to the virus is 244 in the district so far, while no Covid death was reported on Tuesday. The number of active cases is 201, while the number of patients recovered is 6,376. Of the 25 new positive cases, 18 are from Hoshiarpur city, while the rest are from various blocks of the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cases-to-spike-by-december-first-week-say-experts-advise-caution-175551
25-11-2020||---||‘Govt committed to boost Blue Revolution’||Jalandhar, November 24To promote the fish farming among the peasantry, the Department of Fisheries observed the World Fisheries Day. Director, fisheries, (retd) Nirmal Singh was the chief guest on the occasionSandeep Vashishth, Assistant Director, Fisheries, said the Fisheries Department had been making relentless efforts to promote fish farming among farmers so that they could enhance their income.He said the state government was committed to unleashing the Blue Revolution and the department was holding sensitisation camps in villages, so that more and more farmers can adopt fish farming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-committed-to-boost-blue-revolution-175554
25-11-2020||---||Scholarship portal for SC students opens from today||Jalandhar, November 24 Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori today said the scholarship portal for registration of the SC students is expected to be started tomorrow  so that they can register themselves under the newly-launched Dr BR Ambedkar Post Matric Scholarship scheme of the state government. Chairing a meeting here with the representatives of the students and principals of various colleges at the conference hall of the District Administrative Complex, the DC listened to the problems of the colleges as well as the students. He said a joint committee of principals, representatives from universities and student’s body would be set up to minutely study all issues ensuring the welfare of the Dalit students. He said the joint committee would be formed within a day and issues like examination fees of the university and others would be cleared without much delay.  He said he would send a detailed report to higher authorities in Chandigarh regarding the issues and assured that all issues would be settled out soon. The DC said all efforts would be made to make sure that the students get the full benefits of the scheme. He asked the students to concentrate on their academic career as the state government was fully committed to implement this scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scholarship-portal-for-sc-students-opens-from-today-175555
25-11-2020||---||Sukhjit Mega Food Park comes up in Phagwara||Phagwara, November 24 Sukhjit Mega Food Park and Infra Limited, a Centre-supported food processing unit, was virtually inaugurated by the Centre and state government ministers.  Among those who inaugurated it virtually were Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister of Rural Development, Agriculture and Farmer Welfare, Panchayati Raj and Food Processing Industries, along with Rameswar Teli, Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries, Som Parkash, Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, Manpreet Singh Badal, Minister of Finance, Planning, Programme Implementation, Punjab. The inauguration ceremony was also attended by Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, MLA, Phagwara, Joginder Singh Mann, Chairman, Punjab Agro Industries Corporation, besides Commissioner Municipal Corporation-cum-ADC Phagwara, SDM Phagwara, SP Phagwara, officers from Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion and various other senior government officials and other dignitaries. The ceremony was organised by strictly adhering to social distancing norms and other safety protocols amid the pandemic. Espousing the vision of Late IK Sardana, former Managing Director, and KK Sardana, the Managing Director of the company, Bhavdeep Sardana, director of the Mega Food Park, said the project had been sanctioned by the Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Government of India, and set up at Rehana Jattan, Phagwara, creating affordable infrastructure for the food processing industry besides facilitating direct procurement of various crops, including perishables, from farmers.  The food park has set up a cold store facility, IQF facility and multi-vegetable processing line, deep freezers, silos, dry warehousing facility, sorting grading facility, standard design factory sheds for MSMEs, water treatment plant, developed internal roads and drainage system and quality control laboratory among other things.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sukhjit-mega-food-park-comes-up-in-phagwara-175556
25-11-2020||Jalandhar November 24||Students of Jalandhar's Lyallpur Khalsa College elect new committee||The Punjab Students Union (PSU) today elected its new college committee at Lyallpur Khalsa College. While Anil and Sonia were elected as the college president for girls and boys, respectively, Karan Singh was elected as secretary PSU and Radha as financial manager.A seven-member committee was elected unanimously. The PSU has been raising its voice against the student rights, particularly SC/ST students from past several years. A wide range of protest were organised by the Union members to pressurise the government to release funds under post-matric scholarship scheme.Meanwhile, students of the union also demanded that the portals of the post-matric scholarship scheme should be opened immediately for the students enrolled under the scheme.District President Varjeet Kaur and district secretary Ramandeep Kaur stated that apart from the scheme, they should also be provided forms for bus passes. “Even as the colleges have been opened, students commuting from distant place to their colleges are unable to use roadways services. Hence college managements should release the forms for the convenience of the students,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-of-jalandhars-lyallpur-khalsa-college-elect-new-committee-175557
25-11-2020||---||Residents, traders get a breather||Jalandhar, November 24Residents, industrialists and farmers have a reason to cheer as rail services resumed from Tuesday.Four trains — Golden Temple Mail from Mumbai, Paschim Express from Bandra, Sachkhand Express from Nanded and Flying Mail from New Delhi — reached Jalandhar station. Owing to blockade by Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee near tracks in Amritsar, Golden Temple Mail reached the holy city via Tarn Taran.Industrialists, especially engaged in hand tools, sports goods and electronics and electrical trading, said their parcels, stuck up at various locations, started arriving from Tuesday.The resumption of the freight trains also brought smiles on the faces of potato and wheat farmers of the areas as they said there would be no shortage of urea for their crops, which severely need a second dose of the fertiliser these days.As per the information available from the District Agriculture Department, there was a need of around 63420-MT urea for the crops of Rabi season but due to non-operation of trains, the district had shortage of around 17950- MT Urea. Urea is one of key fertiliser which provides nitrogen to the plants and promotes growth and yield of the crop the plants and promotes growth and yield of the crop.The farmers were facing problems in getting the urea and were concerned about their growth, especially of potatoes and wheat in Jalandhar. A farmer Satnam Singh of Hardo Pharala village said there was an immediate need of urea’s second dose to his crops but he was not receiving the fertiliser from the market according to his requirement.He said that now the operation of goods trains would ensure the availability of the urea in the market and there would not be any loss of crop’s yield. He thanked the state government for its consistent efforts with the Union Government over the resuming of the trains in the state.Farmer Jagjeet Singh from Lallian Kalan village who sows potatoes of 50-acre said he, along with other farmers, was visiting the market regularly to procure the urea but to no avail. He said that uncertainty had now been resolved and within a day, the urea would reach the market.A sigh of reliefAccording to the district Agriculture Department, there was a need of 63420-MT urea for crops of Rabi season, but due to non-operation of trains, the district had a shortage of 17950-MT urea. Satnam Singh of Hardo Pharala village said there was an immediate need of urea's second dose to his crops but he was not receiving the fertiliser from the market according to his requirement. Another farmer Jagjeet Singh from Lallian Kalan village, said he was visiting the market regularly to procure urea, but to no avail. He said the uncertainty had now been resolved and within a day, the urea would reach the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-traders-get-a-breather-175558
25-11-2020||---||Slough MP’s kin relieved||Jalandhar, November 24As the UK court awarded a two-year sentence to Wajid Shah, a native of Slough, for threatening to kill five British politicians including Labour Party MP Tanmanjit Singh Dhesi, the latter’s family living in Jalandhar is relieved.Dhesi’s uncle Paramjit Singh Raipur, who is also an SGPC member, said, “The news gives us a great sense of relief. In his message here, Sikh Parliamentarian in UK Tanmanjit Singh Dhesi said Wajid Shah, (27) had also threatened to stab to death former PM Theresa May via an email. The email came when she was serving as Britain’s PM. Slough MP Dhesi said he too was approached by accused Shah in connection with the citizenship test case, after which he received four emails threatening to kill him. Dhesi said that he had to close his office on the advice of the police. He added that the nature of the messages that Shah sent to MPs were horrendous and caused the victims significant anxiety and distress.Dhesi stated that the jury admitted that Shah had sent threatening emails after concluding a six-day hearing and convicted Shah on six counts of sending death threatening messages and thus sentenced him to two years in prison.Dhesi, MP of Slough said “No one should be subject to abuse or death threats, whether online or in person. So I am relieved that Shah has been brought to justice for his frightening and shocking actions.”He said, “I wish to convey my immense gratitude to Thames Valley police and all those involved in helping to conclude this case for their hard work and for acting swiftly to protect those of us who were affected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/slough-mps-kin-relieved-175559
25-11-2020||Jalandhar||Awareness van flagged off||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awareness-van-flagged-off-175560
25-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||This maths tutor is busy finding solutions to students’ problems||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 24Dharampal Singh, a dedicated mathematics teacher from Government High School, Patara, is actively working amid the pandemic for students and ensuring that no one gets deprived of education.To make sure that every student understands math easily, Dharampal started with his YouTube channel ‘Mathematics Lovers’, when the pandemic hit and lockdown was imposed.Despite being physically challenged, Dharampal is enthusiastic about his profession. The teacher has also become a known face because his 30 lectures have already appeared on Doordarshan. He uploads at least three lectures a week for Classes VI to X. “Looking at the current situation, I decided to reach out to students through YouTube. I have been getting a great response,” he said.He has also been keeping busy with holding online lectures for as many as 90 students from government schools to prepare them for National Talent Search Examination (NTSE). These students are from East I, East 4, West I and West II blocks, who are taking coaching from Dharampal. “Every day, I go to Government Senior Secondary School, Ladhewali, to teach students. I can take online classes from home, too, but going to the school gives an altogether different feeling. The environment of school is positive, that is why I prefer going there. Also, around eight students also come to the school to take coaching. So, when I coach them, I start with my online session,” Singh said.He remains in school from 9 am to 12.30 in the afternoon. Then, he solves doubts of students the entire day, which he receives on WhatsApp. Dharampal is also the state resource person for mathematics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-maths-tutor-is-busy-finding-solutions-to-students-problems-175563
25-11-2020||Jalandhar||NCC award for Lieut Harsimran Kaur||B Tech student gets jobPhagwara: Charanjit Singh, a student of B Tech Mechanical and Automation, Faculty of Engineering Design and Automation of GNA University, has bagged a pay package of Rs 10 lakh as a Business Development Associate in BYJU’S, a learning app at Bangalore. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University, congratulated Charanjit Singh. He said, “The university always efforts in continuously providing latest technologies to the budding engineers to achieve their desired goals.” Dr. VK Rattan, Vice-Chancellor, and Dr Monika Hanspal, Dean, Academics, commented, “The university is always ready to offer hands on training to every student to rise and shine in his pursuing field.”Muskan excels in B Voc (Sem VI)Jalandhar: The students of BVoc (Banking and Financial Services) semester-VI of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya have got results declared by Guru Nanak Dev University. Muskan bagged the first position by securing 1710/2100. Amrit Kaur got the second position with 1650 marks and Neha got the third position by securing 1583 marks. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, Head of PG Dept of Commerce and Management and coordinator Dr Minakshi Duggal Mehta. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-award-for-lieut-harsimran-kaur-175564
25-11-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||CM invites Manmohan Singh, Governors||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak, November 24Notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, the concluding ceremony of the 550th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev may turn out to be a high-voltage affair with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh sending invitations to former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh and many other dignitaries for the event to be held here on November 30.Cabinet Minister and local MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa confirmed that apart from Dr Manmohan Singh, the Chief Minister had invited state Governor VP Singh Badnore, his Haryana counterpart Satyadev Narayan Arya, former AICC president Rahul Gandhi, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs, besides all MLAs.Randhawa presided over a meeting here today to oversee the preparations.The Chief Minister will be presiding over in as many as five functions in one day. He will begin his tour by having a view of the Kartarpur Sahib shrine located in Pakistan through binoculars from the Darshan Sthall near the Integrated Check Post.Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq maintained that Covid safety guidelines, including sanitisation of the venues, were being followed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-invites-manmohan-singh-governors-175400
