28-11-2020||Jalandhar||Sultanpur Lodhi braces up to host 10 lakh devotees||With nearly 10 lakh devotees expected at Sultanpur Lodhi during the 551st Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev, ambitious preparation of the event have begun in the district.With the city bracing up for a huge inflow of devotees amid the pandemic, the district administration is also taking special measures to make sure Covid protocol is strictly adhered to.Highlights10 lakh devotees to be expected at holy city6 parking spaces to be made available on all roads to Sultanpur LodhiDigital Health checks-ups at entrances50 hand-wash stations, sanitisers to be providedHealth check-posts to provide free Covid tests80 auto-rickshaws to ferry pilgrims to gurdwara from parking spaces50,000 masks to be distributed by administration.Six Smart City projects will be inaugurated by the CM at the holy city of Sultanpur Lodhi on November 30.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said: “Five of the projects are related to the Smart City project launched last year. Under the solar rooftop project, buildings of Government Boys School at Sultanpur Lodhi, Civil Hospital, Daman Mandi, BDPO office and three other buildings will be covered with solar power plants. We also plan to include the upcoming DAC complex into solar grid paneling in the next phase. The sewerage treatment plants of 2 and 4 MLD shall improve the sewage disposal mechanism of the city, while work is also being done to renew sewage lines in Kapurthala city, which presently need work. Meanwhile, the Qila Serai project will see a total refurbishment of the outer building in the first phase. In the next phase, the inner building shall be worked upon. The idea is to develop it into a tourist hub.”On measures to be taken to keep Covid at bay amid the arrival of lakhs of devotes, the DC said: “We are expecting 3 to 5 lakh devotees on November 30, while 4 lakh more are expected to arrive on other days. So, in anticipation of about 10 lakh or so devotees, a detailed set up has been ensured to ensure strict adherence to Covid protocol. Hand-washing stations have been set up at key pandals and major stations, where celebrations shall take place. Masks and sanitisers shall be provided to the public at all stations. Devotees shall be screened at all entrances with digital thermometers and health check-posts. Free testing of devotees shall also be available at all health check-posts. A team of 100 volunteers has also be deputed to ensure all devotes are made to sit as per social distancing protocol at the pandal.”Gurpurb: Projects to be inaugurated by CM A provision of 50 hand-wash stations has been made and 50,000 masks shall be distributed among devotees. In addition, six parking lots have been set up on all roads to Sultanpur Lodhi, 80 auto-rickshaws shall ferry pilgrims to the gurdwara from the parking lots, temporary toilets have been made at many places and pandals have also been set up for devotees.The celebrations will begin from November 28 and go on till November 30. Akhand path will also be held at Sultanpur Lodhi from 10 am on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sultanpur-lodhi-braces-up-to-host-10-lakh-devotees-177040
28-11-2020||Jalandhar||4 succumb to virus, 157 test positive in Jalandhar||With 157 new cases, the Covid tally reached 17,628 in the district. Four deaths were also reported due to the virus, taking the toll to 548. The active cases in the district have climbed up to 1,260. As many as 817 people are also under home isolation in Jalandhar at present. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 11 people tested positive for Covid-19.2 die, 14 test positive in HoshiarpurThe number of positive patients increased to 6,896 with 14 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the samples of 1,670 people with suspected flu-like symptoms were also taken on Friday and the total number of samples taken till date of Covid-19 in the district has reached 1,91,941. According to reports received from the lab, 1,84,215 are negative, while the reports of 2,128 samples were still awaited and 133 samples were invalid. Dr Singh said with the death of two more patients, the toll increased to 250. He said the number of active cases is 168, while the number of patients who have recovered has increased to 6,478. Of today’s 14 cases, five are from the city, while the remaining are from different health blocks. — OCJalandhar round-upSamples collected 3,69,722Negative 3,31,900Positive 17,628Active 1,260Discharged 15,820Deceased 548Sample inappropriate 3,104Results awaited 3,535Home isolated 817||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-succumb-to-virus-157-test-positive-in-jalandhar-177041
28-11-2020||In the month of August||‘Have faith in God and your doctor’||On September 1, I was admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh, and the first three days were too difficult. I was almost unconscious and ate almost nothing and the weakness was so immense that I couldn't get up. Luckily, my oxygen level was normal and the doctors attending to me were too kind and caring and performed their duty diligently.Staying there for eight days and after much improvement in my condition, I returned home. My wife also tested positive for the virus and was in home isolation already. It took around a month for me to completely recover. During these days, we kept ourselves busy in reading holy scriptures. We read the Bhagavad Gita and recited Ramcharitmanas together.My diabetes had worsened and sugar levels were high and I was feeling extremely weak. I lost around 9 kg weight during this period. As I was experiencing the effects of Covid-19, I decided to share my experience to create awareness among others over telephone, so that they may save themselves from contracting the virus and also to those who were suffering from it. I used to talk over the phone to boost their morale.With all my sufferings and experience with the virus, I learnt that it was utmost important to have firm faith in the Almighty and in your doctor. The doctor's advice and the government instructions must be followed and one must keep a positive attitude. (As told to Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/have-faith-in-god-and-your-doctor-177042
28-11-2020||Kapurthala||At 16, she is already an author of 2 books||She started penning short stories when she was barely 10. At 14, she authored a book ‘The best I can do is to write my heart out’ — a collection of 60 poems. Now 16, Harsimran Kaur, a student of Cambridge International School here, has two books to her credit; second one being a fiction book titled ‘I am perfectly imperfect’.‘Lockdown’ poem...Now that the libraries are locked, they can’t lock the freedom of my mind.Now that the whole city is locked, they can’t lock my whole body possessing my soul.Now, that the parks are locked; they can’t lock my lively spirit.Now that everything appears locked, relationships are not yet locked…my home is not locked.Ask her how she could do it at such a small age, she responds, “I have been an avid reader since my childhood. I have enjoyed reading books authored by Mark Twain and Raold Dahl. At 10, when I wrote my first short story, I got a lot of encouragement from my parents and teachers to write more. Ever since then, I have developed a unique relationship with writing.”Harsimran says that her visit to the portal ‘Notionpress’ also nudged her interest. “I saw how young writers were encouraged to write more on the digital platform. In fact, my second book that got released in August 2019 had come out in the digital format. I also started using @harsimranwritesbooks on social media for reaching out to more readers,” says the budding writer, who also penned a poem named ‘Lockdown’ in Covid days.Her father Jagtar Singh Mand, a government school teacher, and mother Davinder Kaur say, “Harsimran is writing most of the time and when she is not, you can find her buried beneath piles of books. Our daughter is indeed a gifted child. She is a very keen learner and expresses her love towards various subjects like literature and history. She loves to educate others about the importance of education and considers former First Lady of the US Michelle Obama as her idol.”About her aim, Harsimran shares, “I want to move abroad after my class XII. I wish to study more about American or British English. I wish to continue my passion in writing but I am still not sure if I will pursue it as my profession.”A student of humanities, she is also founder of “Pastlores” — an online history club where she connects with people and researchers across the globe and discusses about various elements of history. She has currently written two drafts which are yet to be published and is halfway through the draft of another book which she classifies as near eastern civilizations’ history. She is also researching about Mesopotamian civilization, under her unnamed new project and publishing of a research paper is on cards too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-16-she-is-already-an-author-of-2-books-177043
28-11-2020||Jalandhar||NIT prof among top 2% scientists in world||Prof Balbir Singh Kaith of Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology has been ranked among top two per cent scientists in the world as per Stanford University of the US.The recognition has come on account of extensive research work he has pursued. Prof Kaith, who is head of chemistry department, has published 250 papers in various national and international journals of repute.Prof Kaith has been a recipient of the Indian Council Chemists Award 2018, Best Teacher Award 2018, HIM Science Congress Fellow of the year Award 2013-2014, NIT Hamirpur Commendation Award 2003 and ICAS-New Delhi Chapter (IOC) Excellence in Science Award.In addition, his research group got the Golden Paper Award, Young Chemist Award, Young Scientist Award and Best Paper Award.Prof Kaith joined NIT, Jalandhar, in 2007. Before this, he served at NIT, Hamirpur, for around 16 years.He served at NIT, Jalandhar, in the capacity of Dean Planning and Development, Registrar, Dean Students Welfare and Dean Academic.Prof Kaith also served as the visitor’s nominee (President of India’s nominee) from March 2017 to March 2020 in Selection Boards for faculty positions in NITs.He has the honour of chairing sessions in many national and international conferences. He has guided 25 PhD students. At present, his research group has been working on ‘smart materials’ and their applications in biomedical and pharmaceutical fields. He is the life member of many national and international academic societies and Fellow of International Congress of Environmental Research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-prof-among-top-2-scientists-in-world-177044
28-11-2020||Jalandhar||Cong leader Lucky faces flak for rowdy behaviour||Undue aggression and blame game ensued by Congress leader and Director Punjab Medium Industries Development Board Malwinder Singh Lucky may cost him dearly.Lucky had allegedly manhandled Municipal Town Planner Param Pal in the Municipal Corporation Office three days back, the photos of which had gone viral. Lucky had alleged that the MC officials were not furnishing him requisite documents for his building for long and were deliberately lingering it on. He had alleged that the MC officials had been working at the behest of Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh and thus delaying the construction work. He had reportedly also issued maligning statements against the MC staff.As the whole incident took a political turn, the MC officials also took a stand against Lucky. The Jalandhar Police Commissionerate also registered a non-bailable case against Lucky on Thursday, after which he went missing. Lucky has been booked under Sections 353, 186, 341 and 506 of the IPC.Sources in the party say that Lucky could even lose the post given to him in July this year as some senior local Congress leaders, including an MLA, have reportedly shot off a complaint against him. Lucky had even released a video apologising for his act but the MC officials demanded that he should come to the MC office and eat the humble pie before the staff.The FIR lodged against him on the complaint of Joint Commissioner MC mentions that the Town Planning staff had issued notice to Lucky and had even got the illegal construction of his building stopped. They had alleged he had showed undue aggression in the office for covering up his follies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-leader-lucky-faces-flak-for-rowdy-behaviour-177045
28-11-2020||Jalandhar||Schools told not to discourage kids from speaking Punjabi||The issue of children losing interest in learning their mother tongue has long been debated but still some schools are seen discouraging students to speak in their mother tongue.International Mother Language Day is celebrated on February 21, where a proper discussion is held on the issue of private schools asking students not to speak in Punjabi while conversing with one another.Recently, the Director Public Instructions (secondary education), in a communique to the chairman of Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) and chairman of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has highlighted that several complaints were being received, where schools don’t allow students to speak in Punjabi and this practice should be stopped.“There should be a proper implementation of provisions of the Languages Act, 2008. Teaching of Punjabi is compulsory as a subject from Class I to X in all schools in Punjab. It has further been provided that no Board or institution shall award matriculation certificates to any students unless he has passed Class X examination in Punjabi. You are therefore requested to ensure that all schools situated in Punjab and affiliated with the Board comply,” the circular reads.It further states: “Complaints have also been received with the department that some of the schools discourage students to speak in Punjabi during informal discussions either among students themselves or with teachers during school hours. This has an adverse impact on the mental development of students as some of them may find it difficult to express themselves. It is also requested that appropriate directions are issued to the schools not to indulge in such practices.”An Education Department official said such circulars were passed earlier as well, but no school complies with the order. “Moreover, parents also don’t want their wards to converse in Punjabi anymore. One must respect the mother tongue,” he said.Des Raj Kali, a noted and prominent writer from Punjab, said: “If the department has highlighted this problem, then it is commendable. I myself have heard schools imposing fine and not letting students speak in Punjabi, which is not right for the natural development of students. One will be successful in any field, if he knows his own language. Today, I write in Hindi and English, too, but that has only been possible because I know my mother tongue. So, one should take pride in speaking their mother tongue,” he said.Shivani Aneja, a mother of a 10-year-old studying at a private school, expressed: “I don’t know why but even I want my daughter to speak in English. It gives a sense of confidence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-told-not-to-discourage-kids-from-speaking-punjabi-177046
28-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||Expert dwells on importance of Constitution||University Institute of Legal Studies, Panjab University Swami Sarvanand Giri Regional Centre (PUSSGRC), Hoshiarpur, organised a webinar on Constitution Day.The key note speaker, Avinash Rai Khanna, vice-chairman, Indian Red Cross Society, spoke on the importance of the Constitution and its basic structure. Khanna stressed the need for fulfillingment of fundamental duties and displaying the duties in every educational institution.He explained the sacred nature of the Constitution and said it was one of the best Constitutions of the world. It’s controlling authority channelise every function of the government. He quoted the example of the Election Commission and its importance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expert-dwells-on-importance-of-constitution-177047
28-11-2020||Jalandhar||Hoshiarpur boy felicitated at hockey coaching camp||On the 65th day of free, ongoing Surjit Hockey Coaching Camp here at local Surjit Hockey Stadium Jalandhar, Sukhchain Singh (10) of Hoshairpur has been adjudged as the best player.Iqbal Singh Sandhu, secretary, Surjit Hockey Society, said that the selection committee adjudged Sukhchain on the basis of his performance so far. The boy has been attending the camp coming daily from Hoshiarpur at 6:30 am and going back after a two-hour training.The selection committee that chose the boy for the title include chief coach Olympian Rajinder Singh, coaches Davinder Singh, Yadvinder Singh Johnny and director (coaching camp) of society Surinder Singh Bhapa. According to the committee members, Sukhchain is a promising hockey player who has a champion mentality which is essential to reach the highest levels. He is currently a student of Class IV of Mount Carmel School, Hoshiarpur.On this occasion renowned Alfa hockey brand equipment maker Jatin Mahajan honoured Sukhchain Singh (Hoshiarpur) with best player certificate along with hockey. After seeing the participation of more than 100 players under the age of 14 in this hockey camp which has been going on for 65 consecutive day, he announced that every player participating in Surjit Hockey Camp would be eligible for 50 per cent discount on purchase of any Alpha brand hockey product.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-boy-felicitated-at-hockey-coaching-camp-177048
28-11-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Resumption of goods trains will boost trade, says minister||Resumption of freight trains in the state has led to dispatch of goods at domestic and international level. Leading tractor manufacturer ‘International Tractors’ would dispatch rakes of Sonalika tractors to other states.Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora said rakes of Sonalika tractors were being dispatched to Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh, among others, from Nasrala railway station.With commencement of goods trains, development of industries and trade would get a boost in the coming days, he said.The minister said, “Not only major industries, but micro industries will be immensely benefitted with resumption of services of trains.” He said the backlog of goods would be cleared soon. Arora stated industrialists suffered massive loss due to absence of train services, but now the industrial growth would be put back on track by giving impetus to import and export activities.He said the International Tractors had recently dispatched a rake of tractors to Bangladesh and another order was also ready.Reiterating the commitment of the state government, the minister said they had already earmarked suitable chunk of lands at industrial parks in Rajpura, Ludhiana and Bathinda.He thanked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for his efforts to get the rail services started after convincing agitating farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/resumption-of-goods-trains-will-boost-trade-says-minister-177049
28-11-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Min assures supply of urea in all blocks of Hoshiarpur||With the arrival of 2,100 bags of urea on Friday, the farmers of different blocks have started getting the requisite fertiliser in the district for smooth sowing of wheat and oil seeds.The Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora said the next rake of 2,600 metric tonne of fertiliser would reach at Hoshiarpur railway station on Tuesday, which would ensure availability of urea in all blocks of the district by providing requisite quantity to farmers.The minister said with the concerted efforts of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the state government was making all out efforts to bring industry and agricultural activities back on track, which were badly hit due to suspension of rail services in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/min-assures-supply-of-urea-in-all-blocks-of-hoshiarpur-177050
28-11-2020||The first rake of fertiliser brought in 800-MT urea on Thursday here. The farmers of the district heaved a sigh of relief as now they will not face any kind of difficulties in procuring it. Divulging details||First freight train brings in 800-MT of urea||Voter revisions: 6, 08,467 voters in KapurthalaFollowing the final revision of voter lists in the district, the total voters have been counted to 60, 8467. District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said of the total voters, as many as 31, 8128 are men and 29, 039 are women and 30 are transgenders. The area has 768 polling booths, of which the most number of booths amounting to 220 are on Phagwara, 190 are at Sultanpur Lodhi, 184 are in Kapurthala and 174 are at Bholath. Phagwara has most voters - 186,598, while Sultanpur Lodhi has 144,854, Kapurthala has 143,432 and Bholath has 133583. Across all four constituencies, male voters are more than the female. Phagwara has 98,268 male voters and 88,323 female voters, Sultanpur Lodhi has 76,739 male voters and 68,113 female voters, Kapurthala has 75,300 male voters and 68,113 female voters, Bholath has 67,821 male voters and 65,760 female voters. "Objections and claims from the public shall be received on the voters list by BLOs on December 5 and 6," the DC said. TNSFarewell...Dr Anirudh PratapDean Research and Development of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) Dr Anirudh Pratap Singh today retired after serving the institute for nearly 10 years. He has the experience of 35 years of working on academic as well as various administrative positions. During his tenure of job, he worked in state government and Centre govt. level institutions at various locations on various positions. It includes GB Pant Engineering College, Paudi Garhwal, IIT, BHU Varanasi and Shaheed Bhagat Singh State Technical Campus, Ferozepur. A farewell party was organised by the general administration and public relations department of the university. Vice Chancellor Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma wished Dr AP Singh good luck for the beginning of new innings. He said Dr AP Singh’s services in the university would always be remembered. Dean Academics Dr Vikas Chawla, Registrar Sandeep Kumar Kazal and In charge VC Secretariat Dr Hitesh Sharma also addressed the gathering during the farewell ceremony. Assistant Registrar Saurabh Sharma conducted the stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/first-freight-train-brings-in-800-mt-of-urea-177051
28-11-2020||Several schools and colleges of the city on Thursday observed Constitution Day||Constitution Day celebrated at DPS||Hans Raj Mahila Maha VidyalayaThe post-graduate department of political science celebrated the 71st Constitution Day at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya by organising a webinar on the topic ‘Significance of Constitution Day in India’. The webinar was hosted by Alka Sharma, Assistant Professor. This was followed by the blessing from Almighty in the form of ‘Gayatri Mantra’. Principal Ajay Sareen accorded a warm welcome to the chief guest of the occasion, principal Dr Neeru Sharma from Pt Mohan Lal SD College for Women, Gurdaspur. Prof Sareen emphasised on the need of being aware of rights as well as duties prescribed in the Indian Constitution. She exclaimed that the day marked the dawn of a new era and gave everyone the Constitution which is the framework for political principles, procedure and power of the government. Dr Neeru Sharma urged the students to abide by the Constitution and feel proud to be a citizen of a great country. Ishpreet read the text of the preamble of Indian Constitution. Towards the end Nita Malik, Head of political science department, extended the vote of thanks to all the participants.Apeejay College of Fine ArtsThe NSS wing of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, celebrated National Constitution Day online. Nearly 55 NSS volunteers and five faculty members joined the webinar while the highlight of the day was Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra, who enlightened the young brigade with the special facts of Constitution. She shared that our Constitution was originally handwritten instead of being printed and it is the longest written document on the entire planet. The artists put special efforts to write it beautifully in calligraphy and to decorate it. She motivated the young students to always respect the ‘Constitutional Book’ and follow the contents written in it as it promotes equality, justice, liberty and fraternity. She emphasised that it is a matter of pride for us that we are the part of the largest democracy. The students were shown the video related to Constitution of India which displayed the history, creation and the contents of the Constitution in a very subtle and lucid manner. The video highlighted the importance of the Constitutional book which is as holy as any other holy book since it is the written evidence of the rights every Indian has and the duties we have towards our nation. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra appreciated the efforts of Simkee Dev and Ankit Goel for successfully organising the event.St Soldier Law CollegeSt. Soldier Law College celebrated National Law Day to commemorate the historic day when the constitute Assembly adopted the Indian Constitution in 1949 and some of the provisions of it were also implemented. The other provisions were implemented from January 26, 1950. Dr SC Sharma, director of the college, was the main speakers, who explained the Preamble of the Constitution, its importance and amendments incorporated by 42nd Amendment. He asked the students and faculty to make all out efforts to protect and promote the spirit of Indian constitution, which is the best in the world. Prof Simi Thind conducted the proceeding and Prof Amritpal Kaur, Prof Rinka Rani and Prof Monica Khanna expressed their views on Indian Constitution. Prof Ravinderjit Kaur proposed the vote of thanks. St Soldier group chairman Anil Chopra congratulated the students and staff of Law College on this auspicious day. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/constitution-day-celebrated-at-dps-177052
28-11-2020||Tribune reportersSangrur/Jalandhar/Patiala/ Amritsar/Tarn Taran||Support grows, more march towards Delhi||Family members of indebted farmers, who have committed suicides, along with students and others have left for New Delhi from the Khanauri border under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) to protest the Central farm laws.“My husband and son committed suicide after they failed to repay a debt of Rs 9 lakh taken from a money lender and a bank. Despite submitting all required documents to officials, I have not got any waiver. However, many times, members of my union have prevented the auction of my half acre land,” says Balwinder Kaur, an elderly woman from Sunam.Another widow, Satwant Kaur, from Chhajli village says their union is the only ray of hope for them as successive governments had done little to help them till date.In this protest, a generational shift is visible in the BKU (Ugrahan) — youngsters, many of them first-time protesters, and women are in large numbers. The anti-Centre resentment among the youth can be gauged from the fact that many have left for New Delhi without bothering for their study.“Study can wait. If we fail to compel the Central Government to take back black laws, we will lose everything. My brother and I are prepared to go to jail in New Delhi. Our father is at home, looking after our land,” says Ravinderpal Singh, a youngster from the Sehna area of Barnala.Under the guidance of senior members of the union, youngsters are at the forefront in committees formed to collect ration and other essential items and cook and serve food. Carrying almost six-month ration on their trailers, farmers have left for Delhi. The entire system is well-coordinated to ensure protesters are provided food and other refreshments on time.Jathas leave on 70-80 tractorsFrom Jalandhar, more jathas set out for Delhi. Farmers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, in 70-80 tractor-trailers, headed out from here to be the backup for their counterparts struggling while trying to cross the state borders. Lakhwinder Singh, a committee leader, said, “We all are from different villages near Subhanpur in Kapurthala. We will move as jathas. The farmers who left earlier must be a bit exhausted. Now, we will give them time to rest and take charge from the front.We are moving with our beddings, woollen clothes,water and dry ration. Women too will follow us subsequently in separate jathas a day after.”Jagjit Singh from Sammipur village in Jalandhar said, “We will be leaving tomorrow in 8-10 cars. We do not intend to go by tractors as it will take us longer to catch up with our teams and provide them the needed support.”Meanwhile, Nakodar Akali MLA and a farmer, Gurpartap Wadala, said, “We have arranged some Innovas and Tempo Travellers for joining the farmers. Phillaur MLA Baldev Khera, too, will join us.”Local protests continueIn Patiala, the “Delhi Chalo” agitation has got an overwhelming response from women, and youth as a large number of them have come out to participate in the protests across the state. Farmers have also left with ration supply of over a month and will be camping in Delhi.Long traffic queues were witnessed on the National Highway connecting Rajpura to Delhi with farmers camping on the roadsides by parking tractors. “We are not returning without getting justice,” said Nabkiran singh from Rongla village.Farmers left Patiala on Wednesday through various interstate borders to reach Delhi without being arrested. “We will reach straight at the venue of the dharna as we are sure that our community members will reach Delhi. Stopping farmers forcibly is something that will only add to problems. The government should rather allow us to reach Delhi and protest peacefully”, said many elderly farmers.Rallies against Haryana GovtJathas of farmers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) went to Delhi from the holy city's golden gate and Tarn Taran's Harike Pattan on Friday. They also organised rallies at Harike and their leaders condemned the Manohar Lal Khattar government for its oppressive action on farmers heading to Delhi. The leaders stressed that the farmers should remain calm before the repression. “We have made all possible arrangements of meal and shelter,” said Satnam Singh Pannu, President, KMSC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/support-grows-more-march-towards-delhi-176868
28-11-2020||Jalandhar||11 teachers test positive in Jalandhar district||One teacher has died and 11 tested positive for Covid after the schools reopened in the district on October 19. A 57-year-old teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, Lambra, lost her life to Covid on Thursday night.812 fresh cases, 28 fatalities in a dayThe pandemic has impacted five schools in the district. While five teachers tested positive and one lost life at Government Senior Secondary School, Lambra, four schools in the Phillaur block have Covid-positive staff. A worker at Lambra school has also tested positive. Two teachers from Government Senior Secondary School, Moron; two at Government Senior Secondary School, Dayalpur; and one each at Government Senior Secondary School, Bharsinghpura and Phillaur, have tested positive.With the Covid scenario escalating in the district, the Government School Teachers’ Union has demanded that the three-hour limit for teachers to be present at the school be strictly implemented as many principals were calling teachers at their whims and making them stay long hours and attend meetings even when attendance at school was low.Despite two teachers and one worker having tested positive, the Lambra school resumed work after staying closed for three days.Sources in the village said, “Villagers have started referring to the school as ‘Covid spreader’. Teachers are constantly testing positive and one of them even died. Tests shall be conducted at the school tomorrow again. When recurring Covid cases are coming from the school, the entire staff should be sent to 14-day quarantine. But the teachers are still coming.”While teachers had initially been anticipating a three-hour work session after schools opened, many said principals were forcing them to stay put for five to six hours.Karnail Phillaur of the Government School Teachers’ Union said, “One of the teachers had died and 11tested positive. Parents are asked to write they shall be responsible if their children tested positive. What about teachers?”Harinder Pal, DEO (Secondary), said, “All schools are calling teachers as per the protocol. It is the principal’s prerogative to call teachers and it’s also necessary in view of the ongoing PTMs. All government offices are open. We are also conducting free testing of our teachers. Eleven teachers have tested positive, but all protocols and precautions are being taken. Some teachers also picked up Covid at home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-teachers-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-176884
