30-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Profit & loss: City girl Palak qualifies for Tokyo Games||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 29Palak Kohli was confronted with a tough situation last year when her Class XII board exams dates clashed with a qualifying tournament that was, at the time, scheduled to be held in Peru.But it was not the first the circumstances had threatened to get the better of her – she is differently-abled, has a deformed left hand since birth. She’s been through such tight spots many times before in her life.The picture was clear: exams or badminton. And choice she made that day has yielded more than a satisfying result. The city-based girl has qualified for the para badminton category of Tokyo Olympics, postponed for next year due to the outbreak, and the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS).“I had to choose between the two and obviously I pursued my bigger aim. My parents were pressurising me to somehow skip a match, manage to return in time and appear for at least three subjects and take the rest as compartment examination. But I told them that I could not take so much pressure as it could affect my performance. So, I missed my exams,” she shared.The 18-year-old is the only one from Punjab and the youngest player to qualify for the game. Having started the game just three years back, she quickly managed success. In 2019 National Para Badminton Championships, she won three gold medals in the women’s singles, women’s doubles and the under-19 singles (girls).The 2019 was a year to remember for her as she had a great run at the international stage. She won gold in the women’s doubles in Uganda Para Badminton International, took home a bronze in Japan Para Badminton International apart from participating in the Para Badminton World Championships. This year, she bagged a silver in the women’s doubles in Peru Para Badminton International.Palak said, “Everyone in my family is pursuing a professional degree. My elder sister is a doctor. My elder brother is an engineer and when I told my parents that I want to take humanities so that I could focus on my game, they couldn’t come take it for quite some time. To pacify them, I took difficult subjects like history, political science and psychology and told them that I would prepare for the UPSC exam to become an IAS. But after I missed my examination, I straightaway opted for Open Schooling and have now taken easy subjects to clear Class XII and keep focus on my game as well.”However, she never knew till her board exams last year that the virus would put off the Games for so long and that she still could catch up with other international tournaments to qualify for the same.Having started practising at Hansraj Stadium here, Palak has been training in Lucknow under her coach Gaurav Khanna for past two years. “I live in a PG there which is just about 500m from my academy. My coach runs the only academy for para badminton in the entire country and we practise with able-bodied players. I stayed at home for a few days this year,” she said. Her entire year has been spent practicing and honing my skills, besides maintaining form and stamina.On her achievement, she owes it all to her coach, “He’s been very good in maintaining data and statistics of each player and we already knew about our points and ranking. I stand fifth internationally and top-6 players are picked.” About qualifying for TOPS, she explains, “This certainly gives me a lot of confidence and a good back up from the government side for getting the best training and facilities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/profit-loss-city-girl-palak-qualifies-for-tokyo-games-177923
30-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Doaba farmers head to Delhi in hordes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 29Thousands of farmers from Doaba have left for Delhi to participate in the farmers’ agitation against the agri laws introduced by the Centre. Farm activists from the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, the Bharti Kisan Union and the Doaba Kisan Union reached Delhi. Around 150 tractor-trailers from Nawanshahr reached the protest site.The Alliance of Sikh Organisations had been extending support to protesting farmers. While Phagwara-based volunteer Sukhdev Singh Phagwara visited the protest site, a number of volunteers were coordinating for smoot movement of farmers at Kundli border.Singers and intellectuals, including Kanwar Grewal, Veer Singh, Sukhpreet Singh Udhoke and Lakha Sidhana, among others had been extending support to farmers.Sukhdev said, “Demonstrations are getting support from farmers, singers and intellectuals as well. Our volunteers are coordinating and will be available as long protests go on. Before ‘Dilli chalo’, we held a series of morchas in Patiala, Garhdiwal, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur. From Doaba, members of the Bharti Kisan Union among other farmers’ groups have reached the protest site.”Kuldip Singh, chief, Doaba Kisan Union, who has stayed put at Kundali border said farmers were going to protest until the government agrees to revoke the farm laws.Kuldip said, “I have left behind my farm, mother and two daughters to protest here. It is about withdrawal of all three farm laws. On a chilly winter evening, there are around 2 lakh farmers here. Samaritans are supporting us. People have set up langars and those from Delhi come to offer us tea and food. We are not going to budge. For us it is question of our livelihoods.”Salwinder, a farmer of the KKSC said, “Around 1,000 farmers from our union have left for Delhi. We have just returned from a morcha being held at Jandiala Guru and will be leaving for Delhi. Various jathas will leave for the national capital in turns. A jatha from Amritsar has left for Delhi today and others will be leaving in coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doaba-farmers-head-to-delhi-in-hordes-177924
30-11-2020||Jalandhar||Industrialists meet FM Manpreet, want problems resolved||Industrialists, traders and manufacturers mince no words while sharing their problems with ministers now. Earlier, it was the industries minister and now Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal. The industrialists on Sunday expressed their disappointment while holding a meeting with the Finance Minister and the latter called them to Chandigarh on Thursday for further discussion. Even Rajinder Beri, MLA, Jalandhar Central, was present in the meeting.Ravinder Dhir, convener of the Khel Udyog Sangh, told the minister, “After the Beant Singh government, nobody has listened to us. Four years have passed, but your government has failed to do anything for us,” he said. Only the Beant Singh government had taken care of the industry of Punjab. “After that several governments came, but nobody ever paid any heed and did not even bother about listening to us,” he said.“We are demanding immediate relief just because the pandemic has hit us hard. Otherwise there are many such issues which have troubled the industry. How can we go and submit C-forms, it is not possible now,” the industrialists said.They also asked the minister about the status of one-time settlement (OTS) policy that the government was set to unveil for resolving the long-pending issue of C-forms.Recently, traders had told Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora that there was no point of holding meetings when no solution to the problems being faced by them was suggested.The minister had then listened to various problems raised by traders of hand tools, leather, sports, auto parts, surgical, textiles, pipe fittings, etc, and almost all problems that were raised were old and never got resolved. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industrialists-meet-fm-manpreet-want-problems-resolved-177925
30-11-2020||Jalandhar||Snatching victim dies, three arrested||Balwinder Kaur (55), a resident of Lakhan Ke Padda village, in Kapurthala, lost her life in a bid to save her handbag from snatchers. The incident had taken place on November 23 and the victim succumbed to her injuries on November 27.The police have managed to arrest the accused after six days of the incident. The accused have been identified as Anmol, alias Billa (21), Parminder Singh (24), of Khatika Mohalla, and Anmol (19), of Krishna Nagar, Nurmahal.Th victim was reportedly riding pillion on a motorcycle with her husband Balwinder Singh when the incident took place. They had gone to Chuheki village near Nurmahal to meet their daughter. The duo was returning when three unidentified bike-borne youth snatched Kaur’s purse containing Rs 2.5 lakh and other documents near Samrai village.While the snatchers managed to flee from the spot, Kaur sustained serious head injuries after she fell down from the motorcycle.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar informed that different police teams comprising CIA Staff-1, Special Operation Unit (SOU) and Sadar police station was constituted to nab the accused. He said the police teams nabbed the trio on Saturday. He said the police have seized Rs 46,000, two artificial bangles and a motorcycle used in the crime. A case under Sections 302, 379-B, 323 and 34 of the IPC had been registered at Sadar police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/snatching-victim-dies-three-arrested-177926
30-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||This writer is touching new heights amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 29The doyen of writing has named his office as ‘Nathchaura’ (a place where thinkers get together and hold discussions). In his office, he writes columns for various news dailies, reads books, and prepares his recordings.Des Raj Kali, a veteran writer well-known for his works, is busy nowadays recording shows for various channels amid the pandemic. With all the work, he doesn’t forget to give special attention to his health and spending time with friends. He wakes up at 5 in the morning and goes for a long stroll. On return, a cup of coffee and an hour’s rest readies him for the rut.He has also been working on a novel for the last two years. “It is almost finalised. I have done an experiment with the novel and there will be around 250 pages in it. This time, I have added a few poetry lines before starting a new chapter in the novel,” he shared.A weekly literature show every Sunday at 11 in the morning is also his forte. The name of the programme is Inj vi padheya ja skda hai sahitya. Around 28 episodes have already been beamed and Kali dedicated 10 episodes to the new book of Arundhati Roy ‘The Ministry of Utmost Happiness’. His literature show has drawn praise from many. “This is a unique concept of a literary show and it has never happened before and I am getting a very good response for the same,” he told.Amid the lockdown, he had also released a book ‘Shanti Parav’ – from his home, along with his wife. Kali, while sharing his experience, said it was an interesting event in itself. The shelves are stacked with books; getting a good treatment as he hasn’t done away with reading. “I just finished reading ‘The Fall’ which is really apt according to what is happening today,” he said. The curbs set in motion came as a chance for the writer to sit and have meals with the family, nearly after a span of 15 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-writer-is-touching-new-heights-amid-pandemic-177927
30-11-2020||What precautions must be taken to prevent second outbreak of the virus?||It’s high time to shun laxity and being aware of guidelines||People must cooperate with the authoritiesWhenever I see people around me without mask, it seems that virus has vanished. But the truth is virus is still here and the caseload has been increasing day by day. In such a situation, people should follow norms but they don't. Some say that coronavirus is a hoax. This attitude of a few people slowly and insidiously spoiled the atmosphere in the state. One can easily see that there is a huge rush in Sheikhan bazaar, Rainik bazaar, Attari bazaar and most people are roaming without masks. The government, administration and police can't do anything if common people do not cooperate. People have to wear masks. Some eccentric people have found a new way to wear a mask -- by covering the chin only. I don't understand the mentality of such people. It's a must to shake people to the dangers of this virus and follow norms in a proper manner.Shailja ThakurHomemade remedies can keep virus at bayPrevention is better than cure. These words are axiomatic ie self-evident truth. We have seen the rise in the cases up to 60 per cent in last 3 weeks. This shows the loose and careless attitude of police and the administration during the Diwali and other festivities. The markets were crowded, many were not wearing masks and distancing was nowhere to be seen. Though the police can't be present at every nook and corner of the city but some condign punishment should have been handed to a few violators to set an example for everyone. The Delhi government has rightly raised the fine for not wearing masks from Rs500 to Rs2000. The Punjab CM has very appropriately noted the wearing of the masks as a metaphor for vaccine. Till the vaccine is developed and marketed, people should be advised to stay home and not do any outing unless unavoidable. The vaccine in India will not be available till the middle of next year. So staying home, wearing masks and frequent washing of hands should be our motto.Dr JS Wadhwarising Risk, duly follow the safety protocolsThough the second wave of Covid is knocking at our doors as number of cases is increasing, the public and administration are required to be fully prepared to face the challenge. Any leniency in surveillance and containment efforts and violation of safety protocol at any level can lead to serious consequences which may warrant unprecedented restrictions in future. As a foremost and practical measure, the wearing of mask in defined ways must be followed religiously. To ensure strict compliance on part of people is a most sacred duty of the administration which may penalise the defaulters heavily for adequate deterrence. Social distancing norms, which are generally thrown to the wind, are required to be enforced as per law. The maximum limit of gatherings at social, cultural religious and educational activities needs to be revised in phases according to impact of the outbreak. The public is expected to understand the situation and must cooperate with the administration.Jagdish ChanderImbibing self-discipline is the only answerThe Covid has adversely affected the health and economic development of people. For safety of people from this highly contagious disease, initially the lockdowns had to be imposed to enforce social distancing among other measures like sanitisation, mask-wearing, hand washing etc. With this, intensity of outbreak was brought under check though the nation’s GDP squeezed due to strict protocols. Soon as the relaxations were allowed to bring back economic development, people became careless and flouted norms openly, thus accentuating the problem further. The situation may go out of control if stringent measures are not adhered to during wedding season, Christmas and New Year coming ahead. The government will have to keep up guard to meet the challenge by increasing testing, providing adequate medical facilities as well as 24-hour surveillance and zero-tolerance against violations and negligence. Every one of us will have to imbibe self-discipline and comply with the instructions meticulously to triumph this severest ordeal of Nature.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathBe masked, avoid the another lockdownPunjab is again sinking deeper into the Covid quagmire. There has been a sudden surge in cases due to marriages and festivals across the state. There is nothing wrong going to market but one should wear a mask. I see some empty-headed people who roaming in markets without one every day. Our honourable PM has urged people so many times that "Mask is the only vaccine till we don't get the real vaccine" but people do not heed this fact. If everyone goes about flouting mandates like this, then things are most likely to deteriorate. I am not saying the lockdown should be imposed because we have already faced the consequences it. So, it is the responsibility of a common man to act smartly, wear a mask while going anywhere and don't let the imposing lockdown situation happen again.Saahil HansAuthorities must take stand till vaccine is outThe virus has created a fear psychosis for any sensible member of the society. But you are surprised to see huge gatherings in Sunday bazaars, during Diwali and farmers' agitations and even day to day marketing areas. Often such gatherings are observed without masks and any social or physical distance. In addition, the MC should strictly keep the city neat and clean; there is a dire need of clearance of garbage from the road sides. The authorities also seem to overlook the strict orders for implementing these basic requirements. Further it is observed that the villagers around the city have the belief that it is only spreading in the cities and villages are free from it. They need to be sensitised for this deadly virus. For better prevention, our hospitals should be strengthened with more beds and quarantine facilities to be ready anytime to accept an infected case.Kuldip DosanjhShut schools & keep shrines under checkFirst and foremost point is that the government should close the educational institutions because it was noticed that the number of new cases was mostly found in the students and their families. Secondly, the government should impose strict restrictions for the gathering in temples or any other religious place. Lastly, it is the duty of people to have a mask and a sanitiser with them always.Muckal Chaudhary QUESTIONFarmers have reached Delhi to get themselves heard over farm laws. Do you think the Centre has been at fault in handling the situation and allowing it to go so far?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 3).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-high-time-to-shun-laxity-and-being-aware-of-guidelines-177937
