08-04-2020||Editorials||Covid-19: Take care of vulnerable citizens| HT Editorial||India’s 21-day national lockdown has been a trying time for all residents, in varying degrees. However, what has gone almost unnoticed is the plight of India’s persons with disabilities (PWDs). Reports about the difficulties that PWDs are facing during the lockdown forced the government to act to provide access to information and essential services, but these have not been operationalised effectively yet. The issue of inaccessibility, even in normal circumstances, is cause for worry, since 2.2% of India’s population, or 26.8 million people, suffer from some form of disability. A pandemic (Covid-19) only exacerbates this problem. According to the World Health Organization, PWDs are at high-risk of infection due to their physical, mental and cognitive impediments. Quarantining, social distancing and working from home are almost impossible due to their everyday dependence on caregivers. The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, enjoins upon disaster management authorities to include PWDs in their crisis response. To be sure, the ministry of social justice and empowerment asked states and Union territories to make information about Covid-19 accessible — through audiotapes, braille, videographics with subtitles, and sign language interpretation. But a lot remains out of reach. Most markets, Covid-19 testing and quarantine centres are not disabled-friendly, despite PWDs being at high-risk.Yes, the country is overwhelmed and its systems overburdened with an unprecedented emergency, but it must demarcate a clear chain of command for its vulnerable in its fight. Ensure doorstep deliveries of essential supplies, make areas more accessible, give PWDs the support system they need. India owes it to PWDs to be more inclusive, especially now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-take-care-of-vulnerable-citizens/story-CaZZfe3tIyZuxeiP4pifzI.html
08-04-2020||Editorials||India’s make or break moment| HT Editorial||India is at the crossroads in its battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). There are two scenarios. It will see a relatively manageable rise in the number of cases, but low fatality rates, a health system prepared to deal with new patients, and, sooner rather than later, the flattening of the curve. This is broadly South Korea’s trajectory. Or it will see a surge of cases; an unfortunate, dramatic rise in fatalities; overrun health facilities; and infected health workers — it will then remain at this peak for several weeks, before an eventual dip. This is broadly the trajectory of Italy and the United States.Why is this period critical? One, India has finally ramped up testing (though experts believe it is still not enough); this means there will be an increase in known cases. This, in itself, is nothing to be alarmed about, as long as it is accompanied by aggressive contact tracing, isolation, and treatment. Two, it is now a little over two weeks of the lockdown. This is also, broadly, the period when those infected begin to show symptoms. Those who may have got exposed to the virus before the lockdown will, at this stage, be getting tested positive. But over the next week, the effect of the lockdown will become visible. The indicator to watch out for here is whether the rate of growth of positive cases begins dipping. Three, migrant workers went back home soon after the lockdown was announced — if that did lead to the spread of the infection, including in rural areas, it will begin getting reflected in numbers around this time. Four, the government has now had 15 days to ramp up the health infrastructure, put in place quarantine facilities, expand beds, procure personal protective equipment (PPEs) and increase the supply of ventilators. Its record has been mixed, with specific concerns on PPEs for health workers, the absence of which can undermine the entire health system.The results will also determine the government’s decision on the lockdown. There appears to be unanimity among key decision-makers in the central and state governments about the need to continue with a set of restrictions, particularly for affected clusters. The difference is about whether a total lockdown should continue or it should be partial. The answer to that will be provided by the numbers over the next six days. India must hope for the best, but be prepared for all scenarios.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-s-make-or-break-moment/story-gvWsYhkXSE7lShdB1XaZ4N.html
08-04-2020||Editorials||How anti-Americanism blinds us||You have to be quite reckless to be seen like defending both United States (US) President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Even if on the tiny issue of a two-rupee, or three cents a pill of a drug so old it was in the market for a full two years before I was born, and went off-patent when I was 32. Namely, hydroxycholoroquine (HCQ). And you must be absolutely nuts if at the same time you also take on anti-Americanism, the most durable of our ideological hypocrisies. Cast in titanium.But after four decades in journalism and courting danger — and abuse — from all sides, let us do some plain-speaking.To begin with, as the currently fashionable expression goes: Aap chronology samajhiye (Understand the timeline). It was in his daily White House press conference on March 19 that Trump first mentioned hydroxychloroquine, or HCQ as it’s popularly known. He said there had been encouraging results among coronavirus patients administered HCQ and Z-Pak (American brand name for antibiotic Azithromycin).Trump can be accused of anything, but not understatement or discretion. So, he called this a game-changer. On March 21, he re-asserted this in a tweet. On March 22, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued a notification prescribing HCQ as a chemoprophylactic (preventive) for health personnel as well as family members looking after a Covid-19 patient. This set off a run on the drug.While Trump was roundly attacked and ridiculed as usual in the American media for “misusing“ his office to plug prescription medications, the US placed large orders with leading generic manufacturers in India. This fact was scooped by ThePrint’s fine health and pharma reporter Himani Chandna in a story published on March 22. Three days later, India notified a ban on export of HCQ.Alarmed at the prospect of hoarding and panicky self-medication, the Centre issued a notification on March 26 listing it in Schedule H1, thereby restricting its retail sale.Remember, the ban had come after the US, and likely also Brazil, had already placed orders and also paid some advances to private Indian firms for what was, after all, a routine, long off-patent, cheap drug. Or drugs, as Brazil wanted paracetamol too.After Democrats and the media had had fun with “Dr Trump”, on March 20, New York governor and current liberal darling, Andrew Cuomo, told anchor Sean Hannity that he’s getting 10,000 doses of HCQ and Azithromycin and releasing it for a trial on 1,100 patients in his state, now the global Covid-19 epicentre.On Saturday (April 4) morning, Trump called Modi. In the evening, at his press conference, he said that he had requested Modi to release the supplies of HCQ “we had ordered”. He said Modi said he will consider it. He, of course, went on to say that they (India) make a lot of it, which is true. He further added that India also needs a lot of it (true), because it has 1.5 billion people (not true).On Sunday (March 5) morning, Trump spoke with Modi again. In reply to a journalist’s question at his Monday evening (Washington time, remember, so around 4 am IST Tuesday) press briefing, he let it out that he had had another conversation with Modi on Sunday morning (Washington time) and that he was likely to release the HCQ, the US had ordered earlier. What if India says no, the reporter asked, will there be a retaliation? I don’t believe that is what they are planning to do at all, said Trump, India and the US are doing very well with each other. And then added, as an afterthought, if they say no, of course there may be retaliation, why wouldn’t that be?We woke up to outrage on Tuesday morning. Trump twisted Modi’s arm and he gave in. India is down on its knees in front of the Americans again. Modi has sold Indian sovereignty and Covid-19 patients’ lives to Trump.Now the little point I had deliberately excluded in my chronology, for suspense. Three respected media organisations, HT Group’s Mint, The Hindu, and (please allow me to add) ThePrint, had reported on Monday, April 6, 12 to 18 hours before Trump’s Monday evening presser, that India had already decided to lift the ban. In fact, The Hindu and Mint had recorded that Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro had called as well, and the ban was lifted for him too.It was all done and dusted before Trump “threatened” this morning. Please do remember the time difference between Washington and New Delhi.But facts are boring, you see. Why let facts come in the way of your “tubelight” outrage?Paracetamol and HCQ are cheap, generic, mass-produced drugs long off-patent. India has the unique strength to make these for the world now. It should use it, not squat on it. The coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) has made these drugs, usually sold in bulk, like a commodity, valuable to the world. If Heads of State are calling in for these, it is an opportunity for India. And by the way, the raw material or Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) for paracetamol comes from China. From Wuhan, in fact.And surrender to America? What did we call it through the 1960s, when we lived a ship-to-mouth existence? It was also our most anti-American decade. Today, the Americans need an ordinary drug, and we must deny it to them? The reason we call unthinking anti-Americanism our most durable, cast-in-titanium hypocrisy.By special arrangement with ThePrintThe views expressed are personal .htandtheprintwrap {width:100%; font-family:"PT Serif"; color:#000; text-decoration:none; font-size:130%; font-style:italic; float:left}.htandtheprintimg {width:auto; float:left}.htandtheprinttext {width:auto; margin-right:10px; line-height:30px;float:left}||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/how-anti-americanism-blinds-us/story-S8F2XjI46Fuo7J3pgz5tEL.html
08-04-2020||Editorials||Cooperate on health supplies | HT Editorial||The Indian government’s decision to conditionally lift its export ban on 14 pharmaceutical products, including much-in-demand hydroxychloroquine, is correct. It has done an assessment that shows there is enough for internal requirements plus a buffer. A large number of strategically important countries, ranging from India’s South Asian neighbours to the United States (US), had asked to tap into India’s large pharmaceutical base. India also saw an opportunity to display leadership in rolling back the present “beggar thy neighbour” policies that are fragmenting global medical supply chains to the detriment of all coronavirus victims. Remember, India is as dependent on external medical supplies as anyone else. Even into the fourth month of the pandemic, India is importing tonnes of protective gear and testing kits from all over the world. Even before US President Donald Trump’s unacceptable reference to possible “retaliation”, India — based on an assessment of its domestic needs, the need to ensure it remains in a position to ask the US itself for critical supplies, and display statesmanship — had decided to go ahead. While the initial bans and restrictions on medical supplies and drugs were an inevitable panicked response, over time, it is becoming clear they make little sense. No government has the ability to manufacture every variety of medical equipment and manufacture all varieties of drugs within its borders. Many political leaders believe these are make-or-break times and this pressure manifests itself in unseemly ways. Hence Mr Trump’s personal obsession with chloroquine and his boorish language regarding India’s earlier ban on the medicine. India’s own behaviour has not been without fault. The continuing decision to ban the export of diagnostic kits, irrespective of disease, was harmful to many developing nations and deserves to be reviewed. Hopefully, India’s decision on the pharmaceutical front indicates a formula-based policy, which will add to a global momentum towards greater openness and cooperation in handling the pandemic. In a viral sea, no country is an island.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/cooperate-on-health-supplies/story-wCvojMTnESEdgeoUwTOt1O.html
08-04-2020||Editorials||Bhilwara’s ‘ruthless containment’ model | HT Editorial||Bhilwara emerged as one of India’s early coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots. With the infection spreading from a hospital, 27 people tested positive. But, for the past week, the Rajasthan district has not reported a positive case. To be sure, cases could emerge again. But this turnaround is a remarkable story, and is now being considered as a possible model to be replicated elsewhere in the country. The Rajasthan government focused on a comprehensive approach. The first step was locking down the district on March 20, five days before the national lockdown was announced. This eventually extended into a strict curfew, where even essentials were delivered to homes. The next step was the identification of sensitive areas and aggressive screening of those with travel history, contact with those who had travelled, and vulnerable groups such as health workers. Those with symptoms were tested; and they – and their close contacts – were isolated and quarantined in both public and private facilities. There was then a focus on offering treatment to the positive cases. This has now been followed up with careful monitoring. There is an underlying logic to this entire process. Ensure no movement, which prevents others from coming in and spreading the infection further, and possible positive cases from moving out and infecting others. Once the disease is contained to a specific cluster, check who may have infection. Keep such cases away from others, to prevent them from spreading it. Eventually, the lack of mobility – and the lack of contact with positive cases – will diminish the rate of infections. There are three clear lessons from this model. Go local — and as deep as possible within specific geographies. Ensure deployment of adequate human resources to screen and test and ramp up of health infrastructure to isolate. And limit movement for as long as possible. Scaling this up nationally, especially if there is a surge, is difficult. But administrators across the country should adopt this model to their specific circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/bhilwara-s-ruthless-containment-model/story-qXVNH8SePB0KDNntlStiMJ.html
