09-04-2020||Editorials||Covid-19: Will containment zones work?||State governments have begun experimenting with the idea of containment zones to deal with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The mechanism is straightforward. Those clusters which have seen a rise in cases — and have shown traces of rapid transmission — are sealed. This can be in the form of a housing society, a neighbourhood, or even a district. Not only is the lockdown in the identified cluster enforced more strictly, there is also a complete ban on the movement of residents. Even essential supplies are delivered at home. Movement into these zones is limited to a small set of officials and health care workers. There is also aggressive screening and enhanced testing in these clusters. The strategy is based on the belief that this would allow authorities to identify each person who is infected, offer isolation and treatment, and reduce their interface — and the interface of all those they may have come in contact with — with the outside world. This would, thus, contain, the infection to a specific geography and eventually diminish its spread. It is broadly inspired by what has come to be known as the Bhilwara model of “ruthless containment”. In Rajasthan, the state government pioneered this method to tame the infection after health workers in a hospital first got infected. The containment zones cause inconvenience to citizens, by restricting their mobility almost entirely and making them dependent on state officials and select private vendors for supplies. But this inconvenience, and the temporary curtailment of rights, is worth it for the larger objective of containing the disease. The fact that this model has now been expanded will also help the government judge its efficacy beyond Bhilwara. It will need time. But if, within a fortnight, cases in these select clusters diminish, those who have got infected get treated, deaths are avoided or kept to a minimal, and the chain of transmission is broken, it will emerge as a model whenever the lockdown is eventually lifted. It must be acknowledged that Covid-19 is a new threat, and therefore, public health strategies are still relying on experiments. This makes it incumbent on governments to emulate best practices. The possible benefits in declaring containment zones far outweigh the costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-will-containment-zones-work/story-o2lfk84BiUlYs6kszgMZdI.html
09-04-2020||Editorials||Covid-19, and Washington’s handling of it, will determine the poll outcome||With Bernie Sanders announcing the end of his bid to be the Democratic Party’s presidential candidate, the United States (US) President Donald Trump now knows he will be facing Democratic Party candidate Joe Biden in the upcoming presidential election. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may be the third candidate in the race. The US election is not until November and seven months is an eternity in politics. Mr Trump was never assured of re-election. The US electoral college system means victory or defeat will be determined by less than 10 states. The crisis initially increased the President’s approval ratings, a rally-around-the-flag effect experienced by most world leaders when the crisis hit their respective countries. But such surges are sustainable only if they are backed by credible governance and strong leadership. Both these are lacking in Mr Trump’s slow and haphazard response to Covid-19. The viral variable in all of this is that the infections are still spreading. At present, the bulk of American victims is concentrated in the North-east and Pacific coastal states and is disproportionately from ethnic minorities. These are all Democratic strongholds. Mr Trump’s real test will be when the virus begins to take a toll in the south, and midwest regions and moves beyond large cities — striking at his still-loyal voter base. This would explain the Trump administration’s obsession with quick and scientifically questionable fixes, as well as his attacks on China and the World Health Organization. It would also explain the Republican Party’s use of voter suppression tactics such as questioning the validity of mail ballots. Infections in the US are not expected to peak for a few more weeks. The medical and economic aftermath may be the real determiner of who will be the next US president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-and-washington-s-handling-of-it-will-determine-the-poll-outcome/story-GlfQmcX3E4Lr9vfiGNWF1H.html
