13-04-2020||Editorials||Challenges of a partial lockdown||On Saturday, the secretary of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade in the ministry of commerce wrote a letter to the home ministry. While the note focused on a possible road map to resume economic activity, one key concern it flagged was the need to allow the “free movement of all vehicles and manpower” for activities permitted so far, since there had been a “lot of problems” on this front. On Sunday, the home ministry followed up by sending a note to all state governments. It pointed out that in parts of the country, trucks were still being detained; workers needed for the manufacturing of essential items were not getting authorisation to move; there were problems in inter-state movement of personnel and goods; and operation of cold stores and warehouses were being impeded — and asked all states to make the necessary corrections.The intra-government communication is an illustration of the gap that exists between policy framed at the top, and implementation on the ground. It is revealing that the commerce ministry is complaining to the home ministry, which in turn, is telling the states to improve their record, two-and-a-half weeks into the lockdown. This shows that for this duration, many industries, businesses, individuals — all eligible to move under the rules — were facing obstacles. But more critically, it shows the implementation challenges that lie ahead. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to speak on Tuesday, and outline the contours of the next phase of restrictions to tackle the pandemic. It is likely that the government will adopt a model of a differential lockdown — where some sectors and districts will be allowed to function. This, then, will require extremely nuanced implementation on the ground. State governments, municipal and district authorities, and most important, personnel of the security forces must understand the new guidelines well and implement them in letter and spirit. They have to be humane, sensitive, and awake to the needs of individuals and businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/challenges-of-a-partial-lockdown/story-S7jkzGhnjFjBMKXn0QrCyH.html
13-04-2020||Editorials||What the pandemic means for Europe||Another international crisis, another poor show by Europe. No government or multilateral institution has covered itself in glory in the current coronavirus pandemic. Even by these low standards, the response of the European Union (EU) and its member-states has been remarkably inept. Existing protocols on sharing medical supplies during a health crisis were ignored. Freedom of movement principles so beloved of Brussels was hastily abandoned. There was a eurozone crisis redux over “coronabonds,” with frugal northern Europeans fearing they would end up paying for the fiscal irresponsibility of southerners. There was a palpable sense of virus-ravaged Italy and Spain having to fend for themselves, with China providing the only outside assistance. Yet, the idea that a united Europe will be one of the victims of the pandemic is an exaggeration. The EU is not responsible for medical crises because the member-states never came up with a common health policy. Euroscepticism has risen, but mostly in Italy, and has been partly offset by the poor example set by Brexit Britain. The supplies provided by China, much of it paid for and subsequently shown to be defective, have been surpassed by what European governments have given to each other. The European Central Bank has spearheaded a swathe of financial relief efforts, including for developing countries. Much will be forgiven if a post-crisis Brussels uses the opportunity to expand the ambit of the EU’s policy action. New Delhi will be among the capitals that will hope Europe can restore some of its credibility. India and the EU have made progress in their relations, moving beyond seemingly endless trade and human rights disputes, and starting to recognise that they have common strategic concerns that must be prioritised. The hope is that these strands can be picked up again after the virus is defeated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/what-the-pandemic-means-for-europe/story-ASrCmNFG4E24oCEYZKVGjO.html
