14-04-2020||Editorials||PM Modi’s speech: A mixed bag | HT Editorial||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the national lockdown for 19 more days, till May 3. This means India will have a lockdown of 40 days — the longest any country, especially of India’s size, population and complexity, has had in the world so far. To be sure, there is a caveat. Depending on the spread of the disease over the next week, there will be relaxations, starting April 20, for necessary activities in states, districts, or subregions which have not witnessed cases, have brought it under control, or have succeeded in the controlling the situation in hotspots — clusters with a high number of cases.The PM is right about the lockdown. Till there are medical remedies to deal with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), social distancing remains the most effective tool to prevent the transmission of this highly contagious virus. India, with its weak health infrastructure, does not have the capacity to deal with a high number of cases. The hope remains, just as it was when the lockdown was originally announced on March 24, that this period will help India “flatten the curve”; it will also give time and space to the government to enhance testing, focus on containment zones, provide personal protective equipment to health workers, embark on antibody testing, and gradually prepare the country for a return to economic life. But this can only be one part of the story. The public health strategy has enormous economic costs. It is true lives have to be saved. But along with the lockdown, India should have announced a comprehensive stimulus for the economy just as other countries have. Around the world, countries have unveiled economic relief packages for everyone — individuals, businesses, and provinces. Just as India has led on the lockdown front, it has lagged on this. India should have, by now, outlined specific measures for businesses which are becoming increasingly unviable; workers who stare at long-term unemployment; the poor who are already confronting the possibility of starvation and hunger; and states, which are at the frontlines of the battle but are fiscally constrained and have been seeking support. It was not enough for the PM to acknowledge that he was aware of these difficulties; it was time to show, in detail, how the Centre plans to help specific sectors, vulnerable citizens, and state governments in this battle. This must be the next step in the government’s plan — and the PM should take personal ownership and announce it himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/pm-modi-s-speech-a-mixed-bag-ht-editorial/story-BhZudOX2TAQDujyiaQ0KXL.html
14-04-2020||Editorials||There is an oil deal. But India need not worry| HT Editorial||Russia, Saudi Arabia and other major oil producers have agreed to reduce oil production. Combined with other measures, the amount of oil sold in global markets will fall by nearly 15 million barrels a day. The entire price drama has led oil prices to rise about 2% a barrel, but they remain half of the $60 to $70 spread they enjoyed just a few months ago. The main consequence of the present agreement is an end to the price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia. The enormous drop in oil demand that followed the pandemic outbreak has rendered the price war meaningless. Even with Moscow and Riyadh patching up, the resulting production cuts will make up just half the drop in global demand. India, along with other major oil importers, will remain overall beneficiaries of historically low oil prices.Even if the pandemic comes to a grinding halt, the future of oil prices remains bleak. A supply-demand mismatch will remain. Oil producers will immediately open up their spigots. The United States shale industry will come back to life. Also, Saudi-Russian rivalry will continue in some form or another to some extent — India will benefit as a consequence. Saudi Arabia has offset the oil price increase by offering Asian buyers a discount of over $4 a barrel while increasing its demand price for Europe and North America. This reflects a determination to hold and increase market share in Asia at the expense of other producers such as Russia and the United States. In the meantime, India can continue to expect low oil prices as well as a useful period of price stability in the coming several months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/there-is-an-oil-deal-but-india-need-not-worry-ht-editorial/story-Qd0OiJOEYYv1NJe9f6fhNI.html
