15-04-2020||Editorials||The dilemma with migrants||On Tuesday afternoon, just hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the lockdown for another 19 days, hundreds — some reports indicate thousands — of migrant workers made their way to Mumbai’s Bandra (West) station. They had been waiting for the lockdown to end — and had assumed that they could return home. Some reports say this assumption was based on an erroneous news report about special trains. With restrictions in place, including on inter-state bus and rail travel, this was not to happen. The same day, in Surat, hundreds of textile workers staged a sit-in, demanding that they be allowed to return home. This yearning is not new. Soon after Mr Modi declared the lockdown on March 24, hundreds of thousands of migrant workers began making their way home, some walking long distances to do so. These large congregations of workers — at close proximity with each other — are disturbing. They represent a sense of desperation, which is emerging from economic suffering and emotional anxiety. They also undermine the principle of social distancing, for one infected person in any of these gatherings has the potential of infecting hundreds, who may then come in contact with hundreds of others. It requires one incident to begin another chain of transmission, which can set back India’s efforts in the battle against the pandemic. And that is why a two-pronged approach is necessary to allay the anxieties of migrant workers. The first is recognising that they are economically insecure, without incomes, and often, without food. As Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac pointed out, without income support, compliance with the restrictions will be low. The government needs to immediately expand its cash transfer measure — and include workers in the unorganised sector, perhaps even incentivising those who stay in camps for migrant workers, at least till May 3. The partial lifting of restrictions in areas less vulnerable to the infection after April 20, as notified by the home ministry, will help a segment of workers. But they need more direct financial and food support. There is a second element. Many workers are anxious to return home because they are frightened — of the disease, of staying alone in the city, of the fate of their families back home. Travel will mean a high degree of risk because social distancing norms cannot be enforced in trains and buses. Travel is also difficult because their home states are not receptive to these workers, given the fear that they may spread the infection in villages. These are all real constraints, but the issue requires more sensitive communication — and the announcement of measures which allay their anxieties and encourages migrant workers to stay where they are.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-dilemma-with-migrants/story-2MKuKmHnYGYkdx7kk1zg1O.html
15-04-2020||Editorials||The gradual economic opening||On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that states, districts and subregions, which fare relatively well in the battle against the coronavirus disease, will see a partial relaxation of restrictions from April 20. On Wednesday, the Centre issued a list of activities which will be permitted, and which will continue to be prohibited. The broad approach of the government is three-fold. The first focuses on rural incomes and food security. That explains the easing of restrictions in agriculture, animal husbandry, livestock farming and fisheries. Construction and infrastructure in rural areas and work under the employment guarantee scheme will also be allowed. The second focus is on supply chains, which is why it has been reiterated that transport of all goods and e-commerce operations are permitted. And finally, there is — but only a slight — openness to industrial activities, in special economic zones and select manufacturing plants. There are three challenges. One, the extent of where these activities will be allowed will be known on April 20. Two, these activities are not sufficient to restore the economic engine — but given the constraints, they are a good first step. And finally, it will be hard to implement them if local authorities don’t have a proper understanding of permitted activities. Sensitise them. This experiment of gradually opening up the economy is critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-gradual-economic-opening/story-yyGqSclWx4AObIs6ZuJrHJ.html
