22-04-2020||Editorials||The significance of the Jio-Facebook deal| HT Editorial||Facebook’s investment of Rs 43,574 crore in Jio Platforms (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries) for a 10% stake reaffirms two axioms about valuations in tech and telecom. One, which is old, is that access matters. Jio, with 388 million subscribers at last count, has that in spades — it is the window to the world of 388 million Indians (and because we know that its data-rich network is used by entire families in some cases, probably a lot more). The second axiom, which is new, is that the pace of digitisation has been accelerated by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19); as a corollary, even entities (businesses, government departments, utilities) that thought they had already digitised their operations greatly are discovering how stuck-in-the-physical-world key parts of their processes still are. This presents a great business opportunity for both. In comments after the Jio deal was announced, Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg spoke of the presence of “more than 60 million small businesses in India” and helping businesses create new opportunities. There’s already talk that WhatsApp, owned by Facebook, and Reliance Retail could partner, creating a mix of an online-and-offline model. For Reliance, the deal makes great financial sense. Rs 15,000 crore goes to Jio Platforms itself, which will use the money to grow; the rest, around Rs 28,000 crore, will be used by the company to redeem some of the optional convertible debentures parent Reliance Industries holds in it. Reliance will use the money to retire some of its substantial debt of over 1.53 lakh crore. The deal will also help Reliance in its aim of enhancing the revenue from its retail and telecom businesses to 50% of its overall revenue in a few years, from the current 32%. And it can help Facebook, which has had a series of run-ins with the Indian government, navigate the regulatory environment better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-significance-of-the-jio-facebook-deal-ht-editorial/story-8RiZxuAKUmUQ9u7NflHYhK.html
22-04-2020||Editorials||Pakistan’s Covid-19 gambit| HT Editorial||Pakistan is using the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) to secure its terror infrastructure. First, there were reports that the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) — which in February, gave Pakistan only four months to deliver on an action plan to curb terror financing — is expected to put off a review of steps taken so far by Pakistan till much later in the year because of the pandemic. On April 20, another report emerged of Pakistan removing almost 3,800 names from a terrorism watchlist for Punjab province. Of these, more than 1,800 names were removed since early March, while the international community was focused on the Covid-19 pandemic. Counterterrorism experts also noted that Pakistan’s National Counter Terrorism Authority (NACTA) cited no explanation for the removal of names, which is the standard practice during such delistings.Pakistan’s counterterrorism practices are notoriously opaque. For years, NACTA’s website only maintained a list for proscribed organisations, with officials asserting that the maintenance of lists of proscribed individuals was the responsibility of provincial authorities. It is not just the listing of terrorists; there is no information in the public domain regarding the trial of the seven men arrested for alleged involvement in the 2008 Mumbai attacks. There is also no information on the whereabouts of one of these men, Lashkar-e-Taiba operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, following his release on bail five years ago.Pakistan is clearly making the most of reduced pressure from the world community to crack down on terrorism at a time when most countries are focused on defeating the pandemic and addressing its impact on their economies. This is shameful. The let-up of pressure on terrorists comes at a time when Pakistani forces have intensified shelling along the frontiers in Kashmir. India will find it hard to take up these issues with other countries as bilateral and multilateral meetings have ground to a halt. The only option now is for India to keep its powder dry to deal with mischief by Pakistan-based terrorists, and to firm up its plans to increase the cost for Pakistan using terrorism as a State policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/pakistan-s-covid-19-gambit-ht-editorial/story-wXim5Mf9tUKz48MAEhEYWL.html
22-04-2020||Editorials||Entering week five of the national lockdown||The national lockdown has entered its fifth week from today. It is also the second day of selective relaxations in districts and zones that have seen either limited or no cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With the lockdown, India is seeking to preserve public health and slow down the rate of the spread of the virus. With the partial relaxations, it is seeking to revive economic activities.But this picture obscures the variations within states. Health is a state subject, which requires state governments to be open to evolving responses based on the disease burden (which varies from state to state), best practices (the efficacy of social distancing and lockdowns), and successful models (such Rajasthan’s Bhilwara model or Kerala’s Kasaragod model). Some states have rightly decided to exercise more caution than others. Despite the economic toll of the lockdown, Delhi, Karnataka, Punjab and Telangana, for instance, are not easing restrictions for now, with Telangana even extending its lockdown till May 7.India stands at a crossroads, with both the Centre and the states on test. The next fortnight will determine if India can flatten the curve of infections enough for the partial relaxations to expand both in scope and geography — or there is a somewhat unmanageable rise in cases, which leads to a continued stalling of economic activities. There is now a consensus on health protocols, from testing to isolation, provision of protective gear for health care workers to ramping up health infrastructure for severe cases. This must continue. The actions in weeks five and six of the lockdown will define India’s course beyond May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/entering-week-five-of-the-national-lockdown/story-OWESTyTpwCtOkiM8fUh9DJ.html
