23-04-2020||Editorials||Prejudice versus humanity||The Centre has significantly strengthened legal protection for frontline health workers in the light of the persistent attacks on them even as they battle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Amending the antiquated Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the government has made attacks against health workers a non-bailable offence, expedited the duration of the investigation, instituted a prison sentence for the convicted up to seven years, and provided for fines ranging from Rs 2 to Rs 5 lakh. The ordinance will cover doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and accredited social health workers, who have faced increasing attacks on the grounds that their work makes them “carriers” of the virus. Housing societies have denied them accommodation; they have been physically attacked; and, in one particularly heart-rending case, mobs attacked the ambulance carrying the body of a doctor, who had died in the course of duty, to his burial site. The proposal to appoint nodal officers to register any concerns that health workers have regarding their safety is a welcome measure too. Misinformation on social media, ignorance, prejudice and disregard for the law have contributed to the appalling stigma. To its credit, the government has consistently lauded the role of health workers and emphasised their indispensability in the fight against the virus. The prime minister himself has taken the lead with his public calls to honour health workers.The government must now disseminate the provisions of the ordinance widely using all the tools at its disposal. Political parties should use their extensive cadres to inform constituents of the new measures. Much will depend on the efficacy of implementation, which has so often been a gap in enforcing the law. The government will need to ramp up security presence both in medical facilities and outside as they conduct screening operations. But at the end, this is not just a question of legal safeguards; it is a moral imperative that we respect and protect those who are saving lives at great risk to their own. This is a test of Indian society and its values; prejudice and irrationality should never be allowed to win over humanity and science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/prejudice-versus-humanity/story-C04qIOySVuMHyO7NrmqW4N.html
23-04-2020||Editorials||The new normal of social distancing||With over 2.6 million cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the world, states are battling the most severe public health emergency in a century. The most preferred route to deal with it is lockdowns. These are often necessary, but not sustainable. At best, they give an opportunity to break the chain of transmission and improve the health infrastructure. But restrictions will eventually ease — either because the pandemic subsides (as has happened in Wuhan, China, already), or because poor communication and partisan politics erodes the support of citizens for extreme measures (as visible in parts of the United States), or because the associated economic costs are too high (as increasingly felt by both businesses and labour in India). But that cannot mean a return to business-as-usual. With an uncertain future and with no cure in sight, a group of Harvard researchers ran computer simulations modelling how the pandemic can play out. They suggest that some form of social distancing may be needed till 2022. This will ensure that when a second wave of infection emerges, after restrictive measures are lifted, health systems aren’t overburdened with new cases. This demands there must be a radical shift in everyday lives — in the way people meet, socialise, travel, educate, study and work.As the end of the lockdown in India draws near, this lesson is valuable. Restrictions will be eased, facilitating greater mobility and economic activity. But the importance of social distancing will not diminish. This is easier said than done, given India’s poverty and high-density of population. Governments will have to frame policies accordingly. Citizens will need to see themselves not just as potential victims, but as potential threats, and adopt best practices, for themselves and for others. Institutions will have to create new work systems. The end of the lockdown will not lead to normalcy, but will create a “new normal”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-new-normal-of-social-distancing/story-Xi8QzeppCNbI0wv1bsKOYM.html
