01-08-2021||---||Unemployed youth clash with police||Patiala, July 31Members of the Berozegar Sanjha Morcha clashed with the police at the YPS roundabout after they were stopped from moving towards the Chief Minister’s residence here today.During the face off, turbans of various protesters were tossed aside as the police used mild force to contain the agitating Sanjha Morcha members.After the clash, protesters staged a sit-in at the YPS roundabout.The protesters, including BEd TET pass teachers, multipurpose healthcare workers, DPE teachers, art and craft teachers, and PTI teachers, have been demanding jobs.The protesters said the government had failed to provide jobs to the qualified youth of Punjab despite tall claims of employment made by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.Sukhwinder Singh, leader of the Berozegar Sanjha Morcha, said: “Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme is a complete sham.”“The qualified youth are protesting on roads but the Chief Minister is not bothered to meet us. Instead of getting appointment letters, we have been facing police brutality,” said Sukhwinder.The protesters called off the stir after they were assured of a meeting with the Chief Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, and Health Minister Balbir Sidhu on August 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/unemployed-youth-clash-with-police-291299
01-08-2021||Patiala||3 get 100 per cent marks in PSEB Class 12 exams||Three students of Play Ways Senior Secondary School, Patiala, scored cent per cent marks in the Class XII exams, results for which were declared by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Friday.Palakdeep Singh Dhillon (medical), Priyanka Wadhva (commerce) and Muskan Sharma (non-medical) scored 100 per cent marks.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Palakdeep said, “I will now try to secure an MBBS seat in a government college. If I don’t get a seat in any of the government colleges, I will prepare for the civil services.”Talking about online studies, Palakdeep said, “It took some time to adapt. However, the school launched an application where we were provided with recorded lectures. It helped us a lot.”Another topper, Priyanka Wadhva, said being disciplined helped her a lot. “My teachers always told me to be regular and study every day... teachers had prepared a schedule which I followed.”Patiala with an overall pass percentage of 99.08 stood second in the state, while Ropar topped the list with a pass percentage of 99.57, stated the Education Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-get-100-per-cent-marks-in-pseb-class-12-exams-291300
01-08-2021||Aman Sood||Congress man accuses Patiala Mayor of ‘shielding’ mafia, writes to Navjot Singh Sidhu||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 31A senior Congress leader has approached PCC chief Navjot Sidhu to investigate alleged corrupt deals of Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu — considered close to the CM family.However, Bittu has denied the allegations as baseless and politically motivated.In a letter to Sidhu, Punsup vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu has accused Bittu of shielding “illegal building mafia and colonisers”. “Already the morale of Congress workers in Patiala is low and many of them plan to quit the party due to massive corruption led by the Mayor. His assets need to be probed,” he wrote.“We have high hopes from Sidhu as the CM’s inaccessibility has led to such a situation where a selective close coterie to New Moti Bagh Palace is running a parallel, but corrupt government,” he said. “I have served the Congress for over 50 years, just like my father. I will not quit the party but will continue to fight corruption. I have urged Sidhu to get to the bottom of the scandal, involving a few officers of the corporation, and remove the Mayor to prevent Congressmen exodus before the polls,” he told The Tribune.He also showed resentment against party leaders for ignoring him as he was the senior-most municipal councillor of the city and was winning the local bodies election since 1992. “I am facing discrimination within the party. I still believe Capt will do justice, but the fact that we are not allowed to meet him means that only a handful of Patiala coterie inform him what suits them and hence the average Congressman suffers,” he said.However, Bittu said the allegations were politically motivated as he was a contender for the ticket in 2022. “My rivals are trying to play dirty politics, without any proof. Funds allocated by the government through us are spent by the officers. There is no way I can be held responsible for it,” Bittu said, warning to file a defamation case against Budhu. All efforts to contact Sidhu proved futile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/congress-man-accuses-patiala-mayor-of-shielding-mafia-writes-to-navjot-singh-sidhu-291191
