03-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||UGC grant: Punjabi University staffer among 7 booked for fund embezzlement||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 2The Patiala police have registered a case against seven persons, including an employee of Punjabi University, in a case of embezzlement of university funds of the UGC grant.The university had recently dismissed one contractual employee and suspended two others for their alleged involvement in the case and sought registration of a case. It had found the three employees guilty of fraud, forging signatures and embezzlement.Those named in the FIR are senior assistant Nishu Chaudhary, ex-peon Jatinder Singh and Akashdeep Singh, Sonu Kumar, Harpreet Singh, Vinay and Nisha Sharma. Police officials said they have started an investigation into the case and as such, roles of all accused would be ascertained.SHO Ronnie Singh said: “We have visited the houses of the accused but they were missing. Attempts to nab them are on.”The university, in its letter to the police, had recently stated that it came across forged bills generated by Nishu Chaudhary and Jatinder Singh. The bills were generated in the names of a number of former students and others, which were passed by a superintendent at the university.As per the opinion of a handwriting expert, Dr Inderjit Singh, whose services the university used, the signatures of the head of department on the bills were also forged. It said it found similar fake bills had been generated and passed in the recent past and checks for lakhs of rupees were issued.During the inquiry, the police found that the accused named in the FIR cheated the university.One of the accused, Vinay Kumar, a gym trainer who trained Nishu Chaudhary, in his statement to the police said the latter deposited checks amounting to Rs 7 lakh in his bank account, stating that those were payments for his apple orchards. The police have not found any proof of involvement of the superintendent, who was suspended by the university. She has not been made part of the case as of now. The other accused have not submitted their statements with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ugc-grant-punjabi-university-staffer-among-7-booked-for-fund-embezzlement-292231
03-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Clueless about infection, say doctors at Patiala hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 2Mystery shrouds post-operative complications of women after delivery at the Gynaecology Department of Mata Kaushalya Hospital. One such case is of a 25-year-old woman, who lost her life during treatment at the Government Rajindra Hospital after she was referred from the Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital.Last week, a woman with similar symptoms was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. A health condition of anuria, wherein kidneys stop producing urine, is continually being reported in post-delivery cases of young women.Sources informed that around five cases with similar symptom had already been reported within 15 days. After the unusual post operative complications, the department had to shut the operation theatre (OT) for 72 hours last week. To mitigate the source of infection, insecticide was sprayed in the labour room, ward and the OT.The hospital authorities also checked laundry, drugs and other things at the department. However, they were still clueless about how infection was spreading.Dr Aarti Pandove, Senior Medical Officer, Mata Kaushalya Hospital, said, “We have been trying our best to identify the problem. We have already checked everything. However, we have not been able to identify reasons so far.”Dr Pandove further said that they were in contact with the PGIMER, Chandigarh, in this regard.Two of the five women, who showed similar symptoms, were found positive for the scrub typhus, the sources added. Scrub typhus, known as bush typhus, is a disease caused by bacteria called orientia tsutsugamushi. It spreads among people through bites of infected chiggers (larval mites). However, the hospital authorities claimed that only one patient was found positive for the scrub typhus.Meanwhile, a health official said, “An inquiry should be conducted into the death of a woman and other cases to avoid any further loss life in the future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/clueless-about-infection-say-doctors-at-patiala-hospital-292236
03-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala Congress leaders’ differences out in open, level allegations of corruption||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 2The rift among local Congress leaders in the Chief Minister’s own constituency and hometown is now out in the open as councillors have started levelling allegations against each other.The Congress had won 59 of 60 seats in the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections, but differences surfaced among leaders after former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu was made the PCC chief. As such, posters congratulating Sidhu for becoming PCC chief have also been displayed in the city by Krishan Chand.The Ward No. 44 councillor, Krishan Chand, had levelled allegations of corruption against Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma recently. He issued statements against local Member Parliament Preneet Kaur and her daughter Jai Inder Kaur too. This did not go down well with local Congress leaders.Responding to his statements Sharma said he would sue Krishan Chand for defamation. Other leaders and Patiala block presidents Atul Joshi and Naresh Duggal also expressed disappointment over Krishan Chand’s statements against senior leaders.Meanwhile, Atul Joshi, councillor of Ward No. 34, sought disciplinary action against Krishan Chand.While levelling fresh allegations against Joshi and Duggal, Krishan Chand stated that they were involved in illegal activities and had taken advantage of their positions.While talking to The Tribune Krishan Chand alleged that Joshi had constructed shops in violation of the MC building laws. Duggal was attached with a construction firm, “which used low-quality material for construction works in Patiala and caused losses to the state government”, Chand added. He would complain to the Vigilance Department regarding the two matters, said Chand.Meanwhile, Joshi and Duggal rejected the allegations. Joshi said he did not know about illegal activities regarding which allegations were levelled against him and welcomed any inquiry.Duggal said, “A relative of mine owns the construction firm and my brother is a partner in it. I have no involvement in the firm. They have been working in the city for long time.” The leaders alleged that Krishan Chand was acting as an agent of the opposition parties and issuing statements against Congress leaders before Assembly elections due next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-congress-leaders-differences-out-in-open-level-allegations-of-corruption-292237
03-08-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University students protest, demand online exams||Students of Punjabi University today held a protest while demanding online semester exams. Recently, the university had issued a circular, which stated that exams would be held through offline mode.Officials on the campus said although the circular had been revoked by the university, new guidelines for conducting exams were still awaited.Students of Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkar) and Punjab Radical Students’ Union (PRSU) led the protest march on the campus for not holding their classes properly.They said the university held classes through online mode and wanted to conduct exams offline. Classes of many departments were not held properly while those of colleges were not held at all, said student leaders Sandeep Kaur and Shrishti.“Many students will not be able to perform well in their exams due to which the university will end up collecting re-evaluation fees in lakhs,” they added.The university authorities, who came to the protest site, said a decision regarding exams would be taken at a meeting tomorrow and classes for the upcoming semester would be held through offline mode as demanded by students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-protest-demand-online-exams-292239
03-08-2021||Patiala||Overwhelming response from Patiala students on first day||On the first day of reopening schools after a long Covid-induced closure students were welcomed with garlands by the school staff here today. All schools screened students at their respective gates before allowing them into their classrooms.Harinder Kaur, The District Education Officer (DEO), said response of students was overwhelming. “Around 60 per cent students attended government schools on the first day. In the coming days, the attendance will definitely improve,” the DEO added.Kashish Arora, a Class XII student, said, “Physical classes are much better than online. I was eagerly waiting to come to school. Now, I can meet my classmates.”A Class XI student of private school said, “The face-to-face interaction with teachers will definitely help in understanding contents of the syllabi more easily.”Rajdeep Singh, chairman, Play Ways Senior Secondary School, said, “Online classes are just a makeshift arrangement. There is no better alternative to in-person classes, especially in case of kids. Though cognitive stuff can be taught well during online classes, physical classes on school premises will ensure all around development of students.”Meanwhile, Hardeep Toderpur, state leader, Democratic Teachers Front, said they welcomed the government’s decision to open schools. “Online classes are tough for both students and teachers,” he said.Online classes added to stress because students and teachers were not comfortable in handling digital gadgets, he added. Besides, there were hurdles in online teaching because for many students having smart phone was not economically viable, he said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/overwhelming-response-from-patiala-students-on-first-day-292240
03-08-2021||---||Punjabi University launches six five-year postgraduate courses||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 2Punjabi University today launched six five-year-integrated postgraduate courses in which students will be able to study a variety of subjects, which can be opted from across faculties and departments. The admissions for the courses started today. The university also held a press conference in this regard.The authorities said the university would provide one-year free education to 25 board topper students, who opted for the courses. The funds would be provided through donors, they added.Responding to queries on clearance of the courses from the academic council and the Syndicate, Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof Arvind said, "The courses have been proposed by me. We started with the academic council, the highest academic body, which gave approval to them. The Syndicate, the main governing body, is also aware of the courses."He confirmed that the decision for the courses was taken after the university academic council allocated him powers for the same."The courses can be proposed from the VC's end as well," he said while adding, "The university has enough staff and infrastructure to run the courses.""The new courses are being introduced to adopt multi-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary approach in line with the new academic trends at the international level," he added."The New Education Policy also mentions that we move towards multidisciplinary education. The objectives of universities are to make their students employable as well as knowledgeable and learned. All these aspects have been taken care of while designing new courses," he said.Dr Balvir Singh Sandhu, Dean (Academic Affairs), said, "The courses have been started in six disciplines, including physical and chemical sciences, biological sciences, mathematical and computational sciences, social sciences, languages and performing and visual arts. Students can get admission in these courses on merit basis after Class XII.""If any student wants to leave after three years, he will be awarded a graduate degree in the relevant subject," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-launches-six-five-year-postgraduate-courses-292241
03-08-2021||Patiala||Patiala ex-Mayor Amarinder Bazaz wants Sanjeev Sharma Bittu probed||Though PCC chief Navjot Sidhu is yet to react to a letter by Punsup vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu, alleging corruption by Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, former mayor Amarinder Bazaz has now written to the CM, demanding a probe into development funds allegedly misused by the MC.While Sidhu remained incommunicado on the issue, Bazaz said “every single penny spent in the name of development be accounted for”. He said: “Important projects like shifting dairies and canal-based water are still pending and only the works where money can be minted easily are operational.”Bittu maintained the allegations were politically motivated as he was a contender for the ticket in 2022. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-ex-mayor-amarinder-bazaz-wants-sanjeev-sharma-bittu-probed-291627
