04-08-2021||Patiala||PUNSUP vice-chairman sacked days after he raised corruption allegations against senior Congress party leaders||Days after Congress leader and PUNSUP vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu publicly accused senior party leaders of corruption, the state government has relieved him of the position. Budhu’s public statements had brought fissures in the Patiala Congress party out in the open, leaving it open to jibes from rival parties.The orders have been released from the office of Rahul Tiwari, secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, upon directions of the office of the governor. The Tribune has a copy of the same.Krishan Chand Budhu, who has been a Municipal Councillor in Patiala since 1992, recently accused senior party leaders of being involved in, and also shielding those involved in, illegal practices including sale of liquor, drugs and other activities. He had met new PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over the matter and claimed he had contacted senior party leaders over various problems several times but was not given a hearing. The councillor was also the first among party leaders in the royal city to install posters congratulating former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu for becoming Punjab Congress Committee chief.In response, the district congress committee (DCC) along with various chairmen and presidents from Patiala held a press conference on Tuesday where some leaders made counter-allegations against Budhu.Responding to the development, Krishan Chand Budhu said, “I have been punished for speaking the truth. I have been removed from the position of Vice-Chairman of PUNSUP for having spoken the truth.” He added, “Despite the same, I will not flinch from ‘the truth’. I will move forward from this as I have enough proof of illegal activities against those involved”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punsup-vice-chairman-sacked-days-after-he-raised-corruption-allegations-against-senior-congress-party-leaders-292965
04-08-2021||---||Harshit tops Patiala district with 99.6% marks||Patiala, August 3Harshit Garg of The Helix Oxford Senior Secondary Smart School in Patran block has topped the district in the CBSE Class X exams with 99.6 per cent marks. Priyanshi of Our Lady of Fatima (OLF) Convent Senior Secondary School has grabbed the second position with 99.4 per cent marks.The third position has been shared by four students, Jasleen Kaur of Akal Academy, Balbehra; Rupit Paul Singh of OLF, Diksha Sharma of Saint Peter Academy, and Shreyas Mehta of Delhi Public School. All of them have scored 99 per cent marks.Harshit, while talking to The Tribune, said he wanted to become a computer engineer, therefore, he had opted for the non-medical stream. “I scored 498 marks out of 500. I am very happy with my result. My parents and teachers played an important role in my success.”Priyanshi said she used to feel depressed due to Covid but her teachers helped her a lot. She said: “Due to Covid, I would feel a bit depressed. Moreover, online studies were also a bit tough for me. It was because of my teachers who put in a lot of hard work that I could perform so well in the exams.” She disclosed that she had opted the medical stream in Class XI to become a doctor. “Next two years, I will be preparing for the entrance examination for MBBS – NEET. It has always been my dream to become a doctor,” she said.DAV SchoolThe first position was taken by Ishita Goyal with 96.8% marks while Mohakjot Dhiman bagged second position with 96.6% marks. The third position was grabbed by Kinshuk Behl with 96.2% marks. Principal Vivek Tiwari congratulated the students, their parents and teachers.Blossoms Sr Sec SchoolAround 52 students appeared for the board exams and the overall pass percentage was 100%. Mansehajvir Singh has secured first position in the school by securing 95.4% marks, followed by Bharti Verma with 94.8% marks, Riya Rana with 94.6% marks and Garv arora with 92.8% marks.Career Academy SchoolStudents of Career Academy School displayed a stunning performance with 100% result. Navdeep Kaur, Gurpreet Kaur, Khushpreet Kaur, Jaspreet Kaur, Khushnaseeb Kaur, Gurleen Kaur, Navneet Kaur, Parinaaz and Harsimrat Sandhu secured above 90% marks. The chairman, Arundweep Singh Bhatia, expressed his happiness over this stellar performance.Police DAVAt Police DAV Public School, Nancy stood first securing 91.6 % marks. Second position was shared by Navjot Kaur and Damanpreet Kaur with 90.6 %. Bipanjeet Singh remained third with 88.6% marks. The school principal, Meena Thapar, congratulated the students on their stupendous success.Paradise International School, GhaggaArshpreet Kaur topped the school with 96% marks followed by Gunjan with 94% marks, Mansi with 93.8% marks. Its chairman, Dr Amritpal Singh Kaleka, and principal, Dr Parminder Kaur, congratulated all students.Sushila Devi Public SchoolStudents once again brought laurels with 100 per cent result. Simran stood first by scoring 96.4 % marks. Aishpreet Kaur stood second with 93.2 % marks, Jaismeen Nanda got 91.8 % marks. More than 10 students got above 70 per cent marks. Chairman Kamal Aggarwal and director HK Sandhu congratulated principal MS Rekha Gupta and staff members.Ryan International SchoolThe Grade X Ryanites brought laurels to the school by giving 100% result. The top scorers of the school were Aarushi and Soumya Lal with 98.4% marks, followed by Raghav Goyal with 97.8% marks and Harshit Kansal with 97.2%. Principal Pooja Sharma wished them all luck for their bright future.Budha Dal Public SchoolA total of 342 students appeared for the exam of whom 39 students secured 95% marks and above, 116 students above 90% marks and 239 students secured above 80% marks. Mahi Soni and Jaskirat Singh topped with 98.8% marks. Harpreet Kaur, principal, congratulating the students.Bhupindra International Public SchoolThe school has produced 100% result. Arshdeep Kaur topped with 98.2% marks. Yuvraj Veer stood second with 97% marks and Sanya third with 95.4% marks. Gurmeet Singh Arora, president, BIPS, congratulated the students and their parents.Apollo Public SchoolThe school topper Kashish Sood scored 97.2% marks, followed by Khushneet Kaur who scored 96.4% marks in the Class X exams.Akal Academy, Reeth KheriAround 156 students appeared for the exam and all of them cleared it with first division. Aadya Sharma topped the school with 98.6% marks, Pari and Prabh Simran bagged second and third position with 98.4% and 97.4% marks respectively. Principal Shaminder Pal Kaur congratulated all students, parents and teachers.St Xavier’s InternationalSiya Behal topped the school by achieving 95.8% marks, followed by Aastha and Akshita with 95.2 % and 92.6% marks respectively. The management and the principal of the school congratulated the students and wished them good luck for their future endeavours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/harshit-tops-patiala-district-with-99-6-marks-292822
04-08-2021||---||Rain leaves Royal City Patiala in deep waters||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 3Rain that lashed the city in the morning hours and continued till the afternoon left most streets and roads waterlogged. Rainwater entered many houses, government as well as private establishments.Areas, including Model Town, level crossing 21, Kadah Wala Chowk, Anardana Chowk, Chandani Chowk were flooded.The situation has yet again raised questions over development works being carried out in the city, including the laying of paver blocks.Rainwater entered the premises of the hostel at the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Community Health Centre, Model Town, and other places where officials were seen removing water with buckets.The heavy rain started around 9 and and light rain continued till 1 pm.The situation has also raised questions over the poor drainage of the city which the corporation officials repeatedly defend as properly managed.Amarjit Singh, who runs an eatery at Tripuri, said: “Rainwater enters houses, shops and disrupts life in our area every time it rains. Officials of the Municipal Corporation and the administration should find a solution to this problem.”A resident of Sirhindi Bazaar, who works at a shop at Anardana Chowk, said: “Water accumulates on roads every time it rains. Various works underway in the city, including installation of interlocking tiles, should be reviewed.”Congress leader and councillor of ward no. 44 Krishan Chand also blamed interlocking tiles for the situation. “A haphazard installation of interlocking tiles has led to flooding of streets and roads. The road work at various places has been affected due to stagnant rainwater. The contractors have not carried out the works properly.”Teams told to act swiftly: MC chiefMunicipal Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said: “We have carried out a survey of the city half an hour after the rain and it was observed that water in most areas has receded. I will get the situation checked in other areas wherever residents are facing problems.” She added the Municipal Corporation had instructed teams of workers to be present at all identified spots and act swiftly to ensure rainwater receded at the earliest. “Cleaning of the city’s main nullah is underway. Apart from that, teams are working in the Books Market area, B Tank Road, to remove water at the earliest,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rain-leaves-royal-city-patiala-in-deep-waters-292823
04-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Discord among Patiala city Cong leaders fails to die down, fresh allegations||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 3The issue of corruption in the Municipal Corporation has snowballed into a major controversy. Senior Congress leaders from the city alleged corruption by each other, in separate press statements issued here today.Last week, Punsup vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu had written to newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, highlighting corrupt practices within the corporation, and had alleged senior leadership in Patiala was defending those corrupt leaders.Reacting to it, the district Congress Committee (DCC), Patiala (City), today held a press conference over allegations and corruption charges raised against party leaders. The infighting and allegations have exposed the rifts among party leaders who continued to level more allegations during the press conference.President of DCC KK Malhotra and PRTC Chairman KK Sharma, along with District Planning Committee Chairman Santokh Singh, sought that party leaders should contain their differences on the party platform.Malhotra said the party leadership was ashamed of Krishan Chand’s statements against senior leaders, and said: “In any circumstances, the senior leader in the city (Krishan) should have approached the district leadership to express his discontentment, if any. He should not level false charges against party leaders for political mileage.”Narinder Pal Verma (Lalli), senior vice-chairman of PUNSUP, said Krishan Chand should not raise allegations of corruption against others as he himself was facing corruption charges.Responding to it, Krishan Chand said: “Narinder Lalli should prove the allegations against me. Narinder himself remained in jail for 101 days for illegal possession of a house after being held guilty by the court and later he had joined the SAD camp. He joined Pratap Bajwa when the latter had differences with Captain Amarinder Singh and also helped Dharamvira Gandhi win elections against MP Preneet Kaur in 2014.”Lalli refuted the allegations of having joined SAD or Dhramvira Gandhi.Sources say the Congress leaders held the press conference following a signal from the Patiala Congress leadership.The AllegationsIn a letter to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punsup vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu has accused Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Bittu of shielding “illegal building mafia and colonisers”. “Already the morale of Congress workers in Patiala is low and many of them plan to quit the party due to massive corruption led by the Mayor. His assets need to be probed,” he wrote. “We have high hopes from Sidhu as the CM’s inaccessibility has led to such a situation where a selective close coterie to New Moti Bagh Palace is running a parallel, but corrupt government,” he said.Counter-allegationsHowever, Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Bittu said the allegations were politically motivated as he was a contender for ticket in 2022. “My rivals are trying to play dirty politics, without any proof. Funds allocated by the government through us are spent by the officers. There is no way I can be held responsible for it,” said Bittu, warning that he would file a defamation case against Budhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/discord-among-patiala-city-cong-leaders-fails-to-die-down-fresh-allegations-292824
