06-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Dairy project wall gives way in Patiala, raises many an eyebrow||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 5Questions are being raised over the planning and execution of various government projects in the city after a newly constructed wall of the dairy shifting project of the Municipal Corporation (MC) at Ablowal village collapsed today.The incident was reported a day after the work at Rajindra Lake drew flak from various quarters over lack of proper planning.A wall of Rajindra Lake was renovated recently. The lake was opened for the public after over 14 years. The renovated wall of the lake got damaged yesterday.The Public Works Department (PWD), along with others, spent Rs5.04 crore on the project. Department officials when questioned claimed that the basic structure of the site that collapsed was neither altered nor changed during renovation. The particular wall of the lake collapsed on Wednesday after it rained on Tuesday.The PWD Executive Engineer clarified that the wall, which collapsed, was not part of the restoration work completed recently. “During restoration and beautification of the site planters’ wall around the monumental area of Mahatma Gandhi statue was not tampered,” he stated in a press release.Meanwhile, a newly constructed wall of the dairy shifting project of the Municipal Corporation (MC) worth Rs21 crore at Ablowal village collapsed here today.Local leaders of the opposition parties have raised questions over planning and execution of works. They said the wall collapsed after it rained.Meanwhile, civic body officials said the 50-metre wall had collapsed due to contractor’s mistake. A truck had rammed into the wall on Tuesday, they added.When contacted Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “A truck owned by contractor rammed into the wall on Tuesday. The work on the project is still in progress. The contractor will repair the wall.”Dairy farmers have been given an ultimatum to shift to the site by September end.Former Mayor Ajit Pal Singh Kohli said, “Development works are carried out without any scientific study. Decisions are taken at the XEN level. This is while all the leadership in the city, including councillors, the Chief Minister and the Member Parliament, are from the same party.”“Lapses in works are now deliberately covered. This time they have failed miserably in completing works. It should be checked whether their contractors comply with the norms and execute tasks properly or not,” the former Mayor added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dairy-project-wall-gives-way-in-patiala-raises-many-an-eyebrow-293777
06-08-2021||---||AAP leader Dinesh Mehta attacked, part of the hand chopped off in Rajpura||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 5Unknown men allegedly attacked and chopped off a part of the hand of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, Dinesh Mehta, in Rajpura late on Wednesday night. He had to be shifted to Chandigarh for treatment.The police have registered a case under Section 307 (Attempt to murder) against suspects, who are yet to be arrested.Dinesh was attacked, when he along with his supporters, was holding a late night meeting to tackle stray cattle menace in Rajpura. “Suddenly few men reached the spot and attacked him with sword and sticks,” said AAP supporters.Meanwhile, the Rajpura AAP unit has given an ultimatum claiming that if suspects are not arrested in two days, they would hold a protest dharna in Rajpura.“Goons of the Congress and Akali are the ones, who attacked our leader. The police should identify and arrest them at the earliest,” said AAP workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/aap-leader-dinesh-mehta-attacked-part-of-the-hand-chopped-off-in-rajpura-293775
06-08-2021||---||Punjabi University VC releases Punjabipedia Android mobile app||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 5Punjabi University released Punjabipedia Android mobile app here today. The app has been developed by Punjabipedia Centre, Punjabi University.The application was released by the Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor (VC), Dr Arvind, in the presence of Dr Pargat Singh, Leader Mathematics Group (retired), London Metropolitan University, UK. He joined the occasion through online mode. Vikram Jeet Duggal, DIG, Patiala range, was also present on the occasion.Talking about the development of Punjabi language the VC said, “Technological support is necessary for every language today. Punjabipedia will help in development of Punjabi language,” the VC added.Dr Pargat Singh, who was the chief guest on the occasion, said Punjabis all over the world would benefit from this app.The Punjabipedia Centre Coordinator, Dr Vishal Goyal, and the co-coordinator, Dr Rajwinder Singh, said the mobile phone app was in much more demand than the website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-vc-releases-punjabipedia-android-mobile-app-293774
06-08-2021||---||Students to gherao Cong leaders on Punjabi University campus||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 5Students have now decided to gherao Congress leaders, who enter the Punjabi University campus. Students, who have been protesting against the fee hike, said they would prohibit the entry of Congress leaders on the campus.They also want that the GST should not be collected from students on the basis of providing educational services.Sharing details, students associated with political parties, including the AISF, the SFI, the PSU, the DSO and the AIRSA, said they had taken the decision after repeatedly protesting over matters and raising their demands, which were not being considered.Varinder Khuran, one of the student activists said, “We want roll back of all fee hike. The government should stop collecting GST from educational institutions.” “Students also want universities to reduce fee of newly launched courses. The fee should be at par with previously running courses. The government should provide free education to girls till PhD,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-to-gherao-cong-leaders-on-punjabi-university-campus-293773
06-08-2021||The Patiala police on Thursday used mild force to stop members of Powercom and Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Committee who blocked the road near the CM residence.||Contract staff lathicharged in Patiala||The committee members were staging a demonstration against the Punjab Government in support of their long-pending demand of regular jobs.The protesters started throwing bricks at the cops after which the police had to lathicharge them. Many cops and protesters sustained minor injuries. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/contract-staff-lathicharged-in-patiala-293552
06-08-2021||---||SGPC announces Rs 1 crore for Indian men’s hockey team||Patiala, August 5The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has announced to award the Indian men’s hockey team with Rs 1 crore for winning the bronze medal in the Olympics.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, who was in Patiala to inaugurate a ‘sarai’ and employee quarters at Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, made the announcement. She said other players who are participating individually in the Olympics will also be awarded Rs 5 lakh each.“The medal in hockey has come after a gap of 41 years. We are proud of the Indian team,” she said and added that the team would soon pay obeisance atHarmandir Sahib when they will be presented the award. She said the Shiromani Committee would soon hold under-17 games, including hockey, basketball and athletics.“We will open academies for training youngsters for civil services exams,” said the SGPC president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sgpc-announces-rs-1-crore-for-indian-mens-hockey-team-293554
