07-08-2021||---||New head of Punjabi University’s Biotechnology Department||Patiala, August 6Punjabi University professor, Dr Balwinder Singh Sooch, took over the charge of the head, Department of Biotechnology, here today. Dr Sooch has worked as Scientist (Patents) at the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, Chandigarh.Dr Sooch possesses more than 14 years of teaching and research experience. He has contributed in variious national and international journals.He served as the State Academic Coordinator of the National Children Science Congress of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, for over 10 years. The State Academic Coordinator of the National Children Science Congress is a pan-India programme.Also, he is a member of the National Academic Committee of the Department of Science and Technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/new-head-of-punjabi-universitys-biotechnology-department-294344
07-08-2021||---||Punjabi University to publish another book on Maharana Pratap||Patiala, August 6Punjabi University will now publish a new book on Maharana Pratap after its former head of the Department of History raised concerns over missing chapters about Maharaja’s life.The previous book published recently was released by the Punjab Governor, VP Singh Badnore, on the occasion of the 481st birth anniversary of Maharana Pratap on June 14.Officials on the campus said nearly 180 pages book contained research articles penned down by 16 different scholars, including the wars he waged against the Mughal imperialism, his diplomacy, his biography in Bangla literature and also on the relations between Punjab and Rajasthan.Officials informed that according to the former head of the Department of History the book did not contain articles regarding Maharana Pratap’s relations with the Sikh religion.“Around 200 pages book on Maharana Pratap’s relations with the Sikh religion and other aspects of his life will now be published separately,” said Dr BS Sandhu, university Dean (Academic affairs).“No changes will be made in the book published previously. We have decided to publish a new book in all three languages, including Punjabi, English and Hindi,” he added.“The new book will benefit all students as it will be available in three languages,” he said.“The Governor has appreciated publishing a book on Maharana Partap in Hindi and Punjabi,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-publish-another-book-on-maharana-pratap-294343
07-08-2021||Patiala||Webinar dwells on scholar Piara Singh Padam’s contribution to Sikh history||During an international webinar organised to mark the birth centenary of Piara Singh Padam, a Sikh scholar, experts discussed his contribution to Sikh history and Punjabi language and literature at Punjabi University here today.Prof JS Grewal, former Vice-Chancellor, GNDU, Amritsar, Prof Gurinder Singh Mann, former Professor at University of California, Dr Surjit Patar and others participated in the webinar. Prof Grewal discussed the relevance of Padam’s interpretation of the ‘Zafarnama’ (Guru Gobind Singh’s letter to Aurangzeb).Prof Louis E Fenech contextualised Padam’s ‘Guru Gobind Singh de Darbari Ratan’. He explained its influence on the way Padam understood Guru’s Darbar, its literary products and the tenth Sikh Master’s mission.Prof Surjit Patar discussed Padam’s persona and his work. Dr Harinder Kaur, daughter of Piara Singh Padam, shared her personal reminiscences about her father’s zeal for work. Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof Arvind said, “History, language and literature, which make man human are important.” Expressing concern over connecting next generation with the history he said there was a need to preserve zeal and commitment, which Piara Singh Padam showed.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/webinar-dwells-on-scholar-piara-singh-padams-contribution-to-sikh-history-294342
07-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University initiates probe against staff||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 6Punjabi University is now probing records of various faculty members, who took leave with salary, but did not complete their PhD at all or within given stipulated time by the authorities concerned.The development comes after the university started the process of recovering salary paid during the leave period to 14 such faculty members after the authorities received a complaint against them recently.Talking to The Tribune the university Vice-Chancellor (VC), Dr Arvind, said the matter was in the knowledge of the university administration. “I have asked deans to find out whether there are more such cases,” the VC added.“Once we have the data we will take the next step. Rules are same for everyone. Similar action will be taken in this regard against remaining faculty members,” the VC said.“The university is also looking into the ambiguity over completion of Phd. We need to clearly define if it is submission of thesis or awarding degree,” the VC added.As per other officials on the university campus, who requested anonymity, there were many faculty members, who took leave with pay (for up to three years), but did not complete their Phd degree.Though the matter was in the knowledge of previous administrative officials, yet it had been ignored for years’ altogether.The university after receiving complaint, which was first sent to the office of the Chancellor, decided to recover salaries from many employees, along with six per cent yearly interest, last month.As many as 12 candidates out of 14, whose name was mentioned in the complaint, had not completed their doctorate degrees. The university has already started recovery of Rs17 lakh and Rs15 lakh, respectively, from two such employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-initiates-probe-against-staff-294341
07-08-2021||---||Medical, dental teachers end strike in Patiala||Patiala, August 6Ending their protest, medical and dental teachers of Government Medical and Dental College today announced that they would resume OPD services and teaching from tomorrow. The state government, a few days ago, had agreed to link the non-practising allowance (NPA) with the basic pay, which was one of main demands of medical and dental teachers.However, outrightly rejecting the government’s decision to yield to their only one demand doctors decided to continue their stir until the NPA was restored to 25 per cent.When asked about the sudden decision to end the protest, Dr DS Bhullar, state general secretary of the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA), said one of their two main demands had already been fulfilled by the government. Therefore, they had called off the strike, he added. However, they would write to the state Finance Minister to restore NPA to 25 per cent, he said.The decision to call off strike was taken after holding a general body meeting of the association, he added.Earlier, the PSMDTA had announced that its members would not end their protest until both their demands, including restoration of NPA to 25 per cent and linking it with the basic pay, were fulfilled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/medical-dental-teachers-end-strike-in-patiala-294340
07-08-2021||---||Health Department issues 13 challans on detection of dengue larvae in houses in Patiala||Patiala, August 6Following detection of dengue larvae in various residential areas of the district the Health Department and the Municipal Corporation (MC) issued 13 challans here today. Of 13 challans eight were issued in Patiala city, three in Nabha and two in Bhadson.Dr Prince Sodhi, Civil Surgeon, Patiala People seem to be ignoring our appeals because larvae have been found in same households several times.Dr Divjot Singh, district epidemiologist, said health officials visited 25, 996 households in the district today during the Friday Dry Day campaign. During checking, dengue larvae were found in 428 households, he added. Dengue larvae were destroyed on the spot by health officials, he said.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said dengue larvae were found in households despite repeated warnings. “People seem to be ignoring our appeals because larvae have been found in same households multiple times. In the coming days, we will be issuing more challans to owners of houses where dengue larvae are found,” Dr Sodhi added.“People remain alert and drain water from discarded utensils or items at least once a week. To curb the spread of dengue, community participation is a must,” said Dr Sodhi.Health officials said, “Though no dengue case has been reported in this season, the risk of spreading mosquito-borne disease looms large larvae have been found in many households of the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-department-issues-13-challans-on-detection-of-dengue-larvae-in-houses-in-patiala-294339
07-08-2021||---||Water wastage at complex in Patiala's Chhoti Baradari irks office-goers||Patiala, August 6Water wastage at the Beant Singh Complex in Chhoti Baradari has raised many an eyebrow. Office-goers, who worked in the complex, complained regarding the issue. They said potable water leaked from overhead rooftop tanks. Meanwhile, officials of the Municipal Corporation (MC) said they would inquire into the matter.Poonamdeep Kaur, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation We are under-staffed. So, we can’t go on rooftops to check the violation. Otherwise, the Municipal Corporation acts on complaints raised on our portal.The long-pending issue had failed draw attention of civic body officials. A chartered accountant, who works in the complex, posted a video of water leaking from overhead tanks, which accumulated in the parking area behind the building. “There is no limit to wastage of clean drinking water here. People at other places don’t have easy access to potable water,” he said.Another office-goer and activist in the building said, “Water leaks from rooftop tanks continuously. The lapse is on part of none other than those, who manage the building. This has damaged the rear side of the building. Even trees have grown from concrete at some places in the building.”“As per directions of the Department of Local Government, Punjab, all officials of Municipal Corporations and councils have been directed to ensure that there is no wastage of water in the urban areas. Those involved in wastage of water can be penalised. Their water connections can be disconnected on repeated violations,” he added.When contacted, officials of the MC said, “It’s the duty of employees working in the Beant Singh Complex to check water wastage.”Municipal Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “We are under-staffed. So, we can’t go on rooftops to check the violation. Otherwise, the MC acts on complaints raised on our portal. Also, the MC does not manage the complex. We have already provided cleanliness workers there. However, I will direct officials of the department concerned to look into the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/water-wastage-at-complex-in-patialas-chhoti-baradari-irks-office-goers-294338
07-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Dead Patiala resident on MGNREGA roll||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 6In a lapse on part of officials, a 61-year-old resident of Dakunda village in Patiala district, who died in February 2020, remained registered under the MGNREGA scheme till this May.‘Clerical error’Dr Preeti Yadav, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, said a a detailed inquiry was conducted and it was found that two persons with the same name were residing in the village. The error was a clerical mistake, she said.Bhim Singh was kept alive in official records for over a year. The records reveal he worked on the repair and maintenance of the Tohra minor under the scheme for 27 days.He was paid Rs 6,838 as per the official records accessed by The Tribune after his death. Ironically, the payment under MGNREGA is made only after the assessment of thework by an officer.Pritam Kaur, Bhim Singh’s wife, on the other hand, claimed she never received any money. “He worked under the MGNREGA for a while in 2009 but never after that,” said Pritam. The block development panchayat officer, Nabha, said, “We have already changed the mate (the person who marks attendance of beneficiaries on the muster roll). I am yet to check how this anomaly took place.” Sumeet Jarangal, joint development commissioner, Punjab, said, “We will conduct an inquiryand take action if we receive any complaint.”Dr Preeti Yadav, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, said an inquiry was conducted and it was found that two persons with the same name were residing in the village. “While Bhim Singh, son of Tara Singh, is dead, Bhim Singh, son of Labh Singh, has worked under the MGNREGA. However, due to a clerical mistake, his father’s name was written as Tara Singh instead of Labh Singh. The actual payment has been made to Bhim Singh, son of Labh Singh,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dead-patiala-resident-on-mgnrega-roll-294144
07-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: Why no decision against Patiala's judicial officer for misconduct||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6Hemant Gopal, Additional District and Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge, CBI, Patiala, has been “found guilty of grave misconduct” by an inquiry officer-cum-District and Sessions Judge, Panchkula. Yet, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has allegedly not taken a final decision in the matter, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan’s Bench was today told.Taking up the matter, Justice Sangwan asked the Registrar-General to file a status report. He has been asked to explain why final decision has not been taken against the judicial officer on the basis of the inquiry report. The direction came after senior advocate SK Garg Narwana told Justice Sangwan’s Bench on behalf of a convict that Gopal was found guilty vide an inquiry report dated March 31, 2018. Despite a lapse of three years, the High Court had not taken a final decision on the inquiry pending against him.Justice Sangwan was hearing the second application filed by Mangat Rai for staying the operation of judgment of conviction dated April 20, 2013. Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, Narwana submitted that the first application was dismissed on October 22, 2013. But the applicant-appellant moved the present application due to changed circumstances.Elaborating, Narwana submitted Gopal had passed the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence in the applicant’s matter. Under suspension with headquarters at Faridkot, the officer was found guilty on Rai’s complaintNarwana also referred to another inquiry, vide which Sushil Kumar, law officer, Department of Legal and Legislative Affairs, was also chargesheeted as “a conduit, who facilitated the payment of illegal gratification”. He was found guilty in a departmental inquiry and stood dismissed from service. Narwana added it was an established fact that Gopal had accepted illegal gratification of Rs 40 lakh from co-accused Parminder through Sushil Kumar and demanded Rs 1 crore from the present applicant-appellant and others. “Parminder Singh was acquitted because he paid gratification of Rs 40 lakh, whereas the applicant-appellant and other accused were convicted as they did not pay any amount to him”.Before parting, Justice Sangwan issued notice on the application, which was accepted on CBI’s behalf by advocate Shubhra Singh. “In the meantime, the Registrar-General of this court is directed to submit a status report as to why no final decision has been taken against the said officer on the basis of the inquiry report dated March 31, 2018,” Justice Sangwan concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/hc-why-no-decision-against-patialas-judicial-officer-for-misconduct-294152
07-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Recovery pending, scam accused Punjabi University staffer seeks retirement||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 6An employee working with Punjabi University, Patiala, who has been named along with three others in a report of the Vigilance Department for recovery of Rs 2 crore in an alleged scam committed on the campus years ago, has sought voluntary retirement. University officials on Friday said the request had not yet been approved. Interestingly, sources said he was set to fly abroad, but the administration was unaware of it.Registrar Prof Varinder Kaushik said, “The employee has submitted an application for voluntary retirement from service.” Asked whether the university would accept it pending the recovery, he said the university would follow the rule of law and conduct a proper screening of his record.Meanwhile, the university is yet to apportion the recovery amount among those named in the report. Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind had on Monday said the university was yet to decide upon division of the amount. He said, “One of those named in the report has died. We have sought legal advice on how to deal with the situation. We have also demanded advice on division of the amount among other employees.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/recovery-pending-scam-accused-punjabi-university-staffer-seeks-retirement-294153
07-08-2021||Patiala||Sack Punjab Forest Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over scholarship scam: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders held a protest and accused Forest Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot of SC/ST post-matric scholarship scam in Nabha here today. They said the minister should be removed from the post.Party state general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat said: “The minister with his involvement in the scholarship scam has ruined the future of many students, but the Chief Minister is not taking any action against him.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sack-punjab-forest-minister-sadhu-singh-dharamsot-over-scholarship-scam-aap-294154
