09-08-2021||---||45% of targeted population administered first vax dose in Patiala district||Patiala, August 8Around 45 per cent of the targeted population has received the first dose of the Covid vaccine in the district to date, according to the Health Department data.Around 5.2 lakh beneficiaries, of the targeted population of 12 lakh, have been administered the first shot. Only 1.2 lakh people, including health professionals and frontline workers, have received both doses.The department clarified that the vaccination pace was initially slow but it had picked up over the past two weeks.Vaccine doses being supplied in large numbersHealth officials said they had been receiving Covid vaccines in large numbers from the state headquarters, and consequently they had been holding mega vaccination camps more frequently.Health officials said they had been receiving Covid vaccines in large numbers from the state headquarters, and consequently they had been holding mega vaccination camps more frequently.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said they had organised a mega vaccination drive yesterday and they would hold another tomorrow.It was learnt that the rural population is far behind their urban counterparts in vaccination.On the alleged unequal supply of vaccines to rural areas, the officials said there was an equal distribution of vaccines to every block. However, some areas in the city were being given more doses to cover educational institutions, which had recently re-opened.The officials defended more supply to urban areas saying that they had changed their approach. “Now, we are focussing on administering second doses,” said a health official.The department had earlier decided to vaccinate as much population as possible with the first dose, in the face of the possible third wave. Now, they have changed course and started to give priority to administering second doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/45-of-targeted-population-administered-first-vax-dose-in-patiala-district-295169
09-08-2021||---||‘Patiala Reads’ members hold session with author Sakoon Singh||Patiala, August 8“Patiala Reads”, an all-women book club promoting reading habits among women and helping them overcome boredom during pandemic days, has been holding virtual book meetings with authors to brush up the reading habits of its members. The club held an in-person meeting with an author from Chandigarh yesterday.The Chandigarh-based author, Sakoon Singh, Associate Fellow at IIAS, Shimla, recently released her debut book, “In the land of the lovers: A Punjab Qissa”.An alumnus of Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, and Panjab University, Chandigarh, Sakoon Singh teaches English literature and culture studies in Chandigarh. A recipient of the Fulbright Fellowship at the University of Texas, Austin, she has published her academic writings extensively.The book that perfectly encapsulates the essence of Punjab revolves around the life of an idealistic, young woman based in Chandigarh. In the book, Sakoon dwells on the burning issues of the region, such as drug addiction, and also evokes the anguish caused by the Partition. This novel has been shortlisted for the PFC Valley Of Words Award 2021 in the English Fiction category .The inaugural meet was held at Cafe Brooks Central. Members of the club, including Vitesha, Dr Birinder and Cherry Garg, said the welcome note.The evening saw participation by other avid readers, including Dr Bharti, Dr Jasleen, Simrat Samra, Dr Navjinder, Dr Reetinder, Sangeeta Sharma and Khushnuma Grewal, who interacted with the author. The meeting ended with members promising to put in effort in the process of learning and unlearning together to make an reading experience worthwhile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-reads-members-hold-session-with-author-sakoon-singh-295168
09-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Book on Maharana Pratap by Punjabi University: Panel yet to submit report on mistakes||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 8Mistakes identified by a former professor of history in a book of Punjabi University on Maharana Pratap have raised eyebrows on the campus. Though the Dean, Academic Affairs, Dr BS Sandhu, said the university had decided to publish another book containing segments which were pointed out as missing by the former professor, other professors have raised a red flag over the book. The university’s committee formulated on the matter is yet to submit its report, they said.Dr Rajesh Kumar Sharma, Professor of Department of English and professor in charge of University Publication Bureau, said there were numerous mistakes in the book, as such the university could withdraw it. “We will most likely withdraw the book. As per the complaint raised with the university, there are more than 600-700 mistakes while the foreword from the Chancellor’s office has also not been cleared from the office.”He said: “The seminars held at the university were in relation to Mahrana Pratap’s relations with the Sikhs. But this book has become about the life of the king. Also, there are serious contentions against the use of the word ‘chivalry’ in the title.”Officials on the campus said the university had formed a team comprising three members. “The team has not yet taken a decision on the matter. The printing of the book has already led to investment of public funds. Those responsible for the mistakes should not be let off scot-free by publishing a separate book,” they said.The Dean, Academic Affairs, Dr BS Sandhu, today said: “The committee’s report is yet to be submitted. The final decision to be taken by the university will be shared after.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/book-on-maharana-pratap-by-punjabi-university-panel-yet-to-submit-report-on-mistakes-295167
09-08-2021||---||Education Department releases SOPs to contain Covid in schools||Patiala, August 8To contain the spread of Covid-19, the Education Department has released a standard operating procedures (SOPs), whereby students of government schools can be called on alternate days. The department said students of non-board classes can be called on alternate days while board classes will be held regularly.Harinder Kaur, District Education Officer, said the whole purpose of the SOPs was to contain any spread of Covid-91 in schools. “School heads have been directed not to have more than 25 students in a classroom. Teachers will have to take more lectures.”The schools had reopened last week after a long Covid-induced closure.The DEO said school heads would have the liberty to make the timetable as per their convenience. However, they (heads) had to adhere to the guidelines of ‘one student one bench’ and not to exceed the limit of 25 students in a class – at a time.Harinder Kaur said: “Around 700 students will be tested for Covid in the district everyday. Besides, teachers will be given repeated reminders to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/education-department-releases-sops-to-contain-covid-in-schools-295166
09-08-2021||---||Major fire averted at Patiala's Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology hostel||Patiala, August 8A major fire was averted at a hostel of the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology (TIET) with staff acting fast to douse the flames in a room. Students on the campus said a fire was reported in a room at the boys’ hostel (M).The Registrar, Dr Gurbinder Singh, said students must have left a geyser on for a prolonged time in one of the rooms. “No major loss was reported,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/major-fire-averted-at-patialas-thapar-institute-of-engineering-and-technology-hostel-295165
09-08-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University releases collection of poems written by Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha - “Gitanjali Harivrijesh”||Punjabi University on Wednesday released a collection of poems written by Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha - “Gitanjali Harivrijesh”. The book is published by Navyug Publishers, Delhi, and edited by Dr Ravinder Kaur Ravi and Dr Jagmail Singh Bhathuan of the university. Major Adarshpal Singh, great grandson of Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha, was also present on the occasion. The Vice-Chancellor recited the poem, “Layo Guru Nanak Alookik Vasant” from this book and congratulated Dr Ravinder Kaur Ravi and Dr Jagmail Singh Bhathuan. He said our ancient Punjabi scholars respected Hindi as well as other languages besides their first language. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-releases-collection-of-poems-written-by-bhai-kahan-singh-nabha-gitanjali-harivrijesh-295164
