10-08-2021||---||Despite laxity in restrictions, Covid cases continue to dip in Patiala district||Patiala, August 9It seems Covid cases continue to decline in the district despite laxity in restrictions. In August, only 26 positive cases have been reported. In July, 219 positive cases were reported. The Health Department informed that not a single positive case was reported on Monday. The number of active cases with three more recoveries today dropped to 23, the department added.According to sources there is a steep decline in the positivity rate too. Officials claimed that the positivity rate in the district had fallen below 0.5 per cent in the district. Positivity rate was recorded at 0.24 in July while it was 2.47 per cent in June. In May, the rate of infection transmission was 10.78 per cent.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said they had been successful in containing the spread of virus wherever there was clustering of positive cases.“Early detection of cases followed by containment in the affected areas has curbed the spread of virus. Adopting this approach, we declared Achal village a containment zone. Consequently, no positive case has been reported in the surrounding areas of the village,” said Dr Sumeet.Dr Sumeet claimed that herd immunity was playing its role to some extent. However, in the face of any genetic variation in the virus cases might rise again, said Dr Sumeet.“If there is no virus variation, situation is likely to remain same. Herd immunity is also playing its role in controlling the spread of virus in the area,” Dr Sumeet added. When asked about the role of residents in curbing the spread of Covid, Dr Sumeet said, “Apart from following Covid appropriate behaviour, people should get themselves tested for the virus infection immediately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/despite-laxity-in-restrictions-covid-cases-continue-to-dip-in-patiala-district-295673
10-08-2021||---||Farm labourers start 3-day protest||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 9Farm labourers, on Monday, started a three-day protest at the PUDA ground against the state government. Labourers under the banner of the Sanjha Majdoor Morcha staged a sit-in at the PUDA ground and raised slogans against Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.They were protesting against the state government’s decision to keep cooperative societies out of the ambit of debt waivers for labourers. Protesters said the government had turned a blind eye to the waiver of non-government debts.Kashmir Singh Ghugshore, state leader, Sanjha Majdoor Union, said, “The government has not totally waived off loans of farm labourers. Instead they have only waived off a part of the loan. It will not help labourers because they still have to struggle to pay the remaining amount.”The government had not fulfilled its pre-poll promises and was spreading lies regarding debt waivers of landless labourers, he added. “The Congress government in the state seems to be working against labourers by siding with big corporate houses,” he said.The protesting labourers said they had already raised the issue with state ministers through memorandums. However, their demands were ignored, they added. Consequently, they were compelled to hold protest in Chief Minister’s hometown, they said.The protesting labourers have announced to hold a march towards the Chief Minister’s residence on August 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farm-labourers-start-3-day-protest-295674
10-08-2021||---||High Court quashes writ petition challenging Patiala MC orders for shifting dairies to Ablowal village||Patiala, August 9The Punjab and Haryana High Court has quashed a writ petition filed by many dairy owners to nullify the Municipal Corporation orders of shifting dairy farms from the city to new project at Ablowal village.In their petition dairy farmers contended that the location of dairy project at Ablowal village was not appropriate as all dairies could not be allowed at one place. They said the allotment was to be made on collector rate whereas the corporation has demanded Rs3,500 per square yard. They also stated that there were high-tension wires in the area. Therefore, the land was not suitable for dairy farms, they added.The court observed that a total of 21.25 acres was being used for the dairy project, including 6.25 acre land of the Forest Department. The project was initiated after the Punjab State Human Rights Commission directed the Municipal Corporation (MC) to take steps to shift dairies way back in 2003.The court observed that development work had already been carried out for the project. Streets were paved with tiles and electricity lines were laid. The court stated that 18 years had lapsed since the initiation of the process. As such, it would not be appropriate for the court to interfere on the ground that all dairies were concentrated at a particular place in the absence of material to show that the land earmarked was not suitable for the project, the court added“The petitioners have been asked to deposit five per cent of the total amount by the corporation. The petitioners have not placed on record sufficient material to prove that the price demanded for the plot is exorbitant. In these circumstances, this Bench finds that the petitioners have not placed sufficient material to enable the court to examine this aspect,” the court observed.“Dairies situated along the Jacob drain of the inner city have been allotted plots. The price of plots has been determined by the Corporation’s general body,” the court added.“Keeping in view the aforesaid facts, this Bench does not find it appropriate to issue the writ as prayed for. Hence, the writ petition is disposed of,” the court observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/high-court-quashes-writ-petition-challenging-patiala-mc-orders-for-shifting-dairies-to-ablowal-village-295675
10-08-2021||---||Congress leader alleges Patiala Mayor’s involvement in illegal constructions||Patiala, August 9Almost a week after being removed from the post of PUNSUP vice- chairman, the councillor from Ward No. 44 and senior Congress leader from the city, Krishan Chand Budhu, today accused Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma of partisanship in illegal constructions in the city.The councillor also staged a dharna near statue of Mahatma Gandhi in protest apart from naming Mayor’s associates, who he alleged were involved in illegal activities.Rejecting Budhu’s claims Mayor said he was levelling baseless allegations against him. “I will go to court or complain at the office of Local Bodies Minister,” said Mayor.Earlier, Budhu had written against the Mayor and met Punjab Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu in this regard.Budhu in a statement released on his official letterhead today named some ‘illegal constructions’, including a showroom near Udaseen Modern School, a commercial market near a private hospital on Bhupindra Road, a showroom near the Sahni bakery, constructions at Leela Bhawan Market, a petrol pump near railway crossing No. 22, shops near the CIA staff office, a commercial market at Adalat Bazar, construction of houses in place of an old building, showrooms near DAV School on Bhupindra Road and over 20 to 25 structures at Anand Nagar among others.“More than required numbers of employees have been hired at the Municipal Corporation office. The contract for hiring private security has also been issued to a contractor, who does not possess license for the purpose,” Budhu alleged.Municipal Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “The Corporation has hired staff as per its requirement and is competent to take decisions in this regard. The contract for security was given through a tendering process. It was issued before I took charge of the MC Commissioner.”When contacted, Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said, “I hold a position in society because of which people level allegations against me.”“New allegations have been levelled by the councillor to please his political bosses. Rather issuing baseless statements the councillor should complain to the DC, Municipal Commissioner or go to court,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/congress-leader-alleges-patiala-mayors-involvement-in-illegal-constructions-295676
10-08-2021||Patiala||Freedom fighters from Patiala honoured on 79th anniversary of Quit India Movement||Two freedom fighters from Patiala district were honoured on the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement, here today. Mohkam Singh (97), who was imprisoned by the British for nine months, was honoured by the Patiala SDM, Charanjit Singh, who visited his house at Vada Arai Majra village, near Sanori Adda.Pritam Singh of Muradpur village on Rajpura Road, who remained in jail for a year during the Quit India Movement, was also honoured by the SDM today.Recalling his old times, Mohkam Singh said he lived in Chakk No. 120 in Lyallpur district of Pakistan before Partition. He was imprisoned in Lahore Jail by the Britishers on August 9, 1942. Earlier, his father Jathedar Waryam Singh was also imprisoned by the British in 1919.Pritam Singh said he was arrested at the age of nine during the Quit India Movement with a group from his village Chakk 445 in Lyallpur district of Pakistan. He was sentenced to one year in prison. Both the freedom fighters said that they migrated to Punjab after India got Independence.After honouring both freedom fighters on behalf of the Government of India, the Punjab Government and the district administration, SDM Charanjit Singh said, “It is due to great sacrifices of such patriots that we are enjoying warmth of freedom today. The Punjab Government salutes all freedom fighters, who laid down their lives to free our country from the Britishers rule.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/freedom-fighters-from-patiala-honoured-on-79th-anniversary-of-quit-india-movement-295677
10-08-2021||Aman Sood||Power pacts: Despite CM’s order, no White Paper yet||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 9Despite an assurance by CM Capt Amarinder Singh in the Vidhan Sabha in January 2020, a ‘White Paper’ on the ‘cost of power and power purchase agreements’ (PPAs) is still a mystery.Capt planned to present it in 2020Stop loot of exchequerUntil the power deals are cancelled, private power companies will continue to loot the treasury and the people of Punjab. — Harpal Cheema, Leader of oppositionSources within the government confirm that despite repeated attempts even by the government and Cabinet ministers, “a complete White Paper elaborating the faulty PPAs and the officers behind signing those” are yet to be submitted.“Without White Paper being made public, scrapping or revisiting PPAs serves no purpose. Till the same set of officers continues to stonewall the complete White Paper, nothing on scrapping of PPAs is possible,” they revealed.An official letter, in possession of The Tribune, by the CM on January 17, 2020, confirms that he had asked the then Additional Chief Secretary (Power) to ensure that the White Paper was ready to be presented in the Budget session of 2020. “I would like the White Paper to be presented in the next session, preferably in the next Budget session. The exercise may be initiated forthwith with the required diligence,” read an official note from the CM dispatched on January 20, 2020, from his office.A top minister said constant delays ensured that “no White Paper on power could be submitted or approved by the Cabinet for over a year after statement by the government in the Vidhan Sabha”. “Even the CM’s letter to the ACS could not ensure that the White Paper is ready to be presented in the House,” he said.A senior minister privy to the developments confirmed that almost a year later, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of the CM, attended by four Cabinet ministers, Chief Secretary and the PSPCL CMD on March 23, 2021, to “discuss draft White Paper on power sector in Punjab”. However, the White Paper is yet to be made public. “Even after a year, the one under discussion was raw draft and did not have the names of anyofficer to be heldaccountable,” he added.A former chief engineer with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited said on the one hand the government admitted that the PPAs were faulty and needed to be revisited, but on the other, it was yet to “issue a White Paper with complete details of officers who were at the helm of affairswhen those were signed”.“As a result, consumers continue to pay high power tariff and every year private companies continue to win court battles and tribunal hearings due to faulty PPAs,” he said.There was no reply on the issue of White Paper from the CM’s office, while PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said it waswith the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/power-pacts-despite-cms-order-no-white-paper-yet-295348
10-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala teachers sans jab told to stay home||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 9Unvaccinated teachers will have to submit a negative Covid-19 report to enter the school, as per the directives issued by the Patiala District Education Officer (DEO) on Monday.All school heads have already been issued a letter in this regard by the DEO, instructing them to mark teachers absent if they showed up without the Covid-19 vaccination certificate. However, the Education Department said the step was aimed at curbing the spread of infection in schools.Alleging harassment, teachers said in the face of a mandatory three-month gap between two doses, some teachers had to wait for the second dose. Besides, a teacher who had recently tested positive for Covid-19 was not allowed to get the jab before three months, they said.Vikram Dev, state president, Democratic Teachers Front, said: “The orders should immediately be withdrawn as it amounts to harassment. The DEO is threatening us by saying we will be marked absent if we fail to submit a certificate.”Classes in government schools resumed last week after a long gap of Covid-induced closure.Harinder Kaur, District Education Officer, said: “The orders are for those who have not received even a single dose. We have to keep our students safe from the virus. Therefore, teachers should get vaccinated. Either they should get a report from Chief Medical Officer, stating reasons for not receiving vaccines or should not enter the school. They should take medical leave and sit home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-teachers-sans-jab-told-to-stay-home-295354
