12-08-2021||Patiala||Bikram College in Patiala releases prospectus||SSP honours CBSE Class X toppersPatiala: The Patiala SSP, Dr Sandeep Garg, honoured students of Police DAV Public School, who excelled in the CBSE Class X examination. Garg expressed his happiness over performance of students throughout the year while giving them trophy. He appreciated students for their efforts in making everyone proud. He also encouraged students to aim for higher institutions and work hard to achieve their goal. TNSLahore expert delivers lecturePatiala: Department of Library and Information Science, Punjabi University, has started a guest lecture series through an online platform. Dr Muhammad Rafiq, Associate Professor, Institute of Information Management, University of the Punjab, Quaid-e-Azam Campus, Lahore (Pakistan), was the first speaker of the session. He spoke on “Emerging technologies in libraries”. Dr Rafiq talked about emerging technologies that influenced libraries and would shape their future. Students of the BLIS and the MLIS, researchers, librarians and faculty members from the university, Aligarh Muslim University and libraries from South Arabia attended the programme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bikram-college-in-patiala-releases-prospectus-296523
12-08-2021||Patiala||First Covid case found in Nabha school||After reopening of schools, an 11-year-old government school student tested positive for the Covid at Nabha in the district on Wednesday. This is the first positive case of the district among schoolchildren after schools reopened after a long gap of Covid induced closure. The student tested positive for the virus during a routine sampling.Health officials informed that the said positive student was symptomatic and his infection was detected in a routine check-up at Nabha.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said they had quarantined the entire class of the student, including teachers. Tests of student’s family members would also be conducted, he added.Meanwhile, no student has tested positive for Covid in the exclusive sampling drive conducted at government schools. Health officials said 355 samples were collected from various schools in the district on Wednesday. However, all tested negative for Covid, they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/first-covid-case-found-in-nabha-school-296522
12-08-2021||Karam Prakash||BKU-Ugrahan comes out in support of protesting farm labourers, holds langar in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 11To strengthen their bond with farm labourers, the Bhartiya Kisan Union, Ugrahan, today organised ‘langar’ (community kitchen) for thousands of farm labourers, who had been protesting for the last three days at the PUDA ground in the city.Farmers said they stood shoulder to shoulder with labourers in their fight against the government for unmet demands. Farmers not only served langar to protesting labourers, but also washed dishes. Notably, farm labourers, a majority of whom belong to the Dalit community, have frequently clashed with farmers over contract of one third of the common panchayat land in villages.Farmers in some villages have even passed resolutions of capping labour charges.Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president, Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) Ugrahan, said there was a generation-old bond with farm labourers. “Both, farmers and labourers can’t survive without each other. They (farmers) have always been supported by labourers in their ongoing agitation against the three contentious farm laws. Therefore, it was our duty to support them.”When asked about the issue of one third common panchayat land for Dalits, he said, “Dalits should get their rights guaranteed by the constitution. I also appeal to farmers to support farm labourers on every aspect.”Meanwhile, hundreds of labourers held a protest march on the concluding day of the three-day protest in the city on Wednesday. Labourers marched towards the Chief Minister’s residence. However, they were stopped near the YPS roundabout by the heavy police force. The protesters called off their stir after they were given a written assurance of their meeting with Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra on August 18. The protesters announced that they would hold a night long protest outside residences of ministers between September 1 and 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bku-ugrahan-comes-out-in-support-of-protesting-farm-labourers-holds-langar-in-patiala-296521
12-08-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University, Patiala, Centre for Diaspora Studies holds interactive session with NRI Sabha||The Centre for Diaspora Studies, Punjabi University, organised an interaction with members of the NRI Sabha, Punjab. Members met Vice- Chancellor Profor Arvind to share their concerns and know about efforts made by the university for bridging the gap between native Punjabis and the global Punjabi community.Prof Arvind said, “The university is fully committed to promote sharing and dialogue. I am hopeful of establishing university campuses in different parts of the world with the help of the global Punjabi community.”Joginder Singh Bhangalia an NRI representative of the Gulf countries, shared his experiences and journey abroad. He said the university should make proper academic and educational channels that encouraged the third and fourth generation of young Punjabis to learn more about Punjab, Punjabi language, culture and art. The NRI community, he emphasised, would be more than willing to support such endeavours of the university in all respects.While sharing his experience Shaminder Singh Garcha from the UK said limitations of existing socio-political order were driving NRIs away from Punjab. Executive members of the NRI Sabha, Jagbir Singh and Meva Singh, proposed that the university should organise an annual meeting of the NRI Sabha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-centre-for-diaspora-studies-holds-interactive-session-with-nri-sabha-296519
12-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala: Fire at establishment branch of Punjabi University, records burnt||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 11Mystery surrounds the fire incident at the establishment branch of Punjabi University wherein crucial documents are stated to have been burnt on Tuesday evening. The university is already under the lens of the Vigilance Department, which is probing alleged scams committed on the campus.Dr Varinder Kumar Kaushik, Registrar, Punjabi University The exact information about documents that have been burnt is not available yet. Employees of the branch concerned have been directed to prepare a list of records that have been damaged in the fire. We have also sealed the area.As per sources, the fire was reported from the establishment branch after 7 pm on Tuesday. An official privy to the matter said the staff was alerted about fire at 7.30 pm after university security officials tried to douse flames.The university security in-charge, Captain Gurtej Singh (retd), was not available for his comments on the incident despite repeated attempts to reach him. University officials did not inform the Fire Department regarding the incident and doused flames on their own. Officials of the Fire Department said they did not receive any call from university regarding any blaze.Officials said some records along with furniture could have been burnt. The university security staff managed to douse the flames, they added.The incident was not the first one on the campus, they said. A fire was reported at the university administrative branch in 2007 in which many records were destroyed. A senior university functionary was facing investigation at that time.Presently, university records are being checked by the Punjab Vigilance Department as it is investigating into alleged scams, including hiring on basis of fake certificates, purchase of software, paper and other 13 matters.The Vigilance Department had sought various records of the university from time to time after it started investigation. The university is also inquiring into other alleged misappropriations, including release of payments from the UGC grant.When contacted university registrar, Dr Varinder Kumar Kaushik, said he visited the spot on Wednesday. “The exact information about documents that have been burnt is not available yet. Employees of the branch concerned have been directed to prepare a list of records that have been damaged in the fire. We have also sealed the area,” he said. “The fire did not spread further. It was controlled in short span of time,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-fire-at-establishment-branch-of-punjabi-university-records-burnt-296517
12-08-2021||---||Fire at eatery in Urban Estate in Patiala||Patiala, August 11A fire at an eatery at the Urban Estate, Phase II, which started on Tuesday night, continued to rage till Wednesday afternoon. Officials of the Fire Department said they pressed 50 fire engines into service to douse the flames, but the smoke kept billowing from shop premises.Officials of the department said they received a call regarding fire at an eatery ‘Nanak Di Hatti’ at 11 pm on Tuesday night. The three-storey building caught fire due to unknown reasons, officials added.Lachman Das, Assistant Divisional Fire Officer (AFDO) said, “Our office received a call regarding a fire at 11 pm on Tuesday. Fire tenders were rushed to the site to douse flames.”Fifty fire tenders were pressed into service, the ADFO added. “The water sprayed into the building from fire tenders has started boiling due to heat and hot oil on the premises. The eatery’s store has been filled with water, but the smoke continues to emanate. We also broke into the building with the help of a JCB machine to release smoke into the open,” said the ADFO.“Officials are not aware of the exact cause of fire. No one has been hurt in the incident,” the ADFO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fire-at-eatery-in-urban-estate-in-patiala-296514
12-08-2021||Karam Prakash||58% children in Punjab have antibodies, finds sero survey||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 11In Punjab, around 58 per cent of children aged between six and 17 years have developed antibodies against Covid-19, as per the initial data of the paediatric sero survey conducted by the state Health Department last week.The results of the survey is a positive sign as the third wave is said to be potentially detrimental to children.The data revealed 897 of 1,577 children had developed antibodies. Around 92 blood samples were collected from each district. Of these, 46 samples were collected from rural areas. However, a couple of districts in the state have not completed the process and will test the samples in a day or two.92 samples taken from each districtMeanwhile, the survey process is said to have been hit by the doctors’ protest over the NPA issue. Health officials said it was the initial data and the final report would be compiled in a couple of days.The highest prevalence of Covid among children was found in Moga district, where around 82 per cent of children showed antibodies. Meanwhile, only 16 per cent of the children, who were sampled for the survey, showed antibodies for the virus in Patiala district.Dr Rajesh Bhasker, nodal officer, said they had already directed the districts to set up dedicated paediatric Covid wards and increase the number of beds as a precaution against the possible third wave.Dr GB Singh, Director, Punjab Health Department, said, “It is a good sign that around 58 per cent of children have antibodies because it will help them fight the third wave of Covid and reduce the severity of the infection.” He said they would develop a strategy for the possible third wave after receiving survey reports from all districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/58-children-in-punjab-have-antibodies-finds-sero-survey-296362
12-08-2021||Aman Sood||Regulator nod to cancel 3 PPAs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 11Around a fortnight after the Chief Minister asked the power corporation to revisit or cancel all faulty PPAs (Power Purchase Agreements), Punjab has managed to relinquish its allocated share of power from Anta, Auraiya and Dadri power stations.This will pave the way for the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to terminate an agreement with these producers working under the aegis of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). The PSPCL had filed a petition seeking permission to relinquish allocated power from Anta, Auraiya and Dadri generating stations of the NTPC in March 2021, which the power regulator had admitted in June 2021. The orders are likely to benefit Punjab by over Rs 115 crore per annum.In its petition, the PSPCL had claimed from the financial years (FYs) 2013-14 onwards, due to addition of 3,920 MW power from independent power producers within the state, Punjab was having surplus power after meeting the demand from its own sources as well as from external sources tied up under various long-term PPAs. “Under the applicable tariff regulations, despite surrender of allocated share of power from a central sector generating station, the petitioner was still liable to pay fixed/capacity charges of the generating station till the time the said allocation was either formally de-allocated or re-ordered,” the PSPCL claimed in its petition.As per details, the PSPCL has paid an amount of Rs 128.99 crore for 2018-19 and Rs 115.11 crore for FY 2019-20 against the surrendered power. Thus, continuing allocation of power from the above generating stations was causing undue financial burden on the petitioner and was leading to higher cost of power purchase, which ultimately gets passed on to consumers.“During FY 2019-20, the petitioner had a surplus of 21,089 million units of power,” reads an excerpt from the petition. “Even upon relinquishment of allocated power from Anta, Auraiya and Dadri generating stations of the respondent, there will be no shortage of power in the state,” it stated.“In view of the above, the commission allows the present petition to the effect that the PSPCL is permitted to relinquish its allocated share of power from these power stations of the NTPC,” ordered the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission.Welcoming the decision, CMD PSPCL A Venu Prasad said this would ultimately benefit the consumers as Rs 115 crore saved would be passed on to them. “We are already examining other expensive PPAs bleeding Punjab financially,” he said.Surplus power from IPPs citedIn its petition, the PSPCL had claimed from the financial years 2013-14 onwards, due to addition of 3,920 MW power from independent power producers (IPPs) within the state, Punjab was having surplus power after meeting the demand from its own sources as well as from external ones tied up under various long-term PPAs.All stations under NTPCThe PSPCL had filed a petition seeking permission to relinquish allocated power from Anta, Auraiya and Dadri generating stations, working under the aegis of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), in March 2021. The power regulator had admitted the petition in June 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/regulator-nod-to-cancel-3-ppas-296359
