13-08-2021||Patiala||Doctors at Rajindra Hospital protest; demand functional washrooms||Doctors of Government Rajindra Hospital held a protest outside the office of the Public Works Department (PWD) of the hospital, here on Friday.Flash point of the protest is said to be the alleged threat and misbehaviour with medicos by a Junior Engineer (JE) of the PWD wing for complaining about non-functional washrooms at doctors’ hostel.The doctors claimed that the misdemeanours of the JE were recorded on camera. However, the JE claimed that the incident took place in the heat of the moment.The doctors said that they had gone to the JE to complain after a portion of the roof of a toilet which fell off, on Friday morning.However, the situation turned ugly when the JE, allegedly, said that he would beat doctors with sticks.Senior officials, including XEN, of the PWD wing reached and tried to pacify the situation.However, doctors alleged that the JE threatened that he wouldn’t let the doctors complete their post-graduation.Agitated doctors locked the office of the PWD wing; one doctor got agitated and removed his clothes to mark his protest.Meanwhile, Surjeet Singh, Junior Engineer, said, “The incident happened in the heat of the moment. We have already sorted out the issue.”He admitted that washrooms were in poor shape, therefore, they would soon start the repair work.Nitin Chhabra, president, Resident Doctors Association, said, “When we ask for basic amenities like washrooms, they threaten us.”Doctors alleged that the entire hospital and Government Medical College was being renovated but their toilets and washrooms were lying non-functional. They demanded a vigilance probe into the funds of renovation.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, said, “It was a minor issue and it has been already solved. The washrooms will be repaired – soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/doctors-at-rajindra-hospital-protest-demand-functional-washrooms-297121
13-08-2021||Aman Sood||Open liquor consumption near Yadavindra Public School annoys Patiala residents||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 12Once known for its peaceful walking lanes and a safe place for the elderly, the Chotti Bazaari market, opposite Yadavindra Public School (YPS) and right near the official residence of the Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, is now a paradise for roadside drunkards. Come evening and hundreds of speeding vehicles and youngsters flouting traffic norms can be seen creating all kind of ruckus with cops failing to take action against them.Run by a trust headed by none other than Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, YPS is facing a tough challenge to ensure discipline in the school given an open field to drunkards every evening. “Even teachers and Army officers staying near the YPS campus are harassed every evening. Except a naka right outside our complex, officials of the Officers Colony police post do nothing to check such rowdies,” said a nearby resident.Booze lovers in the city, who are mostly youngsters, openly flout norms and consume liquor in their cars while eatery owners serve them in their vehicles. There are almost a dozen shops serving snacks and food in the market. All shops serve eatables to youngsters in their cars.The Tribune team, which visited the spot following recent complaints from area residents, witnessed surprising scenes. Just a few metres away the local Officers Colony police post cops had laid a naka while 10 vehicles were parked opposite market shops in which occupants were openly consuming alcohol.Many vehicles had no registration numbers while others had pasted sticker of a gun or blank number plate.Worst is that despite recent brawls and lewd comments passed on women by booze lovers, the police have turned into a mute spectator.“We live just a few hundred metres away from the Chief Minister’s residence. A hundred cops are always deployed there to protect his gates, but we are at the mercy of hooligans,” said Jaideep Singh, an elderly resident of the Officers Colony.“I still recall how we could just walk on these roads without any fear. But now, drunkards have occupied the market,” he added.The Tribune has in possession an official letter of the Yadavindra Public School director, Maj Gen Sanjiv Varma, VSM (retd), written to the district administration. He raised the issue of illegal food vendors and liquor being served openly in the market near school.“A large number of youngsters consume liquor in vehicles. They litter liquor bottles in the market. Earlier, the practice was stopped. Now, illegal vendors around YPS gates are creating nuisance and law and order problem,” the letter reads.The unhealthy practice of liquor consumption in public places, including city markets, residential colonies and parks, is increasing with each passing day. Despite repeated assurances, youngsters continue to flout the law and challenge the authorities concerned.“It was not in my knowledge. We will keep proper a vigil and focus on the YPS market. Offenders will be challaned and FIRs will be registered against them,” said DSP (City) Hemant Kumar.“A complaint against anyone found drinking at a public place will be taken seriously. Those serving eatable sot occupants in vehicles will also be booked,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/open-liquor-consumption-near-yadavindra-public-school-annoys-patiala-residents-297085
13-08-2021||---||Patiala: Plogging march marks International Youth Day||Patiala, August 12The district administration organised an awareness and plogging march from the Circuit House to the Central State Library. Chander Gaind, Commissioner, Patiala Division, lead the march held to mark the International Youth Day.Participants collected plastic and other scattered material from road under “My garbage - my responsibility” drive.A drawing competition, debate and games were organised at the Central State Library on the occasion. Participants also made decorative items from discarded material for schoolchildren at the library.Commissioner Chander Gaind apprised youth about the theme of the International Youth Day announced by the United Nations. This year’s theme was ‘Transforming food systems: Youth innovation for human and planetary health’, he added.“People should take care of our health by eating healthy food and ensure cleanliness in their surroundings to reducex pollution in the environment. We should adopt good food eating habits as well as live a healthy style,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-plogging-march-marks-international-youth-day-297084
13-08-2021||---||Embezzlement of Punjabi University funds: Police issue lookout notice against suspects||Patiala, August 12Over 10 days after registering a case of embezzlement, the police have issued a lookout notice against those accused of embezzling Punjabi University funds.Earlier, the police registered a case against seven individuals, including one employee of Punjabi University. The case was registered after a number of fake bills related to the University Grants Commission surfaced on the campus. The university authorities dismissed one contractual employee and suspended two others when the matter surfaced.The police, who have been making rounds of houses and hideout places of the suspects, said they had not made any arrests till now. The Urban Estate SHO, Ronnie Singh, said, “The police have issued a lookout notice against suspects. We are making efforts to trace all suspects.”An investigation was initiated after the university authorities wrote to the police. In its letter the authorities stated that they had come across forged bills generated by Nishu Chaudhary and Jatinder Singh.The bills were generated in names of many former students and others and passed by a university superintendent. Similar fake bills were generated in recent past, the authorities added. These bills were passed and cheques of amount running into lakhs were issued, the authorities stated in the letter.During investigation the police found that the suspects had cheated the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/embezzlement-of-punjabi-university-funds-police-issue-lookout-notice-against-suspects-297083
13-08-2021||---||500 inmates examined at medical camp at Central Jail in Patiala||Patiala, August 12The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) organised a medical check-up camp for inmates of the Central Jail here on Wednesday.Rajinder Aggarwal, District and Sessions Judge, said as per the directions of Justice Ajay Tiwari, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court-cum-Executive Chairman, Punjab State Legal Services Authority, SAS Nagar, such medical camps would be organised at least once in three months in each jail in the district so that health-related problems of inmates could be addressed.Parminder Kaur, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, said medical specialists from the field of ortho, skin, chest, eyes, medicine, dental, gynaecology and surgery examined 500 inmates during the camp at the Central Jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/500-inmates-examined-at-medical-camp-at-central-jail-in-patiala-297082
