14-08-2021||---||Docs protest poor condition of washrooms at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala||Patiala, August 13Doctors of Government Rajindra Hospital held a protest outside the office of the Public Works Department (PWD) of the hospital here today.Flash point of the protest is stated to be alleged threat and misbehaviour with medicos by a junior engineer (JE) of the PWD wing for complaining about non-functional washrooms at doctors’ hostel. Doctors claimed that misdemeanours of the JE were recorded on camera. However, the JE claimed that the incident took place in the heat of the moment.Doctors said they had gone to the JE to complain after a portion of the roof of a toilet fell on Friday morning. However, the situation turned ugly when the JE allegedly said that he would beat doctors with sticks. Senior officials, including XEN of the PWD wing, reached the spot and tried to control the situation and pacify doctors. However, doctors alleged that the JE threatened that he wouldn’t let them complete their postgraduation. Protesting doctors locked the office of the PWD wing. One doctor got so much agitated that he removed his clothes to mark his protest.Meanwhile, Surjeet Singh, JE, said, “The incident happened in the heat of the moment. We have already sorted out the issue.”The JE admitted that washrooms at doctors’ hostel were in poor condition. Therefore, they would soon start the repair work, the JE added.Nitin Chhabra, president, Resident Doctors Association, said, “When we ask for basic amenities like washrooms, they threaten us.”Doctors alleged that the entire hospital and Government Medical College was being renovated, but their toilets and washrooms were non-functional. They demanded a vigilance probe in funds allocated for renovation.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, said, “It was a minor issue and has been already been solved. Washrooms will be repaired soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/docs-protest-poor-condition-of-washrooms-at-rajindra-hospital-patiala-297489
14-08-2021||---||Irked over non-payment of salaries, PUTA stages sit-in at Punjabi University||Patiala, August 13Faculty members of Punjabi University held a protest on the campus over delay in disbursal of salaries here today. The university has not been able to pay employees’ salaries for two months in a row.The protest continued outside the office of the university Vice-Chancellor from 11 am to 1 pm. The PUTA vice-president, Dr Maninder Singh, said, “The university has not disbursed employees’ salary for June and July.”“Teachers are facing difficulty in managing their daily expenditures. Retired employees are also finding it difficult to make their both ends meet as they are dependent on pension,” he added.Protesters said the university should release pending salaries at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/irked-over-non-payment-of-salaries-puta-stages-sit-in-at-punjabi-university-297490
14-08-2021||---||DMW Patiala staff take part in Fit India Freedom Run||Patiala, August 13Employees of Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW) participated in Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 to mark the 75th Independence Day Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav.SN Dubey, Principal Chief Administrative Officer of the DMW encouraged employees to participate in the nationwide campaign, along with their family members.“This run is based on the concept of ‘physical/virtual run’. Anyone can run anywhere and anytime at his/her convenience,” the office said. “It will help the DMW staff to get freedom from obesity, laziness, stress, anxiety and other diseases,” said Dubey.“We should celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence with zeal and vigour and run for at least 30 minutes per day,” Dubey added. “Fitness ka dose aadha ghanta roz,” said Dubey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dmw-patiala-staff-take-part-in-fit-india-freedom-run-297491
14-08-2021||---||Students protest shortage of potable water in Punjabi University girls’ hostel||Patiala, August 13Miffed over lack of potable water, non-functional lifts and other issues girl students held a protest on the Punjabi University campus on the Thursday and Friday intervening night. Students also reached the university Vice-Chancellor’s residence to register their protest.Girl students said they were not being provided proper drinking water in hostel as the RO installed was not functional. Similarly, lifts on the hostel premises were also not functional due to which students had to climb stairs repeatedly.Later, students held a meeting with university officials in which their issues were resolved with assurances from the administrative staff concerned. The university staff assured students that the RO water filter on the hostel premises would be made functional within 48 hours while lifts start working in 30 days.Students also demanded that the mess contractor should be changed as the quality of food served was below standards.The university will now form welfare committees in hostels and do away with the prefect system. Also, no charges will be collected for late entry while guest entry will also be allowed in hostel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-protest-shortage-of-potable-water-in-punjabi-university-girls-hostel-297492
14-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Staff on strike, pension scheme applicants hit in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 13Beneficiaries of various pension schemes are at the receiving end of a pen-down strike by the staff of the Department of Social Security, Women and Child Development.Around 25,000 applications for enrolment in various pension schemes, including for elderly, handicapped and widows, are awaiting approval due to the strike. Consequently, eligible beneficiaries are being deprived of the much-needed financial help. Besides, the ongoing recruitment of the anganwari workers and helpers has also been hit by the protest.25K pleas pendingAround 25,000 applications for enrolment in various pension schemes are awaiting approval due to the strike by Child Development Project Officers and supervisers.Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs) and supervisors of the department have been on strike for weeks now over the pay commission report. They are protesting against the commission for downgrading their pay scale. The protesters said though they were burdened with additional work, their salary had been cut.The employees have now decided to hold protests at the head office of the department in Chandigarh on Monday. Kanwar Shakti Bangar, president, CDPOs’ Democratic Association, said, “We will not end our strike until our demands are met. As to the loss to pension beneficiaries due to our strike, the government is responsible, not us. We will intensify our protest in the coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/staff-on-strike-pension-scheme-applicants-hit-in-punjab-297332
14-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Doctor’s transfer at Punjab MLA’s ‘behest’ stayed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13Interference of legislators in transfers and postings has been a matter of surmises for long. But a petition filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, alleging the transfer of a medical officer on an MLA’s recommendations, has brought the matter under judicial scanner.Taking cognisance of the matter, Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu of the High Court has not only put the state of Punjab, Rajpura MLA and other respondents on notice, but also stayed the operation of the impugned transfer order dated July 29. The stay order will remain in force till September last week, when the case will come up for resumed hearing.In his petition, Dr Sikander Singh through counsel Saurabh Arora contended the petitioner, while doing his duty at the Rajpura Civil Hospital on July 27, reported a matter to the police authorities that a journalist was interfering in his work. The next day, the petitioner was allegedly pressured by four doctors to leave the hospital premises and join at the Nabha high security jail.‘Pressured by docs’In his petition, Dr Sikander Singh through counsel Saurabh Arora contended the petitioner, while doing his duty at the Rajpura Civil Hospital, reported to the police authorities that a journalist was interfering in his work. The next day, the petitioner was allegedly pressured by four doctors to leave the hospital premises and join at the Nabha high security jailAnother journalist allegedly assaulted the petitioner, regarding which a medico-legal report dated July 28 was also prepared.Arora contended the same day, Rajpura MLA Hardial Singh Kamboj wrote to the Punjab Minister for Health and Family Welfare to transfer the petitioner to some far-off place and initiate disciplinary action against him as he had allegedly misbehaved with a reporter. Arora added the petitioner was transferred the next day from Rajpura to the Mansa Civil Hospital. The petitioner was on medical leave following injuries due to the alleged assault by the journalist and he received the relieving order dated August 3 while on leave. Arora added the impugned action was illegal, arbitrary, discriminatory, without jurisdiction, and “absolutely violative” of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. “Till the next date of hearing, operation of the impugned transfer order dated July 29 shall remain stayed,” Justice Sindhu concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/doctors-transfer-at-punjab-mlas-behest-stayed-297330
