15-08-2021||---||Stopped for checking at naka, car driver hits cop in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 14An Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) of the Patiala Police was seriously injured when a car driver reportedly tried to run over him on Saturday afternoon.The incident took place in the Leela Bhawan area of the city. The ASI – identified as Suba Singh – was conducting routine checking in the Leela Bhawan area ahead of the Independence Day. The ASI had stopped a car for checking. However, the driver of the car fled the spot after hitting the ASI. The cop reportedly received fractured in his leg.The entire incident was caught on camera. The police said they had registered a case against car driver and started an investigation to nab him. The police have filed a case under relevant sections, including 307 of the IPC, against car driver.Hemant Sharma, Deputy Superintendent of Police, said, “We have traced the car and its driver will be soon arrested. The ASI has received fracture in his right leg and is under treatment at a private hospital.”While talking to The Tribune the injured ASI, Suba Singh said, “The driver of the car was playing loud music. I stopped the car for checking. However, the driver tried to run over me.”2 booked for rash drivingThe police have booked two persons for rash driving and writing fancy names on number plates of vehicles. The police said one person had already been arrested while the other was on the run. The suspects have been identified as Jobanpreet Singh and Pyara Singh. Sources said the police had laid a naka near the Civil Lines roundabout. During checking at naka, the police signalled two Scorpios to stop. However, one of the vehicles sped away while the other stopped. The number plates of both vehicles had ‘Naagni’ written on them, said the police. A case under Section 279, 283 and 473, IPC, had been registered against drivers of both vehicles, the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/stopped-for-checking-at-naka-car-driver-hits-cop-in-patiala-297806
15-08-2021||---||31,775 beneficiaries jabbed in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 14The Health Department administered 31,775 doses of Covid vaccine to beneficiaries during a special vaccination drive here today.With this, the vaccination count in the district stands at 7.13 lakh since the drive kicked off. The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said the vaccination target was 31,000 for the mega drive. However, the department successfully breached the target once again, he added.They were getting overwhelming response from beneficiaries for vaccination, he said.“In every mega drive, we have been successful in breaching the vaccination target. The response from the people has been overwhelming. So far, we have been successful in administering 7.13 lakh doses to beneficiaries,” he added.“I along with other health officials visited vaccination camps during the mega drive to ensure hassle free inoculation of beneficiaries,” he said.Meanwhile, the Health Department said there would be no vaccination drive tomorrow owing to shortage of vaccine doses.Eighth vaccination camp of NCCThe NCC (Air wing) of the Senior Secondary School Model School, Punjabi University, organised their eighth vaccination camp at Gurdwara Nanaksar Sahib, Phase I, Urban Estate, here today. During the camp 200 beneficiaries were administered Covid vaccines. Dr Venu Goyal and Dr Vikas Goyal of the Health Department ensured smooth conduct of the camp. Besides, ANO Satvir Singh and his group members Ramandeep Singh and Harpal Singh and other persons of the area helped in making the camp a success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/31-775-beneficiaries-jabbed-in-patiala-297807
15-08-2021||---||Patiala: One more govt school student tests positive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 14One more student of a government school tested positive for Covid today. Health officials said a 15-year-old girl of the Government Senior Secondary School tested positive for the virus during special Covid testing of students of government schools. Notably, an 11-year-old government school student had tested positive for the virus on Wednesday.Dr Sumeet Singh, district Epidemiologist, said classmates of the positive student had already been quarantined while their Covid tests would be conducted in a day or two.“We have regularly been conducting tests of government school students. Of 425 samples collected yesterday, one student tested positive today,” he added.Meanwhile, the Health Department said the district reported five Covid cases, including the said student.“Though positive cases are sporadic, we should not lower our guards against the virus,” said health officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-one-more-govt-school-student-tests-positive-297808
15-08-2021||---||Lecture on role of Press in freedom struggle||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 14Multani Mal Modi College in collaboration with the College Alumni Association oragnised second lecture on “‘Role of Press in Indian freedom struggle” under the “Colloquium” series.The lecture was delivered by Prof Chamal Lal, honorary adviser to Bhagat Singh Archives and Resource Centre, Government of NCT, New Delhi. He is former chairman of the Centre of Indian Languages, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, and former Dean, Faculty of Languages, Panjab University, Chandigarh.College Principal Dr Khushvinder Kumar welcomed the speaker. He said the history of freedom struggle was incomplete without history of Indian Press.The writings and publications of these newspapers helped in dissemination of national consciousness among masses, he added.In his lecture Prof Chaman Lal said the role of Press in Indian freedom struggle was important for understanding different streams of consciousness.He explored various press acts and laws, which were used to gag the Indian Press during the British rule and to restrain the freedom of speech and expression.He shared life-stories of many editors and journalists, who defined resistance during freedom struggle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lecture-on-role-of-press-in-freedom-struggle-297809
15-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Stopped for checking, car driver drags cop to a distance in Patiala; watch video||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 14An Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) of Patiala Police was injured when a car driver reportedly tried to run over him on Saturday afternoon.The incident took place in the Leela Bhawan area of the city. The ASI – identified as Suba Singh – was conducting routine checking in the Leela Bhawan area ahead of Independence Day.He had stopped a car for checking, but the driver fled the scene after hitting the ASI. The police officer reportedly received a fracture in his leg. The entire incident was caught on camera. The police said that they had registered a case against the driver of the car and started an investigation to nab the driver. It has been learned that police have filed a case under relevant sections, including 307 of the IPC, against the driver of the car.Meanwhile, taking to Twitter, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said, "Strict action has already been initiated and FIR under section 307 has been registered. Have asked the DGP to imediately identify the culprits and bring them to book."Strict action has already been initiated and FIR under section 307 has been registered. Have asked the @DGPPunjabPolice to imediately identify the culprits and bring them to book. Relieved to know that the ASI Suba Singh is safe. https://t.co/Ik63b7L1Pp  Hemant Sharma, Deputy Superintendent of Police, said, “We have traced the car, and driver will be soon arrested. The ASI has received a fracture in his right leg and is under treatment in a private hospital.”   ASI Suba Singh, talking to Tribune, said, “The driver of the car was playing loud music. I stopped the car for checking. However, the driver of the car tried to ran over me when I tried to stop him.”Two booked for rash driving, writing fancy names on number plates Patiala Police have booked two persons for rash driving and using fancy letters on number plates. Police said that they had already arrested one person while the other was on the run. The accused have been identified as Jobanpreet Singh and Pyara Singh. The police disclosed that they (police) had erected a Naka near Civil Lines roundabout.During the checking at naka, police asked two Scorpio cars to stop, however, one of the cars fled away while the other stopped. The police said that the number plates of both the cars had ‘Naagni’ written on them. Police said that they had registered a case under section 279,283,473 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/stopped-for-checking-car-driver-drags-cop-to-a-distance-in-patiala-watch-video-297563
