17-08-2021||---||6-wkt win for Patiala eves||Chandigarh: Patiala defeated Barnala by six wickets in the opening match of the Punjab State Women Senior Inter-District One-Day Cricket Tournament on Monday. After winning the toss, Barnala skipper opted to bat first.The side was bundled out for 66 runs in 27.1 overs. In reply, Patiala scored 67/4 in 12.3 overs. Ludhiana eves recorded a seven-wicket win over Zone-A. Batting first, Zone-A scored 97 runs in 45.3 overs. In reply, Ludhiana posted 98/3 runs in 20.2 overs. In other matches, Amritsar defeated Moga by 150 runs and Jalandhar defeated Zone-B by eight wickets. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/6-wkt-win-for-patiala-eves-298470
17-08-2021||Aman Sood||Good news for Punjab employees soon: Minister Brahm Mohindra||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 16Punjab Local Bodies, Parliamentary Affairs, Elections and Grievance Redressal Minister Brahm Mohindra unfurled the national flag at Raja Bhalindra Singh Sports Complex (Polo Ground) here to celebrate 75th Independence Day yesterday. He also paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi along with the freedom fighters and martyrs who made sacrifices for the country.‘Govt committed to securing employees’ future’While referring to the significant achievements of the Punjab Government under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh, the minister said the government was committed to securing the future of 3 lakh temporary/contractual employees and 3 lakh permanent employees of the state and soon. “They will get good news,” he added.While referring to the significant achievements of the Punjab Government under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh, the minister said the government was committed to securing the future of 3 lakh temporary/contractual employees and 3 lakh permanent employees of the state and soon. “They will get good news,” he added. The minister said after the implementation of the report of the Pay Commission by the Chief Minister, the disparity between the demands of the employees and the report was being addressed by the sub-committee, which would present its report at the next Cabinet meeting.While apprising the gathering of Capt Amarinder Singh’s concern about the depleting water table in Punjab, he said the state government had decided to provide 24x7 supply of canal-based drinking water to Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala, and these projects were under way.Brahm Mohidra declared August 16 a holiday at the educational institutions (schools/colleges) of the district.He said the government had provided 50 per cent reservation to women, free bus travel facility besides free medical treatment worth Rs450 core and increased social security pension. The government has given cash prizes of Rs28.36 crore to the athletes and players who had excelled in the Tokyo Olympics to promote sports and athletics.Highlighting the achievements of the Local Bodies Department, Mohindra said the government had launched a housing scheme to provide proprietary rights to the homeless and poor in the state under which more than 7,000 people were given proprietary rights. Apart from this, a one-time settlement scheme was also introduced to provide relief to the long-time occupants of properties under the municipal committees. In cities, LED lights have been installed. The government had carried out renovation projects for Buddha Nullah in Ludhiana besides Badi and Chhoti Nadi in Patiala.He said although Covid had slowed down the pace of development in the entire world, Punjab had achieved sustained development in the fields of agriculture, power and infrastructure, urban development; all-round development of villages, education, health sector, industry and citizen services.During the district-level function, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur was also present. The minister also felicitated doctors, health personnel, police staff, cleaners and social workers who had rendered exemplary services during the pandemic.A march past, led by DSP Neha Aggarwal and comprising two units of the district police, one unit of the women’s wing of Punjab Police, Home Guards, 4th Girls Battalion of NCC (Army Wing), 3rd Punjab Air Squadron of NCC, 5th Punjab NCC Army Wing and the band of first IRB, Punjab Police, presented salute to the Tricolour and the chief guest.On this occasion, MP Preneet Kaur, Divisional Commissioner Chander Gaind, DIG Vikramjit Duggal, Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit and SSP Sandeep Garg presented a memento to Brahm Mohindra.District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Aggarwal, MLAs Madan Lal Jalalpur and Rajinder Singh Samana, PRTC Chairman KK Sharma and others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/good-news-for-punjab-employees-soon-minister-brahm-mohindra-298310
17-08-2021||Patiala||I-Day celebrations held across Patiala city||Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Open UniversityJagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University added glory to the 75th Independence Day celebrations by holding “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” with patriotic fervour. The university commenced the platinum jubilee celebrations with the playing of university anthem. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Karamjeet Singh, unfurled the Tricolour. He urged the people of the nation to unravel the knots of differences and build a united and peaceful nation.Punjab Public School, NabhaStudents of Punjab Public School, Nabha, gathered at the Headmaster’s Green in the morning. The proceedings got underway with the arrival of chief guest Ajay Singh. He unfurled the Tricolour to the delight of everyone present and inspected the guard of honour.Model School, Pbi varistyStudents of Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, celebrated Independence Day along with the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Arvind. He unfurled the Tricolour outside Guru Teg Bahadur Hall. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/i-day-celebrations-held-across-patiala-city-298311
17-08-2021||---||Patiala MP Preneet Kaur inaugurates STP at Shermajra village||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 16Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur today inaugurated a 15 MLD-capacity STP built at a cost of Rs 14 crore at Shermajra village. Samana MLA Rajinder Singh and Mayor Sanjeev Sharma were also present.Preneet Kaur said the population of Patiala city was increasing day by day, so there was a need for capacity enhancement. “This new STP will enhance the total STP capacity to 71 MLD for the city,” she said, adding that the STP will benefit 4.66 lakh people.Preneet Kaur said under the Badi Nadi beautification project, a 24 MLD STP would also be commissioned for the Sanaur area.The new STP is equipped with SBR (oxygen system) which will eliminate nitrogen and make the treated water usable for irrigation.Rajinder Singh said despite the economic slowdown caused by Covid, the state government did not allow it to slow the pace of development. Though Shermajra village falls in his constituency of Samana, he is happy that this village site is being used to keep water bodies clean, he added.The Mayor said the new STP would increase the capacity of the STPs of Patiala city from the existing 56 to 71 MLD.The officials concerned said with the commissioning of the new STP, all sewage of the city would be discharged into rivers after complete treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mp-preneet-kaur-inaugurates-stp-at-shermajra-village-298312
17-08-2021||---||Illegal flex boards dot Patiala city areas||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 16A large number of illegal flex boards carrying congratulatory messages have come up around the Polo Ground. These illegal boards have allegedly been installed by councillors, leaders of the Patiala Youth Congress, arhtiyas among others congratulating the Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra for unfurling the Tricolour on the occasion of 75th Independence Day in Patiala.These boards also carry pictures of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and MP Preneet Kaur.Most of these large flex boards have been installed at the entrance to the Polo Ground, on the Upper Mall Road, at the YPS chowk, near the Sewa Singh Thikriwala chowk and near Azad Nagar.Chirag, a resident of Ghalori Gate area, said the representatives of people and politicians were expected to be torch-bearers for the people but they were themselves violating the laws. “These flex boards have been installed in view of the Independence Day celebrations. This action amounts to politicising the event as illegal posters have been installed for political gains.”Flex boards cannot be installed at places other than the designated spots.A city resident and a contractor with the MC said: “Illegal flex boards result in losses to contractors and they do not place bids for designated sites. This also leads to loss of revenue to the MC.”Former Mayor Amarinder Singh Bazaz said: “This has become a regular practice. There are many other lapses in the governance here.”Surjit Singh Cheema, Municipal Corporation Superintendent, said the flex boards installed illegally would be removed. Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said: “We will remove such flex posters in a day or two.”When asked about the action being initiated against erring persons, she said: “They have not been installed for the first time. They are also not permanent. This is a regular process. We will get these removed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-flex-boards-dot-patiala-city-areas-298313
17-08-2021||---||Jind driver who rammed Patiala cop nailed||Patiala, August 16The police today arrested a 26-year-old man who allegedly rammed an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of Patiala Police when he tried to stop the car for checking on August 14.The suspect has been identified as Gurbaj Singh, a resident of Jind district in Haryana. The police claimed that the suspect was arrested during a special checking near the traffic light at the Thapar University chowk. He confessed to the crime after he was grilled by a police team.Gurbaj had hit the ASI after he was stopped for a routine check in the Leela Bhawan area on Saturday. The incident was captured on camera. In the incident, ASI Suba Singh suffered a fracture in a leg. The police said Gurbaj had been booked under section 307, 186, 353, 333 and 332 of the IPC. The police would seek his remand for further investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jind-driver-who-rammed-patiala-cop-nailed-298314
17-08-2021||---||Stone of Rs 7-crore sports complex laid in Rajpura||Rajpura, August 16Member of Parliament from Patiala MP Preneet Kaur laid the foundation stone of a sports complex-cum-stadium to be constructed at a cost of Rs7 crore here yesterday. Terming this sports complex project as an Independence Day bonanza, she also announced the approval of a Rs41-crore sewerage project for Rajpura.Congratulating the Rajpura residents on 75th Independence Day, Preneet Kaur said Rajpura MLA Hardial Singh Kamboj got the stadium project approved by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, especially to engage the youth of Rajpura in sports. She said this state-of-the-art sports complex would be set up by the Punjab Sports Department in two phases in a record time.The MP said that the Punjab Government, under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, was pursuing a policy of promoting sports and sport spersons, for which the government had formulated a new sports policy-2018 to provide better sports infrastructure to the players of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/stone-of-rs-7-crore-sports-complex-laid-in-rajpura-298315
17-08-2021||Patiala||Recruitment drive of Army||The aspirants from Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Mansa and Barnala in the age group of 19-25 years can participate in the drive which will be held from September 16 to 30 at the New Amritsar military station, Khasa Cantonment, Amritsar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/recruitment-drive-of-army-298316
17-08-2021||Aman Sood||No Punjab Public Service Commission exams sans chief, aspirants suffer||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 16Lakhs of aspirants in Punjab have been left in the lurch following delay by the Punjab Government in appointing a chairman against the vacant post in the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC). The aspirants have been preparing for their exam for the past almost six months and at present, there is no update as to when the exam would be conducted.Jasleen Kaur Sandhu, PPSC SecretaryNew dates soonCandidates who have deposited their fee need not worry, while others who have prepared their drafts can deposit the same with the PPSC, as new dates will be announced as soon as the new chairman joins office.The last chairman retired in July, and as per the PPSC constitution, the commission cannot hold the exam without a chairman. The exams have already been postponed more than twice, with lakhs of youth preparing for it.Sources say over 80,000 candidates are already waiting for the posts of naib tehsildar while thousands are gearing up for the post of junior engineer in other departments. “In July first week, Lt Gen Surinder Singh (retd) retired as the PPSC chairman, following which the state government is yet to name a successor. This delay means the whole examination schedule needs to be readjusted,” they said.“The delay also means that age-related issues will further debar many, who are almost nearing the maximum limit,” the sources said.“I agree there is some delay. As over a lakh candidates will appear for these exams on a single day, we did not take the risk due to Covid. New dates were to be made public, but the chairman retired last month,” said PPSC secretary Jasleen Kaur Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-punjab-public-service-commission-exams-sans-chief-aspirants-suffer-298148
