18-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Only ambulance in Nabha block is without a driver||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 17It has come to the fore that golden hours of serious Covid patients were compromised in Nabha block of the district during the second Covid wave for want of ambulance drivers. This was revealed during a recent meeting of senior medical officers which was held in connection with the preparations for the potential third wave.The medical officers concerned of Nabha raised the issue at the meeting. They said they had a tough time arranging ambulances to shift serious Covid patients to major hospitals during the entire second wave of Covid.Golden hours curtailedIt was learnt that there was not a single ambulance driver in Nabha block. A serious patient had to wait for over an hour for an ambulance to shift him to a major hospital. Thereby, the golden hours which increased the chances of survival were curtailed.It was learnt that there was not a single ambulance driver in Nabha block. A serious patient had to wait for at least 1.5 hours for an ambulance to shift him to a major hospital. Thereby, the golden hours which increase the chances of survival were curtailed.Sources said health officials had to call 108 ambulance service, which is an emergency response service of the Health Department, to shift patients to either Government Rajindra Hospital or any other tertiary care centre. Health officials in Nabha revealed that 108 ambulances took hours to reach.Nabha Civil Hospital has only one ambulance. However, there was no driver for it. Dr Dalbir Kaur, Senior Medical Officer, Nabha, said: “In the first wave, we were allowed to hire drivers on the DC rate. However, there was no such provision during the second wave. Consequently, we faced difficulties in the second wave. We had already informed senior health officials.”She added they somehow managed with the help of local NGOs. “In emergency, our health staff drove the ambulance for patients,” she added.Meanwhile, senior health officials said the issue would be addressed immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/only-ambulance-in-nabha-block-is-without-a-driver-298842
18-08-2021||Patiala||Patiala Civic body challans dairy farmers||The Municipal Corporation has started issuing challans to dairy farmers for failing to manage their farms properly. A similar drive was carried out today. Officials said the challans were sent to the civil court.Municipal Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said many dairy farmers had not shifted out of the city despite submitting affidavits for the same. “They had given a declaration to us that they will move out of the city by the end of June, but are yet to shift to their respective places. They have been asked to shift to their new sites by September-end.”Officials in the MC said 66 of nearly 250 dairy farmers of the city had decided to move to the new site at Ablowal village in the first draw. The others had given assurance that they would move to their own sites in the given time.Avikesh said: “We will soon hold allotment process. We are expecting another 50 to 60 dairy farmers to opt for the same. In the meantime, the corporation is carrying out challaning drives against violations in disposal of waste produced by dairies, unhygienic conditions and others.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-civic-body-challans-dairy-farmers-298841
18-08-2021||Karam Prakash||100-bed Covid facility to come up at district hospital, Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 17In the face of the third Covid-19 wave, the Health Department, along with the district administration, has decided to set up a 100-bed Covid care centre at the district hospital, Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital. Of 100 beds, 50 will be reserved exclusively for children. The hospital will have 12 ICU beds for kids. It is for the first time that Covid patients will be admitted to the district hospital since the pandemic broke out last year.The hospital, a tertiary care institute with a capacity of around 600 Covid-dedicated beds, was brimming with patients during the peak of the second wave.Meanwhile, it was learnt that an oxygen-generation plant set up at the hospital at a cost of Rs10 crore for providing an uninterrupted supply of oxygen is yet to be made fully operational. Hospital officials said owing to the paucity of funds, some minor work related to the oxygen pipe was left unfinished.Dr Sandeep Kaur, Medical Superintendent, said: “As soon as we receive funds, the remaining work of the plant will be completed.” When asked about the oxygen level of the plant, she said: “Earlier, there was some issue with oxygen concentration. However, it has already been fixed. The plant maintains oxygen concentration at around 96 per cent after one hour of turning it on.”In May this year, the district administration had announced that two oxygen-generation plants would be set up at the hospital. However, only one plant has been set up so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/100-bed-covid-facility-to-come-up-at-district-hospital-patiala-298840
18-08-2021||---||Youth murdered in Samana||Patiala, August 17A 23-year-old resident of Amamgarh locality in Samana was allegedly murdered by six persons with sharp weapons last evening. The police have registered a case against the suspects, four of whom have been identified, under sections 302, 452, 120-B, 148 and 149 of the IPC.The victim, Rajan, had gone to a temple and was returning home when the suspects carrying sharp weapons chased him. “To save his life, the victim entered a flour mill, owned by a former councillor, but the assailants barged into the mill and attacked him. He died on the spot,” said the police.The police have identified four suspects as Akshay, Harpreet and Paramjit, all residents of Amamgarh in Samana, and Gagan Dhillon, a resident of Gianganj. “We have registered a case and they will be arrested soon,” said the police.Meanwhile, DSP Jaswinder Singh Chahal said they were yet to ascertain the reason for the murder, but those who knew the suspects said they harboured a grudge against the victim and conspired to murder him. “We will be in a position to say anything when the suspects are arrested,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/youth-murdered-in-samana-298839
18-08-2021||---||Banur SHO transferred for threatening farm union leaders||Patiala, August 17A week after the Banur SHO threatened protesting farm union leaders of “killing them right there and then” if they didn’t stop marching against Rajpura MLA Hardyal Kamboj, the police officer was transferred today.The video of SHO Balwinder Singh threatening the farmers had gone viral. The farmer were protesting the visit of the local MLA at a stadium when the SHO reached the spot and threatened them.“Under what law was he threatening to kill us. A police officer can’t behave like this to protect his political bosses,” a farmer leader said. The farmers had announced a dharna on August 19 if the SHO was not removed. Senior officials confirmed the SHO had been shifted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/banur-sho-transferred-for-threatening-farm-union-leaders-298617
18-08-2021||Patiala||Army man dies as car falls into Bhakra near Patiala's Ablowal village||An Army jawan drowned while another was missing after the car they were travelling in fell into the Bhakra canal near Ablowal village here this afternoon. A third car occupant swam to safety.The three Army men, all from the same unit, were said to have been on a month’s leave. The deceased has been identified as Jagmeet Singh, a resident of Nadampur village in Sangrur district. Manpreet Singh, who hailed from Shekpura village in Patiala, was missing, said the police. The body of the deceased was retrieved from the water by passersby using a turban.Kamadeep Singh, the survivor, said they had taken the path along the canal to meet their senior, a retired Army man, near Ablowal. “The driver, while trying to avoid a pothole, lost control of the vehicle and it plunged into the canal,” he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/army-man-dies-as-car-falls-into-bhakra-near-patialas-ablowal-village-298627
