23-08-2021||---||Specialist doctor in Patiala put on office job, experts miffed||Patiala, August 22The shifting of a specialist doctor to an office job has raised eyebrows. Health experts have said the Health Department is setting a wrong precedent by putting a specialist doctor on an office job.A paediatrician of the Community Health Centre, Model Town, is said to have been working as an ‘adviser’ to the Patiala Civil Surgeon (CS). The Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, admitted that he himself had appointed the specialist doctor to the office job in view of the potential third wave of Covid that could be detrimental to children.The health experts said the department was setting a wrong precedent by pulling out a clinical doctor from the field, thereby undermining the treatment of patients. It was learnt that many senior doctors were also miffed at the appointment of a specialist doctor in the office.A senior official, pleading anonymity, said: “All verbal orders by the Civil Surgeon are passed through the said special doctor. He is working as his personal assistant. He is drawing a salary of over a lakh for looking after patients and not for this type of work.”Dr Thakurveer, paediatrician, said: “As an expert, I am helping the Civil Surgeon in view of the possible third wave. Moreover, I am working as an expert of the paediatric task force, set up for the third wave.”Dr Sodhi said: “I have appointed him to help me in taking decisions in view of the suspected third wave. There is nothing wrong with it. In the past too, many civil surgeons had made such appointments.”Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said: “I am not aware of the issue. However, I will look into the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/specialist-doctor-in-patiala-put-on-office-job-experts-miffed-300835
23-08-2021||---||Rain leaves Patiala city roads waterlogged||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 22Streets of the city were again waterlogged as it rained today. Road users had a tough time moving on waterlogged roads in many areas of the city, including Punjabi Bagh, Anand Nagar, Books Market and Tripuri, were affected.Officials of the Met Department said the city witnessed 25.4-mm rainfall from 8 am to 5.30 pm.The residents, meanwhile, heaved a sigh of relief as the downpour brought the temperatures down. The city recorded 29° Celsius of maximum and 25° degree Celsius of minimum temperatures in the day.Shop owners at the Books Market said they had a tough time as rainwater accumulated in the market area in the afternoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rain-leaves-patiala-city-roads-waterlogged-300836
23-08-2021||Patiala||Rajpura MC tender issue: Getting threat calls, says complainant||After complaining to the Punjab Vigilance Department about the allocation of a tender worth Rs5 lakh of the Rajpura MC for sterilisation of dogs, the complainant in the case, Ravinder Kumar, has approached the police alleging that he had received threat calls.Ravinder Kumar, a resident of Rajpura, had filed a complaint to the Vigilance Department demanding a probe into the allocation of work of sterilisation of dogs by the Municipal Council. He said the department had allocated the tender worth about Rs5 lakh to an individual who was otherwise a contractor for construction works. He added: “The allottee then sublet the contract to an NGO which is not acceptable according to law.”Ravneet Singh, Executive Officer at the Rajpura MC, said: “The tender allotment is as per law. The allottee is a member of the NGO, as such he can apply on its behalf. Also, around 530 dogs were sterilised in the given time period. We have all records pertaining to it.”Ravinder said: “I had filed a complaint to the Vigilance Department against the officials of the Municipal Council of Rajpura. But during the inquiry, I was threatened with a criminal case. I have lodged a complaint with the police as well.”The DSP, Rajpura, said no inquiry in this regard had been marked to him yet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rajpura-mc-tender-issue-getting-threat-calls-says-complainant-300837
23-08-2021||Patiala||Special camps in Patiala for disability certificates||Special camps to prepare disability certificates will be held in the district from August 23 to September 4.District Social Security Officer Varinder Singh Tiwana said the persons, who had applied for disability certificates before August 18 and if there was any pending case at the assessment level, could submit their assessment at these camps. Those who had registered on the online medical portal would be able to get their assessment done at these camps.He said the camps would be organised at the CHC (Patran) on August 23 and 24, Civil Hospital (Samana) on August 25 and 26, Civil Hospital (Nabha) on August 27 and 28, Civil Hospital (Rajpura) on August 31 and September 1, and at Mata Kaushalya Hospital in Patiala from September 2 to 4. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/special-camps-in-patiala-for-disability-certificates-300838
23-08-2021||Aman Sood||Rip-off by liquor lobby in Punjab, rates inflated for resorts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 22A liquor bottle that should cost a consumer Rs 500 is being openly sold by liquor syndicates in Punjab for over Rs 900 for marriage and other functions allegedly in connivance with local excise and police officials.Earning hefty profits, these syndicates reportedly operate in all major cities of the state, “charging exorbitantly for liquor” meant for bulk consumption at hotels, resorts and marriage palaces.Modus operandiWhile senior excise officials have warned of strict action against erring officials and more raids to curb the syndicate menace, local excise officials in districts claim that “no such syndicate exists”. Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that these syndicates in connivance with police and excise officials raid marriage palaces, hold illegal nakas and “do not allow liquor to be served at any function” if it is “not bought from the nearest vend” controlled by them. Such syndicates are allegedly operating in Patiala, Bathinda, Amritsar, Khanna, Jalandhar, Ferozepur and Ludhiana.As per the rates fixed by these syndicates for functions, Rs 1.9 lakh is reportedly charged for a case of Royal Salute; Rs 80,000 for brands like Glenfiddich, JW Platinum Label, Glenlivet (18 years); Rs 68,000 for Glenlivet (15 years); Rs 22,000 for Black Dog Century; Rs 20,000 for Ballentine; Rs 20,500 for Red Label; Rs 18,500 for 100 Pipers (8 years); Rs 17,500 for VAT 69; and Rs 11,500 for Blenders Pride, Rockford Reserve and Antiquity Blue. “Cases of these brands are available at 40 per cent lesser rates if you buy them off the shelf for personal consumption,” said excise department insiders.However, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Patiala, Inderjeet Nagpal claimed: “No such syndicate exists. People can buy liquor from any vend nearest to the hotel or palace.” When asked why only the nearest vend, he said: “They can buy from other vends too. I have no information on any liquor syndicate”. Interestingly, a liquor syndicate office exists hardly a few hundred metres from the excise headquarters in Patiala.“Despite the excise duty being the same across the state, these syndicates also do not allow liquor from other districts. Even if you have a permit for liquor, syndicate goons along with local cops raid functions and embarrass the host,” claims a marriage palace owner.Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Financial Commissioner, Taxation, A. Venu Prasad has warned of strict action against excise officials “promoting such syndicates”. “We will conduct raids ahead of the upcoming wedding season and ensure that consumers get liquor at fixed prices and are not fleeced by such syndicates, which are illegal,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rip-off-by-liquor-lobby-in-punjab-rates-inflated-for-resorts-300765
23-08-2021||Karam Prakash||33% newly hired doctors kin of serving, retired officials||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 22Seemingly taking advantage of “loopholes” in the recruitment process, nearly 33 per cent of the recently hired assistant professors in the Medical Education Department happen to be relatives of serving and retired officials of the department.Notably, no written test was conducted for the recruitment, while hiring in most other government departments is completed on the basis of the test.Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ AssociationRoom for nepotismAllocating 50% marks to interview leaves room for favouritism and nepotism. Consequently, deserving candidates do not get a chance. This format of the recruitment process should be immediately scrapped.Besides, 50 per cent marks were allocated for the interview. Of the total 100 marks, 10 were earmarked for MBBS, 10 for MD/MS, 20 for publication and 10 marks for additional qualification.As many as 53 candidates were called for the interview. Of the 15 selected, said sources, two were relations of the former principal of the GMC, Patiala, while one was the sister of a serving professor at the GMC, Amritsar. Besides, another selected candidate was the nephew of a senior GMC official. Similarly, a few other candidates were said to be relatives of officials in the Medical Education Department.The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, an association of medical professors, said: “Allocating 50 per cent marks for interview leaves room for favouritism and nepotism. Consequently, deserving candidates do not get a chance. This format of the recruitment process should immediately be stopped.”A candidate, who was not selected, said: “The entire process seems to be a sham.”Dr Sujata Sharma, Director, Research and Medical Education, was not available for a comment. Dr Akashdeep, Joint Director, Research and Medical Education Department, said: “I have not seen the list of selected candidates and won’t be able to comment.”Asked about the justification of 50 per cent marks being allocated for interview, Dr Akashdeep refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/33-newly-hired-doctors-kin-of-serving-retired-officials-300720
