24-08-2021||Patiala||Patiala: Joginder Singh Ugrahan lambasts political parties for state’s issues; leaves stage during protest for old pension scheme||Joginder Singh Ugrahan of the Bhartiya Kisan Union Ugrahan on Tuesday lambasted political parties for issues of state and left the stage after the entry of AAP leaders Harpal Singh Cheema, Harchand Barsat and MLA from Delhi Ajay Dutt during a protest organised by CPF workers’ union for re-implementation of the old pension scheme in Patiala. The leader who had earlier been sitting at the middle of the stage had moved toward the outside when the AAP leaders reached the venue.A commotion among the gathering followed Ugrahan’s statement from the stage.Ugrahan said, “All political parties work under the influence of the corporates. The issues of the old pension scheme, unemployment and the three contentious farm laws spruce from the same.”Addressing the organisers, he said the union would offer outside support if they want to give political colour to their protest.“You shouldn’t have called us if you had wanted us to share the stage with leaders of political parties. We wouldn’t have come,” he said and left.Soon after, Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema left the venue without saying a word after AAP Delhi MLA Ajay Dutt, who expressed support to the protesters, also added that the party’s government in Delhi had passed a resolution seeking repeal of the three farm laws.Organisers while managing the stage said the gathering was organised for the sole purpose of holding a protest to demand reimplementation of the old pension scheme.President of the CPF workers’ union Sukhjeet Singh said, “Anyone can come to the protest site. We have not invited anyone. We do not have an issue if a political leader supports our demands.”The union was supposed to hold a protest march toward the residence of the chief minister but cancelled the program after it was allocated a meeting with the chief minister’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-joginder-singh-ugrahan-lambasts-political-parties-for-states-issues-leaves-stage-during-protest-for-old-pension-scheme-301462
24-08-2021||---||Woman abandons minor daughters at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala||Patiala, August 23Unable to keep parental responsibility, a poor woman abandoned her two daughters in the paediatric ward of Government Rajindra Hospital this morning.Doctors said when they were about to discharge one of her ailing daughters from the hospital, the woman left her another daughter there and ran away. One of the daughters was four months old while another one was five years old.The doctors on duty said they had already informed the police and senior officials at the hospital about the incident.Meanwhile, the police said they had traced the woman to Fatehgarh Sahib district. Attendants of other children and doctors came forward for help and arranged food and clothes for the girls.Dr Harshinder Kaur, senior paediatrician, said: “This is an unfortunate incident. Though doctors are taking care of the children, the police or other department concerned should take care of these kids until their mother is traced.”Japnam Singh, in-charge, Rajindra Hospital, said: “We have traced the woman and brought her back to the hospital. We have already handed over the children to their mother. Our staff will drop the family to Fatehgarh Sahib.”Ravee Singh Ahluwalia, member of the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said: “Tomorrow, we will ask the District Child Protection Officer of Fatehgarh Sahib district to follow up the case. I will also ask the officer to arrange a counselling session for the woman, if required.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/woman-abandons-minor-daughters-at-government-rajindra-hospital-in-patiala-301345
24-08-2021||---||Despite drives, only 50% of targeted population gets first vax dose in Patiala district||Patiala, August 23Despite holding mega vaccination drives, around 50 per cent of the targeted population in the district could only receive the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine so far.As per the Health Department, around 6.05 lakh beneficiaries of the targeted 12 lakh population had been inoculated for the first dose of the Covid vaccine. Meanwhile, 1.82 lakh people have received both the doses of the Covid vaccine. Health officials said they had administered around 7.88 lakh doses of Covid vaccine so far.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said they would again hold a mega vaccination drive tomorrow. The Health Department was getting an overwhelming response from beneficiaries.The Health Department said vaccination camps were being organised in several villages to cover the rural population.However, experts believe that there was an irregular supply of Covid vaccine. To cover up the missing days, camps are held after a gap of two to three days. As a result, there has not been an increase in the vaccination count of the district.Meanwhile, a doctor posted at a rural centre said: “We get the supply of the Covid vaccine after three or four days. We have been told to administer all doses on a single day during the mega drive. As a result, there is a huge rush at vaccination centres, thereby increasing the risk of Covid spread because social distancing norms go for a toss.”Mega vaccination drive todayPatiala Civil Surgeon Prince Sodhi said they would again hold a mega vaccination drive on Tuesday. The Health Department was getting an overwhelming response from beneficiaries.In figuresAs per the Health Department, around 6.05 lakh beneficiaries of the targeted 12 lakh population had been inoculated for the first dose of the Covid vaccine. Meanwhile, 1.82 lakh people have received both the doses of the Covid vaccine. Health officials said they had administered around 7.88 lakh doses of Covid vaccine so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/despite-drives-only-50-of-targeted-population-gets-first-vax-dose-in-patiala-district-301344
24-08-2021||---||Patiala residents resent delay in services at Sewa Kendra||Patiala, August 23Visitors to Sewa Kendra at the District Administrative Complex here are forced to wait for long for various services during early morning hours.Residents claim that officials fail to reach their desks on time, following which services are being provided to the visitors at a slow pace.Officials have moved the token counter inside the premises and the board mentioning charges collected for various services remains hidden. As such, people claimed that, officials charged the visitors as per their own will.A team from The Tribune visited the Sewa Kendra this morning. Visitors, who reached here around 10 am, had to wait till noon to get their works done.Ram Karan Verma, who reached the Sewa Kendra for service related to Aadhaar card, said he had to wait for more than an hour before his turn came.“There are four counters for the service. Several people come here for works related to Aadhaar card, but the services are provided at a slow pace here. Only one counter is functional for this work. I reached here around 10 am and my token number was 20. Out of 50 people, only nine persons could visit the counter till noon,” he said.Other visitors also complained that they had to wait for long.Gurpratap, another visitor who was in queue for Aadhaar card-related services, said: “I am waiting for someone else. They were standing in the queue for long. So, I replaced them.”Residents have sent written complaints to the District Administration. In one such complaint, a resident said: “There are lapses in the online system. This leads to loss of time.”Meanwhile ADC (G) Pooja Syal Grewal said the issue of lapses at the Sewa Kendra reached her office as well. “It has been found out that people reach the Sewa Kendra much before the fixed time (9 am). This leads to rush. They are later forced to wait in queue.”She said any matter of overcharging should be brought to the notice of her office and official responsible for the same would be penalised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-residents-resent-delay-in-services-at-sewa-kendra-301343
24-08-2021||---||Health Department team inspects sweets shop in Patiala||Patiala, August 23After a video of a cockroach in “pakoras” at a famous sweets shop went viral, a team of the Health Department, led by the District Health Officer, raided the shop this night.The team members inspected the shop - Malhotra Sweet Corner - for hours before collecting food samples. The team collected samples of several items, including “paneer pakoras”, “gulab jamun”, “kalakand” and “ghewar”.Dr Shaley Jaitely, District Health Officer, said a video of a customer showing a pest (cockroach) inside “paneer pakoras” went viral.“After the video went viral, an emergency raid was conducted at the shop. The sweets shop premises was thoroughly inspected by the food safety team of the Health Department,” said Dr Shaley.She said the video that was doing the rounds on the social media was of Monday only. Necessary instructions were given to the food handler.She said: “The samples will be sent to the state food laboratory for testing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-department-team-inspects-sweets-shop-in-patiala-301342
24-08-2021||Patiala||Hidayatullah National Law University, Raipur, wins moot court contest||Most sought-after course at varsityPatiala: Officials of the Department of Social Sciences, Punjabi University, said the newly launched multi-disciplinary five-year Integrated Post Graduate Programme in Social Sciences was the most sought-after course. Its first cut-off for 2021-22 session for the general category of Punjab residents went up to 91.2 per cent, they said. The officials said the topper student in the merit list for admission had 99.3 per cent marks in Class 12 examinations. A total of 629 applications were registered online on the website of Punjabi University for 180 seats in this course. Professor DK Madaan, Head of the department, said: “The course will cater to the needs of outstanding students who plan to excel in social sciences for PhD research, teaching, analyst, research officer, economist, psychologist, historian, political scientist, sociologist, social worker, team leader and other works”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/hidayatullah-national-law-university-raipur-wins-moot-court-contest-301341
24-08-2021||---||Sarpanch Union marches to Punjab CM’s residence over MGNREGA dues||Patiala, August 23Members of the Sarpanch (Panchayat) Union of Punjab took out a protest march against pending MGNREGA payments and development works in rural areas, in Patiala on Monday.Amid rain, over 1,000 sarpanches, panches and their supporters gathered atthe PUDA ground and marched towards the CM’s residence in the noon. The protesters said their demands weren’t heard by the ministers. Ravinder Singh Rinku (Gurney), state vice-president of the union, said, “The government has delayed the MGNREGApayments, which are meant for various developmental works in rural areas.”He said, “The sarpanch, along with the secretary, has been given the right to issue a cheque of maximum Rs 25,000 for any work. The limit should be increased to Rs 1 lakh, in view of pending works to be carried out.”The government should accept the demands of employees working at various offices, who have been holding regular protests. “The pending resolutions of demands have delayed the works to be carried out in the villages. This is causing inconveniences to the residents,” the protesters said. Rinku said, “We are public representatives like MLAs. However, the government pays us Rs 1,200 per month to a sarpanch. The amount is meagre, and even that has not been paid. We want the government to increase it to Rs 25,000, as we work 24 hours a day.”Meanwhile, the protest will continue tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sarpanch-union-marches-to-punjab-cms-residence-over-mgnrega-dues-301082
24-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Dr KK Talwar for 100% weightage to interview||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 23Amid a row over 50 per cent marks being set aside for interview at the time of hiring of faculty in medical colleges, selection committee chairman Dr KK Talwar has advocated 100 per cent weightage for interview.Some members of the medical fraternity had questioned allocation of 50 per cent marks for the interview in the recent recruitment of the entry-level post of assistant professor. They had opined the current format of the selection process might lead to “nepotism, favouritism and arbitrariness”.‘Precautions taken to curb nepotism’Dr Talwar said all premier health institutes hired faculty purely on the basis of interview. The former Director, PGIMER, Chandigarh, said: “AIIMS, PGIMER and other institutes recruit faculty on the basis of interviews by an expert group. I feel the Punjab Government should increase the weightage to 100 per cent.”Asked whether giving more weightage to the interview would leave room for nepotism and favouritism during the selection process, Dr Talwar said: “One has to trust the selection committee. It is very easy to raise questions over the selection process. We have the Vice-Chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, PGI Director, and two professors from either the AIIMS or PGI on the selection committee. The government is taking all necessary precautions.”He added: “Written tests are conducted up till the post of senior resident. There are no directions from anyone, including the apex court, to hold a written test for the recruitment of faculty. When we want to select candidates for such posts, we have to do an overall assessment, including academic contribution and research aptitude. It has been seen that private universities in the state give more marks in academic pursuits. Therefore, candidates who complete their academic qualifications from government institutes are at the receiving end.”Finally, he said they had done their job honestly, and therefore, it didn’t matter if a few people questioned the process.Meanwhile, Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said best health experts of the country conducted the interview, so there was no question of favouritism.He said, “It can be a coincidence that selected candidates happened to be kin to the retired or serving doctors. But I want to clarify that candidates are selected solely on merit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dr-kk-talwar-for-100-weightage-to-interview-301083
