25-08-2021||---||Patiala dairy farmers file review petition in Punjab and Haryana High Court||Patiala, August 24Dairy farmers of the city have filed a review petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in their case against the Municipal Corporation’s orders for them to shift out of the city by September 30. The MC has issued more than 80 challans to dairy farmers. They said the MC had failed to provide any facilities at the new dairy complex in Ablowal village as was assured earlier.Earlier, the farmers had filed a petition against the MC’s orders but the matter was dismissed.‘MC failed to provide facilities at new site’Akash Sharma, a dairy farmer, said: “The state government had made announcements about providing various facilities to dairy farmers. Unfortunately, the MC has failed to provide any provisions, including a dispensary, biogas treatment plant, ‘gobar’ gas plant and a hospital for animals. The announcements were made by the state government over four years ago, but only the four walls of the dairy project site have been raised till now, one of which collapsed recently.”Kirpal Singh, vice-president of the dairy farmers’ association, said: “We have now filed a review petition in the High Court. The Municipal Corporation has been issuing challans to dairy farmers in a bid to pressurise them. This is while the corporation has failed to provide any provisions and facilities at the dairy project site and still wants us to shift to the new site by September 30.”He said: “We have asked them to provide us enough time for shifting but they did not agree. We have also sent them a legal notice to which they will have to respond.”Akash Sharma, another dairy farmer, said: “The state government had made announcements of providing various facilities to dairy farmers. Unfortunately, the corporation has failed to provide any provisions, including a dispensary, bio gas-treatment plant, ‘gobar’ gas plant and a hospital for animals. The announcements were made by the state government over four years ago, but till now, only the four walls of the dairy project site have been raised, one of which collapsed recently.”The farmers said they were being pressurised by the MC with challans. The MC has been stating that the challans are being issued for lapses on part of the farmers, such as discharge of waste into the city’s sewer lines, poor hygiene and others.Municipal Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said as many as 80 challans had been issued to the dairy farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-dairy-farmers-file-review-petition-in-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-301752
25-08-2021||---||Generators a nuisance at Chhoti Baradari in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 24Silent generators and vehicles of car dealers have encroached on open spaces in the Chhoti Baradari area, leaving little space for visitors in corridors and in parking lots. The area is daily visited by a large number of students, employees and shoppers.A number of silent generators have been installed at the parking lot of Beant Singh Complex. Besides, dealers of pre-owned cars park their vehicles in the area, leaving little parking space for visitors.Employees, who have their offices in the area, say these violations have been going on unchecked for a long time. “Many silent generators have been kept in the open parking space and corridors. Their number has increased with time. Earlier, only a hotel owner had kept a silent generator in the parking space,” said an employee.Students, who study in private institutes located in the area, say the silent generators leave little parking space for visitors. “Car dealers park their vehicles, which are on sale, in open spaces. The remaining space has been encroached on by generators. The Municipal Corporation should get these generators removed. In fact, the violators should be issued challans and their generators seized by the MC,” a visitor said.Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said: “A team was supposed to visit the area but could not as its members were busy with the dairy farming project. A team of the land branch will pay a visit to the site soon and take necessary action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/generators-a-nuisance-at-chhoti-baradari-in-patiala-301751
25-08-2021||---||Punjabi University, Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust sign MoU for providing scholarships to students||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 24Punjabi University has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, Patiala, for providing scholarships to students of the university.Officials said the trust was already providing scholarships to students of the university pursuing various courses. According to the new MoU, the fee of students opting for the Gurmat sangeet undergraduate programme will be paid by the trust. The course fee is Rs 30,000. “At present, about 14 students have been admitted to the course. More students opting for the course will also be provided scholarships,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-sarbat-da-bhala-charitable-trust-sign-mou-for-providing-scholarships-to-students-301750
25-08-2021||Patiala||AAP launches ‘mohalla clinic’ at Sanauri Adda, Patiala||A “mohalla clinic”, to be run on a charitable basis, was inaugurated here by Prof Sumaer Singh, a leader of the Aam Aadmi Party. It is located at Sanjay Colony of the Sanauri Adda area.A panel of specialist doctors has consented to run the OPD at “no cost”. “The OPD will run almost everyday where treatment and medical advise will be given to patients free of cost. Woman doctors will also be available for fixed hours,” claimed Prof Sumaer Singh, while inaugurating the clinic.He said the clinic was an effort on the lines of “mohalla clinics” of Delhi. Vande Matram Dal, known for the rescue of animals and birds, took the initiative of starting this clinic along with AAP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/aap-launches-mohalla-clinic-at-sanauri-adda-patiala-301749
25-08-2021||---||Private hospitals asked to send dengue samples to government labs in Patiala district||Patiala, August 24Amid a rise in suspected dengue cases, the Health Department has asked private hospitals in the district to send blood samples to the government labs for confirmatory ELISA test.The directions are said to have come following the reports of private hospitals conducting only antigen card tests for confirmation of dengue, which have not been approved by the government.According to the department, the ELISA-based test is the best confirmatory test for dengue. Though the dengue test is done free of cost at the government health institutions, the department has capped the charges for a dengue test at Rs600 in private hospitals. However, it was learnt that many private hospitals and labs had been declaring people positive for dengue merely on the basis of antigen card tests.Meanwhile, the department said only two cases of dengue had been reported in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/private-hospitals-asked-to-send-dengue-samples-to-government-labs-in-patiala-district-301748
25-08-2021||---||23,483 jabbed during mega drive in Patiala district||Patiala, August 24The Health Department today administered 23,483 doses of the Covid vaccine during a mega drive. Around 8.12 lakh doses have been administered in the district so far, said officials of the department.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said the target for the mega drive was 23,000. However, they were successful in surpassing the target evidently due to the overwhelming response from beneficiaries.Long queues were seen at vaccination centres. Social distancing norm had gone for a toss.Dr Sodhi said he had visited the Primary Health Centre, Kallon Majra, and directed the officials there to increase the pace of vaccination.Meanwhile, the officials said they would administer only Covaxin on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/23-483-jabbed-during-mega-drive-in-patiala-district-301747
25-08-2021||Patiala||Two more students test positive for Covid-19 in Patiala district||Two more students of government schools tested positive for Covid-19 in the district during a special testing drive today. A total of six students of government schools have tested positive ever since the schools reopened earlier this month.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said one student each from the government schools of Hussainpur Jolla and Mavisappan village had tested positive. The other students of their classrooms had been put under isolation and contact-tracing was underway.Dr Sumeet Singh said: “The positivity rate among school students is very low. However, regular sampling is being conducted to curb the spread.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-more-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-patiala-district-301746
25-08-2021||Patiala||Patiala: SAD (Amritsar) demands change of name of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law||Punjabi University syndicatePatiala: The state government has re-nominated three members of Punjabi University syndicate. They are Dr Nar Bahadur Verma, Dr KD Singh and Harinder Singh (Harry Man) who is a Congress leader from Sanour. TNSPlaint against camel ownersPatiala: The police have registered a case against unidentified persons under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act here. Officials said the case had been registered on a complaint by Prapti Bajaj of Mohali. They said as per the complaint, the suspects have kept three camels and treat them badly. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-sad-amritsar-demands-change-of-name-of-rajiv-gandhi-national-university-of-law-301745
25-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||AAP joins pension stir in Patiala, farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan leaves stage||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 24Joginder Singh Ugrahan of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Ugrahan) on Tuesday lambasted political parties over the issues of the state and left the stage after AAP leaders Harpal Singh Cheema, Harchand Barsat and MLA from Delhi Ajay Dutt joined a protest organised by the CPF Workers’ Union for reimplementation of the old pension scheme in Patiala.The leader, who had earlier been sitting at the centre of the stage, moved to a corner when AAP leaders reached the venue. Later, commotion ensued after Ugrahan’s statement from the stage. He said, “All political parties work under the influence of corporates. The issues of the old pension scheme, unemployment and the three farm laws spruce from the same.” Addressing the organisers, he said the union would offer outside support if they wanted to give political colour to their protest. “You shouldn’t have called us if you wanted us to share the stage with leaders of political parties. We wouldn’t have come,” he said and left the venue. Soon after, Harpal Singh Cheema also left the site. Cheema, in a press note issued later, said the issue of restoration of the old pension scheme would be included in AAP’s election manifesto.Organisers said the gathering was held for the sole purpose of holding a protest to demand reimplementation of the old pension scheme. CPF Workers’ Union president Sukhjeet Singh said, “Anyone can come to the protest site. We did not invite any leader. We should not have an issue if a political leader supports our demands.”The union was supposed to hold a protest march toward the residence of the Chief Minister but cancelled the programme after it was promised a meeting with the Chief Minister’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/aap-joins-pension-stir-in-patiala-farmer-leader-joginder-singh-ugrahan-leaves-stage-301569
25-08-2021||Aman Sood||Congress-backed 
Punjab sarpanches up ante against MLAs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 24Not only its own MLAs, but even the grassroots-level torchbearers of the Congress — sarpanches and panches — have also raised a banner of revolt against the party, claiming they are being “ignored”.Hundreds of sarpanches alleged their own MLAs had forgotten about the plight of villages and warned the government of facing the people’s wrath if they came to seek votes for the forthcoming Assembly elections.“The government has failed to address the concerns of sarpanches who are suffering at the hands of bureaucracy and corrupt officials. This will cost the government dear in 2022,” said Ravinder Singh Rinku (Gurney), vice-president, Sarpanch Panchayat Union of Punjab.“Pending MGNREGA payments and stalled development works in villages will only add to the woes,” he said.These sarpanches claimed that a majority of them were Congress supporters, but they had been meted out a stepmotherly treatment by the government. “For next 10 days, no MLA or minister will be allowed to enter or hold any kind of event in any village. All our pleas to look into our demands to ensure speeding up of developmental works have fallen on deaf ears,” claimed union president Gurmeet Singh.Around 8,000 union members are camping in Patiala against the state government, a majority of them Congress-backed. “While the state wants to rehire retired patwaris at Rs 25,000, it pays merely Rs 1,200 per month to a sarpanch. Even this meagre amount has not been paid for months,” claimed union members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/congress-backed-punjab-sarpanches-up-ante-against-mlas-301573
