26-08-2021||---||Court directs Patiala MC to consider legal notice of dairy farmers||Patiala, August 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the Municipal Corporation (MC) to consider the legal notice sent by various dairy farmers of the city. The court has also asked the MC pass a speaking order by dealing with each and every aspect, which has been highlighted by farmers in the notice.Earlier, city dairy owners had sent a legal notice to the MC and demanded that they not be shifted to new site at Ablowal village due to lack of a hospital, presence of 66 kv overhead electricity wires in the area and other reasons.They then filed a petition in the High Court against the MC orders for shifting them in a given stipulated time. The matter was disposed of by the single Bench without issuing the writ as was prayed for. Dairy owners then appealed to the double Bench.The court has now observed that dairy owners had highlighted various aspects of the dairy project in their legal notice, but the same had not been addressed by the respondent MC and others.The court said, “We do not find ourselves in a position to say that the order passed by the learned Single Judge is on all counts not acceptable. However, the points, which have been raised by appellants in their legal notice referred to above, need to be addressed at the end of respondents.”The court has directed the Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, to consider the legal notice of dairy owners and pass a speaking order by dealing with each and every aspect, which has been highlighted in it.The court said, “The stated decision should be taken within a period of four weeks from the date of the supply of the order’s copy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/court-directs-patiala-mc-to-consider-legal-notice-of-dairy-farmers-302320
26-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Paneer found unfit for human consumption; Bhadson dairy continues sale||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 25Despite the state food laboratory declaring ‘paneer’ sample of a dairy unfit for human consumption, its owner still continues to sell it in Bhadson block of the district.The Health Department said the ‘paneer’ sample was collected from dairy in Bhadson last month. The report of the test revealed that ‘paneer’ had foreign fat (other than milk fat) and declared it unfit for human consumption. The Tribune visited dairy and purchased ‘paneer’ today.When asked about action against dairy owner, Dr Shaley Jaitley, District Health Officer (DHO), said, “We have already informed dairy owner about result of the food sample.” “The dairy owner has claimed that he used to buy ‘paneer’ from a seller. However, now he has stopped buying ‘paneer’ from supplier and started producing it himself,” she added.When asked about any provision in the law to stop him from selling ‘paneer’ after the report declared its sample unfit for human consumption, the DHO said she would take guidance from the higher ups. “We will call him for a hearing and have already issued a notice in this regard. The owner will be given time to challenge report. Thereafter, we will file a case in the court of the Additional Deputy Commissioner,” she said.Meanwhile, experts have questioned the role of the Health Department in allowing dairy owner to sell ‘paneer’ despite the lab declaring its sample unfit for human consumption.However, Health Department claimed that stock from which ‘paneer’ sample was collected had been sold. There was no provision to stop dairy owner, the department added.Kumar Rahul, Food Commissioner, Punjab, said, “We will again send a team to dairy to find supplier if there is any. Besides, I will ask officials to keep a vigil on the dairy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/paneer-found-unfit-for-human-consumption-bhadson-dairy-continues-sale-302319
26-08-2021||---||Punjabi University guest faculty protest over fresh hiring of staff||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 25The Punjabi University guest faculty, working at constituent colleges, today started a protest against fresh recruitment of guest faculty by the university.Protesters said they had been serving at the university for over four years and fulfilled all norms of the university and the UGC. The university had hired them through a proper interview process, they added.Gurdas Singh, one of the guest faculty teachers, said this time also the university assured them of continuing their services, but later decided to hire guest faculty.“The notifications for hiring guest faculty have been released on the university website. There is an apprehension among members of the present guest faculty that the university is doing this to lay them off,” he added.Members of the guest faculty said this was their second day of the protest, which would continue in the coming days, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-guest-faculty-protest-over-fresh-hiring-of-staff-302317
26-08-2021||---||Jobless youth clash with police in Patiala||Patiala, August 25Unemployed youngsters once again clashed with police at the YPS roundabout when they tried to force their way towards the Chief Minister residence, here today.Clothes of some protesters were also ripped during the scuffle. The police was seen forcefully taking away protesters from the protesting site. The protesters reiterated that the government should rename the YPS roundabout as Berozegaran Layi Danga Wala Chowk.Before the clash, the protesters – under the banner of Berozegar Sanjha Morcha – had gathered at Baradari gardens. Thereafter, the protesters reached the YPS roundabout after holding protest march in streets of the city. The protesters, including BEd/TET pass teachers, DPE, art and craft and PTI teachers and multipurpose healthcare workers, have been demanding jobs for a long time.Sukhwinder Singh, leader, Berozegar Sanjha Morcha, said, “In Punjab, unemployed youngsters are just to bear police brutality and not get jobs. We, despite all odds, will continue our fight for jobs.”The protesters called off the stir after they were given written assurance of meeting with an OSD to Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on August 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jobless-youth-clash-with-police-in-patiala-302316
26-08-2021||---||Work on laying of sewer pipes in Patiala under Vigilance Department scanner||Patiala, August 25The Municipal Corporation (MC) work of laying underground sewer pipes on Kuldeep Singh Vaid Marg in Ward No. 38 is now under Vigilance lens. Leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had filed a complaint with the Vigilance Department and demanded an immediate inquiry into ongoing works.Kundan Gogia, who filed the complaint with the Vigilance Department on Wednesday, said sewer pipes were being laid without following proper tender-related norms.“The ongoing work of covering open drains in the Kuldeep Singh Vaid Marg area with involvement of the contractor and MC officials is substandard. They are installing low quality RCC pipes in place of plastic pipes. Also, ‘bajri’ and ‘gatka’ are not being used for proper installation of pipes,” he added.“Although pipes are being installed along with construction of manholes, water discharge continues in the area,” he said.AAP leaders said the MC Civil Engineering Department was carrying out work in haste without following the norms. They demanded a Vigilance inquiry in the ongoing works.“Works of laying interlocking tiles and construction of roads is sub-standard. The government should look into the wastage of public funds,” said Gogia. The Vigilance Department should hold an inquiry into the matter and register a case against those found guilty, he added.When contacted, officials of the MC said the work of laying sewer pipes on Kuldeep Singh Viad Marg was being carried out at the cost of Rs35 lakh as per the law and mandate.“Our estimates have been vetted by the Local Government Department. The quality of pipes and the ongoing work can also be checked. There is no lapse on the Corporation’s part,” said Sham Lal Gupta, MC Superintending Engineer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/work-on-laying-of-sewer-pipes-in-patiala-under-vigilance-department-scanner-302315
26-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala MC yet to complete project for street vendors||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 25The Municipal Corporation (MC) has failed to complete its street vendors’ rehabilitation project despite giving repeated assurances and carrying out surveys in the city.The MC shifted vendors of Ragho Majra Sabzi Mandi to the new vegetable market six months ago (in February), but failed to implement the project thereafter.As such, vendors continue to encroach upon city roads in large numbers, which creates traffic snarls for commuters, ambulances and others.The MC is yet to implement Street Vendors’ Act 2014 across the city, shift vendors to new designated places and clear no vending zones.The MC through a general house meeting in 2017 had decided to hire a private consultant for the implementation of the Act. Till now, 3,163 vendors had been identified.In 2018, the MC floated a tender for the purpose. Later, in April 2019, officials said they were identifying new street vendors and vending zones in the city.In December 2019, the MC said it decided to list 28 areas of the city as no-vending zones. The MC also included 1,000 persons in the list of certified vendors.In August 2020, the civic body started issuing identity cards to vendors. The first batch of vendors was shifted from Old Sabzi Mandi of Ragho Majra to a new site in February this year, but the work remained pending since then.An RTI activist from the Chhoti Baradari area said there were a number of lapses on part of the MC. “Many vendors have not been issued certificates of vending while others, covered in the survey, have not been issued identity cards. There are other lapses on the part of the MC,” said Davinder Pal Singh.Officials of the MC claimed that they visited various sites identified for shifting vendors.Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said, “The rehabilitation project has slowed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and as per the government’s directions. There has been a lot of displacement due to the pandemic. So, directions were issued to slow the process. Nevertheless, we are moving towards completion of the project,” he added.“In fact, we have visited eight sites designated for shifting vendors. Some development work is pending on the sites, which will be completed shortly,” he said.A city resident said, “The process, which could have been completed in a few months, has lingered on for years. Even after five years it is still not finished.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-yet-to-complete-project-for-street-vendors-302313
26-08-2021||Patiala||Saplings planted at Bir Moti Bagh in Patiala||The city-based wildlife wing of the Punjab Forest Department celebrated Van Mahotsav, an annual festival, by planting saplings at Bir Moti Bagh here today.Bir Moti Bagh Range Officer Charanjit Singh, Patiala zoo in-charge Surinder Singh and beat in-charge Jatinder Singh were present on the occasion. Over 100 fruit tree saplings were planted during celebrations.The annual tree planting and forest conservation event was started in the country in 1950 by then Union Agriculture and Food Minister KM Munshi.The objectives visualised by him for celebrating this festival were to increase production of fruits, add to potential food resources of the country, create shelterbelts around agricultural fields to increase their productivity, provide fodder leaves for cattle to relieve intensity of grazing over reserve forests and boost soil conservation to prevent further deterioration of its fertility.“On every Van Mahotsav thousands of saplings are planted all over the state. The event is celebrated to spread awareness of forest conservation and save environment,” said Surinder Singh.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/saplings-planted-at-bir-moti-bagh-in-patiala-302311
26-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Support athletes in their early days: Mirabai Chanu||Tribune news ServicePatiala, August 25Saikhom Mirabai Chanu, silver medalist at the Tokyo Olympics, said that more work was required at the grassroots level if India wanted to become a leading nation in sports.As most athletes in Indian come from rural backgrounds, the country needed more facilities at the village level to uplift Indian sports, Chanu said.Chanu said that athletes needed more support at the early stages of their careers than after they win medals. “There is a need to support the players during their training and struggling days so that they don’t lose focus. Parents should also support their kids if they want to pursue sports,” said Chanu, addressing the media at NIS Patiala today.Chanu hoped that her medal at the Tokyo Olympics would motivate more girls from the Northeast to take up sports as they have great potential. Chanu said that though winning an Olympics medal was her dream and she had worked hard for it, that nothing had changed in her life after the Tokyo Games. Chanu, who returned to her training centre at the NIS Patiala, said: “I am happy to be back at my training centre and I will immediately start my training.”Sharma not in favour of foreign coachesMeanwhile, Chanu’s coach Vijay Sharma said there is no need of foreign coaches to train the Indian athletes, adding that the Indian coaches were capable enough. “I am totally against it (hiring foreign coaches). Instead, we should send Indian coaches to the best sports nations for exposure,” he said.Sharma added that there was a need to develop sports culture to increase India’s medal tally at the Olympic Games. “We lack a sports culture. If there is a sports culture in the country, I will get more weightlifters to train. I am hopeful that Indians will win more medals,” he said.When asked about the challenges faced due to Covid-19 while preparing for the Games, he said: “It was difficult because the players were at their peak when the lockdown happened. However, we managed to train.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/support-athletes-in-their-early-days-mirabai-chanu-302304
26-08-2021||Patiala||Implement pay panel suggestions: Teachers protest in Patiala||The teaching faculty of universities during a protest at Punjabi University here today demanded the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission recommendations pending since 2017.The protest was organised under the banner of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation. The professors said the Centre had notified the pay scales in 2017 but their implementation remained pending. “All states have already implemented these. The state government has been ignoring higher education for long,” Prof Nishan Singh Deol, president of the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association, said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/implement-pay-panel-suggestions-teachers-protest-in-patiala-302038
26-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Fund spent on vaccination, Punjab workers move court||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 25Construction workers have taken the legal route against the Labour Department on the issue of spending their welfare money of Rs 7.04 crore on the vaccination of workers across the state.The workers have filed a writ petition in the High Court questioning the government against spending crores from the Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BCOW) Welfare Board Fund for “vaccinating” workers.The Labour Department had paid Rs 7.04 crore to the Health Department for the inoculation of construction workers. The workers alleged the decision to bear the cost of vaccination from the labour welfare fund was taken on May 7 under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary. Ironically, the decision came when the Centre had announced the rollout of vaccination for everyone above 18 years from May 1.Sardara Singh, a worker, said: “We are also citizens of India and are entitled to be inoculated free of charge. Why are the funds meant to be spent on our welfare have been used for the vaccination process?”Gurpyar Singh, another construction worker, said: “Having been registered as a construction worker doesn’t mean that we have lost our right to free vaccination. Utilising labour board funds, other than the welfare of workers, is a violation of the apex court’s orders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fund-spent-on-vaccination-punjab-workers-move-court-302040
