28-08-2021||---||Miffed over parking, auto driver attacks two residents with axe in Patiala||Patiala, August 27A 45-year-old auto driver, reportedly, attacked two people, including a woman, with an axe and injured them in the Guru Nanak Nagar area on Friday morning. The injured have been admitted to a private hospital. The suspect has been identified as Sarabjit Singh.An altercation over parking is stated to have spurred the suspect to commit the crime. The police informed that after attacking both victims, the suspect went to main Rajpura Road. He kept wielding axe to shoo off whoever came to overpower him, the police added. The accused was, however, finally pinned down, near Vardhman Hospital, on Rajpura Road, with the help of some passersby. Some policemen received minor injuries while overpowering suspect.The suspect was tied with rope and taken to the police station. The police told The Tribune that they were tipped off by some residents of the area that a guy was hitting people with an axe randomly.Rauni Singh, Station House Officer (SHO), Urban Estate, said the police arrested the suspect with the help of area residents. The suspect was in a hyper state, the SHO added. Therefore, efforts were being made to calm him down, the SHO said.“We have lodged an FIR against suspect under relevant sections after recording statements of the injured victims,” the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/miffed-over-parking-auto-driver-attacks-two-residents-with-axe-in-patiala-303078
28-08-2021||---||Patiala Reads holds session with American author of Afghan origin Nadia Hashimi||Patiala, August 27An all women book readers club – Patiala Reads – held another virtual book meet yesterday night with Nadia Hashimi, an American author of Afghan origin.Briefing on the event founding member of the club, Neetu Narula, said Nadia’s parents came to the US as refugees. “A paediatrician and author of four international bestselling novels Nadia has also written two children novels, including ‘One Half Of The East’ and ‘The Sky At Our Feet’,” said Narula.Four of her novels are set in war torn Afghanistan narrating heartbreaking stories of women and children, including ‘The Pearl That Broke Its Shell’ , ‘When The Moon Is Low’ , ‘A House Without Windows’ and the latest book ‘Sparks Like Stars’, all smashing hits.“Nadia was the first Afghan-American women democratic candidate running for the US House of representatives from Maryland province. She is also working relentlessly with various NGOs for the rehabilitation of Afghan women and children,” Narula added.The interaction was moderated by Neha Aggarwal, a Punjab Police officer. Considering the current situation in Afghanistan the talk centred more on the work being done by global organisations than her books.Manju Verma, a university professor, who has worked with the United Nations for six years for human rights and women issues, briefed about the session.More than 20 members attended the meet. Nadia said, “I see Afghanistan as a survivor victimised by colonialism, imperialism, the cold war and at times by its own people. Two muscle flexing super powers holding one hand each shredded the countryto pieces.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-reads-holds-session-with-american-author-of-afghan-origin-nadia-hashimi-303077
28-08-2021||---||Workshop held on hygiene at Government Mohindra College, Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 27For spreading awareness and inculcating habit of following healthy hygiene, a workshop was organised by Help Clean Care Foundation, an NGO, in collaboration with the NSS unit at Government Mohindra College here today.As many as 250 sanitary pads were distributed among girl students of the college in the presence of NSS programme officers Prof Sunita Arora, Prof Monika Goyal and Prof Kamaljit Kaur.College Principal Simrat Kaur appreciated efforts of the NSS unit for organising the workshop.She said such workshops would help college girls, especially those, who came from the rural areas.The women staff from all departments of the college also attended the workshop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/workshop-held-on-hygiene-at-government-mohindra-college-patiala-303076
28-08-2021||---||Civic body to remove encroachments in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 27The Municipal Corporation (MC) has issued a warning to those persons, who have encroached upon Chhoti Baradari parking space. Officials of the MC said those, who had kept silent generators in the open on the government land, would shift them within seven days else they would be issued notices followed by chalans.The MC has also decided to start a drive to remove encroachments across the city. The matter was recently brought to the notice of the civic body, which stated that immediate action would be taken on the matter.Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said, “Our team from the land branch here visited the site and took stock of the situation. All those, who have encroached upon the government land, agreed to shift generators to private locations. They have been issued a verbal warning of issuance of notices followed by challans in case they fail to shift generators from the public space within a week.”This is while residents visiting Chhoti Baradari have been raising concern over rampant encroachments in the area due to silent generators and parking of vehicles by car dealers.Residents complained that there were rampant encroachments on various pavements around city roads. “Eatery owners on the Lower Mall road, the market place near railway crossing No. 22, the YPS market, near Sheranwala Gate and other places have encroached upon government land. No space is left for pedestrians to walk,” residents added.When asked about the issue, Avikesh Gupta said, “We will carry out a drive against encroachments across the city. All those violating norms will be issued chalans. The MC will also confiscate their items kept at public space.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/civic-body-to-remove-encroachments-in-patiala-303075
28-08-2021||---||Grants hard to come by, research Chairs a liability for Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 27Various research Chairs established at Punjabi University over the time have become a liability for the university as the state government has failed to provide required grants for their smooth functioning.The university spends Rs2.5 crore on all chairs every year. As such, the university has spent Rs25 crore on Chairs from its own budget in the last 10 years. This is while the university received a proposal for establishment of another Chair recently.The university has the Maharaja Agarsain Chair, Maharana Pratap Chair, Bhai Gurdas Chair, Bhai Veer Singh Chair, Bhagwan Mahavir Chair, Sant Harchand Singh Longowal Chair, Maharishi Valmiki Chair, Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur National Integrated Chair, Tamil Chair and Gurmat Sangeet Chair.Some of these Chairs were established as early as 1993 and 1995 while others were established in 2017 and 2015.“The university has been incurring expenditure on Chairs for long time. The state government is supposed to provide endowment funds for smooth functioning of the Chairs. Else, these are to be provided by various organisations. But for years, the university has not received funds for them. As such, the expenditure on Chairs is mounting on the university,” said Dr Satnam Singh Sandhu, Dean (Languages) and head, Department of Distance Education.Another official at the university said the state government had given an assurance of providing Rs35 lakh for Maharishi Valmiki Chair at the time of its establishment in 1995. “The government managed to provide only Rs10 lakh of this amount till 2005. No funds have been provided ever since,” he added.“The university is paying salaries to 40 employees working at Chairs from its own coffers. The university has been spending Rs2.5 crore on chairs every year. An amount of Rs25 crore has been spent on Chairs in the last 10 years,” said Dr Sandhu.As per the budget estimates for the current year, the university is expected to spend more than Rs1.15 crore on Chairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/grants-hard-to-come-by-research-chairs-a-liability-for-punjabi-university-303074
28-08-2021||Patiala||Horticulture Department, Patiala district administration organise first Guava Fest at Baradari Bagh||To promote guava fruit and its products under the “One district one product” drive, the Horticulture Department in coordination with the district administration organised the first ever Guava Festival at Baradari Bagh yesterday. Farmers, who plant guava exhibited products made from the fruit, which attracted most visitors at the festival.The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Patiala, Kumar Amit, who visited Guava Festival, said working with the systematic plan of the Prime Minister’s Small Food Processing Units, Patiala district had been chosen for guava fruit products.In the festival progressive farmers of the district showcased products, including guava syrup, chutney, sweets and candies, which would not only promote guava orchards in the district, but also give a boost to the processing-based industry, the DC added.”The main objective of the festival is to create coordination among departments, farmers and the industry so that the ODOP (One district one product) scheme could be successful in the district,” the DC said.The Director, Horticulture Department, Dr Gulab Singh Gill, apprised visitors about schemes run by the department in Patiala district under which 35 per cent subsidy was given to entrepreneurs for preparing guava products.Addressing farmers, the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development), Dr Preeti Yadav, said, “Such fairs not only create new avenues for progressive farmers, but also encourage those, who cultivate conventional crops to start other occupations.”A seminar on guava cultivation, marketing and processing was also organised on the occasion in which experts gave detailed information to farmers, Dr Yadav added.Students of the Food Processing and Agriculture Department of various colleges and universities participated in Guava Festival. They were also briefed about employment fairs and skill development courses organised by the District Employment Bureau in September.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/horticulture-department-patiala-district-administration-organise-first-guava-fest-at-baradari-bagh-303073
28-08-2021||Patiala||2 Covid cases force closure of government school for 14 days in Patiala||After two fresh cases of coronavirus in a government school, the Health Department, on Friday, ordered closure of the school for 14 days. Earlier, one student of the said school tested positive a few days ago. Contacts of the positive student, including classmates, were being tested for Covid.Health Department said two more students, during the contact tracing of the already positive student, were found infected with virus.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said the entire school, including teachers, would be tested for coronavirus. School would remain closed for 14 days, he added.“We have already taken samples of everyone in the school to break the chain,” he said. Report of 167 samples collected from the school was awaited, he added. Notably, eight positive cases have already been reported ever since schools reopened earlier this month.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-covid-cases-force-closure-of-government-school-for-14-days-in-patiala-303072
28-08-2021||Patiala||Truck driver booked for rash driving||The police have registered a case for rash driving against an unidentified truck driver at the Lahori Gate police station here. The police said as per complaint submitted by Gurjeet Singh, a resident of Laleena village, he and his friend were hit by a rashly driven truck while they were riding bicycles on August 23. He and his friend suffered injuries in the accident, Gurjeet added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/truck-driver-booked-for-rash-driving-303071
28-08-2021||Patiala||Stop lateral entry of faculty in Punjab medical colleges: Union||The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association has urged the state government to stop the lateral entry of senior faculty, including professors and associate professor, to the medical colleges by promotions under the direct quota. It said the direct quota posts of medical teachers should be filled only at the entry level.In a joint press release, state president Dr DS Bhullar, general secretary Dr Jaspreet Singh and state coordinator Dr Darshanjit Singh Walia said no such provision existed at national institutes, including AIIMS, PGI, BHU and government medical colleges in other states, but the practice was going on unchecked in the state medical colleges.Claiming that there was no such provision even in other departments, the association demanded end to the “illegal practice”. Medical teachers argued that the process would block their future promotional avenues and the selected candidates would become their seniors in spite of being junior to them as new entrants. — TNSInterview todayThe Medical Education Department is going to recruit associate professors under the direct quota by an interview on August 28. More than 70 medical teachers submitted a memorandum to the Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, this week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/stop-lateral-entry-of-faculty-in-punjab-medical-colleges-union-302897
