29-08-2021||---||Mavi Sappan resident dies of Covid, 8 test +ve in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 28There is no relief from Covid in Mavi Sappan village of the district as the area continues to report positive cases.A 55-year-old resident of the village tested positive for the disease and died during treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital on Saturday morning. He was admitted to the hospital on Friday. Earlier, three students of the government at Mavi Sappan village had tested positive during special sampling drive. The school has already been closed for 14 days.Ironically, the schoolchildren and 55-year-old Covid victim were residing in the same area of the village.Concerned over development, the Health Department on Saturday declared the area as micro-containment zone to contain the spread of the virus.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said, “All positive cases are from the same area in the village. Therefore, we have declared the area as micro-containment zone. We will be collecting more samples from the area to detect positive cases.”Meanwhile, Patiala – on Saturday – reported eight Covid cases. Of eight, four are from Patiala city, three from Dudhan Sadhan and one from Bhadson block of the district. With this, the positive case count in the district stands at 48,809 since the outbreak of pandemic last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mavi-sappan-resident-dies-of-covid-8-test-ve-in-patiala-district-303517
29-08-2021||---||MP inaugurates 66-kV power sub-station at Bhasmara village||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 28Member of Parliament (MP) Preneet Kaur inaugurated of 66 kV sub-station at Bhasmara village in Patiala district today. She said, “The Punjab Government under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is committed to provide quality, reliable and uninterrupted power supply infrastructure to people of the state.”She further said, “The Punjab Government has been improving power transmission infrastructure across the state. The commissioning of this power grid is also part of that drive.”“During the last four and a half years, Punjab has witnessed development in all fields,” she added.“Now, it’s our turn to bring back Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for the next tenure to make our state number one in all other fields,” she said.“With the commissioning of this new sub-station, 31 villages of the nearby area will benefit with quality, reliable and uninterrupted power supply. Also, the load at existing 220 kV grid sub-station in Devigarh and 66 kV grid sub-station in Rohar Jagir will reduce. Now, consumers connected to these grids will get uninterrupted power supply,” she added.In another event at Saphera village Preneet Kaur dedicated a community shed, constructed in the memory of young farmer Gurpreet Singh Goldy and another farmer Labh Singh, who lost their lives in agitation against the three farm laws.“As promised we have constructed this community shed for villagers at the cost of Rs17.5 lakh,” she said.The Member of Parliament was accompanied by senior Congress leader Harinderpal Singh Harry Mann, chairman, market committee, Patiala, Ratinderpal Singh Ricky Mann and Ashwani Batta, chairman, block samiti, Sanaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mp-inaugurates-66-kv-power-sub-station-at-bhasmara-village-303518
29-08-2021||Patiala||Youth booked for raping minor||The police have booked youth for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl under Sections 376, IPC, and Section 4, POCSO Act. The suspect has been identified as Deepak Kumar, a resident of the Sanuar area in the district.The police said the girl came in contact with the suspect over social media on August 23. The suspect had called the victim for lunch on August 26, the police added. After lunch, the suspect took the girl to a room and allegedly raped her, the police said. Later, the suspect reportedly dropped the girl near Punjabi University, the police added.Meanwhile, in another case the police have booked two persons for sodomising a 12-year-old boy. The suspects, who have been identified as Jaggi and Vicky, have been booked under Section 377, IPC, and Section 6, POCSO Act. The police said Jaggi sodomised 12-year-old boy. The victim after death of his parents was residing with suspects, the police added. The other suspect Vicky allegedly recorded video of the whole incident and reportedly shared it on social media, the police said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/youth-booked-for-raping-minor-303519
29-08-2021||Patiala||Woman found dead, husband, in-laws booked||The police have booked husband and in-laws of 36-year-old woman, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the Urban Estate area of the city.The police said husband and in-laws were allegedly torturing woman for dowry. The woman was married to the suspect, identified as Tejinder Singh, in 2018.Other suspects have been identified as Sukhwinder Kaur (Mother-in-law), Gurmeet Singh (Father-in-law), Raju (Sister-in-law) and Kawaljeet Kaur (Sister-in-law). The suspects have been booked under Sections 304-B (dowry death) and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code.Paramjeet Singh, brother of the deceased, alleged that his sister had called a day before her death and narrated that her in-laws were torturing her over dowry.“Next morning my sister was found dead. Her husband along with his family members has killed my sister,” he added.Meanwhile, Rauni Singh, Station House Officer, Urban Estate, said the police had booked the suspects and started investigation.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/woman-found-dead-husband-in-laws-booked-303520
29-08-2021||Karam Prakash||5 of 15 assistant professors posts in Punjab's medical education dept saw one candidate||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 28During the recent recruitment of 15 assistant professors in the Department of Medical Education, there were five posts in different branches against which only one candidate each appeared for the interview.Dr KK Talwar, Chairman, Selection CommitteeSelected on meritWhile we had the discretion to reject the lone candidate, we selected them on merit. Some posts were reserved, so only a few candidates showed up.With no other candidate in the fray, all five — including two relations of former principals — made it to the selection list. Dr KK Talwar, chairman of the selection committee, said it was not their fault if there was no other candidate. “While we had the discretion to reject the lone candidate, we selected them on merit. Some posts were reserved, so only a few candidates showed up.”Meanwhile, a candidate, who had applied for the post, claimed the Department of Medical Education had been cancelling interviews in the past owing to the poor turnout, but this time they didn’t. “The department had in the past called off interviews after a single candidate showed up against a post. However, it was not done this time,” he said. It is learnt that all relations of the retired or serving officials who had applied for the posts were successful in making it to the list of selected candidates.Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said everyone had the right to apply for the post — including relatives of retired and serving officials. “It is not their fault if candidates are sons or daughters of former principal of any medical college. We can’t discriminate against them. All have been selected on merit.” Some candidates, who couldn’t make it to the list, said an inquiry should be conducted into the criteria adopted for reservation of seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/5-of-15-assistant-professors-posts-in-punjabs-medical-education-dept-saw-one-candidate-303358
