30-08-2021||---||Punjabi University Patiala, celebrates birth anniversary of Dhyan Chand||Patiala, August 29Punjabi University here celebrated the birth anniversary of hockey wizard Dhyan Chand as National Sports Day. A webinar on sports ergonomics was organised by the department of sports science of the university.Dr Somnath Gangopadhyay, Professor of Ergonomics and Work Physiology from Calcutta University, was the keynote speaker. He spoke on the importance of sports ergonomics.Professor Gangopadhyay said the paradigm of sports ergonomics would be strengthened at the international level.The Vice-Chancellor, Professor Arvind, said ergonomics had an important role to play in every sphere of life apart from sports so its potential would also be explored in the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-celebrates-birth-anniversary-of-dhyan-chand-304050
30-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Rajindra Hospital study: Unnatural deaths highest among women less educated||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 29A study of medicolegal autopsy on female deaths, conducted at Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital here, revealed the highest unnatural deaths were among the young and less educated housewives.The study, Epidemiological Profile of Female Deaths amongst Medico Legal Autopsies, was conducted by the department of forensic medicine and toxicology of the Government Medical College.In the study, the most common age group involved in unnatural deaths among females was 21-30 years. Around 33 per cent deaths were recorded in this age group, followed by 17 per cent in the age group of 31-40 years.As to the reasons for more deaths in this group, It has been hypothesised that this is the age group which is more energetic and hence might be more exposed to the stresses of life.Besides, most of the marriages take place in this age group and all post-marriage issues crop up in this age group only. Of 145 female unnatural deaths analysed in the study, 101 women were married while 44 were unmarried.According to Dr Deepak Kumar, who conducted the study under the supervision of Dr DS Bhullar, Head of the department and in charge of the Rajindra Hospital mortuary, said most of the affected females had educational qualification up to senior secondary level. Around 20 per cent females, who died unnatural deaths, were illiterate.Of a total of 145 deaths, during the study period from January 2019 to December 2020, 56 per cent were suicides, of which 57 per cent were poisoning cases and 23 per cent were by hanging. Around 16 per cent were drowning cases.Between 2019 and 2020, the highest number of unnatural deaths were reported in April in 2019. The nationwide Covid lockdown was imposed in March 2019.Finally, Dr DS Bhullar, said the main purpose of this study was to suggest long-term planning and strategy to check such unnatural mishaps and crimes against women in the interest of natural justice.What expert saysAccording to Dr Deepak Kumar, who conducted the study under the supervision of Dr DS Bhullar, Head of the department and in charge of the Rajindra Hospital mortuary, said most of the affected females had educational qualification up to senior secondary level. Around 20 per cent females, who died unnatural deaths, were illiterate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rajindra-hospital-study-unnatural-deaths-highest-among-women-less-educated-304049
30-08-2021||---||Preneet Kaur, Vijay Inder Singla open jan seva kendra in Patiala||Patiala, August 29Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, while appreciating the services rendered by Shri Radha Krishan Jan Seva Samiti, said people got a major relief when social service organisations worked in tandem with the government in the public interest.Preneet Kaur inaugurated a jan seva kendra, computer training centre, stitching training centre and a medical check-up centre, an initiative by Shri Radha Krishna Jan Seva Samiti. Vijay Inder Singla, Minister of Public Works and School Education, was also present.The MP said the Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, never allowed any shortage of funds for the development of the city as well as for the local NGOs as residents of Patiala had suffered a lot for 10 years during the previous SAD-BJP governments.Preneet Kaur said the Punjab Government had carried out unprecedented development works in the state despite the poor financial condition and a biased attitude of the Centre towards the state.Appreciating the role of NGOs played during the Corona pandemic, she said that NGOs such as Sri Radha Krishna Jan Seva Samiti helped the state government in providing better health services to people. She said the NGO would now run an old-age home in front of Radha Krishna temple in Model Town.Singla, while appreciating the samiti for its public service works, said Patiala was known for its social workers and social service organisations. The Punjab Government was strengthening such institutions so that the people of the state would not face any hardship, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/preneet-kaur-vijay-inder-singla-open-jan-seva-kendra-in-patiala-304048
30-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University Patiala, employees pursue political dreams||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 29Two serving employees and one former faculty of Punjabi University have decided to contest the coming Assembly elections on party ticket or as independent candidates.Among those on the political front this time is Assistant Prof Sumaer Singh, who has been functioning as member of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Patiala. The former faculty member, who recently took premature retirement to pursue his political career, has staked a claim to AAP ticket from the Patiala Urban constituency. He is known to have close ties with the royal family of Patiala.“According to our calendar, we can contest elections during our job. But I am into it full time. I am expecting AAP ticket from Patiala Urban,” he said.Assistant Prof Pankaj Mohindru has also declared himself as a contestant for the Patiala Urban seat and is actively seeking public support. He is also known to be associated with the royal family of Patiala. He previously contested the PUTA elections in 2020 but lost. “I got 38 votes out of 500,” he said, confirming that he had earlier contested the post of executive member of PUTA in 2019. He has lately been vocal about lapses in carrying out development activities in the state.Dr Mohindru said: “In last Assembly elections, we drafted the Congress manifesto. However, the points have not been touched by the present government. The youth are forced to go abroad and I feel they are betrayed. I will seek Patiala Urban ticket from the Congress president. Our MLA is not visible in the constituency,” he said.Also on the list is Dr Jatinder Singh Mattu, a non-teaching employee of the university. Dr Mattu has declared himself a contestant for Shutrana seat. Apart from being active on the university campus in relation to the rights and concerns of students belonging to the reserved category and individuals, Dr Mattu is also president of Dr Ambedkar Employees’ Federation, Punjab. He has actively participated in protests over various matters.He said: “People have been cheated in the name of development. Education and health facilities are not provided in the state, especially in rural areas. I want to contest the elections to find a solution to issues of the people. In some areas, there is no supply of clean drinking water or public transport.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-employees-pursue-political-dreams-304047
30-08-2021||---||Part of new dairy site a graveyard, claim Patiala lawyers||Patiala, August 29Dairy farmers of the city, who are supposed to shift to the new site for dairies developed by the MC at Ablowal village, have raised objections to the new complex. Leaders of various political parties have also lent their support to the farmers.Mohinder Singh Joshi, a lawyer for dairy farmersWill write to Akal TakhtWe will send a letter to Akal Takht Sahib. Apart from that, we have also raised the matter of presence of high tension lines at the new site. The MC has failed to provide any provisions, including a dispensary, at the new site.The dairy farmers, along with their advocates, visited the Ablowal site yesterday and claimed that part of it, as per revenue records, was a graveyard. The farmers, through their advocates, have also decided to send a letter to the Akal Takht over the matter, stating that as per its directions, land of a graveyard can’t be used for religious purposes related to Sikhs. A lawyer for the farmers, Mohinder Singh Joshi, said: “We will send a letter to Akal Takht Sahib. Apart from that, we have also raised the matter of presence of high tension lines at the new site. The MC has failed to provide any provisions, including a dispensary, at the new site.”Meanwhile, Harpal Juneja, a leader of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), met the protesting farmers. He said the farmers had come to him and he offered his support. “As per revenue records, a part of the land is that of a graveyard. Also, there is a lack of provisions at the site.”He said the MC had failed to carry out any development at the new site other than constructing roads and a boundary wall that collapsed later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/part-of-new-dairy-site-a-graveyard-claim-patiala-lawyers-304046
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Patiala eves defeat Ludhiana||Patiala eves defeated Ludhiana by three wickets in the Punjab State Inter-District Women’s U-19 One-Day Tournament today. After winning the toss, Ludhiana skipper opted to bat.The side scored 111 runs in 41.2 overs with the help of Seema Prohit (26) and Manya Sharma (23). Mannat Kashyap and Tess claimed three wickets each for the bowling side.In reply, Patiala posted 112/7 in 41.4 overs. Mannat Kashyap and Shruti Yadav contributed 27 runs each and Vanshika Mahajan scored 21 runs for the winning side. Aishmine Kaur and Parineeta Saroha took two wickets each for the bowling side.In other matches, Jalandhar defeated Moga by 150 runs and Zone-B went down against Amritsar by eight wickets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cricket-patiala-eves-defeat-ludhiana-303858
30-08-2021||---||Farmers' protest: Commuters face tough time in Patiala||Patiala, August 29Farmers protesting the lathicharge on their Haryana counterpart jammed all roads leading to Patiala, including the Patiala-Rajpura, Patiala-Nabha and Patiala-Sirhind roads on Sunday.Commuters had a tough time due to the blockade. A few ambulances were seen stuck on their way. A number of aspirants missed their competitive exams. A few youngsters who were on their way to Chandigarh claimed they were getting late for the cooperative bank exam. Some of them were allowed to pass through the blockade while others remained stuck.The protests were led by BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), BKU (Krantikari) and other unions. Their members didn’t allow vehicles to pass through the protest sites, leading to long traffic jams.Farmers also blocked the roads near Bahadurgarh on the Patiala-Rajpura road, at Hardaspur village on the Patiala-Sirhind road and near Rohti bridge at Nabha. The roads leading to Ghanaur, Sanour and Samana were also jammed for over two hours.Flaying the police action, protesters demanded that the Duty Magistrate who issued the lathicharge order should be dismissed. BKU (Krantikari) district president Ranjit Sawajpur said: “We had already announced a convention at the Dhareri Jattan toll plaza.” The protests ended at 2 pm.In Ropar, farmers assembled at the toll plazas on Chandigarh road, Anandpur Sahib road and Chamkaur Sahib road around 11 am and blocked them at 12 noon. The Chandigarh-Ludhiana road was also blocked at Morinda bypass. As many as 300 farmers protested at Solakhian toll plaza on the Ropar-Chandigarh road.(With inputs from Ropar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-protest-commuters-face-tough-time-in-patiala-303906
