03-06-2021||North East||Covid: 24 held for doctor assault in Assam’s Hojai district following patient's death ||Assam Police have arrested 24 persons allegedly involved in the brutal assault on a young doctor at a Covid care centre in Hojai district following the death of a patient on Tuesday afternoon. The arrested mostly include relatives of the deceased. The assault had not only left the medical fraternity shocked, hurt and angry but also the general public, reviving memories of the 2019 Dr Deben Dutta lynching case in Jorhat district. One of the convicted was sentenced to death while 24 others received life term in October 2020 for the death of the tea garden doctor. Social media was abuzz with calls for exemplary punishment to the accused as video of the attack on Dr Seuj Kumar Senapati went viral. The mob could be seen thrashing the doctor with whatever they could lay their hands on. A nurse was also attacked in the attack. The Hojai police have booked all the accused, including a woman, under the stringent sections of the IPC, including attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy,  Disaster Management Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Assam Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act, 2011. “We have arrested all of them. They are mostly relatives of the deceased. They hail from nearby areas under the Udali Covid Centre such as Bamun Gaon and Phultoli. An inspector is looking after the case while a senior CID official will be guiding Hojai police in the investigation,” a senior police official said. The Hojai sessions court on Wednesday remanded seven of the accused in police custody for three days while 14 accused in judicial custody. The court has given police two days to inquire whether three of the accused are minors. The patient, Giasuddin, who was rushed to the hospital in a critical condition, died around 2pm. His relatives had told the doctor that he was not being able to pass urine since morning. “I reached the hospital around 1.30pm for my shift. When I went to attend to him after donning my PPE kit, he was already dead,” Dr Senapati said to reporters on Tuesday night. The attack ensued soon after the attendants accused the medical staff of negligence. The doctor bore the brunt of the attack. The injured nurse had hid herself in a room. It was Senapati’s second day at the Covid centre. A fresh MBBS graduate, Udali was Senapati’s first posting under the compulsory one-year rural service. He was first admitted to Nagaon Civil Hospital and then referred to the Gauhati Medical College And Hospital. “He has suffered soft tissue damage and fracture in the nose area. He is stable but yet to come out of the trauma,” a senior IMA said. The Assam chapter of the IMA held a stock-taking meeting on Wednesday evening and decided to suspend their decision to boycott non-emergency services from Thursday because of the “satisfactory action” taken by the police. “We have adopted a wait and watch police to see how the investigation progresses. In the interim, we will meet the chief minister and apprise him about our concerns and steps to check a repeat,” the IMA member said. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is in Delhi on an official tour, health minister Keshab Mahanta, Assam DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta condemned the incident as intolerable and warned of strong action against those who attack frontline workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
03-06-2021||North East||No border talks between Assam and Nagaland now||The border talks between Assam and Nagaland to defuse tension along Mokokchung-Jorhat will take place only after the Covid-19 situation in Nagaland is under control. Official sources said the Nagaland home department has directed the Mokokchung DC, L. Jamir, to hold talks with his Jorhat counterpart, A. Barman, after the Covid situation normalises. Soaring Covid-19 cases had seen the Nagaland government extend lockdown till June 11. On Monday, Nagaland had 4,923 active cases with 315 deaths. Though Assam has not imposed lockdown, it has barred inter-district travel and extended curfew hours from 12 noon to 5am to break the chain of transmission. On Monday, Assam had 51,694 active cases with 3365 deaths. Assam’s Special DGP G.P. Singh, after a stock-taking visit to the border on Friday, had revealed about the proposed “DC/SP level meeting within 3 days followed immediately by IG Border level meeting”. Talks have become inevitable to defuse tension triggered by the alleged firing from the Nagaland side on senior Assam Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi, when he had visited the border area in the Dessoi Valley Reserve Forest — claimed by both states on Thursday afternoon. Both states have also accused each other of breaking the Supreme Court-imposed status quo. A senior official said besides the home department directive, the Mokokchung administration too is in a spot. “The Mokokchung SP is in isolation and the DC is awaiting his Covid test report because he was in contact with him. Under the circumstances, it will not be appropriate on part of the DC to attend the border talks. Participants from both districts could be at risk given the Covid situation,” one of the official said. Though the situation in Jorhat is getting back to normal, it is still clocking over 200 cases a day, an official said. Official data reveals the Northeast is facing a tough time containing the spread of the virus in the second wave. This is reflected in the death and recovery rates. Northeast’s recovery rate is below the national average of 91.60 per cent. Nagaland’s recovery rate is 74.90 per cent while that of Assam is slightly better at 81.41 per cent. Tripura has the best recovery rate in the region at 86.17 per cent. The region’s death ratio is also worrying with Nagaland leading the way at 1.68 per cent while Mizoram has the lowest at 0.31 per cent followed by Assam at 0.81 per cent. As part of its measures to contain the pandemic, the Assam health department on Tuesday launched the third phase of the community surveillance through which medical teams will visit every village household in the state to track, isolate and treat Covid cases to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
