05-06-2021||North East||Senior NHIDCL officer held by Nagaland police on bribe charges ||Nagaland police have arrested a senior NHIDCL official on charges of demanding bribe from contractors operating under him. The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) GM B.D. Jangade was arrested on Wednesday by Mokokchung police and produced him in court on Thursday. He has been remanded to three days in police custody. He was arrested on complaints lodged by NHIDCL’s Delhi office and its Kohima office after a video of the official purportedly demanding “one per cent cut money” went viral last week. “The NHIDCL might have taken suo motu cognisance of the video and lodged the complaint on which we have acted,” police said. Wads of cash were seen lying on table in the room where this purported discussion took place. The NHIDCL, the fully owned company of the ministry of road transport & highways builds/upgrade, operates and maintains national highways and strategic roads. Seven districts are under the Mokokchung division of which Jangade was the GM, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
05-06-2021||North East||Covid: Annual Ambubachi Mela at Kamakhya Temple cancelled||The annual Ambubachi Mela, one of eastern India’s leading religious congregations held at Kamakhya Temple atop Nilachal Hills here, has been cancelled because of “threats posed by the Covid-19 pandemic” for the second year running. The mela is held from June 22 every year but the temple will remain closed till June 30, head of the Maa Kamakhya Devalaya Parichalana Committee Mohit Chandra Sarma told The Telegraph. The committee decided against holding the four-day mela on Thursday evening even though Covid-19 cases are showing a declining trend in the state. “Cases are falling but we don’t want to take any chance. We are closed till June 30. It was a tough decision because priests and businesses associated with the temple depend on devotees/visitors. Large gathering could trigger another wave. That is why we decided against the mela in everyone’s interest, because of threats posed by Covid-19. Only the rituals will be held during Ambubachi mahayog from June 22,” Sarma said. Over 20 lakh visitors/tourists had attended the 2018 mela and about 25 lakh in 2019 from within India and outside but most from Bengal and Bihar. The place hold special significance for Hindus because Kamakhya Temple is one of the 51 shaktipeeths in the country. The temple remains closed during the four-day period because the goddess is believed to undergo her menstrual cycle. There is a huge rush of devotees, sadhus, tantriks and tourists once the doors open. Sarma said the temple will be closed till June 30. “Future course of action will depend on the situation. Since there will be no mela, entry of devotees including sadhu and sanyasis is totally prohibited. There will also be no food and lodging facilities at Kamakhya,” he said to dissuade the devotees from thronging the temple. Assam’s total case load was 50,534 till Thursday, the surge starting in April, attributed mainly to the huge gathering during the Assembly polls. The day saw detection of 4,309 cases and 49 deaths, both falling but it is too early to lower one’s guard, health department officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
