06-06-2021||North East||Tension along Assam-Mizoram border as 2 houses burned down||Two abandoned houses along the Mizoram-Assam border have been burned down by unidentified persons, fuelling tension along the volatile inter-state border, police said on Sunday. Both the states claimed that the incident took place inside their territory on Friday night but no casualty was reported as the houses were empty. While Assam put the blame on "miscreants from Mizoram", the neighbouring state pointed the accusing finger at "Bangladeshi immigrants who wanted to flare up the border dispute". Hailakandi district Superintendent of Police Ramandeep Kaur claimed that besides burning down the two empty houses belonging to Ali Hussain and Saidul Islam, miscreants from Mizoram have also erected a structure 300 metres inside Assam's territory near Gutguti area in the district. An investigation is underway to ascertain the identity of the miscreants involved in the incidents and cases have been registered, she said. Security has been beefed-up in the area and patrolling has been intensified, the SP said. The matter has been taken up with higher-level authorities in Mizoram and hopefully, the issue will be resolved soon, Kaur said. Kaur, along with Hailakandi Deputy Commissioner Rohan Kumar Jha and Ramnathpur police station officer-in-charge Liton Nath visited the area to review the prevailing situation. The location falls under the inner-line reserve forest area and is very difficult to reach from the Assam side, she said. Vanlalfaka Ralte, the SP of Mizoram's Kolasib district, however, claimed that the abandoned houses were located in Zophai area near Bairabi town in the district. "The houses, abandoned since February this year, were earlier occupied by non-tribals hired by Mizos to look after their paddy fields. "We suspect that the burning of the houses was a political ploy by Bangladeshi immigrants to revive the border issue between the two neighbouring states," he told. The area where the incident took place is within the territory of Mizoram and not within the inner line reserved forest area, he said, adding that the owners of the field have land pattas (documents) in Mizoram and pay land taxes to the state government. A case has been registered with the Bairabi police station and a manhunt launched to nab the accused. Since October last year, there have been frequent incidents of burning of houses, allegations of land encroachment and even a bomb blast inside a closed school along the 164.6-km-long Mizoram-Assam border. The previous incident had taken place near Gallacherra border outpost, under which Gutguti falls, in February and since then, many residents had vacated their houses, Kaur added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
06-06-2021||North East||Raimona reserve forest becomes Assam's sixth national park||Raimona reserve forest in lower Assam became the state’s sixth national park on Saturday. Spread over 422sqkm in Kokrajhar district, Raimona National Park straddles the northern part of the notified Ripu reserve forest, which forms the westernmost buffer to the Manas Tiger Reserve. Raimona also shares contiguous forest patches with Phipsoo Wildlife Sanctuary and Jigme Singye Wangchuk National Park in Bhutan (1,999sqkm) creating a transboundary conservation landscape of more than 2,400sqkm. Kaziranga National Park, Manas National Park, Nameri National Park, Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and Orang National Park are the five other existing national parks in the state. A forest department official said the benefits of upgrading the Raimona reserve forest under Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) as a national park are manifold. “Such a secured transboundary ecological landscape will help ensure long-term conservation of endemic species such as the golden langur — the mascot of BTC — and endangered species like the Asian elephant, royal Bengal tiger and varied other flora and faunal species it supports,” he said. The park will also open up huge opportunities of ecotourism for the fringe villagers, who currently are partially or totally dependent on forest resources for their livelihood. Over 150 species of butterflies, 170 species of birds and 350 species of plants are found in the park. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma made the announcement while participating in a World Environment Day function at Gandhi Mandap here along with forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya. “This would be the sixth national park in the state and would be a great step towards protection and preservation of rich biodiversity in the area,” Sarma said. Stressing on the need to conserve nature, Sarma also said the process to declare the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary in Upper Assam as the seventh national park is under way. He said the state science and technology department would be re-christened as the department of science, technology and climate change from Saturday to “bring climate protection into focus of government planning and action”. Lauding the forest and environment department for its relentless efforts resulting in the reforestation of 10,000 hectares of land in the state, the chief minister elaborated on various activities undertaken by the department to increase forest cover. He also said 28 bio-diversity parks named “Sahitya Manishi Upaban” are being set up in 28 of the state’s 34 districts. The day also saw Suklabaidya inaugurate the first of the four Nature Learning Sub-Centres at Nellie in Morigaon district. The centre houses galleries showcasing rare endangered species, flora and fauna and the evolution of the Himalayan biodiversity hotspot. Suklabaidya said wanton destruction of forest and killing of wildlife taking place across the globe must be brought to a halt as “our future and that of the coming generations hinges on the environment”. “At a time when one is gasping for oxygen cylinders and concentrators during the Covid-19 pandemic, the crying need of the hour is to protect the trees and plants that provide oxygen to us 24x7,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
