07-06-2021||North East||Murder case on Assam Rifles major and three subordinates||An Assam Rifles major and three subordinates have been booked for murder after they allegedly shot dead a 29-year-old man during a search at Chalwa village in Manipur’s Kangpokpi district on Friday night. Police have registered a case against Major Alok Sathe, jawan Amar and two others under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intent) apart from Arms Act provisions for allegedly killing Mangboilal Lhouvum, a helper with a truck and a father of four. The incident triggered a massive protest on Friday night at the Gelnel Assam Rifles outpost, commanded by Major Sathe and situated 8km from Chalwa, by residents of Chalwa and nearby villages. The crowd torched two Assam Rifles vehicles parked outside the outpost and broke its bamboo gate. On Saturday morning, civil society organisations took over leadership of the protest. The agitation led to the signing of a “deeds of agreement” between civil society organisations, Assam Rifles and the state government on Saturday. The four-point agreement includes an immediate police investigation, the replacement of the Assam Rifles personnel at the Gelnel outpost, a fully functional local police station with a minimum strength of 40 personnel, and Rs 10 lakh compensation to the victim’s family from the Assam Rifles. Of this amount, Rs 1 lakh was handed over on Saturday. Neither the Assam Rifles nor the police have explained the reason for the search operation led by Major Sathe, who belongs to the “E” company of the 44 Battalion of the paramilitary force. The FIR was registered at Kangpokpi police station on Saturday afternoon on a complaint from Sehlam Lhouvum, who accused Sathe and the three others — all in civvies — of conducting a search at Chalwa around 9pm on Friday. Mangboilal was “first treated (plied) with alcohol” and subsequently taken to the roadside and “lethally fired upon”, the complaint said. Villagers took Mangboilal to the local primary health centre, from where he was referred him to the Kangpokpi district hospital. He died on the way, the complainant said, adding that it appeared the “murder” was “premeditated”. Thangminlen Kipgen, general secretary of the Kangpokpi district unit of the Kuki Inpi, a civil society organisation, told The Telegraph the situation was under control following the signing of the agreement. “We made it clear the police had to file an FIR and do their own investigation,” Kipgen said. “We also want the 44 (Battalion) personnel replaced by personnel from the 38 Battalion. We will continue to keep a watch on the investigation and if the agreement is not adhered to, we will decide our future action.” Chalwa village is about 90km from state capital Imphal and about 50km from the district hospital. The Kuki-dominated area is mostly dependent on paddy cultivation, Kipgen said.
Efforts to get reactions from the Assam Rifles and the Manipur police proved futile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
07-06-2021||North East||Students to sound out government on Northeast chapter ||Student organisations from the Northeast are planning to engage with the government and elected representatives to push their demand for a chapter on the Northeast in the National Council of Educational Research and Training curriculum after a successful Twitter storm on Friday. Over 40 student organisations, including varsity student unions, from the region had launched a social media campaign so that the government takes prompt and adequate steps to create awareness about the region. Jorhat-based Debonil Baruah, a research associate and a key member of the Twitter campaign, told The Telegraph they would submit a memorandam to Union educational minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, eight chief ministers of the Northeast and to all MPs from the region. “It is important to engage with the government and elected representatives to take our demand forward. Our social media campaign on Twitter with the hashtags – #A chapter on NE and #Northeastmatters was well received but we also need to engage with the government to familiarise the country with the northeast and that can be done only through the government,” Baruah said. “Discussion has started among the student organisations on the content of the memorandum and why inclusion on chapters from the Northeast are required in the national curriculum. Everything remaining equal, we will be submitting the memorandum by next week,” he said. The two-hour Twitter storm on Friday was launched at 6 pm with the hashtags —A Chapter for NE and Northeast Matters — drawing over 1.6 lakh tweets from students, politicians, and academics, among others. A Twitter user said, “The most powerful weapon is education... Few chapters about northeast India are an investment towards a better India.” The campaign was triggered following a young YouTuber’s racial remark against MLA Ninong Ering from Arunachal Pradesh. YouTuber Paras Singh is in judicial custody after his arrest from Ludhiana on May 25 following the filing of an FIR by Ering for “a racist and anti-India” video wherein Singh had said that Ering did “not” look like an Indian and that Arunachal Pradesh was “part” of China. Ering took to the Twitter on Saturday to reveal that he has written to Union education minister Pokhriyal and Union Home minister Amit Shah on the “inclusion of Northeast India in CBSE and other state boards education system. “This one step can lead to elimination of frequent cases of racial discrimination against us,” he tweeted, tagging the NCERT and the CBSE in his tweet. Formed in 1961, NCERT is an autonomous organisation assisting and advising the Centre and state governments on policies and programmes for qualitative improvement in school education, including promoting and coordinating research in areas related to school education besides preparing and publishing model textbooks, Ering, a former Congress MP, says the world needs to know about the Northeast’s history, geography, culture. “Yesterday thousands of people took part in a Twitter storm and they demanded inclusion of northeast in NCERT curriculum.... These demands are on the line of key recommendations of the Bezbaruah Committee Report and also a private member Bill introduced by me in 2017 for compulsory teaching of the northeast syllabus,” he said, hoping the ministers will take “note of the demand” and “educate the world about us”. The MHA had constituted a committee headed by M.P. Bezbaruah, member, North Eastern Council, in February 2014 to look into the look into the concerns of persons from the Northeast living in different parts of the country and suggest legal remedies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
