16-06-2021||North East||Kokrajhar minor girls raped and murdered by persons 'known' to them||The two girls whose bodies were found hanging from a tree in lower Assam’s Kokrajhar on Friday evening were raped and subsequently murdered by persons “known” to them. Police have arrested seven persons in this connection, including the three who were directly involved in the crime which the accused tried to pass of as a suicide case. That it was a case of rape and murder was first shared by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma followed by a press meet by the Kokrajhar police around 6 pm on Tuesday. “The accused were known to the victims. Three of the directly accused are from the same Salbari village. They are age 19, 20 and 22,” a police official told The Telegraph. Sarma tweeted with “extreme sense of satisfaction” that senior police officer, L.R. Bishnoi, IGP, BTR,  had called to inform him that the “rape and murder” of  the two minor tribal girls “have been solved”. Soon after, there were demand from the family members and locals to hand them death sentence just as they had taken the lives of the two victims. The breakthrough came two days after Sarma’s stock-taking visit to the residence of the victims in Abhayakuti village, about 20 km from Kokrajhar town, and directed the police to “expeditiously” unearth the truth behind the  “shocking deaths”. The victims, aged 16 and 14,  hailed from the same family and were school-dropouts. Their family members were working in a paddy field and discovered the duo missing when they returned home around 4pm on Friday. Their bodies were found hanging 10 feet above the ground from a mango tree located about 600metres away from their residence on Friday late evening. There are around 60 houses, mostly scattered in the remote village, with a population of about 260, mostly depending on agriculture. Salbari and Singimari villages are located about 1 and 2 km away respectively. Sarma also said one of the reasons for visiting the victims’ family was to send a message that his government will not tolerate “any kind of atrocity” against the poor and will continue to accord  top priority to safety of women in the state, something he had assured soon after taking charge as the chief minister on May 10. Welcoming the swift breakthrough, BTR Koch Student Union president Rasam D Koch told this newspaper that the accused should be tried in a fast-track court and those involved in the crime should be handed exemplary punishment, including the death sentence. He also said there are reports of girls from the areas being regularly harassed but this is the first time they have been murdered. “ The government should also expedite development activities in the area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
16-06-2021||North East||Covid: Jabs on priority for Assam vulnerable groups||The Assam government has adopted a “targeted approach” towards vaccination where all frontline workers and persons coming in contact with the masses are accorded priority for effective Covid-19 management in the state. Government sources said chief secretary Jishnu Baruah has conveyed to the deputy commissioners during his interactions or during his weekend trips to various district headquarters to review Covid-19 and flood scenario to have a “vision plan” and “roadmap” in prioritising vaccination for those category of persons who are vulnerable and immediately vaccinate them or else “they might end up as super-spreaders”. Till Friday, over 37.7 lakh people have received at least one vaccine dose in the state. Shortage of vaccines is one reason why the government is pushing for priority vaccination along with the ongoing drive to inoculate those 18 years and above. “Things should normalise by July but we need to be ready for a possible third wave,” an official said. The vulnerable groups include the Anganwadi workers, police personnel, persons with disabilities, care-givers, prisoners and jail and hospital staff. Once this section is taken care of, the focus would be on pavement dwellers and vendors, mostly found in bigger towns. The pandemic situation in the state turned alarming in mid-April because of rampant violation of Covid protocol during campaigning for the three-phase Assembly polls, among others. Though the worst phase of the second wave seems to be over, most say lowering the guard now could prove costly. Till Saturday, Assam had 45,477 active cases with a positivity rate of 2.16 per cent. Till now, 3,873 persons have succumbed to Covid, with more than 2,800 casualties in the second wave. Baruah has so far held review meetings in West Karbi Anglong, Baksa, Udalguri, Sonitpur and Biswanath districts during his weekend trips since the second half of May. During his review meeting in Biswanath on Saturday, Baruah also asked the district health wing to ramp up vaccination in tea garden areas. Stressing on testing and vaccination as the only two ways of controlling the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief secretary also stressed on the need for strict and compulsory testing of passengers arriving by trains and ensuring social distancing at relief camps for the flood affected, if necessary, by opening more camps. Referring to the recent opening of a 300-bed Covid hospital at Sarusajai stadium in Guwahati, Baruah said the state government was preparing the required infrastructure needed to tackle a possible third wave. Meanwhile, the Assam government on Tuesday  extended the ongoing Covid-19 restriction till June 22, easing certain curbs in some districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
