21-06-2021||North East||Three lynched in Tripura over cattle theft suspicion||Three people were lynched on suspicion of cattle theft in Tripura’s Khowai district on Sunday morning. Police said two of the deceased were beaten up by a mob at North Maharanipur while the third, who had escaped, was caught and assaulted at Sovaram Para, 3km away. Neither transport nor slaughter of cattle is banned in Tripura, the police said, adding they have registered two cases of lynching against unidentified people. Khowai superintendent of police Kiran Kumar told The Telegraph they had first received a call around 4.40am about an accident involving a truck. The trio was allegedly fleeing the Namanjai Para area after stealing cows. The owner of the cows had alerted nearby villagers. “Since people were waiting for them, they must have panicked and hit a roadside coconut tree. Our team found two persons lying near the truck, critically injured,” Kumar said. The injured men were rushed to a nearby primary health centre, and then to the G.B. Pant Hospital in Agartala, about 45km from Khowai. “Our team came to know there was a third person who had managed to escape. We informed our police stations. Our personnel rescued him at Sovaram Para but he too was badly injured. Two cases of murder have been registered in this connection,” Kumar said. All were declared dead on arrival at G.B. Pant Hospital. No arrests had been made till the filing of this report on Sunday evening. The deceased — Saiful Islam, 18, Zayed Hussein, 28,  and Billal Miah, 30, — hailed from Sonamura in Sipahijala district bordering Bangladesh. Sipahijala is around 45km from Khowai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
21-06-2021||North East||Covid: Tough task for Assam Class X-XII result panels  ||The Assam government-constituted expert committees to finalise modalities on which results of this year’s Class X and Class XII final examinations will be declared faces a “challenging task”. Both the examinations were cancelled on Friday owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. Those familiar with the state’s education sector told The Telegraph that the committees would not only have to come up with modalities which are “fair and acceptable” but also withstand legal scrutiny in the future. The two expert committees, consisting of nine members each, were constituted on Saturday. The panels have been given time till June 25 to submit their report so that the results could be declared by July 31. The Assam Higher Secondary Education Council, which conducts the Class XII examinations in the state, has directed all colleges to be ready with marks of Class X, two unit tests held last year and pre-test marks which may be required for evaluation. The Board of Secondary Education, Assam (SEBA) conducts Class 10 examinations in the state. “It is not going to be an easy task, quite challenging in fact. The results will be record-based, that is based on internal assessment like unit test, half-yearly test, annual test, Pre-board test and practical examinations. If schools and colleges fail to provide the marks for whatever reason, it could make things a bit complicated,” one of them said. Reports from the ground said quite a few schools and colleges could not conduct their normal assessment-related activities because of the Covid situation. “What will be the modalities for students from these institutions. Students cannot be deprived. It will take some doing to come up with modalities which is fair to all students,” a college teacher said. Another senior college teacher said the modalities should give more weightage to Class X (matric) results while evaluating Class XII results. “CBSE is giving 30 per cent weightage to Class X marks but we should consider 50 per cent. Rest 30 per cent will come from the practicals. The committee should then decide how the remaining 20 per cent through internal assessment. This I think would be fair under the prevailing circumstances,” he said. He also urged the authorities to set up vigilance committee at the district and sub-divisional level to keep an eye on how the internal assessment has been done to “ensure fair play”. The examinations were cancelled after the health department apprised the state cabinet and then various stakeholders that it will not be permissible to hold the examinations because of the threat posed by the pandemic. The health department has said about 25,000 persons in the age group between 11 and 18 were infected since May. Till Saturday, Assam had 34021 active cases with a positivity rate of 2.21. Altogether 3,571 cases were detected on Saturday which also saw 40 deaths. The state government will review the overall situation on Monday. Districts where things have remained unchanged could be placed under complete lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
