23-06-2021||North East||Covid: Eight oxygen plants in North East with Japan, UNDP aid||Three civil hospitals in Meghalaya were on Tuesday equipped with oxygen-generation plants with support extended by the government of Japan and the UNDP to help treat critically ill Covid-19 patients. Japan and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have been supporting India’s response to the pandemic since June 2020 by “strengthening” the health and social protection systems, most importantly reviving livelihoods, targeting the most vulnerable population. Union minister Jitendra Singh had said in May that Japan and the UNDP would help set up the eight oxygen-generation plants in the Northeast, three of which were in Meghalaya and the remaining five in Tripura and Nagaland. The eight oxygen plants have the capacity to serve approximately 1,300 beds. Each plant produces up to 800 litres of oxygen per minute. Launching the oxygen plant in Tura on Tuesday, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma thanked the UNDP, the people of Japan and the government of Japan for “contributing to this crisis management” and enabling Meghalaya to fight Covid in a “stronger” way. “The relationship between Japan and India has been grown from strength to strength.… In crisis like these, the true nature of our relationship comes out. This help only confirms and strengthens the relationship of Japan and India,” Sangma said, thanking the Prime Ministers of both the countries. Meghalaya health minister A. L. Hek inaugurated Nongpoh Civil Hospital oxygen plant and MLA W. Shylla inaugurated the Jowai MCH Hospital plant. “As a good friend and partner of India, Japan is very happy to strengthen the capacity of health facilities in Meghalaya in partnership with the UNDP. We hope that our contribution will help save more lives,” Satoshi Suzuki, Japan’s ambassador said. Shoko Noda, UNDP Resident Representative in India, said the UN’s development agency stands committed to support the government of India with support from donors, development partners and UN sister agencies. “I am happy that our several months of effort to procure, build capacity of hospital staff and set the plants up and running has come to fruition. Together, we can better prepare for future crises,” said Noda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
23-06-2021||North East||Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti organises open essay contest on ‘The dream of developing Assam’ ||Peasant group KMSS on Thursday announced a prize money essay competition on how to turn Assam into the country’s number one state — a move aimed at knowing much more than just the views of the general public. The Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) organised open essay contest on the topic ‘The dream of developing Assam’ as the most developed state in India is being held in the memory of its Chah Shramik Mukti Sangram Samiti (CSMSS)’s founder general secretary Muktinath Gowala, who died on June 21 in 2017. The winner and runners-up of the contest being held in three languages — Assamese, English and Bengali — will be richer by Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000 respectively. Those interested can send their entries online (kmssassam05@gmail.com) or to the KMSS office at Gandhib Basti here by July 31. The result will be declared within a month. However, there is much more to the essay contest if one were to go by the statements made by the KMSS which is organising the contest with the support of its frontal organisations, including CSMSS, Nari Mukti Sangram Samiti and Chatra Mukti Sangram Samiti. “Every organisation/party wants to see Assam developed. Everyone has a strategy but we want to involve the entire state, how they want to go about it and what are their hopes and aspirations. The essay gives a voice to the people of Assam to be part of this development dream. We want to see Assam as the number one state,” KMSS joint general secretary Mukut Deka told The Telegraph. CSMSS in-charge general secretary Dipak R. Das saidthe essay contest is being held in memory of Muktinath Gowala because he led the fight for minimum daily wage of Rs 351 a day and land patta for tea garden workers in 2012, the year the frontal organisation was formed. “Both the Congress and BJP treat the tea community as vote bank. BJP hiked the daily wage by Rs 50 but after the polls reduced the hike to Rs 38. We want proper development of the community,” Das said. Deka’s statement has to be seen in the backdrop of the May 10 announcement Himanta Biswa Sarma just after taking charge as the chief minister it was his aim to see Assam among the top five Indian states in the next five years. Formed in 2005, the KMSS is the force behind the regional party — Raijor Dal — formed just before the March-April. “Through the essay contest it has set the bar higher than the ruling BJP. Why should we settle for anything less than number one?” asked a Raijor Dal leader Rasel Ahmed. By deciding to hold the essay contest in name of the promising deceased tea community leader, the KMSS was also “trying to expand” its base among the community which plays a decisive role in the state’s electoral politics. The Congress’ freefall in the tea belt has opened an opening and KMSS is trying to seize the opportunity by actively espousing its cause. “Every organisation, political or apolitical, wants to grow. It is good that KMSS is trying to expand its base,” Ahmed said, his reaction suggesting there was more to the essay contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
23-06-2021||North East||Mizoram minister announces Rs 1 lakh prize for parents with the highest number of children||Mizoram’s sports minister Robert Romawia Royte has announced a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh to a living parent with the highest number of children in his Assembly constituency. The first-time MLA from Aizawl East-2 said the intention behind the move announced on Sunday (coinciding with Father’s Day) was to encourage the growth of population among Mizo communities, the move coming at a time when neighbouring Assam is pushing for a two-child norm to check population. The ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) MLA has already activated the municipal wards and seven councils in his constituency to identify the father or mother with the highest number of children so that he can give away the cash award this month itself. “It is a personal initiative to boost the population of Mizo communities. Mizoram’s density of population is 52 per cent per sq km compared to the national average of 382 per sq km — the lowest  in the country after Arunachal Pradesh (17 per sq km). I believe population is a potential asset,” Royte told The Telegraph when asked why he wants Mizo communities to have more children. Mizoram’s population, according to the 2011 census, is 10,97,206 living in an area spread over 21,081 sq km. It has 0.09 per cent of India’s population of  1,21,08,54,977. Royte, who is also the “president & proud owner” of  the Aizawl Football Club, said the Church, NGOs, civil society and student organisations such as the influential Young Mizo Association were all advocating large families. “ Mizos are appreciative of the initiative of the Church and NGOs for population growth which is inevitable for our survival and development. Falling population rate among Mizos is a cause of serious concern.  I believe with a viable economic policy we can convert population into asset for sustainable development,” Royte said. The minister also said the two-child norm policy being pursued by several states to control population growth may not work among smaller communities and in areas with low birth rate. “What is good for UP may not be good for Mizoram. We need to be flexible in our approach. We need a flexible policy instead of a uniform policy,” Royte said. The minister said he was aware of the two-child norm being pushed by the Assam government. “As I said earlier, we need to pursue a policy which is best suited to each state,” Royte said. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said his government would go for phase-wise and gradual implementation of its two-child policy for receiving  benefits under specific schemes funded by the state. Sarma had on June 10 spoken about his government’s intention to control population growth, particularly among the minority community, identifying increasing numbers as the root causes of problems such as poverty, unemployment and encroachment. Under the plan, those with more than two children might not be considered for state government benefits. The Assam Assembly had in 2017 adopted the Population and Women Empowerment Policy of Assam. In 2019, the cabinet headed by then chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal adopted the two-child norm for government jobs and to initiate action against those with permanent jobs going for a third child.  The measures were supposed to become effective from January 1, 2021. The Centre had said in the Supreme Court last year that its family welfare programme was voluntary in nature,  enabling "couples to decide the size of their family and adopt the family planning methods best suited to them according to their choice without any compulsion".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
