01-09-2021||All government colleges in the state have been directed to provide information of their staff who have been employed on the strength of degrees issued by the Manav Bharti University (MBU)||Himachal colleges asked to provide staff details||'Hack-a-care' event inauguratedA two-day-long event 'Hack-a-care', organised by RAC Waknaghat of the Jaypee University of Information Technology was inaugurated by Associate Professor, ECE, Dr Shruti Jain. The event received more than 70 registrations from seven colleges. Besides, technological advancement in the world of healthcare, "SWAASTH", the event is aimed at uplifting the vocational avenue by working towards the personality development of students by enhancing their communication skills and critical thinking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-colleges-asked-to-provide-staff-details-304857
01-09-2021||The state government and political parties have double standards vis-a-vis the Covid safety guidelines and standard operating procedures. The common man is given all kinds of directions but the same are not followed in political functions. It is high time that the government restricted political programmes as the third wave is already surfacing. — Sushant||Restrict political events||Poor maintenance of public urinalsThe public urinals built by the Nurpur Municipal Council (MC) at different locations in the town are in a bad condition. There is no regular cleaning or maintenance and a foul smell emanates from the area, keeping people at bay. In some urinals, repair is required urgently. The MC should ensure regular cleaning and proper maintenance of the public urinals as a large number people visit the town for shopping or for other purposes. — Sanjay Kumar, NurpurWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restrict-political-events-304859
01-09-2021||---||Himachal receives 44% deficient rain in August||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 31Himachal received 44 per cent deficient rain in August, barring Mandi district, which received near normal rain. The rain deficit ranged between 31 per cent (Kinnaur) and 92 per cent (Lahaul and Spiti). The total actual rainfall during August was 146.5 mm against the normal of 262.3 mm.The state had received 324.3 mm rain (24 per cent excess) in August 2019 while the highest deficit of 66 per cent was recorded in 2005 followed by 52 per cent in 2009. However, the overall monsoon deficit during the current season from June 1 to August 31 was 18 per cent as the state received 518.9 mm rain against the normal rain of 635.8 mm.The state had 29 rainy days in August and the highest rainfall of 115 mm was recorded at Bangana on August 28, 112 mm at Naina Devi on August 9, 106. 9 mm at Sujanpur Tira on August 21, 95.8 mm at Sundernagar on August 20 and 92 mm at Kasauli on August 14.Moderate rain occurred at isolated places in the past 24 hours. The Met office has predicted rain and thunderstorm in lower and mid hills and rain and snowfall at isolated places in higher hills from August 1 to 6.Gaggal was the wettest with 69 mm rain, followed by Dehra Gopipur 54, Paonta Sahib 24 mm, Dharamsala 22 mm, Salooni and Berthin 19 mm each, Guler 14 mm, Nagrota Surian and Chamba 13 mm each, Kheri 12 mm, Dalhousie 11mm, Ghamroor 10 mm, Hamirpur and Bharwain 9 mm each, Palampur and Amb 8 mm each, Sarkaghat 7 mm and Bangana, Nadaun and Una 4 mm each.There was no appreciable change in the maximum and minimum temperatures and Keylong and Kalpa were the coldest at night with 10.8°C while Una was the hottest with a high of 35.6°C.Meanwhile, with five more deaths (two in Chamba and one each in Lahaul and Spiti, Mandi and Shimla) reported in rain-related incidents in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 337.The total loss to the state has increased to Rs 932.20 crore and 77 roads, including 45 in Hamirpur, 13 in Shimla, 10 in Mandi and seven in Kangra and two in Una, are still closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-receives-44-deficient-rain-in-august-304819
01-09-2021||---||NHAI told to improve roads in Mandi||Mandi, August 31 Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur has directed officials of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to initiate work to improve the condition of roads in Mandi district. The condition of Chandigarh-Manali highway is worse between Sundernagar and Aut in Mandi. He directed the officials that the roads damaged in the rainy season should be repaired at the earliest so that people do not face inconvenience. Presiding over a meeting of District Public Grievance Redressal Committee in Mandi today, the minister directed the project officer of the NHAI to look into the cases of the families who were deprived of compensation in cases of damage to private properties and buildings due to the Kiratpur-Manali fourlane project in Sundernagar, Nachan and Balh in Mandi.  He also directed BBMB officials to improve the condition of roads on both the banks of the canal in the Nachan-Sundernagar area. He directed the BBMB authority to take the help of PWD if they could not do the work of maintenance of roads themselves. Along with the MLAs, the officers of BBMB and PWD should jointly inspect the spot and get this work done. The minister stated that the public representatives have to face the displeasure of the people for poor condition of roads.  Taking cognizance of the complaints of frequent power cuts in the villages, the minister asked the officials of the HP State Electricity Board to ensure regular power supply in rural areas of the district or be ready to face action.  The minister also asked the power project authorities of Uhal project to submit a report on the cause of the accident that took place during the testing of Uhal Project Phase III.  He said that 6.5 lakh domestic water tap connections have been provided in the state in a short span of last 18 months, whereas mere 7.62 lakh domestic tap connections were installed in the state in the last 72 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nhai-told-to-improve-roads-in-mandi-304820
01-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Govt neglecting Palampur Civil Hospital: Butail||Palampur, August 31Local MLA Ashish Butail today accused the state government of neglecting the Palampur Civil Hospital, which caters to the medical needs of five lakh residents of the region.Butail, while addressing mediapersons here, said that the key posts of surgeon, gynaecologist and other postgraduate doctor were vacant in the hospital for the past nine months. Despite his repeated requests, the government had not filled the posts, causing inconvenience to people. Besides, the X-ray plant of the hospital was nonfunctional for the past three months but no efforts had been made to repair it.He claimed that when the Congress was in power in the state there were three surgeons posted in the hospital and all major surgeries were performed there. A few months ago, the government sent two surgeons for higher studies while one left the job. Since then there was no surgeon in this 200-bed hospital. All surgical cases were being referred to private hospitals or Tanda medical college, he added.Butail said that one post of gynaecologist was also vacant since long. Over 50 to 60 women visit the mother and child care OPD of the hospital everyday but there was none to attend to them. Most of the surgical cases were being referred to private hospitals, he alleged.He said that a post of child specialist was also vacant for the past six months. After the death of a child specialist posted in the hospital, no replacement was provided. An anaesthetist posted in the hospital was recently promoted and transferred to Thural as Block Medical Officer. Since then the post was vacant.Butail alleged that as he was a Congress MLA, the government was deliberately not providing doctors in the hospital. The civil hospital caters to the medical needs of the people of Palampur, Baijnath, Jaisinghpur, Jogindernagar and Dheera subdivisions. It is the lone hospital in the region having 200 beds capacity and 35 sanctioned posts of doctor in all departments. But the services in the hospital have worsened since the BJP came to power in the state, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-neglecting-palampur-civil-hospital-butail-304821
01-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Pong Dam oustees seek double relief||Nurpur, August 31A number of Pong Dam oustees under the banner of the National Highway No. 154 Oustees Association submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur yesterday through the Competent Authority Land Acquisition (CALA)-cum—SDMs of Nurpur and Jawali seeking his intervention for justice and fair compensation to them.Major Onkar Singh Guleria (retd), president of the association, claimed in the memorandum that the oustees were eligible for double compensation as per the provision of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act-2013.He said that Section 39 of the Act under subhead ‘Additional Compensation in case of Multiple Displacement’ clearly depicted that as far as possible not to displace any family, which had already been displaced by the government for the purpose of land acquisition. If the government had to displace the family again, additional compensation equivalent to that of the primary compensation determined under the Act should be paid.Major Guleria (retd) said that the Pong Dam oustees, who were being displaced for the second time due to the Pathankot-Mandi road widening project, should be paid double compensation in all three awards (two have already been announced).The Pong Dam oustees, who after their displacement over five decades ago for the construction of the dam had settled along the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway, are going to be displaced again in the wake of the road widening. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is acquiring their lands, and commercial and domestic buildings. They allege that they have been awarded unfair compensation while they are going to be displaced again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pong-dam-oustees-seek-double-relief-304822
01-09-2021||Shimla||Nigerian arrested, chitta recovered||The Shimla police today arrested a 23 year old Nigerian Ikechkwu, alias Alex, from Uttamnagar in New Delhi and recovered 27.23 grams chitta from him. Ikechkwu was booked under the NDPS Act.Ikechkwu had supplied drugs to Sahib Singh (31). Sahib was arrested along with Mohneesh Negi (29) at Shoghi barrier on August 27 after 9.54 gm chitta and some syringes were recovered from the car in which they were travelling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nigerian-arrested-chitta-recovered-304823
01-09-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||CM Jai Ram Thakur lauds Kullu DC’s role in vaccine drive||KULLU, AUGUST 31Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur during a virtual conference with all Deputy Commissioners and SPs of the state today appreciated Kullu Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg for personally visiting remote Malana village and motivating people for vaccination and providing vaccine on the doorsteps to all those who were left out.Garg told the Chief Minister that a door-to-door survey was conducted in Malana village and discussions were held with priests and kardars to motivate those who had not taken the vaccine.He said that around 400 persons took jabs today during the second day of the special mop-up round. He added that 100 per cent eligible population of Malana had been administered the first dose. He added that people were reluctant to take the jab but when the village priests and kardars took the shots, they also took the vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-lauds-kullu-dcs-role-in-vaccine-drive-304824
01-09-2021||---||PM Modi to virtually address Himachal frontline workers on Sept 6||Shimla, August 31Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address frontline workers of the state on September 6 on achieving the target of 100 per cent first dose of vaccine coverage of the eligible population, the first by any state in the country so far.Launch mop-up round for left-out people: CMAll Deputy Commissioners should launch a special mop-up round to vaccinate the remaining persons. Special focus must be laid on identifying difficult pockets such as Bara Bhangal in Kangra, Malana in Kullu and Dodra Kwar in Shimla so that all left-out persons could be identified and vaccinated. — Jai Ram Thakur, Chief Minister“Himachal Pradesh has attained the distinction of achieving the 100 per cent target of the first dose of vaccine for 18 years and above population. The Prime Minister has congratulated the frontline workers and the people of the state for this achievement,” said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over a virtual meeting with all Deputy Commissioners, SPs, CMOs, principals of medical colleges, medical superintendents, SDMs and BDOs from here today.He said that the government would provide vaccines to the remaining people of the Bara Bhangal area in Kangra district and a special sortie of the state helicopter would be conducted for the purpose.He said that 90 LED screens would be installed at the district, sub-divisional and block levels, besides other prominent places so that people could participate in this mega event. He added that health workers would interact with the Prime Minister and share their views on the success story.Thakur said that all Deputy Commissioners should launch a special mop-up round to vaccinate the remaining persons. “Special focus must be laid on identifying difficult pockets such as Bara Bhangal in Kangra, Malana in Kullu and Dodra Kwar in Shimla so that all left-out persons could be identified and vaccinated,” he added.Thakur said that sitting arrangements would be made for people at the venue where the event would be screened amid strict Covid guidelines. He added that the involvement of the local MLA, people already vaccinated and public representatives would also be ensured to make the event successful.Chief Secretary Ram Subhag directed the officers concerned to ensure that all people should be vaccinated by September 4. He added that the state had maintained the target of zero wastage of vaccine, which needs to be highlighted.Meanwhile, BJP national president JP Nadda said, “I congratulate Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Health Minister Rajiv Saizal and their entire team for this proud achievement. I also salute the people of Himachal who have played their part in this decisive fight to defeat coronavirus and given a message to the world that every goal can be made possible with cooperation,” Nadda said in a press note.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-modi-to-virtually-address-himachal-frontline-workers-on-sept-6-304825
01-09-2021||Shimla||207 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 207 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 213,548. Besides, three persons died of the virus in Mandi, Bilaspur and Shimla.The highest 52 cases were recorded in Mandi, followed by 46 in Kangra, and 30 each in Hamirpur and Shimla.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/207-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-304826
01-09-2021||---||Panchayat election in tribal areas on Sept 29, October 1||Shimla, August 31The elections to fill vacant posts in panchayati raj institutions (PRI) in tribal areas of Udaipur, Keylong and Kaza in Lahaul and Spiti district and Pangi subdivision of Chamba district will be held in two phases on September 29 and October 1. A notification to this effect was issued by State Election Commissioner Anil Khachi here today.The elections to the gram panchayat, panchayat samiti and zila parishad members will be held in Udaipur and Keylong and zila parishad members in Kaza and gram panchayat and panchayat samiti members in Pangi.The nominations will be filed on September 13, 14 and 15 between 11 am and 3 pm, scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on September 16, the last date of withdrawal is September 18 and the polling will be held on September 29 and October 1.Covid patients and quarantined persons will cast their votes after the closing of voting. The counting of votes of panchayat pradhan, up-pradhan and ward members will be started immediately after the polling while the counting of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members will be done on October 4 at the respective block headquarters. The election process will be completed on October 6.The model code of conduct shall come into force in the development blocks, except municipal areas where byelections are being held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panchayat-election-in-tribal-areas-on-sept-29-october-1-304828
01-09-2021||Ambika Sharma
||2 years on, martyr  Hitesh Sharma’s bust not repaired in Rajgarh||Tribune News Service Solan, August 31 Villagers are angry over the official apathy in repairing a  bust  of martyr Hitesh Sharma installed at Habban village in Rajgarh subdivision of Sirmaur. Its  head was  broken by some miscreants in August  2019.  Hitesh Sharma  had laid down his life while fighting insurgents in Jammu and Kashmir in 2002. He had joined the Army in 1995. They said it was deplorable that such disrespect was being shown to a soldier. They had threatened to initiate an agitation if the bust  was not repaired within a week. Rajesh Sharma, Hitesh’s brother, said, “Three months ago, my mother expired and her only wish was to see the head of my brother’s bust erected at the Shaheed Park being restored. The supreme sacrifice made by my brother appears to have been forgotten. It is painful to see the bust in such a condition, especially when we visit it to pay our respects on Independence Day every year.” The area is the home turf of BJP state president Suresh Kashyap, who himself is an ex-serviceman.  “A sum of Rs 2 lakh was provided by the then Deputy Commissioner for the repair of the bust in 2019  which has failed to be utilised by the Forest Department,” they said.   Though a case had been registered against the miscreants, who had broken the head of the bust,  but the police had failed to make a headway in the case. “The broken head is lying with the police but the miscreants could not be traced,” said Station House Officer Baldev.  SDM, Rajgarh, Surinder Mohan said, “According to information, the Forest Department could not call tenders for the work due to Covid. All works above Rs 1 lakh can be executed only after online tender.” He added, “The locals have reportedly decided to take back the broken head from the police custody which could be repaired”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-years-on-martyr-hitesh-sharmas-bust-not-repaired-in-rajgarh-304829
01-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Parking space not available, 
Shimla IGMC patients, visitors hassled||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 31The state government’s reluctance to delete the Sanjauli-IGMC road from the list of restricted roads is causing a lot of inconvenience to patients and their attendance. Heavy fines for traffic violations under new rules have added to their anguish.Attendants being challanedThere is no parking space for patients and their attendants as vehicle parking is not allowed on the Sanjauli-IGMC road. When attendants reach the hospital with patients, they are virtually hounded by the traffic police and challaned. — Amit, Resident, ShimlaResidents rue that the state government had opened the Vidhan Sabha-Boileauganj road under pressure from lawyers, even though there were alternative routes to reach the district courts but it had failed to open alternative roads leading to the IGMC.There is no parking space for patients and their attendants as vehicle parking is not allowed on the Sanjauli-IGMC road, which is quite wide. When attendants reach the hospital with patients, they are virtually hounded by the traffic police and indiscriminately challaned, alleged Amit, a local resident.Attendants of serious patients are so hassled that they cannot decide whether to admit their patients or look for a parking space. Invariably, vehicles are challaned when attendants complete the formalities for admitting the patient and are running from pillar to post for immediate tests, etc.The road is open for VIPs, who have got permits for this restricted road, while patients are at the receiving end as they are forced to pay heavy fines for “unauthorised parking”. Either the government should provide sufficient parking for vehicles of patients or open the road or direct the police to stop harassing patients for wrong parking, say attendants.There are about 1,500 doctors, paramedical and other staff working in the IGMC, which has a bed capacity of 850 beds. On an average, 2,000 patients come to OPDs every day, said Senior Medical Superintendent, IGMC, Dr Janak Raj.At present, the parking cannot meet the requirements of the hospital staff. However, the Shimla Municipal Corporation is constructing parking lots to accommodate about 750 vehicles but still that would not resolve the problems faced by the visitors, says another resident Sushil.“Why is the government insensitive to the problems of patients and is unwilling to open the road? Patients are already suffering due to their ailments and on top of it, their vehicles are being challaned,” said a patient, who was admitted to the hospital due to some complications.“My mother was admitted to the hospital for a week and my vehicle, which was parked on the roadside in the vicinity of the hospital, was challaned twice, even though it was not causing any hindrance in vehicular movement,” said another visitor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parking-space-not-available-shimla-igmc-patients-visitors-hassled-304830
01-09-2021||Pratibha Chauhan 
||Treat George Cross on a par with PVC, Ashok Chakra, Himachal CM urged||Tribune News Service Shimla, August 31 Brahmi Devi (90), widow of George Cross recipient Naik Kirpa Ram, has urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to treat her husband’s medal on a par with the Param Vir Chakra (PVC)  and the Ashok Chakra.   Brahmi Devi, a resident of Bhapral village in Ghumarwin tehsil of Bilaspur district, has written to the Chief Minister seeking the equivalence of the George Cross with the PVC and the Ashok Chakra, the highest peace-time award. “It really pains me to see that the George Cross, which has been equated with the Victoria Cross in the United Kingdom (UK), has been placed below the PVC and the Ashok Chakra in India,” she laments.   It was after waging a five-year legal battle in a UK court that Brahmi Devi got back the George Cross, which was put up for auction in London in April 2014.  She has attached with the letter to the Chief Minister the copies of the correspondence she had had with the United Kingdom Honours System.  Brahmi Devi urged the Chief Minister to direct the authorities concerned, especially the Sainik Welfare Board, to “rectify the error” so that proper equivalence could be maintained. “If this is not done, it will amount to an insult not only to my husband but also to all other valiant soldiers in the country who were honoured with the George Cross,” she says.  “It is strange that the equivalence of the gallantry awards of both pre-independence (including India, Pakistan and Bangladesh) and post-independence eras, as proposed in the form of the Memorandum of May 13, 1996, is not in consonance with any precedent, order or notification issued by the Government of India or any other competent authority,” she has reasoned in her representation. She adds that the Sainik Welfare Board, which looks after the affairs of ex-servicemen, their wards and next of kith and kin, has not equated the George Cross with other medals, as per the norms.  Brahmi Devi has also attached a letter dated December 1, 2020, written by Pete Norton (GC), Chairman, Victoria Cross and George Cross Medal Association, stating that the George Cross is equivalent to the Victoria Cross. He has also attached a letter dated March 28, 2021, written by Rebecca Maciejewska, Chief Executive of the Victoria Cross and George Cross Association, pertaining to the George Cross taken from the official website of the UK Government.  She explains that the Victoria Cross was a military decoration, which was introduced for the first time by Queen Victoria on January 29, 1856, to recognise and honour the acts of valour during the Crimean War. The George Cross was instituted by King George-VI on September 20, 1940, with a desire to honour civilians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/treat-george-cross-on-a-par-with-pvc-ashok-chakra-himachal-cm-urged-304831
01-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||13,679 motor vehicle challan cases settled in Himachal||Shimla, August 31As many as 13,679 cases of motor vehicle challan were settled and Rs 62.77 lakh was collected as the compounding fee at a Special Lok Adalat–Janta ke Dwar in August, said Prem Pal Ranta, Member Secretary of the HP State Legal Service Authority here today.He said that the State Legal Service Authority had identified 42,571 motor vehicle challan cases throughout the state by associating competent authorities, with an objective to reduce pendency in courts.He said that as per the directions of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath, who is also Executive Chairman of the State Legal Services Authority, earnest efforts were made to identify a maximum number of motor vehicles challans, but due to annual transfers of Judicial Officers, a large number of cases could not be identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-679-motor-vehicle-challan-cases-settled-in-himachal-304832
01-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Sero survey to be conducted in Solan||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 31A sero antibody survey will be conducted in Solan district to gauge the level of antibodies developed in the population of six years and above either due to vaccination or infection.This is part of the sixth such sero survey undertaken by the Indian Council of Medical Research which will help the government chalk out future interventions to check the spread of Covid.District Programme Officer, Solan, Dr Ajay Singh, said, “As many as 400 samples will be collected from 20 centres spread across the district. Twenty blood samples will be collected at each centre which will comprise two samples of children aged six to nine years, four samples of children aged 10 to 17 years and 14 samples comprising an equal number of men and women of 18 years and above.”The sample collection is slated to be from September 3 to 5 while the testing will be undertaken at the lab of the MMU medical college, Sultanpur, from September 5 to 10. Their analysis will be done after September 10. The survey is supposed to be completed by September 15 and is being undertaken in all districts, added Dr Singh.In a bid to encourage people to come forward and volunteer to give blood samples, the block medical officers have been directed to rope in representatives of the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs).“The PRIs will be sensitised about the benefits of giving blood samples for this survey. The participants will be selected randomly and they will be given information sheets encompassing information about the need to conduct the sero survey and its usefulness.”Help is also being sought from the subdivisional magistrates to create awareness among the people to facilitate a smooth sample collection. The Health Department is also training its staff for this survey. Four-member teams, comprising a local health worker, a pharmacist for logistic management, an aanganwari worker and an accredited social health activist, will be present at every collection centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sero-survey-to-be-conducted-in-solan-304833
01-09-2021||---||Kinnaur girl Sneha Negi clinches gold in Asian boxing championship||Shimla, August 31A Kinnaur girl, Sneha Negi, has brought laurels to the country by winning the gold medal in the 66-kg category in the Asian Youth Boxing Championship being held in Dubai.Sneha, who hails from Sangla village in the tribal district of Kinnaur, achieved this feat by defeating her UAE opponent in the final held in Dubai today. Sneha credited her coach Shyam Ratan Negi, father Manoj Negi and mother Sarjan Devi for her success.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur congratulated Sneha for winning the gold medal in the competition. He said that it was an honour for the people of the state, particularly women that they were excelling in every sphere of life and bringing laurels to the nation as well as state.He said that Sneha achieved this feat by virtue of hard work and dedication. He also congratulated the coach and parents of Sneha for her stupendous achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-girl-sneha-negi-clinches-gold-in-asian-boxing-championship-304834
01-09-2021||---||Training camp organised for people with muscular dystrophy in Solan||Solan, August 31 To provide a new avenue for muscular dystrophy (MD)-affected patients, a national training camp was inaugurated by the DC, Solan,  at  the Integrated Muscular Dystrophy Rehabilitation Centre  at Kotho village near here today.     The Indian Association of Muscular Dystrophy (IAMD) has designed a court  at the centre to facilitate the patients.  DC Kritika Kulhari said, “Training, guidance and care can help overcome tough challenges faced by the  specially abled people. They   have proved their worth in the ongoing  Tokyo 2020 Paralympics Games  and this was a heartening news.” She urged the specially abled people to keep their morale high as they were no less in mental and physical abilities.  President, IAMD, Sanjana Goyal, said, “The MD is a neurological condition in which the affected person becomes dependent even for one’s  daily chores.” She said, “No one can even imagine that such a person can play any game in a court. This has, however,  become possible with Para Boccia  as the game can be played such   people.” President, Para Boccia Sports Welfare Society, Jaspreet Singh Dhaliwal said the  sport was being played as the Paralympic sport since 1984 as a competitive sports event. This game is designed for wheelchair-bound players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/training-camp-organised-for-people-with-muscular-dystrophy-in-solan-304835
01-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||No playground for children in upper Dharamsala, rue residents||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 31Residents have complained about the lack of playground for children in the upper Dharamsala area that includes McLeodganj, Dharamkot and Bhagsunag. They have sent a request to the local Municipal Corporation, the MLA and the Mayor to provide a ground for children in McLeodganj.Gazalla Abdullah an Overseas Indian Citizen, who has been staying in McLeodganj for the past few decades and is an environmental activist, said about two decades ago, there used to be ample open spaces.However, land had been occupied by commercial buildings. There was no open space left for children to play. About 1,000 to 2,000 Indian and Tibetan families live in the upper Dharamsala area.Gazalla said the residents had requested Mayor Onkar Nehria, who is a resident of upper Dharamsala, to develop a park for children.Suresh Thakur, another resident, said even the government was constructing buildings on the open spaces. Departments should give their lands for developing a park for children in McLeodganj.Since Dharamsala was being developed as a smart city, the concept would be incomplete without an open space for children, he said.Vishal Nehria, Dharamsala MLA, in his speech in the monsoon session, said he intended to develop two parks in each ward of Dharamsala. He said though the government provided funds for the development of parks, no funds were available for their maintenance. The government should make a provision for maintenance of parks.He said the authorities were looking for open spaces and parks would be developed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-playground-for-children-in-upper-dharamsala-rue-residents-304836
01-09-2021||Solan||Minor raped; one booked||The Majra police in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district registered a case of rape after a minor girl alleged that she was being physically abused and blackmailed, last evening.“According to the complaint, the girl had gone to her uncle’s place at Kot village a year ago where she befriended a youth, Wajid, who posed to be a police officer,” said DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur.He called her to a secluded place and raped her. He also clicked her pictures and started blackmailing her.On August 26, Wajid promised to return all her pictures and asked her to meet. He, however, took her to a hotel and raped her again. He also failed to give back her pictures and told her to keep silent about it. He then dropped her outside her house and fled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minor-raped-one-booked-304837
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana, Himachal record deficit rainfall in August||Monsoon has not augured well for North India during August this year, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) reporting rains to be heavily deficient in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.Also read: Country likely to receive above-normal rains in SeptemberRain in Punjab has been 56 per cent below the long period average, while in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, it has been below normal by 48 per cent and 44 per cent, respectively. Punjab received 69.9 mm rain in August against the normal of 160 mm, Haryana 82.4 mm, while Himachal received 146.5 mm as compared to the normal of 157.2 mm and 262.3 mm, respectively. Nawanshahr, Faridkot and Bathinda were the only three districts in Punjab that received above normal rainfall in August. SAS Nagar was the worst-hit with a deficiency of 81 per cent.In Haryana, Mewat received surplus rain this month, with the deficiency in other districts ranging up to 83 per cent. In Himachal, rainfall remained below par in all districts, with Lahaul and Spiti in the upper reaches recording a deficiency of 92 per cent, the driest this month. — TNSUneven spreadNew Delhi: The country suffered from uneven monsoon rains in the month of August. While eastern parts of India like Bihar and Assam struggled with floods and swelling rivers, plains of the the northwest, including Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, registered a deficiency ranging between 32 and 56 per cent this month, despite heavy rains in several parts on Tuesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/punjab-haryana-himachal-record-deficit-rainfall-in-august-304848
01-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||2020-21 saw Kalka-Shimla rail route earnings dip 80%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Battling the blows of pandemic-induced inactivity, the earnings of passenger trains plying on the Kalka-Shimla heritage railway track have nosedived by 80 per cent in the fiscal 2020-21. The total earnings have slumped from Rs8.99 crore in the financial year 2019-20 to Rs1.76 crore in the last fiscal.Before the pandemic, the route, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, made average earnings in excess of Rs9 crore. The figure was Rs8.67 crore in 2017-18 and Rs9.04 crore in 2018-19, revealed data shared by the Ambala Division of Northern Railways with Chandigarh Tribune.The worst hit are the earnings from parcels, which dipped from Rs3.28 lakh to just Rs1,406. Earnings from ‘other coaching earnings’, which means revenue from miscellaneous sources, too fell sharply after the Covid-19 pandemic last year. While the earnings under this section had been Rs96.4 lakh and Rs1.095 crore in 2017-18 and 2018-19 fiscals, this figure fell to Rs66.2 lakh in 2019-20 (the year when pandemic started) and dropped to just Rs14.56 lakh in 2020-21.The passenger earnings fell from Rs8.3 crore in 2019-20 to just Rs1.6 crore. Passenger earnings were Rs7.7 crore and Rs7.9 crore in 2017-18 and 2018-19, respectively.When contacted, GM Singh, Divisional Railway Manager, Ambala, said, “Almost all regular passenger trains were inactive during the pandemic-induced lockdown in March. Then, some trains were back on tracks in a phased manner. We are still running special trains. We would get maximum revenue from Shivalik Deluxe Express (train numbers 52451 and 52452).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2020-21-saw-kalka-shimla-rail-route-earnings-dip-80-304692
01-09-2021||Dharamsala||To revive silk, furniture units, Himachal Pradesh turns to NIFT||The Himachal Pradesh General Industries Corporation (HPGIC) has signed an MoU with the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), Kangra, to revive Nurpur Silk Mills and furniture factories located at Bilaspur and Chambaghat (Solan).Nurpur Silk Mills (NSM), established by the Punjab Government as silk centre of North India in 1964, was transferred to the Himachal Government in 1969. The venture was further transferred to the HPMIDC in 1971 and to the HPGIC in 1988.The unit has been running into losses for around 30 years. Director (Industries) Rakesh Prajapati said the state government was keen on reviving the heritage unit and converting it into state’s silk hub.The Furniture Factory, Bilaspur, was established in 1972 by the HPMIDC, which transferred it to the HPGIC in 1988. The unit manufactures office, household, school and college furniture. To meet the rising demand for modular furniture, the government has decided to modernise the existing factories.On June 15, the HPGIC board decided to revive the Nurpur Silk Mills and the furniture factories. Prajapati said two MoUs were signed with Aakash Dewangan, Director, NIFT, Kangra, today.As per the MoUs, NIFT would provide end-to-end support in preparing DPRs, besides mentoring the units’ revival. It would also provide support in product designing, marketing, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-revive-silk-furniture-units-himachal-pradesh-turns-to-nift-304767
