04-09-2021||---||No decision on opening schools by Himachal Cabinet||Shimla, September 4Contrary to expectations, schools in Himachal will remain closed till September 14 as decided earlier.It was being expected that the state government could take a call on opening of schools like colleges at today’s Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, but it has been decided to wait for some more time.Though the teachers and other staff in all government schools have been attending school, regular classes for students of classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 have yet to resume. As such the school exams being conducted currently would continue to be held online.The schools which had been opened on August 2 for senior classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 were closed down once there was a surge in Covid cases. With many government school teachers and students testing positive, the fear of transmission forced the government to close down schools, which will remain closed till September 14, as per the earlier order.The positivity rate, especially in districts of Mandi, Chamba and Lahaul-Spiti remains worrisome with more than 200 new cases being reported daily. Also, the high fatality figure of about four Covid deaths daily on an average has forced the government to tread cautiously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-decision-on-opening-schools-by-himachal-cabinet-306687
04-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Traffic diverted as Nalagarh-Shimla road caves in||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 4Vehicular traffic was diverted through link roads after the Ramshehar-Kunihar-Sayri-Shimla road caved in at Sayri in Kandaghat sub-division on Friday evening following the excavation undertaken at its base.Incessant rain in the area trigerred the incident as a sizebale portion of the road eroded and cracks appeared on its surface.Buses plying on the road have been diverted through the Paoghati-Shal Chanog-Mamligh route while smaller vehicles have been directed to take other link roads.Commuters from as far as Nalagarh sub-division use this route to reach Shimla besides those from Arki in Solan district. It is also used by students to reach their educational institutes.Only a narrow strip of the road remained intact while its major portion eroded soon after a heavy shower.Kandaghat SDM Vikas Sood said vehicular traffic had been diverted through the link roads and there was no traffic disruption.He said the naib tehsildar would visit the spot to take stock of the situation and the staff of the Public Works Department had been directed to ensure speedy restoration of the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-diverted-as-nalagarh-shimla-road-caves-in-306622
04-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Shimla film ‘Amar Colony’ to have French touch||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 3French award-winning music composer Marc Marder will compose music for a Shimla-based film, ‘Amar Colony’. The movie is a story of three women who live a life of regret and loneliness in the hills of Shimla.Inspired by british era buildingA dilapidated wooden structure, Titla Hotel, in Jakhu, inspired me to write the script of this film. The building built during the British era houses several families and I was curious to know about them. — Siddharth Chauhan, DirectorWritten and directed by local lad Siddharth Chauhan and produced by Nisheeth Kumar from Indie Film Collective, the film is at its post-production stage right now. Siddharth has earlier directed several documentaries and short films.A one-and-a-half hour film, Amar Colony is story of three neighbours living in a mysterious chawl. Emancipation is the central theme of Amar Colony, which explores feelings like love, regret, emptiness and fight for fulfilling the desires through the characters and their intertwined lives in this film.The film is shot in a span of 30 days at different locations in Shimla, including YWCA, US Club, Shimla General Post Office (Mall Road), St Thomas School, Oak Tree House (Bharari), Lower Bazaar, Sabzi Mandi and Baldeyan on the outskirts of the town.“A dilapidated wooden structure, Titla Hotel, in Jakhu, adjacent to my house inspired me to write the script of this film. The building built during the British era houses several families and I was curious to know about the families and thought of exploring the subject,” says Siddharth.“Having Marc on board for this film is a dream come true, says Siddharth. Marc has composed music for over 100 films and eight of his films have premiered at the Cannes Film Festival in the past few years.Siddharth has experimented with both fictional and realistic issues.His first film was ‘Zunie’, followed by ‘Peace is Nowhere’, ‘Boys Don’t Wear Nail Polish’, ‘Infinite Space’, ‘Papa’, Pahari film ‘Pashi’ and ‘The Flying Trunk’.Amar Colony features an ensemble cast with Nimisha Nair (Delhi); Sangeeta Agrawal (US); Sreejith Vijay (Kerala); Ayush Shrivastava and Rohit Agrawal (Mumbai); and Deepak Sharma, Usha Chauhan, Yash Thakur, Anuj Sharma and Vandana Thakur (Shimla).The film was made with the help of 10 crew members from Shimla, including Ish Sharma, Ankit Rathore, Chahat Arora, Disha Bhardwaj, Adarsh Sehra, Akshay Kumar, Akshit Vashisht, Diksha Rathore and Pooja Jeeran.Hailing from Rohru, Siddharth holds a Master’s degree in Business management (MBA). He has been brought up in Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-film-amar-colony-to-have-french-touch-306429
04-09-2021||Chamba||Chamba man selected for world bodybuilding meet||Devashish Jandrotia, a resident of Chamba, has been selected to represent India at the 12th WBPF World Bodybuilding and Physique Sport Championship 2021 to be held in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, from October 1 to 7. The selection was made by the Indian Body Builders Federation (IBBF) during its trials held on August 29 in Chandigarh.  In a communication issued on September 1, IBBF general secretary Hiral Sheth confirmed the selection of 29-year-old Jandrotia for men’s sport physique. “I am hopeful of excelling in the championship as I have been preparing myself to take part in a world-level championship for past many years now,” Jandrotia said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-man-selected-for-world-bodybuilding-meet-306430
04-09-2021||---||Chamba woman impersonates cop, arrested||Solan, September 3The Baddi police today arrested a woman, identified as Aanchal Kumari, for impersonating a cop, after they received a complaint from a local resident.The 21-year-old woman, who hails from Salooni in Chamba district, had hired a room at Kishanpura in Baddi, where she had been living since August 15, for Rs 3,500. The landlord had verified her identify on the basis of her Aadhar card. She was earlier residing at another room in Kishenpura, which she had vacated on August 15.Aanchal Kumari had informed the complainant, Nirmal Singh, who was the caretaker of the hired dwelling, that she was deployed with the state Police Department as a constable. She often wore the police uniform and went to the market. He enquired about her and found out that she was lying in a bid to mislead the people.Navdeep Singh, DSP, Baddi, confirmed that a case under Section 170 of the IPC had been registered against Aanchal. “A police uniform has been recovered from her room. It is yet to be ascertained that for how long she has been residing in this industrial belt and if she has duped some persons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-woman-impersonates-cop-arrested-306431
04-09-2021||---||Nepal army team visits ARTRAC||Shimla, September 3A delegation of the Nepal army today visited the Army Training Command (ARTRAC) and was apprised of the essential aspects of training in the Indian Army, enhancing cooperation in military training and the way forward.The eight-member delegation from Nepal, led by Major General Niranjan Kumar Shrestha, Director General, Military Training and Doctrine, is on a visit to India till September 4. The delegation has visited various training establishments, including the Military College of Telecommunication and Engineering, Infantry School, Army Marksmanship Unit, Army War College at Mhow, Armed Forces Medical College, Army Sports Institute, National Defence Academy, Military Intelligence Training School and Depot, College of Military Engineering at Pune and WARDEC in Delhi. The delegation also met General MM Naravane, PVSM, AVSM, SM, VSM, ADC, COAS, Indian Army, on Thursday.In the final leg of the visit, the delegation will visit 14 Gorkha Training Centre at Subathu and Indian Military Training Academy at Dehradun. “The Nepal delegation’s visit has helped in deepening the India-Nepal relations,” said an official spokesperson. He said Nepal was an important neighbour of India and had special significance in the foreign policy.Indian Army has maintained deep ties with Nepal as the Indian Army Gorkha battalions draw troops from Nepal and the retired Gorkha soldiers in Nepal are being looked after by the Indian government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nepal-army-team-visits-artrac-306432
04-09-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Nukkad natak’ to spread awareness on vaccination||Hamirpur, September 3The police officials of the state’s first Reserve Battalion at Ban Gadh in Una performed a ‘nukkad natak’ at Gandhi Chowk today to create awareness on vaccination against Covid.The artistes of the batallion have formed an art and culture club, Eklava Kala Manch, to create awareness about various issues through street plays.The team performed the play at other places in the town, including bus stand and main market, as well.Head Constable Yogesh Kumar said the team of the policemen would spread the message for a week and request Hamirpur residents to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nukkad-natak-to-spread-awareness-on-vaccination-306433
04-09-2021||Una||Una: Paralympic silver medallist Nishad Kumar gets warm welcome||Nishad Kumar, who won the silver medal in the Tokyo Paralympic Games, reached home this afternoon and was given a warm welcome by his family members, sports enthusiasts and social organisations.On August 29, Nishad (22) won the silver medal in the men’s high jump T47 event, after clearing 2.09 metres. His father Rashpal is a mason and mother Pushpa Devi is a housewife. They live in their ancestral Badaun village in Amb.Nishad was welcomed at the Mehatpur inter-state barrier by his family and relatives, where Chairman, State Finance Commission, Satpal Singh Satti, was also present. People awaited on the roadside and cheered as Nishad travelled past in a car along the 11-km route to Una.At the Indira Gandhi Sports Complex in Una city, the athlete was honoured by the District Youth Affairs and Sports Department officials. Members of various district sports bodies were also present. However, not a single officer from the district administration came to congratulate Nishad at Una.Nishad said he was grateful to the government for providing him the services of a coach and facilitating his boarding and lodging during training sessions in different parts of the country. He called upon the youth to keep away from drugs and alcohol, and focus their energy on positive activities.Nishad’s father Rashpal said his son had proved that financial constraints were no hindrance to success if one had the dedication to achieve the objective. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-paralympic-silver-medallist-nishad-kumar-gets-warm-welcome-306434
04-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Mining mafia chased away in Palampur||Palampur, September 3Villagers of Thural in Palampur on Thursday lodged a protest against the illegal mining in the Neugal at Naun village on the Palampur-Hamirpur highway.Ban only on paperDespite a ban on the use of machinery for mining in the state, the mafia has pressed into service tractor-trailers, tippers and earthmovers. Therefore, we decided to seize these. VillagersThe villagers assembled in Thural, reached the mining site along the Neugal and forced the mafia to run away, along with their tractor-trailers. The villagers said despite repeated complaints to the police, the PWD and IPH departments took no action and mining continued round the clock.The mafia had stacked boulders and sand on the forestland, which was being transported to Mandi, Hamirpur and Kangra daily. They said the state was losing revenue of about Rs 10-15 lakh daily. The mafia was regularly charging illegal cess from tractors owners.“Despite a ban on the use of machinery for mining, the mafia has pressed into service JCB machines, tractor-trailers, tippers and earthmovers. Therefore, we decided to seize these,” the villagers said.The protesters said roads, bridges, irrigation channels, cremation grounds and village pastures had been destroyed because of continuous mining in the area.Two days ago, when the villagers had filed online complaints regarding the issue, the police said they had no manpower to deal with the mafia. A senior police officer said there was a limited force in police station at Thural and it was not possible to focus on illegal mining alone as they had other matters to resolve.Rajiv Kalia, Mining Officer, Dharamsala, said he had dismantled the illegal roads with the help of the police in the past six months, but the mafia had restored the stretch during night. He would file a complaint with the police to seek help, he said.The villagers said they had decided to resort to a direct action and continue their fight against the illegal mining till the practice was stopped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mining-mafia-chased-away-in-palampur-306435
04-09-2021||---||Varsity, college teachers protest in Himachal||Shimla, September 3Protest Day was observed in government colleges with teachers holding gate meetings and wearing black badges to protest against the delay in announcing the UGC pay scales to the college and university teachers by the Punjab Government.These scales are to be implemented in Himachal Pradesh after the notification in Punjab. It is a matter of concern that other states, except Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, have given the scales, said general secretary, Himachal Government College Teachers Association (HGCTA), RL Sharma.“The scale is delayed in Punjab and Himachal is also suffering as we follow the Punjab pattern,” he said, adding that they had given several representations to the government to delink our scales from Punjab and give them these on the basis of UGC, but the government was firm on its decision that it would be given only after the notification in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/varsity-college-teachers-protest-in-himachal-306436
04-09-2021||---||Himachal CM lays stone of Rs 225-cr works in Sirmaur||Solan, September 3 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has said the unprecedented development has taken place in the state during his three-and-a-half-year tenure in the state. He was addressing a gathering  at Sarahan in  Pachhad during his day’s visit to  Sirmaur district today.  He also  dedicated and laid foundation stone of development projects worth Rs 314.75 crore in Pachhad, which included the inauguration of projects of Rs 89.66 crore and foundation stone of Rs 225.09 crore.  The Chief Minister said, “The government has initiated several welfare schemes for balanced development in the state.”   He said the state had only 50 ventilators whereas now there are 800 ventilators to meet health exigencies.  Thakur said  Prime Minister Narendra Modi would address the people, frontline workers, doctors and health workers on  September 6.  He urged the people  to join the live telecast of this programme.  He elaborated upon various developmental initiatives,   including the HimCare, the Sahara Yojana, the Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana, the Mukhya Mantri Swavalamban Yojana, etc.  Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary said  the government had ensured the overall development of the state and availability of public services at their doorstep.  Addressing a gathering, Shimla MP and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap said the government had made direct communication with people for the immediate redress  of their grievances. “The government has started Jan Manch programmes which received appreciation from across the country,” he added.  MLAs Dr  Rajiv Bindal  and  Reena Kashyap and Himachal Pradesh Agriculture Marketing Board Chairman Baldev Bhandari also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-lays-stone-of-rs-225-cr-works-in-sirmaur-306437
04-09-2021||---||Congress leader Ragini Naik takes a dig at BJP over ‘selloff’||Shimla, September 3Congress national spokesperson Ragini Naik today said the disinvestment of strategic and core sectors would adversely impact employment avenues for the weaker sections as it would result in monopoly of corporate houses.Addressing a press conference, Ragini said Congress was not opposed to disinvestment as it, too, had done the same with chronic entities.“Corporate houses will gain control over these core entities for the next 50 years with weaker sections, such as the SC, ST and OBC’s, being left in the lurch as far as jobs are concerned,” she remarked.She said Rahul Gandhi had already warned the Modi government of disastrous results of the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP).“While on the one hand, as many as 23 crore people have been pushed below the poverty line during the pandemic, the Modi government is advising people not to indulge in expensive commodities,” she remarked.Ragini said the Modi government was hell bent upon emulating oligarchy, where power and wealth is concentrated in a few hands. Citing the Indian economist and professor at Cornwell University, Kaushik Basu, she said there must be a rethink on the NMP or else the nation would face the threat of losing its national assets, once sold.She also remarked that the BJP government had failed to protect the interest of the apple growers in Himachal as there was no protection to growers against imported fruit, which was being sold very cheap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-leader-ragini-naik-takes-a-dig-at-bjp-over-selloff-306438
04-09-2021||---||Himachal Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh faces ire of apple orchardists||Shimla, September 3Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh today faced the ire of apple growers, who gheraoed his car at Theog.Also read:Offered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCsCongress misleading masses on apple price, alleges BJPThe development came in the wake of remarks by the minister that apple growers must not use boxes and cartons, but sell their produce in crates. Mahender Singh was accompanied by Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Virender Kanwar and Chopal BJP MLA Balbir Verma. Verma tried to pacify the growers but they refused to let go and expressed resentment against the policies of the government. The growers stood in front of the vehicle of the minister while he was on his way to the Parala marketing yard.The growers, including representatives of the Kisan Morcha, the Congress and the CPM gheraoed the vehicle of the ministers, while people resorted to sloganeering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-horticulture-minister-mahender-singh-faces-ire-of-apple-orchardists-306439
04-09-2021||---||Jai Ram Thakur inaugurates projects in Shillai||Solan, September 3Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid foundation stones of 30 developmental projects worth over Rs 175 crore at Shillai today evening.Addressing a public meeting at Shillai, he said: “The area has remained neglected in terms of development despite the fact that it remained with the Congress for about five decades. During my last visit, I had announced several developmental projects for the area.”Thakur said despite the fact that about one and a half years of the present tenure was adversely affected due to the pandemic, the state government ensured that the developmental aspirations of the people were fulfilled.Taking a jibe at Congress leaders for giving him suggestions to fight the pandemic, the Chief Minister said it would have been better had they advised their leaders of Punjab and Rajasthan, where the situation was far more adverse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jai-ram-thakur-inaugurates-projects-in-shillai-306440
04-09-2021||Shimla||Congress misleading masses on apple price, alleges BJP||The Congress is misleading the masses on the issue of the price of apple because of byelections in the Jubbal Kotkhai Assembly and Mandi Lok Sabha constituencies, said BJP chief spokesperson Randhir Sharma.Also read:Himachal Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh faces ire of apple orchardistsOffered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCsAddressing mediapersons here today, he said the BJP government had increased the support price of apple by Rs 2.50 as compared to 50 paise by the Congress. The price of A-grade apples was good, but that of tainted apples was low.He said the Congress was practising negative politics as they were threatened by the popularity of the Union Government and the state. The Congress has become nervous, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-misleading-masses-on-apple-price-alleges-bjp-306441
04-09-2021||Dipender Manta
||Nod to 2 river rafting sites in Lahaul-Spiti||Tribune News Service Mandi, September 3 The district administration of Lahaul & Spiti approved two sites for river rafting in the Chandra-Bhaga rivers today. It will promote adventure sports to attract tourists to the region. DC Neeraj Kumar said the decision was taken after an inspection was conducted by a technical committee constituted for the purpose. He said, “The technical committee conducted a trial of river rafting on some stretches of the rivers. One site was approved near the Atal Tunnel from Gufa hotel up to Pagal Nullah on the Chandra river, which is almost a one-km-long stretch. Another site was approved from Muling up to Tandi on the Chandra river, which is 2.5 km long.” He said, “The third site was inspected from the Gozang bridge to Tandi on the Bhaga river, which is almost 4 km long. However, the committee is yet to decide whether it is safe for river rafting.” The committee that inspected the sites comprises experts from the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports, Manali, and the local administration. The DC said adventure sports in Lahaul & Spiti would attract tourists in large numbers, adding that this will create self-employment opportunities for the youth engaged in the tourism sector.   Tashi, a stakeholder of the tourism industry, appreciated the decision of the district administration. He said the youth of the Lahaul valley had been urging the state to start adventure sports activities ever since the tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway was thrown open for traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nod-to-2-river-rafting-sites-in-lahaul-spiti-306442
04-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||Shimla: Probe panchayat secy, High Court tells dept||Shimla, September 3Taking a serious note on the issue of tampering with the official record of the Sandhu Panchayat (Shimla district), the High Court has directed the Panchayati Raj Department to hold a regular inquiry against the Panchayat Secretary, Sandhu.The court directed that till the conclusion of such inquiry, the Panchyat Secretary, Sandhu, Theog tehsil, would remain under suspension.A division bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Satyen Vaidya passed the order on Thursday on a petition regarding renaming and bifurcation of the Sandhu Panchayat. During the course of hearing, it was brought to the notice of the court that the Panchayat Secretary had tampered with the records of Sandhu regarding its population.While passing this order, the court observed that “the complicity of Panchayat Secretary has prima-facie been established. Since the Panchayat Secretary has prima-facie interpolated and tampered with the official records, as such, we direct the Director Panchayati Raj to lodge an FIR under appropriate provisions of the law against her within a period of one week.”The court passed this order after perusing the report filed by the Additional Director-cum-Joint Secretary (Panchayati Raj), wherein he mentioned that as far as the difference in population in two different Resolutions is concerned, Panchayat Secretary admitted that it was due to an inadvertent error as the population of the Scheduled Caste residents were added twice to the total population. However, the correct population of Sandhu was 2,417.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-probe-panchayat-secy-high-court-tells-dept-306443
04-09-2021||---||Biker dies in road mishap||Solan,September 3A motorcyclist died when a speeding truck coming from the opposite side rammed into his bike at Kumarhatti this morning.The deceased has been identified as Sushil Kumar, a resident of Barog. According to an eyewitness, the truck was coming from the Dharampur side on the NH-5 and was being driven on the wrong side. The truck driver has been identified as Surjit Singh, a resident of Barwala in Haryana. The Dharampur police have registered a case under the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/biker-dies-in-road-mishap-306444
04-09-2021||Ravinder Sood||Book those who thrashed me: Congress leader Jagjivan Pal to Himachal CM||Palampur, September 3Jagjivan Pal, senior Congress leader, ex-MLA and former Chief Parliamentary Secretary (CPS), today appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and DGP Sanjay Kundu to book the BJP workers who had publicly attacked him at Rara village in Sulah on August 31.The caseJagjivan Pal was reportedly beaten up by BJP workers in the presence of the police and hundreds of villagers during a protest at Rara village in Sulah on August 31Talking to The Tribune at his residence in Khaira village, 25 km from here, this afternoon, the leader said he was in a state of shock after the incident. Despite the fact that he had lodged a complaint in the Bhawarna police station the same day, the police had not taken any action. They had just called the culprits to the police station and released them under political pressure.Pal said he had gone to Mandap village near Sulah to support the cause of the agitating villagers who were opposing the construction of Panchayat Bhavan at Rara village instead of Mandap. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar had laid the foundation stone of the bhavan at Rara village, which irked the villagers.He said during a peaceful protest, he was beaten up by BJP workers in the presence of the police and hundreds of local residents. Pal also released a video of the incident to the mediapersons.Pal said it was evident from the incident that the law and order situation in Sulah had moved from bad to worse. When former CPS was not safe, what could be the fate of a common man.Vipin Parmar said when matter came to his notice, he directed the police to initiate action against the culprits. A police team requested Pal for the registration of an FIR at the Bhawarna police station.However, Pal was neither ready for medical examination, nor for the registration of a case, therefore no case was registered.Later, the police also recorded the statement of Pal and closed the matter. Parmar said he never supported such violent incidents and condemned it. He said if needed, the police could re-investigate the case.Meanwhile, leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri condemned the incident. Talking to the reporter, he said the Congress would launch a statewide agitation and expose the BJP leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/book-those-who-thrashed-me-congress-leader-jagjivan-pal-to-himachal-cm-306445
04-09-2021||r Correspondent
||Village women protest drug peddling in Baijnath||Palampur, September 3 A large number  of women in Baijnath today protested in front of the  offices of  the SDM and the DSP against the increasing drug trafficking  in the area.  Mahila Mandals of Kunsal, Mahala,  Kuni,  Tamru, Thara  and Mandhol in Baijnath subdivision organised a procession and alleged that the police had failed to deal with the menace, despite public complaints. They said the drug menace had spoiled the lives of many youths.  Earlier, on the complaints of villagers, the police raided a shop at Thara village  near Baijnath and seized banned drugs from the shop.  Sapna Devi, Pradhan, Kunsal panchayat, who was leading the protesting women, alleged that  though the police were well-versed with the situation, there had been no checks. The  narcotics and other banned drugs like chitta and charas are available  easily in villages, she alleged. “Villages and towns  around Baijnath   are the worst affected, where  the drug trade has flourished in the past few years  and the drug mafia has succeeded  in spreading its tentacles even  in  villages and rural areas of the district,” said protesting women outside the SDM’s office.  Later, they also submitted a memorandum to the SDM and the DSP, demanding a crackdown on the drug mafia in the region.   Information gathered by The Tribune  revealed  that there were many areas  in Palampur, Baijnath, Jaisinghpur, Bhawarna and Maranda, where drugs were available.  Earlier, charas was easily available in the region, but now heroin (chitta) is also available.  In the past one year, the police have arrested a number of persons involved in this illegal trade, including women, and cases under the Narcotics Act were registered in different police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/village-women-protest-drug-peddling-in-baijnath-306446
04-09-2021||Nurpur||Himachal Congress seeks all-party meet to check illegal mining||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) vice-president and party in charge, Nurpur zone comprising Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur, Indora and Shahpur assembly constituencies, Rajinder Rana has requested the government to call an all-party meeting on the illegal mining issue.Talking to mediapersons here today, Rana said an environment and development-friendly mining policy should be framed to save underground water resources and ecology of the hill state.He alleged alarming reports of the rampant illegal mining on the riverbeds of the Chakki, the Chhonchh, the Beas, the Dehar, the Jabbar and the Gaj rivulets were worrisome. He said the illegal mining in connivance with the government authorities should be stopped.“Big and deep trenches in the riverbeds have changed the course of the rivulets, posing threat to flash floods in the low-lying areas in Kangra district,” he said. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-congress-seeks-all-party-meet-to-check-illegal-mining-306447
04-09-2021||Our Correspondent||CPM seeks Rs 7,500 each for Covid infected||Chamba, September 3The CPM sought the government’s help for those, who had been infected by Covid, and were within the purview of tax. The party urged the government to deposit Rs 7,500 each in their accounts.Addressing the sixth conference of the party’s district committee, state secretary Onkar Shad said the people had to suffer from health disorders due to the mismanagement by the government during the pandemic.In the second wave, 2,500 persons had lost their lives in the state, said Shad. He said the Modi government was destroying the public sectors.“Unemployment is at its highest in the past 45 years. The farmer-labour laws are being changed to give benefit to the capitalists,” Shad said.As many as 40 delegates from Chamba district participated in the conference. A seven-member committee was also elected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cpm-seeks-rs-7-500-each-for-covid-infected-306448
04-09-2021||Shimla||Hamirpur man dies in rain-related incident||One person was killed in Hamirpur in a rain-related incident, taking the toll during the monsoon to 349 and 18 roads, including seven in Hamirpur, six in Mandi and five in Kangra, are still closed. The local Met office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning in isolated places in seven districts on September 7 and predicted a wet weather till September 9. Shimla was the wettest with 67 mm of rain followed by Jubbarhatti 46 mm, Palampur 43 mm, Bharari and Sarkaghat 22 mm each, Seobagh 16 mm, Gohar 15 mm, Sundernagar and Baldwara 12 mm each, Dharamsala and Gaggal 11 mm each, Narkanda 10.5 mm, Bharmour and Manali 10 mm each, Kothi, Baijnath and Wangtoo 9 mm each, Pandoh and Dalhousie 8 mm each, Bilaspur and Bhuntar 7 mm, Nichar, Nagrota Surian, Kalpa, Banjar and Sundernagar 6 mm each and Bijahi, Chhatrari, Guler and Bajura and 5 mm each. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-man-dies-in-rain-related-incident-306449
04-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Arki Assembly byelection: Tough for Congress, BJP to select nominees||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 3Ticket aspirants for the Arki Assembly byelection are making all-out efforts to prove their mettle in the Congress as well as the Bharatiya Janata Party.The seat fell vacant after the death of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.With indications of Virbhadra Singh’s kin contesting from the Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll, all eyes are on the Congress choice for the seat. Though party co-incharge Sanjay Dutt has visited the constituency to gauge the strength of the aspirants, ticket will be announced only after the declaration of the polls.The seat was held on two consecutive occasions by a Brahmin before it was wrested by Virbhadra Singh, a Rajput, in 2017. With names of Rajput candidates, comprising a relative of the deceased leader, being the front-runners for three other byelections, it remains to be seen if a Brahmin will be given the ticket here by the Congress.Brahmins as well as Rajput candidates are vying for the ticket from this constituency.The BJP faces a tumultuous situation within the organisation. A section of Arki leaders convened a meeting at Bhararighat under the banner of the Arki Kalyan Sanstha today where two-term MLA Govind Ram Sharma’s candidature was supported by Zila Parishad members Asha Parihar and Amar Singh as well as the sanstha president Surinder Thakur.The leaders, while putting their weight behind Sharma, said senior leaders of Arki have been discriminated against by the BJP. They have also decided to convene a mahasammalen if Sharma was denied the ticket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/arki-assembly-byelection-tough-for-congress-bjp-to-select-nominees-306450
04-09-2021||Shimla||189 new Covid cases, four deaths in Himachal Pradesh||A total of 189 new Covid cases were recorded today while four persons succumbed to the virus in Kangra. The number of active cases was 1,767 with the total positive cases being 2,14,004.The highest number of 48 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 46 in Mandi, 25 in Hamirpur, 23 in Shimla, nine in Lahaul Spiti, eight in Chamba, seven each in Bilaspur and Kullu, six in Solan, four in Una and three each in Kinnaur and Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/189-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-306468
04-09-2021||A workshop on 'Cyber Threats||Workshop on cyber threats at Government Degree College, Paonta Sahib||Approve bill to regulate school feeThe Private Schools Parents' Forum has urged the government to approve the bill to regulate fee structure and cautioned that in case the government failed to take effective steps, the 'manch' would be forced to launch an agitation. The government had prepared the draft bill and sought suggestions and objections from stakeholders, but the bill was not introduced during the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha. Convener of the forum, Vijendra Mehra said the government had failed to rein in the private schools, who were increasing the fee at their will even during the pandemic. The students were being asked to pay annual charges, computer and smart classroom fee and miscellaneous charges, he said. Some of the schools included various charges in the tuition fee and the order of the government that the tuition fee should not be more than 50 per cent of the total fee was being violated, he alleged.SFI gheraoes HPU dean, studiesThe Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) campus unit of the Students Federation of India (SFI) gheraoed the dean of studies, in protest against the alleged scam in Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) testing and breach of secrecy in results. Alleging that the university administration had spoiled the career of students by not maintaining secrecy in results of the final year students of graduate courses, the president and the secretary of campus unit said the results should be available on a single portal. The SFI had been opposing these actions of the university, but instead of rectifying the errors, the administration had registered cases against SFI activists, they said, demanded that the appointments made through outsourcing should be cancelled immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workshop-on-cyber-threats-at-government-degree-college-paonta-sahib-306492
04-09-2021||The condition of the Baddi-Barotiwala road is at its worst during the monsoon||Baddi-Barotiwala road in poor condition||— Ajay Kumar, BarotiwalaNo check on Garbage scattered in GlenGarbage is scattered all over in Glen, which is a tourist spot in the heart of the city, near the Annadale Ground. People visit this place and dump trash, including polythene bags, disposable items, beer cans, and liquor bottles. There should be a check to ensue people do not leave throw garbage in the area. — Pancham, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune  invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-barotiwala-road-in-poor-condition-306494
04-09-2021||---||PGI urges citizens to donate for poor patients||Chandigarh, September 3Prof AK Gupta, Dean (Research)-cum-Medical Superintendent and Head, Department of Hospital Administration, PGI, has urged citizens to donate generously to Poor Patient Assistance Cell (PPAC) to provide financial assistance and guidance to poor and needy patients.In 2019-20, 2,858 beneficiaries were provided medical assistance with Rs1,49,08,944, in 2020-21, 3,248 patients were helped with Rs1,39,41,066 and in 2021, 1,124 patients have been helped with Rs45,76,145 from the Poor Patient Welfare Fund under the PPAC.Professor Gupta stated: “Since the beneficiary pool of the patients requiring assistance has been increasing with each passing year at the PGI, we request to more citizens to come forward and donate generously either through the online mode or by cheque/demand draft to the Poor Patient Welfare Fund of the PGI.”Speaking on the occasion, Prof Vipin Koushal, Additional Medical Superintendent, said: “Assistance in the form of medicines and surgical consumables is provided to patients who are holder of Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cards issued by various state governments or on the recommendation of a treating doctor after assessment. The amount required for treatment is sanctioned after following the due process.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pgi-urges-citizens-to-donate-for-poor-patients-306497
04-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Biofuel from pine needles a reality||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 3Pine needles will no longer be a source of forest fires causing losses worth crores every year as scientists at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry in Nauni have devised a method to convert these into enthanol, a green biofuel.The scientists of the Department of Basic Sciences had been on the mission for the past two years under a Rs 50.65-lakh project — “Bioconversion of pine needles: A challenging waste of Himalayan forest to second-generation biofuel”. It was funded by the National Mission on Himalayan Studies, GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment and Sustainable Development, Almora. Dr Nivedita Sharma, professor and head, Department of Basic Sciences, was the principal investigator of the project, sanctioned in 2018. She was being supported by Dr Nisha Sharma, research associate.Dr Ravinder Sharma, Director, Research, said, “The scientists are employing micro-organisms to break down pine needles into ethanol, which has gained importance as a substitute for fossil fuels like petroleum. Ethanol is made from food items like sugarcane, rice, etc. In this project, the work is being done on making ethanol using organic waste. “Dr Parvinder Kaushal, Vice-Chancellor, said, “So far, in this project, the work has been accomplished to produce fuel-grade ethanol from the unutilised forest waste by devising a novel technology, which includes employing novel specialised microbes to solubilise resistant pine needles and subsequently standardisation of fermentation to ethanol.“With the Government of India aiming to switch to 20 per cent ethanol blending in petrol by 2025, the technique to produce biofuel is likely to be in demand. The Himachal Government has also decided to set up an ethanol plant in the state,” said the VC.“This project will lead to eco-friendly management of pine needles. It will not only help in proper disposal of the organic waste, but also contribute to ensuring food security as the dependence on food items for making ethanol will be reduced,” added Dr Kaushal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/biofuel-from-pine-needles-a-reality-306252
