06-09-2021||---||Modi strikes emotional chord with health workers, exhibits his affinity towards hill state||Shimla, September 6Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who refers to Himachal as his second home, amply proved this in his interaction with health care workers, panchayat representatives and senior citizens as he fondly remembered the hill state’s cuisine, deities and revered Buddhist gompas.“I am missing the Mandyali dham (feast) that I relish so much. The people of Seraj, including Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and people like you, seem to have made it a mission to vaccinate every person,” he said in his interaction with Dyal Singh, Thunag Panchayat in Seraj assembly segment in Mandi, represented by the CM.Modi’s first initiation was with Dr Rahul hailing from Kutch in Gujarat, the PM’s home state. “I had never seen the mountains, so I thought of serving in a difficult area like Dodra Kawar in Rohru area of Shimla district,” said Dr Rahul when the PM asked how he landed there.“We faced problems like a 10-hour arduous climb on the steep mountains and poor internet signal but there was no problem in getting vaccine supply,” he said about the challenges he faced. Speaking in Gujarati, he said teams were sent to each village to educate people in the local language. The PM asked him whether his friends and family had visited Dodra Kawar.The PM lauded the constructive role played by the Buddhist monasteries and religious leaders in convincing people to take the vaccine in his interaction with Nawang Upasak from the tribal area of Lahaul. “When covid came to the Valley, people got scared and got cut off from the country. We got in touch with priests at all the Gompas (Buddhist monasteries) and asked them to urge monks and people to take the vaccine as there was no fear or side-effects. Then the Dalai Lama took the vaccine, videos of which went viral, which further convinced people,” he said.The PM also enquired about the changes that construction of the Atal tunnel had brought about in the lives of people of Lahaul-Spiti. “Earlier, we used to worry about how to undertake the arduous 10-hour journey but now it is easy to take our produce to markets. Locals have got 800 home stays registered which will help give tourism a major fillip,” said Upasak.“Did you seek the permission of the local deity before starting the vaccination drive in Malana in Kullu?” the PM asked Nirma Devi, a health worker from Malana. She said she, along with her team, first sought the permission from the local deity without whose nod the villagers of Malana, believed to be one of the oldest democracies in the world, don’t do anything.Modi lauded the efforts of Karma Devi, who had the honour of vaccinating 22,000 people, despite fracturing her leg. The PM in his interaction with 84-year-old Nirmala Devi of Krishnanagar Ward No 2 in Hamirpur said he needed her blessings to carry on the good work, especially in providing quality health services to the people of the country.Lauding their contribution in the success story of Himachal, he exhorted all of them to carry on the good work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/modi-strikes-emotional-chord-with-health-workers-exhibits-his-affinity-towards-hill-state-307486
06-09-2021||---||Modi lauds Himachal’s success in vaccination programme, urges state to be ‘chemical free’ in 25 years||Shimla, September 6Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday attributed the achievement of attaining 100 per cent first-dose vaccination and zero wastage in Himachal to the tireless efforts of the state government and the blessings of the deities in the “Dev Bhoomi”.“It is the strong belief in deities, education and science which has brought about the feat, which Himachal has time and again proved this,” he remarked.Modi said Himachal would get greater benefit of digital technology, especially in the field of education and health, as eminent doctors and teachers could virtually give their services.He said the state should move forward with the mission of “chemical-free Himachal” in the next 25 years so that it could become an organic state. “I have complete faith in the youth of Himachal, women and men that they will protect our soil against chemicals,” he said.He said it is for this reason that the Centre had simplified the rules for using drone technology as it could help in delivering medicines, undertaking land survey and protecting forests to transform the lives of the hill people. He said it was effective communication and education which helped in achieving this success story which would immensely help in tourism promotion.“Himachal has become the favourite “work from home” destination for professionals from across the country which is giving a major boost to tourism,” he said. This, he added, was a proof that technology and good connectivity, be it of rail, road, air or internet was essential for development, tourism promotion and for framers to carry their produce to the markets.Expressing concern over the recurring natural calamities, the PM said these had become a major challenge for the state. “We have to look for scientific solutions through research and look for developing early warning signals and explore new innovation in construction technology,” he advised.He lauded the Jal Jeevan Mission which had ensured tap water supply to every home. “There is immense scope for cultivating medicinal herbs, vegetables and fruits in Himachal and women self-help groups can play a major role in this field,” he said. He said an Agri Infrastructure Fund for Rs 1,000 crore had been created which could be availed to set up processing units closer to the fields and orchards.He said Himachal had given first vaccine to its entire eligible population and shown that the state is atama nirbhar.“We need to now ensure that those who have taken one dose, take the second vaccine,” he said. He said Himachal had shown belief in the medical experts, doctors and health workers who have made the vaccination programme a success and that too with zero vaccine wastage.  Modi said Himachal achieved this success as everyone worked dedicatedly as a team and became number one in the country in achieving 100 per cent first dose vaccination and zero wastage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/modi-lauds-himachals-success-in-vaccination-programme-urges-state-to-be-chemical-free-in-25-years-307476
06-09-2021||---||Landslide near Jeori disrupts traffic on Kinnaur-Rampur route||Shimla, September 6Vehicular movement on the National Highway No 5 that was on Monday blocked at Jeori near Rampur in Shimla district after a landslide is expected to be resumed by Monday night.According to Rampur SDM Yadvendra Pal, one-way traffic is expected to be restored if shooting stones do not create hurdles.Three JCB machines have been deployed from both sides to clear the National Highway no. 5.The road has been closed since 9 am. No vehicle or person was on this stretch of the road when the landslide occurred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-near-jeori-disrupts-traffic-on-kinnaur-rampur-route-307461
06-09-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||No end to stray dog menace in Shimla||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com No end to stray dog menace in shimlaThe problem of stray dogs in Shimla remains unresolved. The dogs sometimes attack children and women without provocation. The Municipal Corporation must take some remedial steps, as these dogs have scared the tourists visiting The Mall. — Monica Gupta, Shimlachamba residents want lift near bus standChamba residents have been demanding construction of a lift from the new HRTC bus stand, Kasakra to Chowgan, to facilitate the passengers’ movement, Also, the new bus stand should be expanded by shifting the existing HRTC workshop to Tadoli, a nearby place, as had already been planned by the government. — Om Prakash, Chamba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-end-to-stray-dog-menace-in-shimla-307235
06-09-2021||The Himachal Pradesh Council for Science||Registration for science meet starts||Cultural event for teachers heldThe Aryavart Educational and Welfare Charitable Society organised a cultural programme 'Umang' on the eve of Teachers' Day, which was attended by Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj as the chief guest. On the occasion, the minister praised the organisation for providing quality education to children and its efforts in making the students' future bright.Call for malnutrition-free societyIn her address at the Saraswati Vidya Mandir, Women and Child Development Director Rakhil Kahlon said the nutrition campaign needed to be turned into a people's movement to build a society free of malnutrition. On the occasion of the PM Matru Vandana Yojna week, she also participated in the campaign for activities such as ‘Ek boota, beti ke naam’ and also inspected the nutrition garden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/registration-for-science-meet-starts-307236
06-09-2021||The decision of the government to keep schools closed is drawing flak. People are irked that as per government assessment||Himachal Diary: Status quo on schools irks parents||Fined for ignoring political diktatThe government is trying to attract investment. However, some industries that have already invested in the state are suffering for not following political diktats. An industrial unit in Una had to pay a heavy fine as it failed to recruit a person recommended by a powerful politician. It has triggered stir in entrepreneurs working in the area.Govt scared of losing bypoll ?The state government has adopted ‘suit yourself policy’ for elections. On the one hand the government has informed the election commission that by-polls for three assembly and Mandi parliament polls be postponed and held after festive season due to rise in Covid cases and apple season and on the other hand elections to fill vacant posts in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) in tribal areas of Udaipur, Keylong, Kaza and Pangi are being held in two phases on September 29 and October 1. The government is scared of losing byelections, said a Congressmen.Blessing in disguise for CongThe manhandling of former Chief Parliamentary Secretary Jagjivan Pal at Sulah is being viewed as a blessing in disguise for forging unity in the Congress, which remains a divided house. All leaders condemned the incident and threatened to launch an agitation in case action is not taken against the culprits. The incident could prove to be a blessing for a badly divided Congress, with the Assembly elections being due next year.Touchy politiciansPoliticians are very touchy about putting their names on inauguration plaques. When a newly posted official tried to seek credit by inaugurating a new facility, it irked the local MLA so much so that the issue was raised before the Chief Minister. Lo and behold, the official not only got a firm rebuff from the seniors but was asked to desist from the act as the inauguration would be done by the CM himself!Contributed by Contributed by Pratibha Chauhan, Lalit Mohan, Bhanu Lohumi and Ambika Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-diary-status-quo-on-schools-irks-parents-307239
06-09-2021||Palampur||Couple held for drug trafficking in Palampur||The Baijnath police today raided a residence and a shop at Mahakal, 30 km from here, near Baijnath, and seized 179-gram charas. The owner of the house, Rajeev Dhalaria, and his wife, involved in drug trade, have been arrested by the police. A case under Section 20 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused.BD Bhatia, DSP, Baijnath, said Dhalaria had been arrested earlier also under the NDPS Act, but he was released on bail.The Tribune carried a news item in these columns, yesterday, highlighting large-scale drug trafficking in Baijnath and its adjoining areas. There are many points, where narcotics are made available to the youth. Thereafter, the police launched a crackdown against the drug mafia in the area.The Mahila Mandal of Baijnath also staged a dharna in front of the office of the SDM and the DSP, last Thursday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/couple-held-for-drug-trafficking-in-palampur-307237
06-09-2021||Mandi||Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur opens de-addiction centre in Mandi||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated the state’s first Model De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre with 20-bed capacity at Raghunath ka Padhar in Mandi district today.He said the government was committed to providing rehabilitation services to rescue those who had become drug addicted.He said the government had implemented a three-pronged strategy with the objective of reducing the supply and demand of drugs and reducing the damage caused due to drug abuse.“The government has made drug paddling a non-bailable offence and the property of those involved in this crime is being confiscated. Efforts will be made to further strength this centre,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-opens-de-addiction-centre-in-mandi-307238
06-09-2021||---||Covid-19: 96 new cases, two deaths in Himachal||Shimla, September 5A total of 96 new Covid cases were recorded today. Besides, two persons from Kangra and Shimla succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours.With this, the fatality figure has risen to 3,595.The highest number of 22 cases was recorded in Kangra and Mandi, followed by 14 in Solan, 12 in Shimla, 11 in Bilaspur, five each in Hamirpur and Kullu, four in Chamba and one in Una. The number of active cases today was 1,633 with the total positive cases till now have reached 2,14,504.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-96-new-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-307240
06-09-2021||---||Jagjivan Pal trying to gain cheap popularity: Himachal Speaker Vipin Parmar||Shimla, September 5With the issue of manhandling of former Chief Parliamentary Secretary Jagjivan Pal snowballing into a major political controversy, Speaker Vipin Parmar today said his name was unnecessary being linked to the incident was very unfortunate.In a statement issued here today, Parmar, while terming the incident unfortunate, said neither he nor any BJP worker was behind the incident. Parmar had defeated Pal in the 2017 Assembly election from the Sulah constituency in Kangra district.“He said the involvement of Pal in the tussle between the two faction of a village and the blame being put on me is a reflection of his (Pal) glowing frustration,” said Parmar. He said Pal was trying to gain cheap popularity by dragging his name into the entire incident.“By putting the blame on BJP and myself for his manhandling, Pal is desperately trying to keep himself politically alive,” said Parmar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jagjivan-pal-trying-to-gain-cheap-popularity-himachal-speaker-vipin-parmar-307241
06-09-2021||---||Trilokinath temple’s portal launched in Lahaul Spiti||Mandi, September 5The Temple Committee of Trilokinath in Lahaul Spiti launched a website today. It will help devotees to have a glimpse of the famous religious place.According to Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar, the information about the temple is available on the website.The DC said now, the devotees could also make donations online. He said the aarti timings would be displayed on the Facebook page and YouTube channel.The website of Trilokinath temple is triloknathtemple.com. The temple is situated in Udaipur, which is 45 km from Keylong.This holy shrine is revered equally by the Hindus and the Buddhists. Hindus consider Trilokinath deity as ‘Lord Shiva’ while the Buddhists considerit as ‘Arya Avalokiteshw’. Tibetan people called him as ‘Garja Fagspa‘.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/trilokinath-temples-portal-launched-in-lahaul-spiti-307242
06-09-2021||Shimla||Police assistance room gets facelift in Shimla||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated the 134-year-old renovated heritage police assistance room at the historic The Mall, here today.Thakur said the importance of this police assistance room functional lay in the fact that it has been functional for the last 134 years. “The state government is continuously endeavouring to preserve heritage buildings in the state,” he remarked.The Chief Minister urged corporate organisations to assist in developmental works under corporate social responsibilities (CSR). He said that even during the pandemic period many organisations helped in strengthening the health infrastructure in the state.He appreciated the efforts of police department to renovate the heritage police assistance room. He added that people, especially tourists, would get police help and assistance at the renovated facility.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj also appreciated the efforts of police department for renovating the police assistance room and said that as Shimla is a tourist place of historic importance, the government is making all possible efforts for the preservation of heritage buildings.Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu said that Rs 25 lakh has been spent on the renovation of Police Assistance Room out of which Rs 15 lakh were provided by ACC Trust and Rs 10 lakh by State Bank of India under the CSR scheme. He said efforts had been made to retain the heritage value of the renovated structure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-assistance-room-gets-facelift-in-shimla-307243
06-09-2021||Shimla||Shimla gets community hall under Smart City project||Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today inaugurated a community hall worth Rs 1.60 crore at Summer Hill here today.Inaugurating the facility, Bhardwaj said several projects for creating quality public amenities were being executed under the Smart City project. “There are times when we all must rise above petty political considerations in the larger interest of the people and development of the state,” he said.Bhardwaj said the state capital faced several civic problems due to the expansion of the town but efforts are being made to provide parking, a 24X7 water supply, widening of narrow roads and beautification of the town.“The endeavour of the BJP regime is to provide quality civic amenities not just for the residents of the town but also foreigners as Shimla, being a popular hill station attracts visitors from across the state,” he stated. He said the construction of a community hall in every ward will facilitate holding of political, social and family functions for all people.Shimla MC Mayor Satya Koundal said efforts were on to ensure uniform development of every ward in the town by creating parking facility, better roads, water and health facilities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-gets-community-hall-under-smart-city-project-307244
06-09-2021||Shimla||Landslip in Dhalli hits traffic||A major landslide in the Dhalli area of Shimla today disrupted vehicular movement for some time, but no loss of human life or property has been reported.The landslide was triggered by heavy rains in the last two days. No person was hurt or vehicle damaged despite the fact that the incident took place in peak hours in the evening. Though the landslide has not caused any threat to the houses located near the Dhalli tunnel, if rains continue, these could be in danger.The state has been witnessing landslides and uprooting of trees because of the incessant rains. In many cases, including in Vikasnagar, vehicles were damaged. So far, a total of 355 persons have lost their lives since the onset of the monsoon from June 13. The total loss on account of damage caused to public property by rain has been pegged at Rs 95,570.89 crore.The maximum damage has been caused to the Public Works Department with an estimated loss of Rs 56,807.80 crore to roads and bridges, Rs 27,288.20 crore to the Irrigation and Public Health Department, Rs 462.60 crore to the Power Department, Rs 4565.44 crore to the agriculture sector, Rs 2887.57 crore to the horticulture sector and Rs 850.47 crore to the Urban Development Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslip-in-dhalli-hits-traffic-307245
06-09-2021||---||Protest against stopping langar at IGMC-Shimla||Shimla, September 5Anger is building up among people over the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) administration’s sudden action to close down the free langar run by an NGO on the premises of the hospital. “The Chief Minister should immediately look into the matter and re-allot the place to the NGO,” said Congress MLA Vikramaditya Singh while sitting on a protest against the action at the Ridge here today. While several citizens, patients and attendants registered their protest by participating in this protest, a large number of people took to social media to slam the IGMC administration and the government for forcibly evicting the NGO from the hospital premises.A patient’s attendantVisitors resent moveI have been eating the langar here for four years now. It is a huge facility for the poor, it should not be stopped.The NGO has been providing free meals to patients and attendants at the hospital for almost seven years now. No wonder, all these people are disappointed and angry. “Is it illegal to provide free meals to the poor,” asked Nitin Sharma, an attendant. “It’s the government’s job to provide such facilities to the poor. Here, the government is stopping a person who is doing what it is supposed to do,” he said.Many other attendants urged the government to step in and let the NGO run the free langar. “I have been eating at the langar for four years now. It’s a huge facility for the poor, it should not be stopped,” said an elderly attendant of a cancer patient.The IGMC administration forced the NGO staff to vacate the place on Saturday, alleging that the NGO was running the langar illegally from the hospital’s premises and had illegal electricity and water connection.Sarabjit Singh Bobby, the man behind the NGO and the free langar, is recuperating at a Chandigarh hospital. “A man who has been doing the noble job of providing free meals to the poor and needy is in the hospital. In his absence, the IGMC administration uses police to stop his langar. Even if the NGO was at fault, what was the urgency to stop it when Bobby is in hospital?” asked Vikramaditya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/protest-against-stopping-langar-at-igmc-shimla-307246
06-09-2021||---||Natural farming revives apple orchard in Solan||Shimla, September 5A deserted apple orchard at the Regional Horticulture Research Station of the Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Solan, at Mashobra near here had been revived by introducing the Subhash Palekar Natural Farming (SPNF) technique and now the orchard is producing apples and inter-crops.“The SPNF intervention on the orchard measuring less than one hectare with the same old plants, which had to be abandoned some years back for lack of resources, has shown encouraging results over the last two years. With the use of natural inputs like “jeevaamrit and ghanjeevaamrit” prepared from dung and urine of desi cow, the overall health of the orchard has improved,” said Associate Director at the Research Station, Dr Pankaj Gupta.The SPNF is non-chemical natural farming concept given by Padma Shri Subhash Palekar and is based on farm inputs prepared from urine and dung of indigenous cow. It reduces the cost of cultivation drastically as the farmer is not required to buy inputs from the market.“Now, the terminal growth is revived and the soil structure has improved. The earthworm population has increased and the plants are healthy and leaf size is good,” said scientist, Plant Pathology at the Research Station, Dr Usha Sharma, who is supervising the trial. The experiment will continue for five years to establish and validate the success of the technique.The apple orchard, which had been giving negligible returns for many years, gave estimated gross returns of around Rs 3,61,162 per hectare in 2019 which increased to Rs 5,46,964 in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/natural-farming-revives-apple-orchard-in-solan-307247
06-09-2021||---||Himachal Governor confers state awards on 17 teachers||shimla, September 5Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar today conferred state awards on 17 teachers and honoured one with National Award.The teachers were honoured on the occasion of Teachers’ Day at an impressive state-level function held here today.The Governor paid rich tributes to the late Dr S Radhakrishnan, former President, whose birthday is celebrated as Teachers’ Day. He termed Dr Radhakrishnan an intellectual luminary, academician and able administrator. He said his ideas were related to the culture of India and was confident that the education related to Indian tradition would be re-implemented.He expressed concern over lack of moral values and character and stressed that making good human beings should be the basis of education as this was a pre-requisite for building a strong nation.“Teaching is a noble profession and carries a huge responsibility because the conduct, character and thoughts of teachers influence the students and, therefore, they should perform their duties sincerely,” said the Governor.He appealed to the teaching community to work with more commitment. He said the National Education Policy was the first step towards “decolonialisation” of the education system. The Governor also released a souvenir. He also inaugurated the Himachal Pradesh Swaran Jayanti Vidyarthi Anushikshan Yojana.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said HP had made an unprecedented development in education. “When HP came into existence, the literacy rate was barely 12 per cent which today stands at 86 per cent. There has been a huge expansion of schools, colleges and universities to ensure that no child is deprived of education,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-confers-state-awards-on-17-teachers-307218
06-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Pathankot-Mandi fourlane project: Fix deadline to resolve land relief issue, says Congress||NURPUR, SEPTEMBER 5The Congress, which came out openly in support of the people affected by the Pathankot-Mandi fourlane project, has hailed the government decision to constitute a subcommittee to resolve the issue of compensation for the land being acquired for road projects.Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan and state Congress vice president Chander Kumar, who had led party workers’ protest demonstration here in support of fourlane affected people on September 1, said here today that the government should ensure that the Cabinet subcommittee, led by Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, must resolve it in a fixed time frame.They said the state government had constituted a committee, headed by Cabinet minister Govind Thakur, nearly three years ago but it failed to address any grievance of the affected people struggling for fair compensation of the land being acquired for the road widening project.“Even the Kangra district administration failed to constitute a four-lane coordination committee to address concerns of the affected people. The government should also include representatives of fourlane sangharsh samitis which have been struggling for fair compensation for the past over three years in the Cabinet subcommittee so that the cause of the affected people could be reviewed genuinely by the subcommittee,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pathankot-mandi-fourlane-project-fix-deadline-to-resolve-land-relief-issue-says-congress-307248
06-09-2021||---||Apple MSP to be in Congress manifesto: Vikramaditya Singh||Shimla, September 5The Congress will put the issue of providing minimum support price (MSP) for apple in its manifesto next time. “As and when the Congress government comes to power, we will try and provide MSP for apple and insurance for plants,” said Congress leader Vikramaditya Singh during his visit to the Parala fruit Mandi today.Several apple organizations have been demanding MSP for apple to check fluctuations in the price of the fruit. The market has been sluggish this year, leaving the apple growers anxious.Also read:Offered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCsApple growers forced to sell apples along Solan NHHimachal apples are the best says actress Preity Zinta as she gives virtual tour of her family farms on Instagram“Cyclical fluctuations in the prices will come but the government and its departments should have a long-term procurement plan. They should talk to big corporates and commission agents for a long-term procurement plan,” he said.Also, he said the local people should be encouraged to set up CA stores so that they can store their produce to have some control over the supply chain. “The corporates were given huge subsidies to set up CA stores. So, they should allow local growers to store their produce in these stores at a reasonable cost. The government should look into it if the corporates are not providing this facility to the local growers,” he said.Also read: Natural farming revives apple orchard in SolanAccusing the BJP government of being indifferent and insensitive towards apple growers, he said the BJP ministers could have at least avoided making insensitive statements that left the apple growers hurt and angry. “The previous Congress government brought a Rs 1,134-crore horticulture development project to the state, but the current government has done little to take the project forward,” he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apple-msp-to-be-in-congress-manifesto-vikramaditya-singh-307249
06-09-2021||---||Himachal CM receives victory flame in Mandi||Mandi, September 5Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today received the victory flame on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Varsh being celebrated to commemorate 50 years of India’s historic victory over Pakistan.Addressing a gathering at Seri Manch in Mandi, the Chief Minister said that this event was being celebrated to commemorate 50 years of India’s historic victory in the 1971 war. He said that event not only commemorates India’s spectacular victory over Pakistan in 1971, but it also tells the tale of the birth of Bangladesh.“This victory was a living document of the strategic skill and valour of the soldiers. The Golden Victory Year celebrations began on December 16, 2020, by lighting the victory torch by PM Narendra Modi. Since then victory flame has been travelling across the country,” he added.He said during the Indo-Pakistan war of 1971, as many as 261 sons of Himachal had sacrificed their lives.The Chief Minister also honoured the kin of the 1971 war martyrs on the occasion. He also flagged off cycling expeditions.Earlier, the Chief Minister and Lt General visited the Shaheed Samarak at Mandi and paid floral tributes to the martyrs. They also paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, by garlanding his statue.Lt General PN Ananthanarayanan, General Officer Commanding, 16th Rising Star Corps, Yol said that the 1971 war with Pakistan was a turning point for India as it established its supremacy over Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-receives-victory-flame-in-mandi-307228
06-09-2021||---||Investors ink pacts worth Rs 3,307 cr in Himachal||Shimla, September 5The government today signed 27 memoranda of understanding (MoUs) worth Rs 3,307 crore with various firms that would provide jobs to around 15,000 persons.Industries Minister Bikram Singh said the state leads in ease of doing business ranking among the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Delhi. Director, Industries, Rakesh Prajapati signed the MoUs on behalf of the government.He said Himachal was the only state to have a state-of-the-art defence park at Nalagarh. Some investors had evinced interest in setting up ethanol units and six MoUs worth Rs 1,000 crore were signed for setting up ethanol plants.“The government offers distinct advantages to the investors such as affordable land cost, high quality and reliable power supply and proactive and accessible administration,” the minister said.He revealed that proposals received were intended to make investment in ethanol, medical devices, education and skill development, pharmaceuticals, paper manufacturing, food processing, healthcare, automobile, electronics manufacturing and industrial infrastructure.The minister said as a new trend in the state, a few entrepreneurs had also shown intent in developing private industrial areas and theme parks. The government had already made provision of incentives and concession in the HP Industrial Investment Policy 2019 for setting up private industrial areas and theme parks.The Director, Industries, said the government was set to organise the 2nd ground-breaking ceremony and making efforts to attract fresh investment.Trident Co signed an MoU worth Rs 800 crore for setting up a textile park, Better Tomorrow Infrastructure and Solution signed a pact worth Rs 490 crore for an industrial park. Madhav Agro signed an MoU worth Rs 400 crore for an industrial park. Himalayan Group of Institutions signed an MoU worth Rs 150 crore for setting up the first skill university. Pitaara TV signed a deal worth Rs 100 crore for setting up a film city.Metaphysical Healthcare, a franchise of Apollo Hospital, signed an MoU worth Rs 150 crore for a 250-bedded hospital. Nachiketa Papers signed a pact worth Rs 100 crore for manufacturing of craft and duplex boards.Agreements signed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/investors-ink-pacts-worth-rs-3-307-cr-in-himachal-307225
06-09-2021||Dipender Manta||Lahaul wants border row with Ladakh settled||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 5Residents of the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti want boundary issue with Ladakh at Sarchu and Shinkula pass be resolved at the earliest.The conflict has been going on for long, with Lahaul residents alleging encroachment on Himachal Pradesh land by people in Ladakh. They allege there has been no effort on part of the state government to resolve the dispute.Points of conflict: Sarchu & ShinkulaRamesh Kumar Rulba, Chairperson, Zila Parishad Lahaul-Spiti, said, “The residents are apprehensive that with the resumption of tourism at Sarchu and Shinkula pass, the conflict may worsen as youth from both sides are involved in business activities in the area.”He said the parishad had written to the state government on this issue, but the matter was pending with the Centre. Rigzin Samphel Heyreppa, chairperson, Lahaul-Spiti Eco Tourism Society, said, “Youth from Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh have set up camping sites at Sarchu and Shinkula for tourists. They often clash with each other over boundary issue. It is a serious matter and should be resolved soon.”Ravi Thakur, former Lahaul-Spiti MLA, claimed, “While the residents of Leh have set up camps up to 14 km into the Himachal territory at Sarchu, Kargil residents carry out commercial activities till 35 km inside our territory at Shinkula.”He said there was an urgent need to resolve this issue to avoid any untoward incident. Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the state had taken up matter with the Centre and gave its nod for demarcation of the boundary. “The response from the Ladakh administration is awaited. We hope after Ladakh gives its nod for demarcation, the matter will be resolved amicably.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-wants-border-row-with-ladakh-settled-307203
