07-09-2021||---||Jeori landslide: National Highway 5 cleared of debris after 36 hours||Shimla, September 6National Highway no. 5 which was blocked near Jeori in Rampur subdivision of Shimla district on Monday morning was restored on Tuesday evening after 36 hours. Shooting stones hampered the work last night. The road has been opened and commuters crossed the stretch for trans-shipment, but vehicles are not allowed to ply today as a precautionary measure, Rampur SDM Yadvemdra Pal said. No casualty was reported as there was neither any vehicle nor any person on the stretch when the landslide occurred.The slide took place 3 km ahead of Jeori towards Nugalsari (Kinnaur), where 28 persons were killed in another landslide on August 11. Local residents blamed the hydro power projects for frequent landslides in the area.A large number of vehicles are stranded on both sides of the road as there was no way to divert traffic, while small vehicles were being stopped in Jeori.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jeori-landslide-national-highway-5-cleared-of-debris-after-36-hours-307887
07-09-2021||atibha Chauhan||Modi strikes a chord with Himachal healthcare workers, others||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 6Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who refers to Himachal as his second home, amply proved this in his interaction with healthcare workers, panchayat representatives and senior citizens as he fondly remembered the hill state’s cuisine, deities and revered Buddhist gompas.“I am missing Mandyali dham (feast) that I relish so much. The people of Seraj, including Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and people like you seem to have made it a mission to vaccinate every person,” he said in his interaction with Dyal Singh, Thunag panchayat in Seraj Assembly segment in Mandi represented by the Chief Minister. The Prime Minister today interacted and lauded the efforts of health workers in making Himachal number one in the Covid vaccine drive and its zero wastage.Modi’s first initiation was with Dr Rahul hailing from Kutch in Gujarat, the PM’s home state of Gujarat. “I had never seen the mountains, so I thought of serving in a difficult area like Dodra Kawar in Rohru area of Shimla district,” said Dr Rahul when PM asked how he landed here.“We faced problems like a 10-hour arduous climb on the steep mountains and poor internet signal but there was no problem in getting vaccine supply,” he stated when about the challenges he faced. Speaking in Gujarati, he said teams were sent to each village to educate people in local language. The PM asked him whether his friends and family have visited Dodra Kawar.The Prime Minister lauded the constructive role played by the Buddhist monasteries and religious leaders in convincing people to take the vaccine in his interaction with Nawang Upasak from the tribal area of Lahaul. “When Covid came to the Valley, people got scared and got cut off from the country. We got in touch with priests at all the Gompas (Buddhist monasteries) and asked them to urge monks and people to take the vaccine as there was no fear of side effects. Then Dalai Lama took the vaccine, videos of which went viral, which further convinced people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/modi-strikes-a-chord-with-himachal-healthcare-workers-others-307617
07-09-2021||Shimla||228 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal||As many as 228 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 2,14,732. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Bilaspur and Shimla. The highest number of 59 cases was recorded in Mandi, followed by 40 in Shimla, 39 in Hamirpur, 31 in Kangra, 25 in Bilaspur, 14 in Chamba, seven in Lahaul and Spiti, five each in Kullu and Una, two in Kinnaur and one in Solan. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/228-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-307618
07-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Landslide blocks NH near Jeori||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 6The National Highway-5 was blocked for vehicular traffic near Jeori in Rampur subdivision of Shimla district following a landslide on Monday morning. However, no casualty was reported as there was neither any vehicle nor any person on the stretch when the landslide occurred.The slide took place 3 km ahead of Jeori towards Nugalsari (Kinnaur), where 28 persons were killed in another landslide on August 11. Local residents blamed the hydro power projects for frequent landslides in the area.Yadvendra Pal, Rampur SDM, said, “Three JCB machines have been deployed on both sides to clear the highway and 50 per cent of the work has been done. One-way traffic is expected to be restored by tonight, if the shooting stones do not disrupt the ongoing clearing work”.A large number of vehicles were stranded on both sides of the road as there was no way to divert traffic, while small vehicles were being stopped in Jeori.Till now, 53 persons have lost their lives in 39 landslides during the current monsoon (since June 13). The maximum casualties were reported in Kinnaur district (37) followed by Kangra (10), Solan and Shimla (two each), Mandi and Lahaul and Spiti (one each).As per the data shared by the Disaster Management Cell of the Revenue Department, the highest number of 16 slides occurred in Lahaul and Spiti district, five each took place in Mandi and Shimla, three each in Solan, Kinnaur and Chamba while two landslides each in Sirmaur and Kangra districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-blocks-nh-near-jeori-307619
07-09-2021||---||Shimla IGMC langar row intensifies, support pours in for NGO||Shimla, September 6The forced closure of a free langar run by Almighty Blessing, an NGO, on the premises of the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital has snowballed into a major controversy.Also read: Protest against stopping langar at IGMC-ShimlaMan running langar at IGMC announces stirDejected Sarabjeet to close langar at IGMC by March 31While the general public, various charitable and religious organisations and Congress workers have condemned the action and demanded that it be restored, the IGMC administration has stuck to its stand.Reiterating that the NGO was running illegally from the IGMC premises and was “stealing” electricity and water from the hospital, the IGMC administration demanded a magisterial inquiry into the working and funding of the NGO.“People have the right to know where the funding is coming from for the NGO. We are demanding a magisterial inquiry into its working,” said IGMC MS Dr Janak Raj.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has sought a report on the matter following a massive uproar. “The langar has been running for several years but some issues have cropped up. I have asked for a report and will comment only when I get all the facts,” the CM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-igmc-langar-row-intensifies-support-pours-in-for-ngo-307620
07-09-2021||Solan||NGT team in BBN to take samples||A four-member joint committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) today visited the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt to take samples of effluents discharged by various industrial units. The committee included a representative of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Central Pollution Control Board, State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) and the Nalagarh SDM. The committee will file a status report of compliance after inspecting the erring industrial units, the common effluent treatment plant as well as Sirsa river following directions of the NGT.  Notably, the SPCB had identified industries having effluent generation of more than 200 kilo litres per day. Certain industrial units whose effluents were found to be above the prescribed limits are under the scanner of this committee. They had been directed to undertake corrective measures earlier. The committee will file status report before the next date of hearing. Eight samples were lifted from various places which included those from Sirsa river at Nalagarh and Baddi, from the common effluent treatment plant as well as from two industrial units- Vardhman Textile and Winsome Textile, informed officials.  The committee is slated to draw samples from more places tomorrow.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngt-team-in-bbn-to-take-samples-307621
07-09-2021||---||Paralympics silver medalist Nishad Kumar calls on Himachal CM||Shimla, September 6Tokyo Paralympics silver medal winner Nishad Kumar of Una district along with his family members and coach Naseem Ahmed called on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today.The Chief Minister congratulated Nishad for making the state proud and said that the state government would provide him every possible assistance. He added that the government was making all efforts to promote sports and develop the sports infrastructure.Nishad apprised the Chief Minister of his preparations for the Paralympics. Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, DGP Sanjay Kundu, and Sports and Youth Services Secretary SS Guleria were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paralympics-silver-medalist-nishad-kumar-calls-on-himachal-cm-307622
07-09-2021||---||Minor girl goes missing in Baddi||Solan, September 6The Baddi police today registered a case of kidnapping under Section 363 of the IPC on a complaint filed by the father of a minor girl, who went missing last evening.The family hails from Bihar and is residing in a village at Baddi along with four children. The girl’s father told the police that when he was not at home, Vivek came there around 6 pm yesterday and lured his elder daughter to accompany him.They had been unsuccessfully trying to trace her since last evening. The police began a probe after registering the case. The cellphone call details were being scanned to locate the girl, said police officials.This is the fourth such case in the last few days; three girls and a minor boy have gone missing from this industrial belt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minor-girl-goes-missing-in-baddi-307623
07-09-2021||Shimla||September 15 last date for admission to UG courses in Himachal Pradesh||The last date for admission to undergraduate courses (first to third year) in government degree colleges has been extended till September 15. There are 138 government colleges in Himachal Pradesh.The decision was taken after some Deputy Directors, Education, principals of colleges, students associations, students and parents requested the the Higher Education Department to extend the date for admission to the colleges, which expired on August 31, said Amarjeet Sharma, Director Higher Education.Besides, the department has directed the principals of colleges to charge only one-month hostel and mess fees from the students.“It has come to our knowledge that some colleges are charging the hostel and mess fees for six months from the students at a time when people are facing a financial crisis due to the ongoing pandemic,” said Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/september-15-last-date-for-admission-to-ug-courses-in-himachal-pradesh-307624
07-09-2021||Rajesh Sharma||PM Modi lauds Una health worker Karmo Devi for vaccinating 22,510||Una, September 6Health worker Karmo Devi of the district interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi today from the video conference centre located at the Secretariat. The Pradhan Mantri Vaccine Samvad programme was telecast live at 10 places in the district.The Prime Minister appreciated the efforts of Karmo Devi, who has vaccinated 22,510 persons so far. “Your name corresponds to karma, which means to work,” he said. He added that he had been informed that while on duty, she had fractured a leg, but despite being advised rest for four weeks, she joined duty after a week to continue to vaccinate people at the district hospital.Karmo Devi said that she felt better after a week’s rest and decided to resume the vaccination work, as she thought it was very important for the community to contain the pandemic. To this, the Prime Minister said that it was due to the efforts of the front-line workers like her that the world’s largest vaccination drive was progressing successfully.Karmo Devi (52) lives in Rakkar Colony near Una city and has been vaccinating people at the Una district hospital. The Prime Minister also interacted with some more front-line workers from other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-modi-lauds-una-health-worker-karmo-devi-for-vaccinating-22-510-307625
07-09-2021||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur inaugurates police buildings||Shimla, September 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated 10 newly constructed buildings of the Himachal Police constructed at a cost of Rs 24 crore and laid the foundation stone of 16 schemes for the Police Department worth Rs 55 crores virtually from Shimla.The projects inaugurated included IGP/NR office building, armoury block at 6th IRBn Dhaula Kuan, barrack block for 120 persons at 6th IRBn Dhaula Kuan, family quarters in police lines Kishanpura and at police station Nadaun, residential quarters at police post Rewalsar in Mandi, quarters at police station (Sadar) Bilaspur and Sujanpur and police station Manpura at Baddi.Foundation stones of women police station building at Nahan, police station building at Darlaghat, Kunihar and Ghumarwin, MT Section of 1st IRBn Bangarh, residential quarters at Police Training Command, Daroh, multipurpose hall at 4th IRBn Jangalberi, residence for SP Solan, police post building at Sanghani in Chamba, swimming pool at PTC Daroh, residential quarters at police station Killar in Chamba, kennels at Shimla and Dharamsala and quarters for police headquarters, Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-inaugurates-police-buildings-307626
07-09-2021||Mandi||Mahila Mandal to curb drug menace||The Mahila Mandal at Karshaigad gram panchayat in the Ani Assembly segment of Kullu district has decided to work towards curbing drug menace and illegal sale of liquor. A meeting was held under the leadership of gram pradhan Sharda Rana yesterday to chalk out a strategy to check this social evil.According to residents of the panchayat, the illegal sale of liquor is rampant in the panchayat area, which is directly impacting the youths. Now, village women have decided to keep a tab on the illegal sale of liquor and other narcotic substances in the area.Yash Pal, up-pradhan of the panchayat, said, “It was decided at the meeting to form committees in each ward of the panchayat. These committees would conduct raids on suspects to curb the drug menace. It has been observed that a few people are involved in the illicit trade of liquor in the area, which is adversely impacting youths”.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mahila-mandal-to-curb-drug-menace-307627
07-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Law & order situation in Himachal bad: LoP Mukesh Agnihotri||Palampur, September 6Mukesh Agnihotri, Leader of the Opposition, today expressed concern over the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. He said that in the past few months, the situation had worsened and common people were feeling insecure.Agnihotri said this while addressing a Congress rally organised in protest against the thrashing of Jagjivan, Pal, a former MLA and Chief Parliamentary Secretary. Pal was allegedly beaten up by BJP workers when he was sitting on a dharna at Rara village in the Sullah Assembly constituency on August 31.He said that when a senior Congress leader like Jagjivan Pal was not safe under the present government, one could think of the fate of common people. He added that earlier an ASP was slapped in Kullu by another officer in the presence of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. A Cabinet minister had manhandled a BJP leader in Lahaul and Spiti that, too, in the presence of the Chief Minister. He termed the situation grave and asked the Chief Minister to initiate action against the culprits to restore faith of the public in the government.Kuldip Rathore, HPCC president, said that the government was at its last leg and the BJP had already accepted its defeat in the Assembly elections due next year. Hence, it was adopting cheap tactics and publicly thrashing Congress leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/law-order-situation-in-himachal-bad-lop-mukesh-agnihotri-307628
07-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||Notices to Chief Secy, Hamirpur DC on adverse impact of stone crusher||Shimla, September 6The HP High Court today issued notices to the Chief Secretary, HP State Pollution Control Board, Deputy Commissioner of Hamirpur, SDM of Nadaun and the secretary of Jol Sapper gram panchayat on a letter petition alleging that a stone crusher at Jol Sapper in Hamirpur district was adversely affecting the environment and the ecology of the area.A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the orders on a letter by Dalip Singh addressed to the Chief Justice, taken up suo motu as a public interest litigation petition.The petitioner stated that Ramesh Kumar had applied to Jol Sapper gram panchayat for a no-objection certificate (NOC) to set up a stone crusher and was issued the same without considering its adverse impact on the area. He alleged that besides the stone crusher, there was a water lifting project installed on the Kunah Khud, which is on the verge of closure as the water level was constantly going down.He alleged that heavily loaded tippers were damaging link roads connecting the national highway constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana. Mining was going on at the depth of 30 to 40 feet in a ravine and the mining rules were being violated, but the officials concerned had never visited the area.He alleged that a house near the ravine had been badly damaged due to deep pits dug in the valley and the entire village was in danger. He prayed to the Chief Justice to shut down the stone crusher immediately. While issuing notices, the court directed the state authorities to file their response.Water level fallsThe petitioner alleged that due to indiscriminate mining, the water level of hand pumps was also decreasing fast. Besides, the health of villagers and animals was getting affected. It stated that ailments such as asthma were on the rise in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/notices-to-chief-secy-hamirpur-dc-on-adverse-impact-of-stone-crusher-307629
07-09-2021||Hamirpur||Rs 58 lakh given  to milk producers||A sum of Rs 58 lakh was distributed among 1,128 milk producers at a function organised by the Kamdhenu Hitkari Manch at Namhole in Bilaspur on Sunday. Virender Kanwar, Minister for Rural Development, distributed cheques to the beneficiaries.While appreciating the efforts of the Milk Producers’ Association, Kanwar said the organisation was doing commendable work in the field of milk products. He said the organisation was honoured with the “Himachal Gaurav” award for its work on the Himachali cow. The state was spending over Rs 4.5 crore on improvement of the Himachali cow. A research centre was established for the purpose in Barog in Solan, the minister said.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-58-lakh-given-to-milk-producers-307630
07-09-2021||Our Correspondent||NIT-Hamirpur, Bilaspur college ink pact||Hamirpur, September 6The National Institute of Technology (NIT) here will provide facilities to improve technical and academic research to Government Hydro Engineering Colllege in Bilaspur. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed here by the authorities of both the institutes at the NIT here today. Lalit Awasthi, director, NIT-Hamirpur, and RK Awasthi, principal of Hydro Engineering College, signed the MoU.Awasthi said the NIT-Hamirpur would provide valuable inputs to the engineering college on teaching and training methodology and customisation of the curriculum so that the students could fit into the industrial set-up meaningfully.He said the NIT would allow the faculty and students of engineering college to visit its campus and would accommodate B.Tech students in training programmes. He said joint research activities, guidance for the projects and thesis would be carried out.Awasthi said the NIT would also provide infrastructural support for placement. Earlier he inaugurated a yoga camp at Student Activity Centre. He advised everyone to make yoga a part of their daily routine and practise it on a daily basis. He also released the 19th Edition of the annual magazine SRIJAN-2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nit-hamirpur-bilaspur-college-ink-pact-307632
07-09-2021||The leakage from the water supply scheme on the pedestrian path leading to Tungal Colony from Jai Road near Arunoday school building has become a cause for concern for Mandi residents. Due to this||Water leaking onto path||BEAUTIFY Sarol AREAThe Sarol beauty spot, surrounded by a garden, near Chamba town is in a dilapidated condition. It is the only garden left from the olden days of the Chamba princely state, but it's not being maintained. Since Sarol is a picnic spot, it needs to be developed and beautified for tourists and locals. — Chain Lal, CHAMBAWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-leaking-onto-path-307635
07-09-2021||A blood donation camp was organised at The Ridge||APG University holds Blood donation camp in Shimla||Departmental exams from Sept 13The departmental examinations for all categories of officers and officials would be conducted from September 13 to 20 at the College of Excellence, Sanjauli. Arrangements for conducting paper-1, Financial Administration, have also been made at Government Degree College in Dharamsala and Government Senior Secondary (Girls) School, Mandi. The roll numbers to all eligible candidates have been issued by the HP Board of Departmental Examination. All candidates are requested to check their PMIS accounts to download and print their roll numbers. The candidates are required to bring a Covid-19 vaccination certificate or RT-PCR negative report issued not later than 72 hours from the time of examination.VC inaugurates maths conferenceAn online two-day 'International Conference on Recent Trends in Mathematics', organised by Himachal Mathematics Society (HIMS), was inaugurated by HPU VC Sikander Kumar on Monday. He invited the speaker for the conference, eminent experts in the subject, namely Prof Gabriella Bohm, Budapest, Hungary, Prof Raj Rani Bhargava, IIT, Roorkee, and Prof NS Noorie, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Prof Mandeep Singh from Sant Longewal Institute of Engineering and Technology. Addressing the participants, the VC highlighted the achievement of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics and emphasised that deliberations of the conference should be utilised for the benefit of society. The conference is being attended by 70 participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apg-university-holds-blood-donation-camp-in-shimla-307637
07-09-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Lauding vaccine feat, PM now gives call for chemical-free Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 6Prime Minister Narendra Modi today attributed Himachal’s feat of administering first dose of Covid vaccine to its entire eligible population to strong belief in deities and high level of education and technology despite the state having geographical constraints. Modi virtually addressed from Delhi the healthcare workers and beneficiaries across Himachal. The state has been ranked number one nationally in vaccine coverage with 55.28 lakh people having been administered the first dose and 17.92 lakh both the jabs with zero wastage.Use tech to tackle calamitiesWe need to look for scientific solutions for developing early warning signals to counter recurring natural calamities. — Narendra Modi, PMThe PM said the state should move forward with the mission of “chemical-free Himachal” in the next 25 years so that it could become an organic state. “I have complete faith in the people of Himachal. They will protect our soil against chemicals,” he said.Modi said Himachal could reap the benefits of digital technology, especially in the field of education and health, as eminent doctors and teachers could virtually provide their services to the state people. “It’s with this objective that the Centre has simplified the rules for using drone technology. It can help in delivering medicines, undertaking land survey and protecting forests,” he remarked.Himachal had become the favourite “work from home” destination for professionals from across the country, which was giving a boost to tourism, he said. BJP president JP Nadda and Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur also joined the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lauding-vaccine-feat-pm-now-gives-call-for-chemical-free-himachal-307746
