08-09-2021||The Panthaghati-Khalini stretch witnesses traffic congestion because of narrow roads and vehicles parked along these roads. Some drivers increase the problem by not giving way to vehicles behind. They want to stay ahead||Roadside parking worsens traffic woes||Hoardings along highway an eyesoreHoardings affixed near the Sataun bridge along the Paonta Sahib-Shillai highway have besmirched the green environs. The authorities should ensure that at least curves along the road are spared of hoardings. — Nandita, SolanWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roadside-parking-worsens-traffic-woes-308271
08-09-2021||An MoU has been signed between Himachal Pradesh University and the Harrisburg University of Science and Technology Harrisburg||HPU signs MoU with US varsity||Nagrota school gets Microsoft tagMicrosoft Education has recognised Rainbow International School, Nagrota Bagwan, as a showcase school. Microsoft Showcase Schools are seen as schools that exemplify the best of teaching and learning. Seema Sharma, admin of the school and mentor with the Learning and Digital Skills Academy (LDSA), has been instrumental in driving the school to achieve a 'showcase school' status. JR Kashyap, director of the group, said it was a major achievement which demonstrated digital ambition, creative learning strategy and transformation processes, aligning with the rigorous requirements of Microsoft's Education Transformation Framework.NSUI holds protestThe NSUI staged a protest outside the DC office over an alleged irregularity in the JEE (Mains) exam. NSUI state vice-president Vinoo Mehta questioned if there were irregularities in JEE (Mains), what was the guarantee that 12 other exams under the NTA were conducted in a fair manner. The NSUI demanded that a probe committee be constituted under the chairmanship of the CJI.Cleanliness drive at NITA cleanliness drive was organised at the National Institute of Technology here on Tuesday. All members of faculty and administration participated in the drive and cleaned up the campus. Lalit Awasthi, Director of the NIT, said students were made to participate in various competitions including painting and waste management projects. He requested staff members and students to maintain cleanlinessand preserve nature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpu-signs-mou-with-us-varsity-308269
08-09-2021||---||Shimla-Kinnaur road restored for traffic||Shimla, September 7The National Highway No. 5, which was blocked ahead of Jeori in Rampur subdivision of Shimla district yesterday morning after a landslide, was restored to traffic after almost 33 hours.A large number of vehicles were stranded on the Kinnaur side and a traffic jam up to four or five kilometres was witnessed. The highway has been opened for one-way traffic from the Kinnaur side as a large numbers of vehicles were stranded in the absence of an alternative route. While commuters crossed the stretch on foot, vehicles would not be allowed to ply today night, as a precautionary measure, said Yadvendra Pal, SDM, Rampur.“We will explore the possibility of an alternative road to Kinnaur because the district is cut off whenever a landslide occurs on this road, which is strategically important for the country,” said Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-kinnaur-road-restored-for-traffic-308161
08-09-2021||Shimla||Open boarding schools for Classes V to IX in Himachal, urge parents||A group of parents has given a joint representation to the state government to open boarding schools for Class V to IX students.The prolonged closure of boarding schools is leading to disorientation among students and online classes do not justify the student–teacher relationship. The online arrangement has also become an effortless way for the boarding schools to generate a huge capital by imparting ineffective education at an exorbitant fee, the representation stated.It said that the relief given by the boarding schools was not commensurate with their savings and also the financial losses suffered by the parents. It added that the boarding campuses are located in the green zone and the government must allow the students of Class V to IX to return to schools after 18 months.The medical fraternity had backed the staggered opening of schools in the areas where the positivity rate was less than 5 per cent. As a section of parents was not willing to send their wards to schools, the percentage of students joining schools would be around 50 per cent, the parents said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/open-boarding-schools-for-classes-v-to-ix-in-himachal-urge-parents-308162
08-09-2021||---||Shimla: To tackle 3rd wave, DDU Hospital enhancing oxygen plant capacity||Shimla, September 7In view of the anticipated third Covid wave, the capacity of the PSA oxygen plant at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (DDU) here is being enhanced.“An additional plant of the capacity of 800 litre per minute (LMP) will be installed soon on the hospital premises. At the moment, we have an oxygen plant of 300 LMP. With the additional plant, the capacity will go up to 1,100 LPM,” said DDU MS Dr Ravinder Mokta.“We have already completed civil and electrical work for the new plant. We are expecting the plant to be installed by mid-September,” said Dr Mokta. With this additional capacity, the hospital’s dependence on oxygen cylinders that are filled in Mandi will reduce significantly. “We will be in a position to supply interrupted oxygen to 60-70 beds after the new plant becomes functional,” said Dr Mokta.Even though the hospital had 300 LPM plant during the second wave, it was found to be insufficient when the hospital was flooded with patients. The hospital laid out more than 130 beds during the peak of the second wave even though its actual bed capacity was around 90.“We are planning to enhance the number of beds having piped oxygen connection by around 25-30 beds. We had 90 beds with piped oxygen, we are planning to enhance it to around 115-120 beds,” said Dr Mokta. “Also, we have installed a 10x10 manifold system in addition to the existing 8x8 system,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-to-tackle-3rd-wave-ddu-hospital-enhancing-oxygen-plant-capacity-308163
08-09-2021||---||Victory Tunnel-Sanjauli road blocked due to landslide||Shimla, September 7  The Sanjauli-Victory Tunnel road in the heart of the city was blocked following a landslide near Government College, Sanjauli, this afternoon. However, no casualty was reported. The Shimla administration deployed machinery to clear the road and vehicles were diverted via the Dhalli-Mehli-Khalini-New ISBT and Sanjauli-Chhota Shimla-bus stand road. All upper Shimla-bound buses ply on this route from the Lakkar Bazaar bus stand. A large number of vehicles were stranded on both sides of the landslide spot. This stretch is unstable and frequent landslides are witnessed there as the work to widen the IGMC-Sanjauli road, which is above this place, is going on. Meanwhile, the local MeT office has issued a yellow warning of heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning in 10 districts barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on September 8, 9 and 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/victory-tunnel-sanjauli-road-blocked-due-to-landslide-308164
08-09-2021||---||No plan to shut state library at Ridge, Shimla MC assures students||Shimla, September 7The Municipal Corporation today said it had no plans to shut down the state library at The Ridge and turn it into a book café as feared by students and others who frequent the library. “We don’t have any such plan, these people have been misinformed by some individuals,” said MC Mayor Satya Kaundal after some people took to the street to air their apprehension here today.“All we want to do is renovate the heritage building that houses the library. It is in a dilapidated condition, so much so that glass or wood could fall off from the building and hurt people outside,” said Kaundal.MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli, too, assured that the MC had no plan to shut down the library even though a new library had been constructed near Vidhan Sabha. “No decision has been taken to shut down the library. We will renovate the building and keep the library running. We are just thinking of creating an additional facility, an elderly club, in the building. It will be a designated space for the elderly to sit and read newspapers etc,” said Kohli. “Also, we may have a provision for tea and coffee. However, all these plans are at a nascent stage, we don’t even have money sanctioned yet for the renovation under Smart City Mission,” said the Commissioner.The library users, however, apprehend that library may be shut down. “Students come from far to study in this library. If this is shut down, many students will be affected,” said one of the protesters. Apart from the library users, the local CPM unit is also apprehensive about the future of the library. “The MC should sign an agreement with students that it would not close the library post-renovation,” said the CPM. “Also, the management of the library should remain with the Education Department and should not be passed on to the Municipal Corporation,” the party said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-plan-to-shut-state-library-at-ridge-shimla-mc-assures-students-308165
08-09-2021||Solan||Pesticide residue lab at Nauni varsity inspected||Scientists of network coordinator of All-India Network Project on Pesticide Residues (AINPPR) and member secretary of Monitoring of Pesticide Residues at National Level (MPRNL), inspected the pesticide residue laboratory (PRL) of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, on Tuesday.  JK Dubey, who operates the lab, and Raj Kumar Thakur, professor and head, Department of Entomology, apprised the scientists about the lab’s functioning and future scope for expansion of residue analysis resources. “Being a state-of-the-art laboratory in the Department of Entomology, it is engaged in the detection of pesticide residues in food products. The lab is equipped with all sophisticated and technologically advanced instruments required for analysis.  Two national-level projects — AINPPR funded by ICAR and another funded by the Ministry of Agriculture and Family Welfare — are operational in the laboratory,” Dubey stated.  KK Sharma, network coordinator, AINPPR, inspected the laboratory management system and lauded the scientists for securing accreditation from the National Accreditation Board for testing and calibration laboratories. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pesticide-residue-lab-at-nauni-varsity-inspected-308166
08-09-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Govt frames cultural policy, to preserve dialects, scripts||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 7The government has, for the first time, formulated a cultural policy with the objective of preserving dialects, scripts and folklore of the state and bringing it to the knowledge of the present generation by encouraging Gurukul teaching.Proposal to set up film cityThe policy was given the approval by the Cabinet at its meeting last week. It had been decided to set up a high-level committee, headed by the Chief Minister, to ensure its implementation.“Making the artistic genres alive and bringing knowledge and culture to the present generation and provide a strong foundation of culture for the future generation is the crux of the policy,” said RD Dhiman, Additional Chief Secretary, Language, Art and Culture.Besides, social practices, clothing, folklore, dialects, scripts and religious beliefs would come under the ambit of the policy.Dhiman said showcasing of the rich arts and culture of Himachal at national and international fora would help in attracting tourists and promoting the tourism sector.“As per the policy, the different cultural streams have been classified into archaeological remains, crafts and performing arts, sculpture, paintings and architecture,” said Pankaj Lalit, Director, Language, Art and Culture. It had also been decided to set up a Himachal Kalagram, which would showcase the state’s handicrafts.The policy proposed to set up of a film city to attract film units to shoot at the picturesque locations. It had also been proposed to set up a department of folk dance in Himachal Pradesh University so that the rich folk dances from every nook and corner from the state could be taught.Lalit said the efforts would be made to preserve and promote paintings of Kangra, Guler, Chamba, Mandi, Kullu and Arki. The focus would also be on preservation of forts, palaces, temples, historical buildings and Buddhist Gompas. Besides, other art forms like stone, wood and metal sculptures would also be promoted.Various musical instruments and folk dances like natti, chatti, gidda and fagli would also be included in this policy. A major focus area would be fairs and festivals, which form an integral part of the rich culture and tradition of the state.Other aspects of the policy included facilitating litterateurs by building writer houses at the district level. Another highlight was the endeavour to strengthen the artists economically and carry out cultural activities in every village of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-frames-cultural-policy-to-preserve-dialects-scripts-308167
08-09-2021||Rajesh Sharma||3-month mining ban in Swan nears end||UNA, SEPTEMBER 7The over three-month complete ban on mining in the Swan river in the district will end on September 15.Technical and administrative teams headed by Director, Industries and Mining, Rakesh Prajapati had inspected the Swan riverbed for three days recently. The teams visited a number of spots along the length of the Swan river, which originates in Marwari village of Gagret subdivision and flows over 55 km in Una district before merging with the Sutlej in Ropar district of Punjab.The state government had imposed a complete ban on mining in the Swan from July 1 to September 15 following National Green Tribunal (NGT) report in June this year regarding unscientific mining going on in the river and its tributaries in the district.Prajapati said the post-inspection report would be submitted to the state government shortly. He did not deny that unscientific or illegal mining was not taking place before the ban was imposed, but added that if 5 to 10 per cent of mining was illegal, efforts would be made to check it completely.The Director said the NGT recommendations were in view of ‘open sale lease’ plots issued by the Mining Department to private parties in the Swan river.Prajapati said the stakeholders were advised to work within the framework of the Himachal Pradesh Mining Policy. He added that during the ban period, developmental works had suffered in the state due to the non-availability of construction material.On June 17 this year, a high-level team of the NGT, headed by a former judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Jasbir Singh, had inspected some portions of the Swan in view of complaints that some mining lease holders were using heavy machinery to illegally extract material from the riverbed.On the NGT team’s recommendations the government had imposed a complete ban on mining in the river till September 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-month-mining-ban-in-swan-nears-end-308168
08-09-2021||Shimla||179 new cases, five deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 179 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 214,911. Besides, five persons died of the virus (two each in Kangra and Shimla and one in Mandi). The highest 50 cases were recorded in Mandi, followed by 35 in Kangra, and 23 in Shimla.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/179-new-cases-five-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-308169
08-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Speed up construction of AIIMS in Bilaspur: Jai Ram Thakur||Hamirpur, September 7Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the focus should be on early completion of first phase of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Bilaspur so that people could get best health facilities soon. While speaking at Kothipura in the district today, he said that once completed AIIMS would emerge as a premium health institute of the state. People had high hopes from this institution.He said this institute was a dream project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The state government was open to extend every help like providing civic amenities and power supply to the premier institute so that it was completed within the stipulated time. He directed officers of the district administration to work in coordination to provide every facility to AIIMS authorities. He also told AIIMS authorities to speak to him if any assistance was needed.Veer Singh Negi, Director of AIIMS, said that the OPD would start functioning from next month. He said that AIIMS was providing OPD facility at Zonal Hospital, Bilaspur.Earlier, the Chief Minister visited the house of MLA Subhash Thakur and paid tribute to his father, who died a few days ago. Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Rajinder Garg, MLA JR Katwal, Political Advisor to CM Trilok Jamwal and vice chairman of State Disaster Management Authority Board Randhir Sharma were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/speed-up-construction-of-aiims-in-bilaspur-jai-ram-thakur-308170
08-09-2021||---||Dalai Lama to deliver two-day online lecture||Dharamsala, September 7The Dalai Lama will impart two-day teachings on Chandrakirti’s Entering the Middle Way in conjunction with the auto-commentary from his residence in Dharamsala on September 8 and 9. The programme has been organised on the request of a group of Asians.The Dalai Lama will also field questions from the group each day. Webcasts of the teachings will also be available in Tibetan, Chinese, Hindi, Vietnamese, Korean, Russian, Japanese, Spanish, German, Portuguese, French, Mongolian, Italian, Ladakhi, Thai, Indonesian and Nepali.The Dalai Lama has been imparting online teachings from his residence in McLeodganj since the outbreak of Covid. He has not moved out of his residence since March 2021 except for vaccination at the Dharamsala zonal hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lama-to-deliver-two-day-online-lecture-308171
08-09-2021||---||ITBP Mountaineering expedition flagged in||Shimla, September 7  A mountaineering expedition of Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Sector Headquarters (SHQ) Shimla, was flagged in at the Raj Bhavan yesterday. The ceremony was presided over by Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar.   The team of 28 members succeeded in scaling the 6,795-m high Gya peak at the tri-junction of Tibet, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh. The expedition was flagged off by DIG, SHQ Shimla, Prem Singh on July 24. The team summited the peak under the leadership of Deputy Commandant Kuldeep Singh and Deputy Leader Assistant Commandant Anmol Shrivas. A veteran member of the team was Head Constable Pradeep Negi of Chitkul village in Kinnaur, who had also successfully scaled the Mount Everest twice in the past. The Governor said such expeditions not only developed leadership, bonding, discipline and confidence among the troops but also enhanced their ability to face uncertain and critical situations by taking initiative.  He appreciated the ITBP for various relief and rescue operations conducted in Himachal and protecting the integrity of Tibetan borders. Prem Singh said the ITBP held specialisation in adventure sports like rock climbing, mountaineering, skiing, river-rafting, mountain biking and paragliding and also conducted various events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/itbp-mountaineering-expedition-flagged-in-308172
08-09-2021||Dharamsala||Pvt investment likely for industrial parks in Himachal||The Department of Industries is contemplating inviting private players for development of industrial parks in the state. The department is looking for landbanks in various districts that can be handed over to private players for development and attracting investment in the state.Many investors have shown interest in developing ethanol production plants and industry related to production of defence equipment in Himachal.Director Industries, Rakesh Prajapati, admitted that a proposal of inviting private players for development of industrial parks was under consideration of the government. He said the onus of developing industrial parks and provide all facilities would be on the investors so that they can set up their units and provide employment to local youth.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pvt-investment-likely-for-industrial-parks-in-himachal-308173
08-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||Notice to CS, Una Una DC on lack of parking lot at Mata Chintpurni Temple||Shimla, September 7The HP High Court today issued notices to the Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary (PWD), Una Deputy Commissioner, SDM of Amb, and the Temple Officer of Mata Chintpurni Temple on the issue of a lack of parking space on the Talwara bypass near the temple in Una district.A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the order on a petition taken up suo moto by the court as a PIL on a letter by Vijay Singh addressed to the Chief Justice.It was alleged in the letter that the Chintpurni Temple is one of the richest temples having a high income and there are two main roads leading to Chintpurni, one from Bharwain through the new bus stand towards the temple and the other from Talwara, Dasua and other big cities of Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, through the Shitla Mata Temple.It was alleged that due to the lack of parking space devotees and local residents faced problems as traffic jams were a regular feature.It stated that the police had given to the temple administration in writing that a parking lot should be constructed and resolutions to this effect were passed by many gram panchayats. Local residents had also brought the problem to the notice of the temple administration but nothing had been done till date.The petitioner alleged that the high court passed directions in 2008 for the construction of a parking lot near the temple, but the orders were not complied with. The petitioner prayed for directions to the temple administration for the construction of a parking lot on the Talwara bypass near it in a time-bound manner so that lakhs of devotees and local residents are relieved of traffic jams.The court directed the state authorities to file their replies within four weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/notice-to-cs-una-una-dc-on-lack-of-parking-lot-at-mata-chintpurni-temple-308174
08-09-2021||Shimla||Motivate people for tourism activities: Himachal Governor||An environment should be developed to motivate people to actively participate in tourism activities. The rich culture of every district should be linked to tourism and district-wise tourism activities should be organised throughout the year, said Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar while interacting with four IAS probationers of the 2020 batch of the Himachal cadre, who called on him at the Raj Bhavan here today.The probationers, namely Om Kant Thakur, Abhishek Kumar Garg, Gursimar Singh and Divyanshu Singhal, are undergoing state-specific training at the HP Institute of Public Administration.“Himachal is a beautiful state and people here are simple. During the services, you should meet more and more people so that you can know about their problems,” he advised them.He said that the youth of today were keen learners and they should travel across the state to gain more knowledge.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/motivate-people-for-tourism-activities-himachal-governor-308175
08-09-2021||Solan||Asst drug controller transferred to Mandi||Baddi’s Assistant drug controller Kamlesh Kumar Naik was transferred to Mandi today.The post in Mandi was vacant since 2019 and the area was being looked after by the assistant drug controller of Dharamsala, causing inconvenience to traders, who were demanding posting of an official at Mandi. Naik had worked in the Baddi industrial area for the past eight years.Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajiv Saizal said, “This will facilitate chemists especially in the midst of the pandemic when the role of the chemists has assumed significance”.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/asst-drug-controller-transferred-to-mandi-308176
08-09-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Five firms show interest in Jalori tunnel project||KULLU, September 7Five companies have shown interest in the construction of the much-awaited Jalori tunnel on the Aut-Luhri National Highway connecting Banjar and Anni in Kullu district. The plan to build a 4.2 km tunnel between Khanag and Ghayagi under the Jalori Pass to facilitate round-the-year vehicular movement has been in place for the past four decades.Anni, Nirmand residents worst affectedThe National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had completed the survey of the tunnel in 2014. The estimated cost was Rs 364.65 crore. The Union Ministry of Surface and Transport approved the construction in February 2020. The tenders for making a detailed project report (DPR) of the tunnel were floated on June 11, 2021.Engineer KL Suman, Executive Engineer, Rampur Division of the NHAI, said the selection of the company would be done by the Union ministry. The selected company will prepare the design and carry out monitoring during the construction of the tunnel and also maintain it for 10 years after its completion.Seven kilometres of the road and a bridge are included in the project. The cost of the consultancy is Rs 25 crore.The 10,800-ft high Jalori Pass remains closed due to snowfall in winters and people of 69 panchayats of Seraj have to traverse a long distance via alternative route. The distance between Luhri to Kullu is 120 km but due to the closure of the pass, the distance via Karsog becomes 220 km, which makes the journey tedious and expensive. People of Anni and Nirmand are the most affected, who have to travel a longer distance to reach Kullu.Residents of Anni, Nirmand and outer Seraj are demanding the tunnel for a long time so that they can remain connected with Mandi and Kullu round the year. Apart from Banjar and Anni, lakhs of people of Lahaul-Spiti, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla and Kinnaur districts will benefit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-firms-show-interest-in-jalori-tunnel-project-308177
08-09-2021||Solan||Man flees with tractor during test drive||In a bizarre case, a person, who came to buy a tractor at a Paonta Sahib-based agency, fled with it on the plea of taking a test drive and later sold it to a Uttar Pradesh resident for Rs 2.5 lakh.  A case for cheating has been registered by the police on a complaint by agency salesman Amrik Singh last evening, said DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur.  According to the complainant, Sumit Chauhan of Vikas Nagar tehsil in Uttarakhand, came to purchase a tractor at Paonta Tractors on August 9 along with his two associates Balwinder and Sandeep Kumar.  Sumit had earlier too come to the agency to purchase a tractor in his father’s name. He was asked to bring documents for financing the purchase. A cheque was given to the salesman and he was asked to bring his father for completing the formalities. But he had declined to do so.  Sumit again visited the agency on August 9 and asked for a test drive. He was handed over the keys. Sumit also handed over his PAN card and Aadhaar card for the purchase. The tractor was driven towards the Badripur Chowk by Sumit, who never returned.  Amrik Singh tried to locate him through the address given in the Aadhaar and PAN cards but he found no one at the  address. He later went to his house at Shamli in UP where his father told him that the tractor was with Siddharth at Sarsawa. When Siddharth was contacted, he was told that he had bought the tractor for Rs 2.5 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-flees-with-tractor-during-test-drive-308178
08-09-2021||---||Tap water at highest polling station in Lahaul-Spiti village||Shimla, September 7The government has succeeded in providing tap water to Tashigang village, the country’s highest polling station at 15,256 feet in Lahaul-Spiti.“Himachal Pradesh is performing better than other states under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Under it, tap water has been supplied to the houses of Tashigang village, the country’s highest polling station. The activities of the mission are being carried out without any hindrance so that every household in the state has a tap water supply by August 15, 2022,” said Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh.According to a press release issued by the government, about 17 lakh households would be provided tap water supply. An amount of Rs. 2,260 crore has been allocated to the state for various works to be done under the mission of which Rs 1,107 crore have been spent by the department.The release said under the mission, the state had also received an incentive of Rs 283 crore. The state received it because of the better policies and work management of the department.Work is being done to provide water at the rate of 55 litre per person per day in the state. For the promotion and improvement of 283 drinking water schemes in the state, Plan Estimates (DPRs) worth Rs.1120.24 crore have been prepared. An amount of Rs 288.11 crore has been spent on these projects so far.In 2021-22, a budget provision of Rs. 764 crore has been made for augmentation and improvement of various schemes in the state. Under Jal Jeevan Mission, 107 projects of Rs. 888 crore have been prepared and sent by the state government to the central government for approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tap-water-at-highest-polling-station-in-lahaul-spiti-village-308179
08-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Trying for parity in land relief rates: Minister||NURPUR, SEPTEMBER 7The Himachal Pradesh government is committed to safeguarding interests of four lane affected people in the state whose lands are being acquired by the NHAI for Pathankot-Mandi highway widening project. This was stated by forest minister and local MLA Rakesh Pathania in a press conference here today.Pathania was recently nominated as a member of the Cabinet subcommittee constituted by the state government to resolve the issue of compensation for the land being acquired for the road project. He said the government was trying to bring parity in the compensation rates being awarded to the four lane affected people and was committed to ‘one project one rate’ norm.The minister said the Cabinet subcommittee would review land acquisition process and compensation awards announced by the neighbouring states for the road widening projects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/trying-for-parity-in-land-relief-rates-minister-308180
08-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 3.42 lakh recovered from tax evaders||Hamirpur, September 7A sum of Rs 3,42,600 was recovered from tax evaders in Bilaspur by the Excise and Taxation Department today.Manoj Dogra, Commissioner, State Excise and Taxation Department, said their team acted on a tip-off that a huge quantity of scrap was being transported without tax clearance. He said two trucks were intercepted on the Bilaspur-Swarghat highway. He said the teams remained on duty from 8 pm to 8 am on the night of September 6 and 7.Manoj Dogra said Assistant Commissioner, Excise and Taxation, Surender Kumar; Assistant Excise Taxation Officer Shivani Kapoor and Rajneesh Dutt led the team to trap the vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-3-42-lakh-recovered-from-tax-evaders-308181
08-09-2021||---||Lahaul-Spiti ambulance workers honoured||Mandi, September 7GVK-EMRI ambulance staff were honoured for providing good service during the pandemic in Lahaul & Spiti.Chief Medical Officer, Lahaul & Spiti, Dr Madanbandhu yesterday felicitated the employees of GVK-EMRI 108 Ambulance Service and 102 Janani Express Ambulance Service by giving certificates to these employees for their service to people and excellent performance during the Covid-19 period.For excellent work in ambulance service, ambulance pilots Gopal and Suresh and emergency mechanical technicians Lakshmi Chand and Jayalalitha were honoured by the CMO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-spiti-ambulance-workers-honoured-308182
08-09-2021||Mandi||Road to be closed||The road between Gramphu and Losar will remain closed from 7 am to 3 pm on September 9 and 10 due to the motor sports rally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-to-be-closed-308183
08-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Loans not paid, 17 Dharamsala hotels get takeover notice from banks||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 7Their accounts having been declared non-performing assets (NPA) due to non-payment of loans during the pandemic, 17 leading hotels in Dharamsala region have been issued takeover notices by banks. The move has sent shockwaves in the hotel industry.Blaming Covid-induced lockdowns and “lack of support” from the government for their losses, the hoteliers are planning to hit the streets if any coercive action is taken by the banks.Ashwani Bamba, Upper Dharamsala Hotel Association president, said several other hotels were likely to face similar action. “The hotel industry has hardly done any business over the past two years due to Covid. The repeated lockdowns and restrictions imposed on the entry of tourists made things worse. We will meet the Chief Minister and urge him to stop the banks from taking extreme measures,” he said.Bamba said the hotel industry had contributed significantly to the state’s GDP and the government must come to their rescue in their hour of crisis. “Most of the hoteliers facing action are locals who have raised loans to build hotels. The government has announced interest subvention plan, but only a handful of hoteliers have been able to avail of its benefits,” he said.The tourists were unlikely to visit Himachal till the state adopted some policy to woo them, Bamba said, adding the government till then should prevent the banks from sealing hotels.Rakesh Sharma, another hotelier, said several locals had leased out their properties, but the lessees had not kept their financial commitments due to lack of business.The hotel industry in the Dharamsala belt has been reeling under losses since March 2020 when the first Covid lockdown was imposed. The hotels are learnt to be witnessing 5 per cent occupancy even on weekends, compared to almost 100 per cent in the pre-pandemic period.Also read: Himachal tourism industry under debt, wants curbs lifted||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/loans-not-paid-17-dharamsala-hotels-get-takeover-notice-from-banks-308008
08-09-2021||Mandi||11-yr-old dies in monkey attack in Mandi||An 11-year-old child lost his life in a monkey attack at Ladbhadol market in Mandi district on Monday. Police said victim Divyansh Sharma was attacked by a monkey on the second floor of his house around 6:30 am. He ran for safety but fell off the building. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/11-yr-old-dies-in-monkey-attack-in-mandi-307631
