09-09-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Resolve traffic issues in Shimla||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Resolve traffic issuesLoading and unloading of construction material for private buildings and road widening work in Shimla is causing frequent traffic jams at several places. The activity should not be allowed during the day when vehicular traffic is heavy. The piling of construction material and wrong parking on roadsides hinders the traffic movement. Authorities concerned should take note. — Rohit, ShimlaUNA treasury office InaccessibleThe Una treasury office is located at a place which is beyond the reach of vehicles. Senior citizens, who have to visit the treasury, find it difficult to reach the office on foot and are unable to finish thier tasks. The government should shift the office to a new building where the aged can easily approach it and avail services. — ML Thakur, Una||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/resolve-traffic-issues-in-shimla-308554
09-09-2021||Under the Investor Awareness Programme (IAP)||Webinar on Derivatives Market||No commerce teacher, claims SFIThe SFI unit of Sunni Government College has alleged that not even a single commerce teacher is there in the college. As a result, many students are not attending classes. The SFI demanded that all vacant posts should be filled up soon. Besides, the students’ body demanded that the college should provide clean drinking water and toilet facility. Also, the construction work of the auditorium should also be completed as early as possible.Open university portal: ABVPThe ABVP submitted a memorandum to the HPU VC, demanding that the university portal be opened at the earliest for students who could not fill their entrance exam forms during the pandemic. There were several UG and PG students whose assessment and assignment marks could not be added to the final result due to some reasons. In such cases, these marks should be added and results should be declared soon, the party added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-derivatives-market-308555
09-09-2021||Shimla||Congress, CPM candidates win Himachal Pradesh University Executive Council poll||The candidates supported by the Congress and the CPM were elected non-teaching employee representatives to the Executive Council (EC) of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) and the University Court.Congress-backed Rajkumari was elected to the Executive Council. She defeated BJP-supported candidate Dipin Kumar by 21 votes. Rajkumari polled 367 votes against 346 votes polled by Dipin Kumar, who had been an EC member for three times.A total of 850 votes were polled in the election. Ram Lal, who was supported by the Congress and CPM alliance, defeated BJP-supported candidate Budhi Ram (a sitting member) by 44 votes in the election to the University Court. Ram Lal and Budhi Ram polled 385 and 341 votes, respectively.Earlier in August, the Congress also won the Non-Teaching Employees Union elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-cpm-candidates-win-himachal-pradesh-university-executive-council-poll-308556
09-09-2021||---||50 cops get training in Shimla to curb cyber crime||Shimla, September 8As many as 50 investigation officers were imparted hands-on training in the newly procured software and tools to combat cyber crime, during a two-day training session that concluded at the cyber police station here today.The unprecedented increase in online crimes, including identity theft, phishing and social engineering attacks, had increased the need for digital forensics, which aimed to collect, analyse and present digital evidence to prosecute cyber criminals, Narvir Singh Thakur, Additional SP (cyber crime), said.The training session covered several topics, including forensic processes and procedures, digital forensics, network and log forensics, memory forensics, flash and physical memory forensics, software and hardware forensic tools, anonymity and authorship forensics, smart toy and gaming console forensics, messaging forensics, besides cyber crime laws and procedures, digital forensics and financial crimes, including money laundering, and cyber stalking, cyber bullying, e-mail forensics and digital crime scene investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/50-cops-get-training-in-shimla-to-curb-cyber-crime-308557
09-09-2021||Chamba||23 new homestays registered in Chamba district||Keeping in view the potential of tourism in Pangi subdivision of Chamba district, a team of officials of the Tourism Department recently visited various villages in the area to orient the youth towards self-employment opportunities in the tourism business.During its five-day visit, the team registered 23 homestays in remote villages of Pangi subdivision. Findru, Findpar, Saach, Sechu, Chask, Chask Bhatori, Sahali, Kumar Bhatori, Shaur, Ajog, Purthi, Thamoh and Killar villages had been linked with the homestay scheme of the government.“Due to the efforts of the Tourism Department, the number of homestays in the Pangi tribal valley has increased from one to 38 in the last two and a half years,” said District Tourism Development Officer (DTDO) Vijay Kumar here.Besides, a new 18-room hotel at Killar was also registered. Now, the number of registered hotels in the Pangi valley had increased to three, said Vijay. He added that it would certainly lead to a huge influx of tourists in the days to come. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/23-new-homestays-registered-in-chamba-district-308558
09-09-2021||Hamirpur||Hamirpur: Ex-minister Thakur Jagdev Chand’s son dies of cardiac arrest||Bhupinder Thakur, son of Thakur Jagdev Chand, a former Cabinet Minister, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday. He was cremated here today. Bhupinder Singh (67) is survived by his wife, former Chief Parliamentary Secretary Urmil Thakur, and two sons and a daughter. His brother is MLA Narender Thakur. The deceased had retired as Deputy Director, Agriculture, and was unwell for the past few months. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur sent his condolences to the bereaved family. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-ex-minister-thakur-jagdev-chands-son-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-308559
09-09-2021||---||Paonta Sahib police seize liquor meant for sale in Haryana||Solan, September 8The Paonta Sahib police seized eight cartons of liquor meant for sale in Haryana from a car in the Rampur Ghat area of Sirmaur district today. As many as 98 bottles were confiscated by the police team led by head constable Dalip.Police officials said Ankur (25) of Shalwala village and Vipin Chamola (21) of Uttarakhand were carrying the liquor in the car without a permit or licence.The cases of country-made liquor, Charlie Malta, bore the address of RSL Distilleries, Chandrao village in Indri tehsil of Karnal. Stacked in the rear seat, the cases had a stamp stating that the liquor was meant for sale in Haryana only.The two youths have been booked and a probe has been started, said DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur.He added that a campaign had been initiated to check the smuggling of contraband and liquor from neighbouring states into Paonta Sahib subdivision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-sahib-police-seize-liquor-meant-for-sale-in-haryana-308560
09-09-2021||Mandi||Himachal farmers seek better price for produce||Kisan Sabha held a protest march here today to seek remunerative price for their produce. The protest was led by Kisan Sabha under the leadership Som Dev Sharma, the state president of Kisan Sabha.Tek Chand Thakur, district president of Kisan Sabha, said although schemes were being run by the Centre, the main issue, which has become a cause of unrest among the farmers, is that they are not getting cost based remunerative price for their produce.“Despite the minimum support price (MSP) being in place, the farmers get low price for their produce in the markets. Prices of agriculture produces were always kept under control, due to which an independent market system could not develop,” he said.“Now agricultural inputs are getting expensive but the MSP has not been changed progressively,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-farmers-seek-better-price-for-produce-308561
09-09-2021||New Delhi||Sanction bulk drug park: Himachal CM to Health Minister||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur called on Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya here today and urged him to sanction a bulk drug pharma park to the state.Thakur apprised Mandaviya that Himachal is the pharma hub of Asia. Hence, a bulk drug pharma park would boost industrialisation and generate employment avenues for people.He also briefed the Union minister of the success of the Covid vaccination drive in the state and told him that the first dose of the vaccine had been provided to the entire eligible population. The state had achieved 103 per cent vaccination, which also includes migrant labour and tourists.Thakur told the minister that the state had set November 30 as the deadline to provide the second dose of to all eligible people. He thanked the minister for providing ample doses to the state in time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sanction-bulk-drug-park-himachal-cm-to-health-minister-308562
09-09-2021||---||Baddi to have automatic vehicle testing centre||Shimla, September 8The inspection and automatic vehicle testing centre will be established on 32-bigha land with an expenditure of Rs 16.35 crore at Baddi, said Transport Minister Bikram Singh during a meeting with senior officers to review the progress of development projects of the department.He said he would visit the identified place along with senior officers to know the status of the construction of the centre. Himachal would be developed as a model state in the use of electric vehicles, he said, adding that its use would be beneficial in conservation of environment and sustainable development along with creation of employment opportunities.The implementation of the Electric Vehicle Policy would encourage people to use such vehicles. The minister said charging stations and points would be set up. The facility would be made available at petrol stations and other places as well. The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board had been identified as a nodal agency for the purpose.A discussion on establishing a transport town and driving, training and inspection centre at Nadaun was also held. He also directed the officers to prepare a detailed project report.He said the first state-level committee would be constituted under the Swaran Jayanti Parivahan Yojana on September 22. It would approve various ambulance roads. The process to give approval to 300 ambulance roads had been started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-to-have-automatic-vehicle-testing-centre-308563
09-09-2021||Dipender Manta||No end to wait for road link to Kullu village||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 8The residents of Banaugi village in Banjar of Kullu district are suffering due to the lack of road connectivity to their area since long. This village in Garaparli panchayat is situated in the Sainj valley of Kullu district.The situation becomes adverse when someone falls sick. As the village lies 10 km away from the road, it becomes a challenging task to carry the patient and walk long distance to avail any transportation facility from road to take the patient to hospital for treatment.Besides, due to lack of road connectivity, the residents are unable to produce cash crops to sustain their economy. They allege that since Independence, they are struggling for basic rights such as better road connectivity, healthcare and education facilities.Dharam Singh, a resident of Banaugi village, said, “Roads are vital to ensure development of any area. Due to absence of roads, we are unable to cultivate cash crops to sustain our economy. Transporting produce to distant markets in time without road connectivity is a huge problem”.“Recently, an expectant mother faced some medical issues, which forced her relatives to carry her on their shoulders for 10 km to reach the road to avail the transportation facility. It took them hours before she could be rushed to a hospital in an ambulance,” he said.“All patients are not lucky enough to reach safely to hospital. The villagers had urged the state government to look into the matter but nothing has been done so far,” Shakuntla Devi, another resident said.“We urge the government to provide road connectivity to this village at the earliest to provide much-needed relief to the people,” Emna Devi, Pradhan, Gadaparli gram panchayat, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-end-to-wait-for-road-link-to-kullu-village-308564
09-09-2021||---||Heavy rain in Palampur, Dalhousie, Dharamsala||Shimla, September 8With seven deaths in the past 24 hours (four in Kinnaur and one each in Chamba, Shimla and Solan), the death toll in rain related incidents during the current monsoon season has mounted to 367. As many as 36 roads, including 19 in Shimla, six each in Chamba and Hamirpur and five in Kangra are closed.The local MeT office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rains at isolated places in 10 districts, barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on September 10 and nine districts on September 11.Moderate to heavy rains lashed parts of Himachal. Palampur with 126 mm was wettest in the state followed by Dalhousie 78 mm, Dharamsala 72 mm, Dehra Gopipur 59 mm, Ghamroor 55 mm, Kangra 53 mm, Gagal 49 mm, Nurpur 43 mm, Chawari 41 mm, Khadrala 34 mm, Manali 32 mm, Banjar 25 mm, Sarahan 24 mm, Narkanda 23 mm, Saloni and Renuka 20 mm each, Nagrota Suriyan, Jatton Barrage, Jogindarnagar and Kotkhai 19 mm each, Naina Devi and Rampur15 mm each.The minimum temperatures dipped by 2 to 3 degrees and Keylong was coldest at night with 11.2 degree C. Maximum temperatures decreased by 1 to 2 degree and Una was hottest in the day recording a high of 32.2 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rain-in-palampur-dalhousie-dharamsala-308565
09-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Blast in Una industrial unit leaves five injured in Una district||UNA, SEPTEMBER 8Five persons were injured in a blast that took place in the Vardhman Steel unit situated in the Tahliwal industrial area of Una district today. The injured have been admitted to Dayanand Medical College Ludhiana. The names of the injured could not be confirmed by the police.Additional SP Parveen Dhiman said while the exact cause of the incident will be confirmed only after detailed investigations, it appears that a technical snag in the blast furnace led to the incident.The ASP said the statements of the injured would be recorded when their condition stabilised. He said a case has been registered and evidence is being collected.He added that the statements of eye witnesses and the management of the unit are being recorded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blast-in-una-industrial-unit-leaves-five-injured-in-una-district-308566
09-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu Dasehra event likely to be low key||KULLU, SEPTEMBER 8The Kullu Dasehra celebrations are likely to be scaled down this year as well due to the Covid crisis. It is likely that like last year, the rath yatra will be carried out by a limited number of devotees and deities and only traditional rituals will be carried out during the seven-day Dasehra festival to commence from October 15.A meeting chaired by the Chief Minister for making preparations of Kullu Dasehra, generally held around three months before the festival in Shimla, has also not been held this year. Thus, the possibilities of holding cultural programs during the festival are remote.Even last year the Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee invited only seven deities to participate in the rituals. However, palanquins of 14 deities took part in the festivities and during the Rath Yatra.Chairman of Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee, Education and Language, Arts and Culture minister, Govind Singh Thakur said that a decision regarding the Dasehra festival will be taken in a meeting to be held on September 21.The residents and devotees were hopeful that more people would be allowed to participate in the rath yatra after the Covid crisis had subsided in the district.The rath yatra is held in an open ground having the capacity to accommodate thousands of persons. The rath, a heavy wooden chariot, is pulled by thousands of devotees in the opening and closing of the festival after placing idols of Lord Raghunath, Sita, Hanuman and other deities.Hundreds of deities accompanied by thousands of villagers come to Dhalpur during the festivities from all over the district. The deities also participate in the rath yatra and many tourists, including foreigners, and residents come to pay obeisance and to witness this world famous event. The administration sends invitations to around 300 deities.During Dev Sansad (Jagati) held in Naggar village of this district on July 14, the deities pronounced the verdict through their ‘gurs’ (oracles) to hold a ‘Kahika’ (expiation ceremony) during the Dasehra festival to placate the irate deities who were not allowed to attend the Dasehra festivities due to curtailed celebration in view of Covid last year.The residents and devotees have demanded that while political gatherings are being organised, which witness huge crowds, the religious ceremonies should also be permitted by ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour.They said that barring people from participating in the ‘rath yatra’ and festivities will hurt their religious sentiments.Decision on Sept 21||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-dasehra-event-likely-to-be-low-key-308567
09-09-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 163 new cases, four deaths in Himachal||As many as 163 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 215,074. Besides, four persons died of the virus in Kangra, Chamba, Hamirpur and Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-163-new-cases-four-deaths-in-himachal-308568
09-09-2021||Vijay Arora||Kullu Deputy Commissioner appointed caretaker of Bhuntar gurdwara||Shimla, September 8The HP High Court has appointed the Kullu Deputy Commissioner as the caretaker and receiver of the property owned by Shri Guru Granth Sahib at Bhuntar with a view to protecting it.While deciding a more than two decades’ old civil appeal last week, the court issued directions to all contesting parties, which were claiming rights over the management of the property, to hand it over to the Kullu Deputy Commissioner within two weeks.Justice Sureshwar Thakur directed the Deputy Commissioner that with the assistance of Sikh scholars ensure the maintenance and dedicated upkeep of the hallowed precincts wherein the sacred scripture is installed.The court directed him to ensure regular dedicated observances of all rituals pertaining to the Sikh religion. Besides, he would also keep regular audited accounts of the salaries paid as well as the revenue earned from the property.The Deputy Commissioner would also ensure future renovations of the holy shrine from the income of the property with the assistance of Sikh sevadars and scholars.The court passed the directions while disposing of an appeal of 1997 regarding a dispute between the members of a family and the members of the committee of Gurdwara Granth Sahib, Bhuntar, claiming rights over the management of the gurdwara. The court observed, “As per Section 38 of the Sikh Gurdwara Act, 1925, the civil court has no jurisdiction to try and maintain suits pertaining to the gurdwara property, which was instituted before it without the prior mandatory permission from the Deputy Commissioner”.Dispute over rights to manage Bhuntar shrine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-deputy-commissioner-appointed-caretaker-of-bhuntar-gurdwara-308569
09-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||Himachal High Court quashes transfer done at MLA’s behest||Shimla, September 8The HP High Court today quashed the transfer order of the head teacher of a government school issued on an MLA’s recommendation.A Division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Satyen Vaidya observed, “The judicial review of the order of transfer is permissible when the order is made on irrelevant consideration. Even when the order of transfer, which otherwise appears to be innocuous on its face, is passed on extraneous consideration, then the court is competent to go into the matter to find out the real foundation of transfer. The court is competent to ascertain whether the order of transfer passed is bona fide or as a measure of punishment”.The court passed this judgment on a petition filed by Babu Ram, head teacher of Government Primary School, Ghiri, Sundernagar, Mandi, challenging his transfer to Government Primary School, Segal, Mandi, on the recommendation of the Nachan MLA.During the course of hearing, it was brought to the notice of the court through the record of the case that MLA Vinod Kumar had addressed a letter to the Chief Minister proposing/ recommending the transfer of 10 government employees. The record revealed that before the recommendations could reach before the Administrative Department, these were placed before the Chief Minister, who appended a note on March 25 “approved as per the request”. It appears that all transfers were approved as it is without consulting any administrative authority.Setting aside the transfer order, the court observed, “It is settled that an elected representative can only propose the transfer of an employee, that too for genuine and cogent reasons and not by usurping the authority of the Administrative Department, which alone is competent to issue the orders of transfer after due application of mind. Obviously, the department, in such circumstances, has no choice whatsoever, but to implement the recommendations made by the local MLA as approved”.Teacher challenges order to shift himBabu Ram, head teacher of Government Primary School, Ghiri, Sundernagar, Mandi, challenged his transfer to Government Primary School, Segal, Mandi, on the recommendation of the Nachan MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-high-court-quashes-transfer-done-at-mlas-behest-308570
09-09-2021||---||Shimla’s taxi operators seek passenger tax waiver||Shimla, September 8Shimla’s taxi operators have demanded exemption from token and passenger tax for two years, owing to the loss their businesses have suffered due to Covid-19. “There are around 2,000 registered taxis in and around Shimla. More than 90 per cent are not in a position to pay these taxes. Covid has destroyed our business, and we don’t see the situation improving any time soon. So, we have no option but to request the government to waive off our token and passenger tax for two years,” said Dinesh Kanwar, secretary of the Joint Taxi Union Welfare Committee, Shimla.He said the committee members had met the Chief Minister and the Transport Minister some time ago regarding their demands, but had not received encouraging response so far. “We hope the government will understand the stress we are going through for the past two years. If it doesn’t come to our rescue, we will be forced to start an agitation,” Kanwar said.He further said that most taxis had done little business in the past two years. “The government should also extend our permit by five years, considering that the past two years have been total waste,” he said. Also, there should be a single-window system for them to deposit their taxes and taxi stands and parking lots should be made available to them, the secretary maintained.Besides, he said, there were several other issues that the taxi operators were facing, including excessive challans under the new Motor Vehicle Act. “The minimum fine is Rs 1,000 now. It’s alright to issue such challans for dangerous and irresponsible driving but it can’t be justified for offences like idle parking. It’s leading to corruption,” Kanwar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimlas-taxi-operators-seek-passenger-tax-waiver-308539
09-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Himachal's red rice to get Geographical Indication tag||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 8The red rice variety of Himachal will now get Geographical Indication (GI) registration. This will help farmers growing red rice varieties and getting higher price of their produce.Agriculture university of Palampur has submitted an application for the GI registration of japonica red rice to the GI Registry Office, Chennai.HK Chaudhary, V-C, said the university was also working on getting GI tag for Karsog kulthi and Chamba chukh. Scientists have been directed to file at least 50 GI registration applications in this golden jubilee year of statehood. After getting the GI tag, farmers will get national and international recognition for the crop or commodity which helps them to get highly remunerative price, he said.The red varieties of the state include chhohartu from Shimla district; sukara, jhinjan and karad from Chamba district; jattu, deval matali from Kullu district and desi dhan, kalizhini, achhoo and begmi from Kangra district. Red rice is nutritionally superior, rich in iron and zinc and has numerous trace elements and vitamins and high anti-oxidant properties.Prof HK Chaudhary said unlike red rice of Kerala and other states, the red rice of Himachal were adapted to cooler climates. In view of this, the university was making efforts to the get GI tag for japonica red rice.Chhohartu, a red rice variety grown in the Chhohara Valley, Rohru (Shimla), is a part of cultural heritage of the area.To help farmers get higher price||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-red-rice-to-get-geographical-indication-tag-308544
09-09-2021||---||Solan: BJP councillors protest, seek free water, garbage collection||Solan, September 8BJP councillors of the Solan MC today demanded water and door-to-door collection of garbage free of cost as promised by the Congress in its MC poll manifesto in March.Councillors Mira Anand, Shailender Gupta, Kulbhushan Gupta, Sushma Sharma and others staged a protest in front of the MC office and reminded the Congress of its promise. The MC is held by the Congress, which has its Mayor and Deputy Mayor.The councillors held placards stating that the people of the city should not be befooled and promise of free water, free garbage collection and reduction in the house tax should be fulfilled by the Congress. They also raised slogans criticising the Congress for failing to honour its promise.The MC had announced a water policy whereby a resident, drawing 12,500 litres of water per month, will have to pay Rs 100 and any further use of water will attract the usual charges. A sum of Rs 24 is charged per 1,000 litres in most wards while residents of the newly merged areas as well as certain wards like ward number 1, have to pay Rs 13 per 1,000 litres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-bjp-councillors-protest-seek-free-water-garbage-collection-308540
09-09-2021||Dipender Manta||Tribal youths in Himachal's Lahaul promote agro tourism to sustain economy||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 8The youths of Tino village under Kolang panchayat in the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti are promoting agro tourism to sustain their economy.They have started agro tourism at Gaimur village, where they have set up camps for the stay of tourists. They are planning to expand the concept across the district in the coming days.Editorial: Keep Himachal tourism alive: Govt must prop up state’s biggest employment generatorDuring the stay of tourists, they are allowed to collect farm produce like organic vegetables from the nearby farmland for kitchen purpose. The motive is to give them the first-hand experience of agricultural produce harvesting and self-cooking under agro tourism plan. Similarly, in the sowing season, the tourists will be allowed to experience sowing of agriculture crops.These youths are promoting organic agro tourism to attract tourists to Lahaul Spiti. They have grown exotic vegetables on their land to attract the tourists, which is purely the organic produce.In the next phase, they are planning to set up mini hydel projects nearby the camping site to provide electricity to mud houses. These mud houses will be constructed for the stay of tourists.Tashi Angroop, a youth of Tino village, told The Tribune, “We are a group of 20 youths, who are engaged in promotion of agro tourism. As an experiment, we have set up camping sites at Gaimur. We are providing an opportunity to tourists to have an experience from sowing to harvesting of agricultural produce, in whichever season they come.”“Apart from this, we are planning to construct mud houses at Tino village to promote cottage tourism. Two mini hydel projects will be set up at the village to meet the demand of power supply for heating and lighting,” said another youth Tanzin Angdee.Agro-tourism encompasses a wide variety of activities and provides a means to farmers to diversify and supplement their income. Such activities include wildlife study, horseback riding, cooking classes, wine tasting, harvest festivals, barn dances, farm stays, guided tours and petting zoos.Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the district administration would provide every possible effort to promote agro tourism in this tribal district. He appreciated the idea of these youths.Collecting farm produce to cook||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tribal-youths-in-himachals-lahaul-promote-agro-tourism-to-sustain-economy-308543
09-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Patients a harried lot as Solan hospital lacks basic facilities||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 8The non-functional equipment and a space constraint at the regional hospital in Solan, besides the delay in the construction of a new hospital building despite several announcements by the state government has left residents in the lurch.The hospital witnesses a daily influx of more than 800 patients in outdoor patient departments (OPDs). The non-functional CT scan, dental X-ray machines, among other key equipment, are posing inconvenience to the common man. They are forced to turn to private labs and spend more on lab tests.As per Indian Public Health Standards guidelines, the seating arrangement is supposed to be as per the patient load but one can see patients jostling for space in queues in the narrow corridors of the hospital. The need for a new hospital has been felt in the city from many years but the successive governments have failed to pay heed.The tardy pace of setting up a new hospital at the Kather bypass is clear from the fact that in the last three and a half years, merely the land could be transferred in the name of the Health and Family Welfare Department.Not only this, a new CT Scan machine has failed to be installed despite the lapse of more than a month and a half. A private company, Krishan Diagnostics, which has been entrusted the task to install the same has failed to do so in the stipulated time. Even the installation of the dental X-ray machine was awaiting completion. This was causing hardships to the patients who were visiting the hospital.Dr SL Verma, Medical Superintendent, said, “An estimate of Rs 90-33 crore for constructing the new hospital has been prepared and was sent to the Directorate of Health Services last week.”He said hopefully, the funds would be released soon and work to construct the new hospital would begin thereafter.He said, “A five-member committee had been constituted in the hospital which has finalised the drawings for the new hospital building. A preliminary drawing was prepared by the Public Works Department staff and need-based changes have now been suggested.”He said, “Krishan Diagnostics has failed to install the CT Scan machine as well as the complete dental X-ray installation equipment within the stipulated time. The company has been given written warnings too, but to no avail.”Notably, Solan district is the home turf of the state’s Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal.Such helplessness by the hospital staff to get the machines installed has left little hope for the patients. Congress MLA DR Shandil said it was unfortunate that people suffered under these circumstances and the regional hospital lacked adequate facilities. He also alleged that private labs were being promoted and testing equipment in the hospital were being deliberately not installed in time.Key machines non-functionalThe hospital witnesses a daily influx of more than 800 patients in its outdoor patient departments (OPDs). The non-functional CT scan, dental X-ray machines, among other key equipment, are posing inconvenience to the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/patients-a-harried-lot-as-solan-hospital-lacks-basic-facilities-308538
