10-09-2021||---||Heavy rain triggers landslides in Rampur; some vehicles reportedly damaged||Bhanu P LohumiTribune News ServiceShimla, September 10Heavy rain in Shimla’s Rampur district triggered landslides that caused damage to property, officials said.A boulder fell on a vehicle in Khopri and another near the BSNL office in Rampur. Some vehicles were reported damaged in landslides in a 5 km stretch from Rampur to Neogli.A landslide also blocked the Bahli- Rohru Road. No casualties were reported in the incident.The rising water level in Browny Khud before Jhakhri on National Highway 5 has made it difficult for smaller vehicles to cross, eyewitnesses said.Stone quarrying in the area has also made it particularly prone to landslides, residents say.One side of the National Highway 5 has reopened for traffic after a boulder fall near Jeori caused authorities to close off the road on Thursday night, said Rampur Sub-Divisional Magistrate Yadvendra Pal. He said the road would be kept closed for traffic at night because of possible landslides.Indian Meteorological Department has issued public advisories against venturing near banks of rivers because of rising water levels. The local MeT officer has predicted more thunderstorms and heavy rain in ten districts except Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on September 11 and five districts of Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur on September 12. It predicts wet spell for the region until September 16.Moderate to heavy rains lashed parts of Himachal—Rampur received 84 mm of rains; Sundernagar 78 mm; Pandoh 52 mm; Karsog 39 mm; Nahan 38 mm; Paonta Sahib 37 mm; Renuka 35 mm; Bhuntar 29 mm; Mashobra 27 mm; Theog 27; Banjar 25 mm; Manali 24 mm; Ghumarwin 24 mm; Sarahan 24 mm; Chamba 24 mm; Dalhousie 23 mm; Gohar 22 mm; Bajura 19 mm; Bijahi 19 mm; Sangrah 18 mm; and Seobagh 17 mm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rain-triggers-landslides-in-rampur-some-vehicles-reportedly-damaged-309275
10-09-2021||---||Sewerage inaugurated in Sandhol||Mandi, September 9Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur today inaugurated a sewerage at Balyali in Sandhol tehsil of the Dharampur Assembly constituency in the district. He said the sewerage constructed at a cost of Rs 5.75 crore would benefit Sandhol, Neri and Sohar panchayats.The minister said that this was the first sewerage laid in the rural area of the state under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The work on the scheme in other panchayats of Sandhol would be started soon.He also inaugurated an additional building of Senior Secondary School at Kothwan constructed at a cost of Rs 40 lakh, and laid the foundation stone of the Kothwan School Sports Stadium to be constructed at a cost of Rs 23.55 lakh.He listened to the grievances of the people of Balyali, Kothwan, Jamula and Neri and resolved most of them on the spot. He directed the departments concerned to speedily address the remaining problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sewerage-inaugurated-in-sandhol-309042
10-09-2021||Dalhousie||Plan to develop tourism in Churah||Deputy Speaker Dr Hans Raj on Thursday said an action plan was being prepared to develop tourism in Churah valley in the district.Hans Raj said he, along with officials of the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), travelled to the Buddhist religious place Bhanodi to give a practical shape to the action plan.He said the old itinerary (Bhanodi to Saach) would be revised soon. For this, Rs 1 crore will be spent. Apart from this, Rs 3 lakh will be spent on construction of community toilets on this trekking route.The work related to the construction of bird watching site and trekking huts on this route would also be included in the plan. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plan-to-develop-tourism-in-churah-309043
10-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Special crime unit to come up in Baddi to probe inter-state cases||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 9To ensure speedy detection of organised crime in the state’s industrial hub of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN), a proposal to set up an organised crime unit has been mooted.Led by a DSP, a staff of 20 policemen are supposed to manage the unit, as such cases need dedicated surveillance and inter-state investigation.Himanshu Mishra, IGP, South Range, said, “The proposal was mooted by former Baddi SP Rohit Malpani and it has been sent to the DGP.”The crime-torn BBN belt has witnessed a slew of crimes in the past few years, requiring inter-state probe. This would be the first such unit to be setup in any district in the state, given its peculiar crime scenario.In 2019, several such crimes took place in the BBN, including an ATM loot at Baddi, the accused of which were arrested from Punjab.Inter-state gangsters from Rajasthan were arrested for stealing mobile phones worth Rs 46 lakh. Apart from this, pharma raw material worth 45 lakh was stolen from Baddi and Nalagarh units and the accused were arrested from Uttar Pradesh. The same gang was also involved in narcotic substance theft in Una district worth Rs 25 lakh.2020 was no better, with assailants firing at a scrap dealer in Nalagarh. The conspiracy had been hatched by gangster Dilpreet Baba, languishing in a Punjab jail, and 11 accused were arrested in this case.Besides, a woman was killed and her head and torso dumped separately. In this case too, the accused were arrested from Punjab.A brutal gang war took place in Nalagarh for control over drug trade in the area. As many as 14 people were arrested from the neighbouring states for their involvement in the case. Also, cases of pharma opioids being misappropriated hogged the headlines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/special-crime-unit-to-come-up-in-baddi-to-probe-inter-state-cases-309044
10-09-2021||Shimla||MeT predicts floods in 4 Himachal districts||The MeT office has issued warning of flash floods in four districts of Shimla, Chamba, Kangra and Kinnaur in 24 hours and issued yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rain in 10 districts barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti tomorrow and nine districts barring Kullu, Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on September 11.It also predicted a wet spell in the region till September 15. Four persons died in rain-related incidents in 24 hours (two in Shimla and one each in Chamba and Kullu), taking the death toll to 371.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-predicts-floods-in-4-himachal-districts-309045
10-09-2021||The candidates||Offline counselling on September 15||Shiksha selected for ICEPShiksha Kaushal, a student of Government College of Pharmacy, Rohru, will represent India in the International Cadet Exchange Programme (ICEP) to be held at Singapore. Vineet Mehta, NCC programme officer of the institute, said the ICEP will held in virtual mode, in November. He said Shiksha had made the institute proud by securing the highest marks. Vivek Sharma, director of the institute, congratulated Shiksha on her achievement.Scheme to provide JEE/NEET coachingThe state government launched Himachal Pradesh Swaran Jayanti Vidyarthi Anushikshan Yojana on Teachers’ Day. The programme will provide JEE/NEET coaching to 1.9 lakh students of Classes IX to XII in government schools of the state. The programme will be implemented in two phases. In the first phase, maths and science content will be made available to the students. In the second phase, 100 students will be selected through a test and they would would be given 15-18 hours of live classes and doubt-solving sessions per week by a dedicated NEET/JEE team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/offline-counselling-on-september-15-309046
10-09-2021||Chamba||NGO for ‘herbal factory’||The Chamba Welfare Association, an NGO, has requested the government to set up a herbal factory in the district for the manufacturing of ayurveda medicines.Chamba is one of the richest districts in terms of its rare medicinal and aromatic herbs grown in the high-altitude forests of the district. Thousands of quintals of herbs are supplied to other parts of the country for the purpose of manufacturing the medicines every year. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngo-for-herbal-factory-309047
10-09-2021||The purpose of widening the points on the Cart Road is being rendered futile as the widened spots near Talland and Bemloe are being used to park vehicles. The traffic police must ensure that these stretches are kept vacant||Road widening fails to serve purpose||Residents don’t want langar at IGMC to stopThe move of the IGMC administration to close down the langar is unwarranted. Even if the NGO has violated some norms, the hospital should sort it out, and let the langar continue, as it provides free food to the needy every day. — Nikhil, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-widening-fails-to-serve-purpose-309053
10-09-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Kullu residents oppose plan to connect two sewerage lines||Kullu, September 9The new sewerage being laid in the Durga Nagar area of Kullu town is proposed to be linked to the Math sewerage, which is already overloaded. Many of the Math sewerage chambers are damaged and leaking, due to which the entire Khaned area has become vulnerable to landslides, rue residents of the Inner Akhara Bazaar and Math areas of the town.Bal Dass Thakur, a retired principal, says that an inclined sewerage chamber built near his house at Math is damaged and a foul smell has been emanating from it for the past several years. He adds that many chambers in the Math sewerage are damaged and leaking and the situation worsens during the rainy season. He has approached the Jal Shakti Department several times but to no avail. Now, he is planning to take legal recourse.Tara Chand, another resident of Math, says that his house has started sinking and the stairs towards Khaned have developed cracks. Ajay, yet another resident of Math, says that the overflowing chambers of the sewerage are a major health hazard, besides being a nuisance.Math resident Rajeev says that a major landslide in 2015 had washed away the footpath through Khaned and damaged a house in Inner Akhara Bazaar. He adds that if the new sewerage from Durga Nagar is connected to the Math sewerage, things will worsen. The Durga Nagar sewerage should be laid separately and linked to the Ramshilla sewerage instead of the Math sewerage. “Other areas above Math will also be connected with the sewerage in the coming years and the new sewerage should be laid accordingly,” he says.The residents of Inner Akhara Bazaar fear that an improper sewerage and drainage in the Math area may trigger landslides. During rain, slush enters their houses with water overflowing from the sewerage chambers in the Math area. They add that they have raised the issue with the authorities concerned several times but no concrete steps have been taken so far.Kullu Jal Shakti Department SDO Rohit Gupta says that an estimate is being prepared for the repair of leaking chambers and the construction of new RCC chambers in the Math area. He adds that some chambers need to be dismantled as the sewerage was laid around 20 years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-residents-oppose-plan-to-connect-two-sewerage-lines-309026
10-09-2021||---||Probe ordered into Shimla IGMC langar row||Shimla, September 9The government has ordered an inquiry into the langar row at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) here. Additional District Magistrate Rahul Chauhan will inquire into the matter and submit report within 15 days to the government.Also read: Shimla IGMC langar row intensifies, support pours in for NGOThe IGMC administration’s attempt to evict the NGO from the hospital premises has evoked a sharp reaction from the public and political parties. While the IGMC administration maintains it is only protecting its property from the “illegal occupants” who have also been “stealing” its electricity and water, the general public and political workers see the move politically motivated.Incidentally, a letter issued by the IGMC to Almighty Blessings on August 30, 2014, is doing the rounds on social media. According to this letter, the IGMC allowed the NGO to “cover and build up the space to make it suitable for preparation and serving tea and khichddi to the poor and needy patients and their attendants at Cancer Hospital premises.” However, an order from the Secretary Health to the IGMC principal, on September 3, 2014, states that no site be handed over to the NGO.Also read: Protest against stopping langar at IGMC-ShimlaMan running langar at IGMC announces stirDejected Sarabjeet to close langar at IGMC by March 31Meanwhile, the CPM also held a protest against the IGMC administration and the government outside the hospital today. Slamming the IGMC authorities for calling the langar illegal, the CPM said many who are trying to close it down were seen serving at the langar many times in the past. “If the government can’t provide free food to people, it should at least not stop those who are doing it,” said CPM leader Babu Ram.The CPM further demanded that privatisation of services inside the hospital should be stopped. “Canteens and diagnostic labs are being given to private players to give benefit to chosen ones, and inquiries are being ordered against the people who are providing free food to the poor and needy,” the CPM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/probe-ordered-into-shimla-igmc-langar-row-309027
10-09-2021||---||Tourists to pay development fee at Sissu||Mandi, September 9The Lahaul and Spiti district administration started charging a development fee of Rs 50 to Rs 500 from tourists at Sissu today. The fee is being charged on vehicles not registered in Himachal Pradesh.Keylong SDM Priya Nagata said that Rs 50 was being charged for a two-wheeler, Rs 200 for a car, Rs 300 for an SUV and an MUV and Rs 500 for a bus and a truck at a barrier set up at Sissu under the Special Area Development Authority (SADA). The amount thus collected would be spent on local development.After the construction of the Atal Tunnel, the number of tourists visiting Lahaul and Spiti has increased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-to-pay-development-fee-at-sissu-309028
10-09-2021||---||Missing girl found in Panchkula||Solan, September 9 An eight-year old girl with intellectual disability, who had gone missing on August 8 from a village in Baddi industrial area, was found today at Panchkula, and brought back today. DSP Baddi Navdeep Singh said the girl belonged to a migrant family of Badaun and had gone missing while playing near her house.  The police received the complaint on August 26 from her family, after which, a probe was initiated. She was seen going towards Marrawala, which leads to the national highway connecting Haryana. “Her pictures were shared with the neighbouring police at Panchkula. The police found the girl roaming on the road. She has been brought back and further probe is on,” the DSP said.  The police are yet to find out how she reached Panchkula. Her medical examination will be conducted. Several cases of missing children have been reported in this industrial belt, this year. All such children belong to migrant families of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/missing-girl-found-in-panchkula-309029
10-09-2021||Shimla||Visually impaired PhD scholar Shimla girl made youth icon for polls||The Election Commission of India appointed Muskan, a visually impaired PhD scholar at Himachal Pradesh University, as the Youth Icon for the State.She was declared the youth icon earlier also, in the 2017 Vidhan Sabha and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.State Coordinator for Accessible Elections, Ajai Srivastava, said Muskan would motivate the voters, particularly the youth, to participate in the poll process and exercise their right. Vice Chancellor Professor Sikander Kumar said Muskan had brought laurels to the state.Muskan belongs to a remote village, Sindasali, in Chirgaon tehsil of Shimla district. Presently, she is pursuing PhD in music from HPU and has qualified UGC NET and SET. She aims to become a professor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/visually-impaired-phd-scholar-shimla-girl-made-youth-icon-for-polls-309030
10-09-2021||Subhash Rajta||Shimla’s eco-hero saves Mumbai lake||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 9A 13-year-old Shimla boy, who lives in Mumbai, has received the prestigious International Young Eco-Hero Award, 2021.The Action for Nature, an NGO, based in San Francisco, hands out the awards annually to youngsters (8-16 age group) from across the globe for taking action to improve environment.Honoured by US NGOAyaan Shankta, a Class VIII student, has won the third prize in the climate change activist category for his project “Conservation and Rehabilitation of Powai Lake” in Mumbai. Overall, 25 children in the 8-14 and 15-16 age groups have been honoured for their environamental achievements by the NGO this year.It’s a big recognition indeed for the 13-year-old. No wonder, the parents and the child himself are elated. “We are absolutely thrilled. As parents, we provided him the support and encouragement he needed, rest it is all his hard work and dedication,” said his father Puneet Shankta, a commercial pilot and former Navy officer. He hails from Kotkhai in Shimla and moved to Mumbai after joining the Navy.“I am very happy, it was such a surprise for me when I won the prize, I did not expect at all to win a prize at this level,” said Ayaan. He, however, is no stranger to wining big prizes. For his research and report on the conservation and rehabilitation of Powai Lake, he won a gold medal at the Homi Bhabha Balvaidnyanik Competition a while back. “The medal gave him a huge boost, making him even more serious about his endeavour, resulting in international recognition,” said the proud father.Ayaan was 10-year-old when he got concerned about the deteriorating condition of the lake. “My parents would often take me to the lake. Initially, it was clean and beautiful. Gradually, it started deteriorating. I felt I needed to do something about it and got down and did my research for six months and then wrote an action report on how to save the lake,” said Ayaan.It was this report and his several other initiatives he took in association with other NGOs working towards the same goal that made him one of the only 25 global winners of the Young Eco-Hero Award.The youngster has grand plans to inform, educate and make people care for environment. “I intend to make a documentary on the lake and start an NGO for making our environment better,” said Ayaan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimlas-eco-hero-saves-mumbai-lake-309031
10-09-2021||Solan||Make youth aware of start-up schemes: Nauni University VC||The incubation centre developed at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, by incurring Rs 70.05 lakh, was dedicated to an incubatee today.Vice Chancellor Dr Parvinder Kaushal said the youth should be made aware of the state government’s scheme to promote start-ups and entrepreneurship. Elaborating on the initiative, Dr Manoj Vaidya, head, department of social science, and nodal officer of the incubation centre, said the university’s scientists provided guidance and infrastructure to the allotted incubatees to develop their products.Under the Chief Minister’s Startup Scheme, each incubatee is provided a sustenance allowance of Rs 25,000 per month for one year by the Industries Department. The start-ups that are successfully running under the scheme include manufacturing of natural incense sticks using flowers from temples, developed by Ravinder Prashar, modern corn-based value-added frozen product derived from traditional dish ‘kacholtu’, being run by Preeti Kashyap. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/make-youth-aware-of-start-up-schemes-nauni-university-vc-309032
10-09-2021||Dharamsala||Kangra paintings available on Amazon||Kangra paintings and products handcrafted in the Kangra style will now be available on Amazon. This will give Kangra paintings produced by local artists access to a wider range of market.Project Srijan, an ideation and marketing concept-based project which produces Kangra style of paintings, has successfully launched its products on Amazon India. Started in October 2020, Srijan is a collaboration project between master artisans in the field of paintings and clay making and a team of development block Rait in Kangra district.BDO, Rait, Latika Sehajpal, says that under the project, artisans of Kangra, Guler and Basholi style of paintings are brought together along with bamboo and clay artisans under one roof. The shapes and sizes of these new mediums of art have been developed anew so that they look more attractive and fetch better market rates.She says that for the first time artisans from so many different genres have collaborated under one project. The products created are unique. These hand-painted items are being sold in the price range from Rs 2,000 to Rs 10,000. The traditional art form has not been distorted in any way.“Our aim is to popularise the art of Kangra, Guler and Basholi styles and make it financially rewarding. More and more artisans are being added to our Baglamukhi arts initiative under Srijan. We are handholding the artists for now as we learn the tricks and trades of online selling. The entire initiative will be handed over to them by the next year,” she adds.Brand name Srijan has been incorporated in the product description while listing the products on Amazon. Also, the product description includes the name of HP. This will create authenticity in the minds of the customers who buy the Kangra style of paintings.The range on Amazon will be below Rs 10,000 so as to reach the price sensitive yet large domestic customer base. In the coming days, more e-commerce players and foreign customers will be targeted for selling high range Kangra paintings, says Latika. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-paintings-available-on-amazon-309033
10-09-2021||---||Land for Vallabhbhai Patel University being identified in Mandi: Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur||Mandi, September 9Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur today said that the state government was in the process of identifying 200 bighas to set up a permanent campus of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cluster University in the district.He said that the district administration had been directed to identify suitable land for the purpose. He inaugurated a computer laboratory set up on the temporary campus of the university here. He added that the government was taking special care that the university should have a good campus where new courses are started for the students.“Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is committed to solving every problem related to the Patel Cluster University on priority. The work is being done to make it a full-fledged university,” he added.“Four colleges at Mandi, Basa, Sundernagar and Narla have been taken under the university project. Around 90 per cent construction work has been completed in Mandi, Basa and Sundernagar colleges. Though Narla was included later, about 50 per cent of the work there has been completed as well. The grant will be available under RUSA this month, which will give impetus to the work,” he added.Thakur said that the National Education Policy (NEP) was dedicated to the creation of good human beings. This would make India a superpower in the education sector. He added that it was necessary that children become true patriots by taking good education.He congratulated the Vice-Chancellor of the university, CL Chandan, and his entire team for making progress on the project. He also praised teachers for helping students through online education during the Covid period as well as being a pioneer in discharging social responsibility. He appreciated ABVP members, who cremated the bodies of Covid victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/land-for-vallabhbhai-patel-university-being-identified-in-mandi-education-minister-govind-singh-thakur-309034
10-09-2021||---||161 new Covid cases in Himachal, six deaths||Shimla, September 9As many as 161 were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 215,235. Besides, six persons died of the virus—two each in Mandi and Shimla and one each in Bilaspur and Kangra.The maximum 31 cases were reported in Kangra, followed by 28 in Mandi, 22 in Bilaspur, 21 in Hamirpur, 20 in Shimla, 15 in Chamba, eight in Kullu, five each in Solan and Una, four in Kinnaur and two in Lahaul and Spiti. No case was reported in Sirmaur.The number of active cases rose to 1,719 while the number of total deaths rose to 3,612.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/161-new-covid-cases-in-himachal-six-deaths-309035
10-09-2021||---||IIT-Mandi, NIT slip in national ranking||Solan, September 9The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi, slipped from the 67th position to 82nd nationally in the overall category by attaining a score of 43.93 in the Ministry of Education’s National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) released today.Also read: For fourth year in a row, PGI second best in the countryIn the category of universities, the Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management, Solan, has been ranked at the 89th position and it is the only university to be ranked in the first 100. It has improved its position from last year’s 150 to 200 rank band.Shoolini University figures in top 100The state’s oldest Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) doesn’t figure in the national-level ranking.The Jaypee University of Information Technology, Solan, figures among the 101-150 rank band. No other university figures in the top 200 nationally.The National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur, too has slipped to the 99th position from last year’s 98th position. In the same category, the Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences occupies the 103rd rank while the Jaypee University of Information Technology, Solan, figures at the 129th rank. Chitkara University has found a berth in the 251-300 rank band. No other engineering college in the state has found a berth in this significant ranking which is considered the most credible ranking nationally.In the category of management, the Indian Institute of Management, Sirmaur, has been ranked between 76 and 100 band, which is a big achievement given the fact that it is a new institute. The Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences also finds a place in the same band.Among pharmacy colleges, the Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences has been ranked at the 36th position and it is the lone institute figuring on the list from Himachal. It has improved its position from 39th secured last year.The state institutes have failed to occupy any rank in other professional streams like law, medical and dental despite the fact that it has two old medical colleges—the IGMC at Shimla and Dr RP Government Medical College at Tanda in Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iit-mandi-nit-slip-in-national-ranking-309036
10-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||Illegal sheds on govt land in Shimla, notice to CS||Shimla, September 9The HP High Court today issued notices to the Chief Secretary, Commissioner of the Shimla MC, and the Deputy Commissioner and the SP in a matter regarding the construction of illegal sheds on government land at Downdale (Phagli) in Shimla.A Division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the order on a petition letter written by Tek Chand, a leprosy patient, to the Chief Justice and taken up suo motu as a PIL.The petitioner stated that he is residing in a government house built for leprosy patients and two other such patients, namely Gulab Singh and Partap, also live in the building. The duo have illegally constructed four permanent houses and 38 temporary sheds on the government land.The petitioner alleged that last year, the councillor of the Fagli ward and a Junior Engineer erected a wall at a cost or Rs 70 to Rs 80 lakh on the land encroached upon by Gulab Singh and Partap. They were allotted government houses in 2013 though the duo did not need accommodation as they had their houses on the land.The encroachers threaten to ostracise him from the panchayat of leprosy patients and also expel him from the government house. He prayed that he may be allowed to live freely and peacefully in the government hosue and strict action be taken against the wrongdoers and an inquiry be conducted. The court posted the matter after four weeks and directed the respondents to file their replies by then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-sheds-on-govt-land-in-shimla-notice-to-cs-309037
10-09-2021||Shimla||President Ram Nath Kovind invited for Himachal Vidhan Sabha session||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur called on President Ram Nath Kovind in New Delhi today and extended him a formal invitation to visit Himachal Pradesh to address the special session of Vidhan Sabha being held to mark the 50 years of statehood celebrations.He was accompanied by Speaker Vipin Parmar and BJP state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna. The President is to visit the state on September 17 and stay at the Rashtrapati Niwas (Retreat) at Mashobra for five days.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-ram-nath-kovind-invited-for-himachal-vidhan-sabha-session-309038
10-09-2021||Shimla||Revive $100m tourism project in Himachal: CM to Nirmala||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi and requested her to revive the $100 million ADB project (Phase-I) aimed at building world-class infrastructure in the state to boost tourism.He said the first phase of the project had 20 sub-projects and the state government intended to develop infrastructure at both poles of the Atal Tunnel and make it a major tourist destination.Editorial: Keep Himachal tourism alive: Govt must prop up state’s biggest employment generatorShe asked Thakur to use the window of the National Infrastructure Pipeline for speedy funding and approval to accelerate growth.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/revive-100m-tourism-project-in-himachal-cm-to-nirmala-309039
10-09-2021||---||Districts out of Kangra a non-issue: Shanta Kumar||Dharamsala, September 9Veteran BJP leader and former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar, addressing a press conference here today, said the creation of districts out of Kangra was a non-issue. There were bigger problems before the government. It had done a lot a ground work for bringing in investment. The real issue before the government should be to provide employment to the youth, said Shanta.The statement of Shanta assumes significance in view of the political talks going on over the issue. Kangra is one of the biggest districts and has about 25 per cent population of Himachal.Earlier also, proposals were there to divide Kangra. The previous BJP government, led by PK Dhumal, had made ADC level officers sit in Palampur, Nurpur and Dehra indicating creation of new districts. BJP leaders of Kangra, including Shanta, had opposed the move. Again, it is being expected that the government may consider creating new districts.Shanta was at the Himachal Pradesh State Education Board (HPSEB) office at Dharamsala today to attend a meeting to implement of the New Education Policy.Responding to a query from newspersons, Shanta also said he was not satisfied with the inquiry being conducted by the police into the fake degree scam. The fact that fake degrees were distributed across the country from Himachal Pradesh was a matter of shame. The culprits behind the scam should have been behind the bars by now. The officials, who failed to check the scam, should also be held accountable, he said.Shanta refused to comment on the failure of the government to give land for the CUHP campus in Dharamsala.Shanta praised the education policy. He said it was unfortunate that the British-era education policy had continued in India for the past 70 years. He said Hindi should be adopted as the national language and people should accept it with honour. He praised the education board for incorporating yoga in its school curriculum. The local history should also be part of the curriculum.Kishan Kapoor, BJP MP from Kangra, and chairman of the HPSEB SK Soni accompanied Shanta during the conference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/districts-out-of-kangra-a-non-issue-shanta-kumar-309040
10-09-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||3 bids submitted for Aut-Luhri highway widening project||KULLU, SEPtember 9Three companies have submitted tenders for consultancy service for land acquisition and forest clearance for widening of the Aut-Luhri National Highway. Today was the last date for the submission and opening of tenders.Engineer KL Suman, Executive Engineer, Rampur Division of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), said now the technical bids would be evaluated for fitness and later the financial bids of the qualifying companies would be opened. The cost of consultancy had been estimated at least Rs 1.5 crore.The Executive Engineer said the selected company would identify the required private and forestland for double-laning of the road. It would transfer the private land to the NHAI and prepare the case of forestland and get it cleared from the Forest Department. After the land acquisition, the Detailed Project Report (DPR) would be prepared and sent to the higher authorities. He said the work of construction would commence after the approval of the DPR.The Tribune had highlighted the issue of frequent traffic jams on the narrow stretches of NH-305 on July 8. A large number of tourists visit Banjar, Jibhi and the Tirthan valley. Many pilgrims visit the Jalori Pass to pay obeisance to a famous temple and sacred lake approachable on foot from the Jalori top.The Executive Engineer said even earlier, tenders had been called for consultancy for the widening of the road but no companies had shown interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-bids-submitted-for-aut-luhri-highway-widening-project-309041
10-09-2021||Vibha Sharma||PGI Chandigarh second-best medical college after Delhi’s AIIMS, says Ministry of Education's annual ranking||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 9The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras retained its top spot among institutes while the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, ranked the best among research institutions in the country, according to the sixth edition of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced by Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan today.The PGIMER, Chandigarh, ranked second in the category of Medical Education and Panjab University, Chandigarh, which bagged the second place in the Pharmacy category, ranked 38th in the ‘Overall’ list of 100 institutions in the country.According to NIRF ranking, AIIMS, Delhi, got the top spot in Medical category.In the University category, Panjab University got the 23rd rank among the 100 on the list.In the university category, Patiala-based Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology ranked 26, University of Kashmir (48), Chandigarh University (52), Guru Nanak Dev University (53), Lovely Professional University (62), University of Jammu (66), Maharshi Dayanand University (78), Central University of Punjab (84), Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (88), Solan based-Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences (89), Ashoka University (95), Dehradun-based Graphic Era University (98) and University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (100).Among the B-Schools, IIM-Ahmedabad topped the list while Jamia Hamdard emerged the top institution for pharmacy studies.In the colleges category, Miranda House in Delhi bagged the first rank, followed by Lady Sri Ram College for Women, Delhi, and Loyola College, Chennai. Otherwise too, colleges in Delhi dominated ranking with as many as five making to the top 10.Pradhan said a robust and a role model ranking framework will serve as India’s contribution to the global learning landscape “We must ensure that our ranking framework emerges as a benchmark not only in the country, but also globally, especially for the developing economies”, he said while urging for regional ranking frameworks.“NEP provides us with an opportunity to internationalise our education system. We must work collectively to bring more and more institutions under our rankings framework and also establish India as a preferred global study destination,” Pradhan said.As many as 4,030 unique institutions offered themselves for ranking under “overall”, category-specific and / or domain-specific rankings for India Rankings 2021, according to the ministry.In all, 6272 applications for ranking were made by these 4030 unique applicant institutions under various categories / domains including 1657 in Overall Category, 1143 in Engineering, 659 in Management, 351 in Pharmacy, 120 in Law, 111 in Medical, 78 in Architecture and 1802 in General Degree Colleges.Highlights*IIT Madras retained 1st position in Overall Category as well as in Engineering for the third consecutive year.*IIS Bengaluru topped the University as well as Research Institution category introduced for the first time*IIM Ahmedabad topped in Management subject*AIIMS got the top slot in Medical for the fourth consecutive year.*Jamia Hamdard topped Pharmacy for the third consecutive year.*Miranda College retained 1st position amongst colleges for the fifth consecutive year.*IIT Roorkee bagged the top slot for the first time in Architecture subject displacing IIT Kharagpur.*National Law School of India University, Bangalore retained first position for in Law for the fourth consecutive years.*Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal, secure 1st position in Dental category.Rankings of institutions from NorthOverall ranking (list of 100)1. IIT Madras, Tamil Nadu2. Indian Institute of Science, Karnataka3. IIT Bombay, Maharashtra7. IIT Roorkee, Uttarakhand31. IIT Ropar, Punjab38. Panjab University, Chandigarh40 Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali45. Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Punjab77. Chandigarh University, Punjab78 Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Punjab81. Lovely Professional University82 Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi, Himachal85 Guru Nanak Dev University, PunjabArchitecture (list of 25)1. IIT Roorkee, Uttrakhand12. Lovely Professional University Punjab16. Chandigarh University Punjab21. Chitkara University Punjab23. National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur, Himachal24 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, J&KMedical (list of 50)1. AIIMS, Delhi2. PGIMER, Chandigarh26. Dayanand Medical College, Punjab29 GMCH, Chandigarh35. Maharishi Markandeshwar, HaryanaLaw (list of 30)1. Indian Law School of India University, Karnataka16 Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Law, Patiala, Punjab21. Army Institute of Law, Punjab24 Lovely Professional University, Punjab25 University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Uttarakhand27 Panjab University, ChandigarhManagement (list of 75)1 IIM Ahmedabad, Gujarat11 MDI, Haryana14 IIT Roorkee, Uttarakhand28 IIM Rohtak, Haryana33. IIT Kashipur, Uttarkhand37. Lovely Professional University, Punjab42. Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Punjab45. Chandigarh University, Punjab46 University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Uttarakhand54. Chitkara University, Punjab67 IIM AmritsarPharmacy (list of 75)1. Jamia Hamdard, Delhi2. Panjab University, Chandigarh4. Indian Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Mohali18. Punjabi University, Patiala, Punjab23. Lovely Professional University, Punjab27 Guru Jambeshwar University of Science and Technology29. ISF College of Pharmacy, Punjab31 Maharishi Dayanand University, Haryana34 Maharishi Markandeshwar, Haryana35. Chitkara University, Punjab36 Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences, Himachal51. Chandigarh University, Punjab57. Amar Shaheed Baba Jujhar Singh Memorial College of Pharmacy, Punjab58. Kumaun University, Nainital, Uttarakhand63. Chandigarh College of Pharmacy Landaran, PunjabResearch (list of 50)1. Indian Institute of Science Karnataka7. IIT Roorkee Uttarakhand28. Panjab University, Chandigarh38 Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Punjab44. Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali49 IIT Ropar, PunjabColleges (list of 100)1. Miranda House38 I.C. College of Home Science, Hisar78 Government Home Science College, ChandigarhEngineering (list of top 100 of 200)1. Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Tamil Nadu6. Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, Uttarkahnd19. Indian Institute of Technology Ropar, Punjab23 Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology Patiala, Punjab41. Indian Institute of Technology Mandi, Himachal49 Dr. B. R. Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar61 Chandigarh University66 Lovely Professional University, Punjab69 National Institute of Technology Srinagar, J&K70 unjab Engineering College (Deemed to be University), Chandigar79 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, J&K89 Panjab University97 The Northcap University, Gurugram Haryana99 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pgi-chandigarh-second-best-medical-college-after-delhis-aiims-says-ministry-of-educations-annual-ranking-308840
