11-09-2021||Dipender Manta||Banjar MLA Shourie among 7 persons injured in road accident in Kullu||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 11Seven persons, including Banjar MLA Surender Shourie, were on Saturday injured in a road accident in Kullu. The mishap occurred as the car skid of the road and went down 50 meters from the road at Bahu in Kullu district.According to police, they were on their way to Banjar.Confirming the report, SP Kullu Gurdev Sharma said that all the injured have been admitted to Banjar hospital and their conditions was said to be stable.Preliminary reports revealed that the road was muddy, as a result, the driver lost control over the vehicle and it fell down the road, the SP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/banjar-mla-shourie-among-7-persons-injured-in-road-accident-in-kullu-309747
11-09-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh Governor, CM extend Ganesh Chaturthi greetings||The Governor said Ganesh Chaturthi was an important festival of Hindus, which was celebrated with great fervour.He wished that with the blessings of Lord Ganesha, there is a peaceful environment and everyone’s grievances are addressed. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-governor-cm-extend-ganesh-chaturthi-greetings-309537
11-09-2021||The main road in Hamirpur town has caved in and slabs placed on it to build a footpath have also broken. However||Work on damaged road yet to begin||— Raj Kumar, HamirpurStorage problem for apple farmers Apple growers are facing a lot of problems. While we can't store our produce at the CA store of the corporate houses, there's hardly any space in the stores built even by the HPMC. Farmers are being told they can't store more than 30-40 boxes. This is sheer injustice with farmers. — Ami Chand, RohruIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-damaged-road-yet-to-begin-309536
11-09-2021||The SFI unit of Government College||Education being ‘saffronised’: SFI||Varsity celebrates Literacy DayStaff and students of the Shoolini University celebrated the Literacy Day by organising events for the children of non-teaching staff. Chancellor PK Khosla was the chief guest. The event saw various competitions. Prof Khosla said, "Literacy is the basic human right and we all should aim to achieve higher education and contribute to the nation's and the world's development."UIT foundation day celebratedThe foundation day of the University Institute of Technology, HPU, will be celebrated on September 11. HPU VC Sikander Kumar will be the chief guest on the occasion. The VC will dedicate the recently-built departments to the students. Besides, bright students will be awarded scholarships on the occasion.Resume evening studies: StudentsThe SFI unit of the Department of Evening Studies staged a silent protest in support of their demand to open the institute without any further delay. The SFI also demanded the facility of drinking water at the institute. The SFI said the UG class had started in all colleges but the classes were yet to start in the evening college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/education-being-saffronised-sfi-309535
11-09-2021||Mandi||Kullu man gets 6-yr jail for possessing charas||The District and Sessions (Special) Judge, Mandi, has sentenced Fateh Ram, a native of Kullu district, to six years of rigorous imprisonment for possessing 600 grams of charas.The accused has also been fined Rs 60,000. In case of non-payment of fine, he would undergo additional six months’ simple imprisonment. The accused was booked under the NDPS Act. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-man-gets-6-yr-jail-for-possessing-charas-309534
11-09-2021||Shimla||Nepal PM felicitates SJVN chairman||Nand Lal Sharma, chairman and MD, SJVN, was felicitated by Nepal’s PM Sher Bahadur Deuba at a function in Kathmandu for his efforts towards developing hydro power projects in Nepal. Deuba also appreciated the development pace of the 900 MW Arun-3 Hydro Electric Project. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nepal-pm-felicitates-sjvn-chairman-309533
11-09-2021||Mandi||Murder convict awarded life imprisonment in Mandi||The Court of Additional District and Sessions Judge, Sarkaghat in Mandi district, sentenced a murder convict to life imprisonment today. The convict was also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000.District Attorney Kulbhushan Gautam said in 2015, Lakhi Singh was killed by Mohan Lal, a native Kamla village in Hoshiarpur in Punjab. The victim was living as a tenant at the house of Babu Ram at Sarkaghat in Mandi. The accused attacked the victim with a sharp-edged weapon and silt his throat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/murder-convict-awarded-life-imprisonment-in-mandi-309532
11-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||‘Negligent’ officers didn’t verify student IDs: CBI on scholarship scam||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 10A CBI team probing the Rs 250-crore Himachal Pradesh scholarship scam has pointed out alleged ignorance and negligence on the part of senior Education Department officers as one of the reasons resulting in siphoning of grants.The officers, including the Deputy Director (disbursement), failed to follow the mandatory step of verifying the Aadhaar details of the candidates before signing the documents allowing the transfer of scholarships into accounts of fake beneficiaries, said sources.The investigations revealed that during questioning, the officers told the probe agency that the key accused, then Superintendent (Grade-II) Arvind Rajta, “only showed the list of students while other details, including Aadhaar numbers, were intentionally hidden”. An alleged fake letterhead to show false affiliation was used by several educational institutions to mislead the department, they said. Over 270 educational institutions are under the scanner and a large number of private institutions in the state are allegedly involved in the scam. However, the CBI is currently only focusing on catching big fish. There are about 450 private colleges and educational institutions in Himachal.Major procedural lapses and discrepancies were found on the part of the institutions as well as the Education Department as the Aadhaar numbers of students were not submitted and same accounts were used to withdraw scholarships of several beneficiaries.Moreover, the scholarships were released on the basis of a list submitted by the institutes without verifying the credentials of the candidates. Even physical verification of infrastructure and strength of students wasn’t done, said sources. Rajta also allegedly disbursed Rs 33 crore to nine fake institutions running by the name of Nilet with his wife being one of its three directors.The CBI had registered a case on May 8, 2019. The scam started in 2012-13 when the pre-matric and post-matric scholarships for SC/ST/BC students under 36 schemes weren’t paid to eligible students. About 80% of the scholarship money was transferred into the accounts of private institutions, it is learnt.Rs 250-crore racket in Himachal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/negligent-officers-didnt-verify-student-ids-cbi-on-scholarship-scam-309439
11-09-2021||Shimla||71 cr vaccinated across country: Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri||Union Housing, Urban Affairs and Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, while virtually participating in a blood donation camp organised on the occasion of birthday of BJP co-in charge Sanjay Tandon at the Ridge Maidan, here today, said more than 71 crore people had been vaccinated across the country.Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries and Jal Shakti Prahlad Singh Patel said some people only believed in politics but others played an effective role in social service. Those who stayed ahead in the field of social service became mass leaders.As many as 25 units of blood was collected at the camp, conducted by the doctors of Deendayal Upadhyay Hospital. The camp was organised by the BJP in association with Competent Foundation and other social organisations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/71-cr-vaccinated-across-country-union-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-309531
11-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Deeply hurt by sinister campaign launched against me: Himachal Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar||Palampur, September 10Vipin Singh Parmar, Speaker of state Assembly, today said that he was deeply hurt by the sinister campaign launched against him by the Congress in Palampur. The party was tarnishing his clean image with an intention of getting political mileage in the Assembly elections due next year, Parmar stated.“Over the last few days, I have noticed a sinister campaign by some Congress leaders and in a section of the social media, using the same out of context, giving inexplicable political overtones, drawing politically motivated inferences to malign the BJP and me,” Parmar added.Parmar said he had no role in the incident of manhandling of Congress leader and ex-MLA Jagjivan Pal. He had already condemned the incident and never supported the politics of violence. In fact, it was the result of internal Congress politics in Sulaha and he was unnecessarily being dragged in this controversy.Parmar said the Congress, which had lost panchayat, BDC and zila parishad elections in Sulaha one by one was frustrated over the development works undertaken by him in the past four years. He disclosed that in a short span of four years three new hospitals were coming up at Thural, Bhawarna and Dheera where he had already made the recruitments of doctors and paramedical staff. Likewise, two new technical institutes were also under construction in the area.He said Jagjivan Pal remained an MLA for two terms but did nothing for the development of the Sulaha. Though he also served as a CPS the Assembly segment remained neglected. It was during the Jai Ram regime that Sulaha witnessed the overall development. He pointed out that today Sulaha had the best roads in the state, every house had been provided tap drinking water and there was hundred per cent electrification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deeply-hurt-by-sinister-campaign-launched-against-me-himachal-speaker-vipin-singh-parmar-309530
11-09-2021||Ravinder Sood||Spike in life-saving drug prices irks consumers||Palampur, September 10A sudden spike in the prices of life-saving drugs has hit the common man. Most pharmaceutical companies, on the pretext of Covid, have increased the prices of medicines by 20 per cent to 50 per cent.The prices of medicines used for hypertension, diabetes and common gastro diseases have touched a new high in the past three months. The prices of antibiotics used in the treatment of coronavirus have almost doubled.The Essential Commodity Price Control Act is also applicable in the state and all types of drugs are covered under it. The Act authorises the government to regulate the prices of all essential commodities. It has also given powers to district magistrates to initiate action against defaulters. However, no action has been taken.Besides, in the absence of a check, pharma companies are printing very high MRP on the medicine strips.Social activists Subhash Sharma and KB Ralhan said a patient suffering from acidity was prescribed pantoprazole- 40 mg, a strip of 10 tablets, which has an MRP of Rs 118. However, the actual price of the 10 tablets is just Rs 13.15. There are hundreds of such medicines where the MRP is very high, giving 1,000 per cent to 1,500 per cent profit margin to retailers.The administrative machinery and vigilance agencies, which are supposed to supervise the issues, are ignoring and allowing the pharma companies to dupe consumers.A senior officer of the state Drug Control Department said the Centre had allowed the pharma company to print MRP on all types of drugs and the state government had no power to intervene. The Central Drug Controller had the authority in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spike-in-life-saving-drug-prices-irks-consumers-309529
11-09-2021||---||202 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, September 10As many as 202 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 215,437. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Mandi and Kangra.The highest number of 44 cases was recorded in Mandi, followed by 41 in Kangra, 40 in Hamirpur, 24 in Una, 19 in Shimla, 15 in Bilaspur, six each in Chamba and Kinnaur, four in Kullu, and three in Solan. No case was reported in Lahaul and Spiti and Sirmaur. The number of active cases declined to 1,682 while the total deaths rose to 3,614.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/202-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-309528
11-09-2021||---||HPU teachers’ body submits memo to VC||Shimla, September 10Demanding early implementation of the 7th Pay Commission UGC scale, Himachal Pradesh University Teachers Association (HPUTA) yesterday submitted a memorandum to HPU Vice Chancellor Prof Sikendar Kumar and warned that the association would be forced to adopt other measurers in case their demands are not fulfilled.The delegation led by HPUTA president and general secretary Prof S L Kaushal and Prof R L Zinta Kaushik demanded grade pay of Rs 7,000 & Rs 8,000 to all eligible teachers under career advancement scheme (CAS) and PhD increments to all eligible teachers, besides reimbursement of Rs 27-28 lakh TA/DA of teachers due for the past two-three years.Their demandsThey demanded grade pay of Rs7,000 & Rs8,000 to all eligible teachers under career advancement scheme (CAS) and PhD increments to all eligible teachers, besides reimbursement of Rs27-28 lakh TA/DA of teachers due for the past two-three yearsThe members of the association also pointed out that the street lights are non-functional in the teachers ‘colony for the past five months and ERP system of the university is not functioning properly. They also demanded smooth Internet connectivity in all departments and teachers colony.The HPUTA sought steps to check collapse of retaining walls of fountain parks on the campus and teacher colony and stressed on ensuring quality construction and maintenance work in the university, checking leakage of the top floors of flats and regulation for car parking for teachers in the teacher colony by marking the slots.The association also demanded allotment of vacant houses on seniority basis and said that laptops should be provided to all teachers in order to facilitate online teaching. Further, in view of the expected third wave, strict implementation of Covid standard operating procedures should be ensured on the campus and residential areas of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpu-teachers-body-submits-memo-to-vc-309527
11-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Contractual Corona warriors not paid salaries for 2 months||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 10Corona warriors, who were engaged in the vaccination drive in Kangra or served in dedicated Covid hospitals during the second wave of the pandemic risking their lives, have not been paid salaries for the past two months.Sources said that the district health authorities had hired hundreds of workers through contractors to serve in dedicated Covid hospitals and isolation wards created in Kangra. The state government had been paying them salaries from the Disaster Relief Fund. However, for the past two months, these workers had not been paid salaries.The workers recruited through contractors such as staff nurses, data entry operators and other health workers are working in the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital, Tanda medical college and other medical institutions.Alka Sharma, a staff nurse, said, “I have worked in the Covid ward of the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital for more than a year. The administration had promised me a salary of Rs 12,000 per month but was paid Rs 8,000 per month. For the past two months, I have not even been paid Rs 8,000. I have taken rooms on rent in Dharamsala and it is very difficult for me to survive without salary”.Primla, a data entry operator, said that they had approached the health authorities several times for the payment of their salaries but were told that there was some issue with funds. “If we are not paid salaries in the next few days, we will sit on a dharna and also approach Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur,” she added.The health workers said that they were in contact with their counterparts in others district of the state.Dr GD Gupta, Chief Medical Officer, Kangra, said that the health staff hired on a contractual basis through contractors to serve in Covid wards and isolation facilities had not been paid salaries for the past two months. “The matter has been taken up with the government and I hope that it will be resolved at the earliest,” he added.Dr Rakesh Guleri, SMO, Dharamsala Zonal Hospital, said that 35 outsourced employees were working in the Covid ward of the hospital. All of them had not been paid salaries for the past two months. The higher authorities were aware of the matter and necessary steps were being taken. Meanwhile, the contractual health staff met Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal and submitted a memorandum of demands to him.The workers hired on contract to serve in Covid hospitals during the second wave of the pandemic were given an assurance that they would be given preference in jobs in the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/contractual-corona-warriors-not-paid-salaries-for-2-months-309526
11-09-2021||---||Gang duping tourists busted; five arrested by Shimla police||Shimla, September 10Members of a gang who were allegedly cheating people in the name of a lucky draw scheme have been nabbed by the Shimla police, following a complaint by a tourist couple who were duped of Rs 1.4 lakh.The gang allegedly lured people saying they would win attractive gifts and holiday packages based on a lucky draw coupon, on the initial payment of a hefty sum.A case was registered on September 6 on the complaint of a woman, who alleged that while she was strolling on the Mall Road along with her husband on August 27, some people lured them to take part in a lucky draw coupon scheme.They scratched the coupon, which offered a 10-year package in different states. As per the scheme, they could visit any one state once a year, following which they agreed to pay Rs 1.40 lakh as membership charges.However, the couple understood that they were cheated after they tried to check the credentials of the firm. They lodged a complaint in the Sadar police station, Shimla.A case under Section 420 and 120-B has been registered against five persons, including a woman. Nitesh Kumar Yadav (29) from Bihar, Rajnikant Pandey (25) from Uttar Pradesh, Arun Chaudhary (27) from New Delhi, Amrish Dube (27) and Nishtha Kumari (27), both from Jharkhand, have been arrested, said Shimla SP Monika Bhutunguru.The police have recovered relevant documents and material pertaining to the lucky coupon scheme, including a laptop, a swipe machine and various forms. Investigation is underway to find out their involvement in other cases, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gang-duping-tourists-busted-five-arrested-by-shimla-police-309525
11-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Parking area inadequate in Solan and Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh, commuters bear the brunt||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 10Traffic challans have become a money spinner for the police department as lakhs are collected every month in Solan and Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial area. A sum of Rs 17.88 lakh was collected in the month of August in Solan city and the BBN area.Inadequate parking area in Solan and BBN forces commuters to park their vehicles at every possible place and this attracts police action.“As many as 3,290 traffic challans were issued in Solan city in the month of August and a penalty of Rs 10,46,000 was imposed as against 3,154 challans issued in the corresponding period last year. A penalty of Rs 6,76,500 was collected in August last year,” informed Superintendent of Police(SP), Solan, Virender Sharma.In the BBN industrial belt too the number of traffic challans was no less. “As many as 5,856 traffic challans were issued in August. A penalty of Rs 7,42,150 was imposed by compounding 649 cases,” informed Deputy Superintendent of Police, Baddi, Navdeep Singh.A sizeable amount is collected from challans issued for idle parking. “I have faced multiple challans in the last one year as there is hardly any parking available in Solan city and attempt to park my vehicle along the road often attracts police challans,” rued Vishal Singh, a local resident.Money worth crores which is collected through challans every year should be used to create more parking lots to facilitate the residents. Successive governments have failed to address this burning issue in the urban areas, complain locals.“It was lamentable that politicians play politics over petty issues but none has taken steps to address the problem of lack of parking in Solan district. Since politicians rarely face police challans, it appears it is hardly an issue for those in power,” lamented Naresh, another Solan resident.Lack of parking spaces in the BBN area where thousands of trucks carrying industrial goods, cars and buses ply from other states on a daily basis was equally tormenting for the residents. Cases of drunken driving, driving without licence and registration papers or using mobiles while driving have attracted challans in the BBN area, besides idle parking.With the Motor Vehicles Amendment Act-2019 being implemented from September 1, an offender will have to shell out more on various violations. While this will further drain a common man’s pocket, the state exchequer will stand to benefit from the act.The Centre had notified 63 provisions of the Motor Vehicles Amendment Act-2019, including the ones dealing with enhanced penalties for various traffic offences last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parking-area-inadequate-in-solan-and-baddi-barotiwala-nalagarh-commuters-bear-the-brunt-309524
11-09-2021||---||Dalai Lama’s 2-day teaching concludes||Dharamsala, September 10The Dalai Lama concluded his two-day online teaching for Asian Buddhists on Thursday evening. He said that he had wanted to lead a ceremony to generate the awakening of ‘bodhichitta’. He guided his listeners through the all-encompassing yoga, leading first to a short meditation on ‘bodhichitta’, followed by another short meditation on emptiness.In regard to preparing for death, the Dalai Lama said it was important to be free of attachment and anger. Buddhists may keep an image of the Buddha nearby, while Tibetans keep a picture of the Dalai Lama. The point is to have a virtuous object on which to focus your attention as you go through the process of dissolution. If you can, it is good to remember the awakening mind of ‘bodhichitta’, he said.He summoned thoughts of ‘bodhichitta’ from the very moment he wakes up in the morning. “I declared that there is nothing more effective than ‘bodhichitta’ for purifying negativities and gathering merit. Since good-hearted people easily attract friends, cultivating thoughts of ‘bodhichitta’ is beneficial even in ordinary day to day life, he said.While delivering the teaching, the Dalai Lama said, “We all have Buddha nature. The true nature of the mind is clarity and awareness. The subtlest mind has an innate quality of luminosity and awareness. There are no stains or afflictions at that level. The obstacles that stain the mind are not part of the mind. Ignorance and so forth can be eliminated. When you understand this and can combine an understanding of conventional and ultimate reality, you will be led to the state of omniscience”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lamas-2-day-teaching-concludes-309523
11-09-2021||Mandi||Telemedicine saves life of mother, newborn in Kaza||In a feat of emergency delivery at an altitude of more than 12,000 feet in Kaza, the telemedicine facility with Apollo telehealth played a crucial role in saving two lives, that of a mother and her child, recently. The 27-year-old mother was admitted to the Kaza Community Health Centre (CHC) and was diagnosed with Abruptio Placentae. While a caesarean-section was performed to deliver the baby, the mother developed complications of post-surgical bleeding.Dr Alpha Khakhar, a consultant from Apollo Hospital, said, “We obtained detailed patient history, performed thorough examination over telemedicine and diagnosed the condition as post-partum haemorrhage. Following that, we advised the line of treatment for clinical management of the patient.”“Complications were also starting to show effects on the baby as the delivery was pre-term and the baby was born with low body weight. In addition to that, the baby had bluish discolouration at birth,” she added.Tanzin Dolkar, a staff nurse at Apollo Hospital, Kaza, said “Due to the difficulty in arranging logistics for the movement of the patients, given the terrain constraints, both the mother and child had to be managed round-the-clock for six days at CHC Kaza. Finally, after arranging for logistics support, both the mother and the baby were shifted to Mission Hospital in Manali. Their condition stabilised a day after the initial treatment procedures.”Tanzin Norbu, Block Medical Officer (BMO) at Kaza, said the telemedicine facility had played crucial role to save the lives of both the mother and her newborn. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/telemedicine-saves-life-of-mother-newborn-in-kaza-309522
11-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||Transfer can’t be medium to suppress dissent: HP High Court||Shimla, September 10Transfer cannot be used as a medium to scuttle or choke the voice of dissent. If at all there is any complaint regarding the work and conduct of the persons proposed to be transferred, the only legitimate legal course open is that of taking disciplinary action by initiating disciplinary proceedings.The HP High Court observed this while dealing with a case of an employee, who was transferred at the behest of Shashi Bala, Chairperson of Rural Development Bank Limited, though the latter had nothing to do with the working of the Administrative Department of the petitioner.While setting aside the transfer order, a Division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Satyen Vaidya observed that “the government, including boards/ corporations, as the case may be, will be well advised not to entertain, much less encourage, such an extra-constitutional authority to interfere with the administration and governance of the state, or else, there is every likelihood of there being a complete breakdown of the rule of law”.The court passed the order on a petition filed by Pradeep Kumar, an employee of the HP State Electricity Board (HPSEB), challenging his transfer on the recommendation of a politician from the Andhra Power House Division at Chirgaon (Shimla) to the Electrical Division, HPSEBL, Dalhousie (Chamba), on April 17, 2021.The court quashed the transfer order and stated that “it will be noticed that the transfer in the instant case was affected solely on political consideration, that, too, at the behest of a person, who has no concern with the administration or functioning of the respondent department”.The court observed that “the citizens have a fundamental right to good governance, which is possible only if government servants, including the employees of boards/ corporations, which are governed and controlled by the state government, are politically neutral and are not transferred or otherwise victimised at the insistence of a political party or politician”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/transfer-cant-be-medium-to-suppress-dissent-hp-high-court-309521
11-09-2021||---||Tractors engaged in illegal mining stuck in Yamuna||Solan, September 10Six tractor-trailers engaged in illegal mining in the Yamuna riverbed near Kunja Matralia in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district were stuck in the river after a huge quantity of water was released from the Dakpathar barrage this morning.DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur, said, “A rescue operation was initiated in the morning. Team comprising divers, Home guards and police personnel were pressed into service though the rescuers had to wait for the water level to recede. However, the occupants were safely rescued”.Water released from Dakpathar barrageSix tractor-trailers engaged in illegal mining in the Yamuna in Paonta Sahib were stuck after a huge quantity of water was released from the Dakpathar barrage.To facilitate the operation, a request was made to the dam authorities to halt the release of water, said Vivek Mahajan, SDM, Paonta Sahib. “A report has been sought from mining official about the incident as despite warnings mining was underway at the spot. All tractors had been brought out safely though three trailors were still stuck in the river,” said the SDM.Mining Officer Suresh Bhardwaj, who is enquiring into the incident, said that six tractor-trailors from Uttarakhand were engaged in illegal mining near Kunja Matralia in early morning hours. Despite repeated warnings and action against illegal mining, sand mining was going on in the area.The SDM has issued an advisory to people to stay away from the Yamuna, Tons, Giri and Bata rivers. “Due to continuous heavy rain in hilly areas for the past two days, an alert has been sounded by various dam authorities upstream of the Yamuna, Tons, Giri and Bata rivers, as the volume of water has increased manifold. People have been advised not to go near the rivers in the next 24 hours to avoid mishaps,” said Mahajan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tractors-engaged-in-illegal-mining-stuck-in-yamuna-309520
11-09-2021||---||Finally, Sutlej bulk water supply project gets forest clearance||Shimla, September 10The bulk water supply project from Sutlej, which is a part of the $160-million World Bank-funded Shimla Water Supply and Sewerage Project, has received the much-awaited forest clearance. “A major hindrance in taking the project forward is now cleared. The forest clearance was the pre-condition for funding from the World Bank. Now, we will soon start final negotiations for the World Bank funding,” said Urban Development Secretary Rajneesh.The World Bank has already approved the project in principle. “We kept pursuing the forest clearance and managed to convince the department that it would benefit a large number of people,” said the secretary.This project, which involves the laying of a 22-km pipeline from the Sutlej till Sanjauli, will provide an additional 67 MLD water to the city. “The forest clearance will go a long way in providing Shimla residents a round-the-clock water supply. As many as five wards will start getting a 24x7 water supply from this year-end itself,” said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj. “The project will take care of the city’s drinking water and sewerage requirement till 2050,” the minister said.Following the forest clearance, 12.24 hectare of government land will be diverted to Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL) for the laying of water pipes from Shakrari village, the starting point of the project alongside the Sutlej. “It is estimated that around 1,400 trees will be felled for the project, out of which around 900 are saplings. The saplings can be replanted elsewhere,” said an SJPNL official.According to the SJPNL official, the work on the project has already started. “The work where forest clearance was not required has already started. With this clearance, we can start the work on government land too,” he said.Digvijay Chauhan, an independent director in the SJPNL, said the forest clearance would give the project a much-needed thrust after the pandemic slowed it down. “The other issues like compensation and land acquisition are to be decided by the state government and much of it is already settled,” said Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/finally-sutlej-bulk-water-supply-project-gets-forest-clearance-309519
11-09-2021||Vijay Arora||HC notice to Himachal Pradesh, NHAI over landslips||Shimla, September 10The HP High Court today issued notices to the Central and state governments and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on a petition highlighting landslide incidents in Himachal, which cause loss of life and property.A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the order on a petition filed by Namita Maniktala contending therein that many areas of Himachal have a fragile geology and are prone to landslides. Almost every year, the state witnesses massive landslides that lead to loss of lives and property.She stated, “The residents of the state as well as tourists have a fundamental right to life and it is the duty of the state to take all precautionary measures that can prevent landslides and stop any further loss of life and property”.While treating the petition as a public interest litigation (PIL), the court directed the authorities concerned to the file their replies within four weeks.The petitioner claimed that experts had in various reports recommended remedial measures to prevent landslides but the state and the NHAI were not taking into account these suggestions while executing developmental projects, especially highway projects involving large-scale excavation of hills.The petitioner urged the court to direct the state government to install landslide predicting devices developed by the IIT, Mandi, and other similar devices in all disaster-prone areas. She prayed that the NHAI and the state Public Works Department be directed to implement all measures suggested by the experts for the prevention of landslides along all national and state highways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-notice-to-himachal-pradesh-nhai-over-landslips-309517
11-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Landslides damage vehicles, block roads in Himachal's Rampur||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 10Roads were blocked and several vehicles were damaged due to landslides triggered by heavy rain at several places in Rampur subdivision of Shimla district today. The Bahli-Rohru road in Rampur was blocked following a landslide but no casualty was reported.Boulders and falling debris damaged a car parked on the hillside between the Circuit House and the Hanuman Mandir in Rampur town while some vehicles were partly damaged on the 5-km road stretch from Rampur to Neogli, reports stated.People travelling in small vehicles had a harrowing time crossing the Browny Khud on the National Highway No. 5 between Rampur and Jhakhri due to water pressure. Local residents said that a crusher had made the site vulnerable as stone excavation had created a gorge in the hill, adding to the water pressure.Water supply in Shimla to be hitWater supply to Shimla town will be partly affected tomorrow (September 11) due to the heavy silt load in both Giri and Gumma supply schemes. The two schemes provide about 35 MLD to 38 MLD, about 80 per cent of the total water supplied to Shimla.The National Highway No. 5 was closed for vehicular traffic near the Jeori landslide site last night after a big boulder fell on it. However, one-way traffic was restored this morning, said Yadvendra Pal, SDM, Rampur. He added that the road would be closed during night as a precautionary measure, as the possibility of more landslides due to rain could not be ruled out. The road is expected to be opened for two-way traffic by Sunday.Meanwhile, 21 roads (nine in Mandi, seven in Kullu and five in Shimla) remained blocked today. Three more persons died in rain-related incidents, taking the death toll during the current monsoon season to 374, while 13 persons are still missing.The Met Department has cautioned people, including tourists, that landslides could occur due to continuous rainfall and advised them not to go near riverbanks as the water level may increase.The local MeT office has issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rain in 10 districts barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on September 11 and a thunderstorm and lightning in five districts of Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur on September 12. It has also forecast a wet spell in the region till September 16.Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of Himachal in the past 24 hours. Rampur and Nahan received 84 mm of rain each, Sundernagar 81 mm, Pandoh 52 mm, Kufri 50 mm, Karsog and Jubbarhatti 39 mm each, Nahan 38 mm, Paonta Sahib 37 mm, Renukaji 35 mm, Bhuntar 29 mm; Mashobra and Theog 27 mm each, Banjar 25 mm; Manali, Ghumarwin, Sarahan and Chamba 24 mm each; Shimla and Dalhousie 29 mm each; and Solan 16 mm.There was no appreciable change in the minimum temperatures while the maximum temperatures increased by 1 to 2 degrees. Keylong was the coldest at 11.5°C while Una was the hottest at 31.7°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslides-damage-vehicles-block-roads-in-himachals-rampur-309516
