13-09-2021||New Delhi||Covid: Himachal tells SC it will ‘fully vaccinate’ entire adult population by November end||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed the orders of the Himachal Pradesh High Court constituting district level committees to monitor Covid-19 situation in the state, which recently became the first state to vaccinate 100 per cent of its 18 plus population with first dose and has vowed to vaccinate its entire adult population with the second dose by November end.The top court stayed the orders of high court dated July 7 and 14 by which it had constituted district level committees comprising of deputy commissioner, secretary of district legal service authority and president of district bar association for monitoring Covid-19 situation, after the state government said that it is having demoralising effect on officials. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna, which issued notice on the plea filed by the state government challenging the orders of the High Court, said that pendency of the plea will not preclude the high court from passing any order under Article 226 with regard to Covid-19 situation.“When we had constituted a National Task Force on Covid-19, it comprised doctors and experts from across the country but this district level committee comprises people who are secretary, district legal service authority and President of District Bar Association. What are they expected to do,” the bench said.At the outset, Additional Advocate General Abhinav Mukerji, appearing for the state government said, “We have recently achieved a rare distinction of becoming the first state to vaccinate 100 per cent of our adult population with first dose for Covid-19 and by November end; we will be able to vaccinate entire population with second dose. We have a positivity rate of 0.7 per cent only”.He said that these committees are having a demoralising effect on the officials, who are working very hard to vaccinate the population as they have to appear before the court on every Wednesday, where many allegations are made against them.Mukerji said that they had to face a difficult situation in a village called Malana in Kullu district, where people believe themselves to be the original descendants of Aryans and they do not like to be vaccinated.“They were persuaded to take vaccines after much deliberation. This was the reason for the delay in achieving the target of 100 per cent otherwise we would have achieved much earlier,” Mukerji said. Justice Chandrachud said, “I have been to that village. The villagers are famous for something else also”.Mukerji said that the state is already doing everything possible to contain the Covid-19 situation and have a number of committees in places like ambulance committees, Oxygen committees, CSIR committees, village-level committees consisting of Sarpanch and Asha workers and district level committees.He said that what the High Court has done is already being done by the State.The bench said that the committees which have been constituted by the High Court are not expert committees and prima facie the constitution of such committee requires consideration. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-himachal-tells-sc-it-will-fully-vaccinate-entire-adult-population-by-november-end-310561
13-09-2021||Helping Hands||Students' NGO launches cleanliness drive in 6 Himachal districts||Sacred Soul principal gets awardTarsem Kumar, principal, Sacred Soul Cambridge School, Nurpur, received the CV Raman Education Award-2021. The award was conferred on him for contribution to academic, sports, cultural and other activities. Around 154 principals from various schools of the country were honoured. Kumar joined this school in 2015 and the school took strides towards excellence in academics and sports during his tenure. Tarsem Kumar dedicated the award to the school management and students.Foundation Day of UIT celebratedThe 21st foundation day of University Institute Technical of Technology, HPU, was celebrated. HPU VC Sikandar Kumar initiated the function and dedicated the newly constructed laboratories of three departments to the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-ngo-launches-cleanliness-drive-in-6-himachal-districts-310330
13-09-2021||---||Eligible people to get second jab by Nov-end||Solan, September 12Rajiv Saizal, Minister for Health and Family Welfare, today said the eligible people would be administered the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine by November end. Saizal was addressing a gathering at Koti Padhog in Pacchad Assembly of Sirmaur. He visited exhibitions put up by various departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eligible-people-to-get-second-jab-by-nov-end-310309
13-09-2021||Hamirpur||Hamirpur: 10 girls given financial aid as marriage gift||As many as 10 girls got Rs 31, 000 each as marriage gift cheques from the government at the Jan Manch programme organised at Kangoo in Nadaun constituency, near here, today. The cheques were given by Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sarveen Chaudhary.Choudhary said the government had started many schemes for the welfare of people and the Jan Manch was one of them. He said Jan Manch had proved beneficial for people, as it helped in redressal of grievances on the doorstep.Chaudhary said Nadaun had received development projects including Rs 156 crore irrigation scheme, Rs 14 crore for road development and Rs 19 crore for sewerage scheme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-10-girls-given-financial-aid-as-marriage-gift-310310
13-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu: Rs 1.25 lakh lost in cyber frauds recovered||Kullu, September 12The Kullu police claim to have unearthed several cyber fraud cases and besides nabbing the accused from other states, they have been able to recover the looted money.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said the cyber cell kept an eye on cyber criminals and constantly tried to make people aware through social media, but the cases of fraud were on the rise. He said the cyber criminals were finding new ways to dupe victims.“Some complaints were registered in August and the police were able to recover Rs 1.25 lakh. They returned it to the eight complainants,” he said.Sharma said the fraudsters sent text messages to the victim’s mobile phones, stating that services of their SIM card would stop if not updated immediately.“A lot of people call back on the provided number and are told by the fraudsters to download a mobile application, QuickSport.After this, the fraudsters get access to the victim’s mobile phone and steal money from their bank accounts through online banking,” he said.The victim should report cybercrime at 8219681731 or 8219681732 as soon as possible so that the looted money can be recovered, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-rs-1-25-lakh-lost-in-cyber-frauds-recovered-310312
13-09-2021||Shimla||Traders’ group calls for fresh elections to Shimla Beopar Mandal||The rift in the Shimla Beopar Mandal is unlikely to end anytime soon. Not happy with the unanimously elected office-bearers a while back, a group of traders met here today and called for fresh elections to elect their representatives through free and fair elections.“More than 200 traders attended the meeting and rejected the unanimously elected body and called for fresh election,” said Ramesh Chaujjar, who was appointed chairman of the election committee that will conduct the elections as early as possible.“The traders felt that their democratic right to vote and choose their representatives has been violated in the unanimous elections. So, they have demanded fresh elections,” he said. The traders elected an ad hoc committee to run the affairs of the Beopar Mandal until the elections are held. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traders-group-calls-for-fresh-elections-to-shimla-beopar-mandal-310313
13-09-2021||Mandi||Grievances settled at Karsog||During the 23rd Jan Manch organised at Karsog in Mandi district today, 146 grievances were received by Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur.The minister resolved a majority of grievances. A total of 186 demands were also received which were handed over to the departments concerned.These demands were related to provide road connectivity, drinking water supply and regular power supply in panchayat areas. Grievances of 13 gram panchayats were settled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/grievances-settled-at-karsog-310314
13-09-2021||---||Outsourcing of 33 kv substations in Himachal opposed||Shimla, September 12Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited’s (HPSEBL) decision to outsource the operation and maintenance of 33 kv substations has not gone down well with the board employee union.Lodging a strong protest with the HPSEBL management, the employee union has demanded a rethink on the issue and threatened an agitation, if the decision is not rolled back.The union said the board had outsourced these substations in the past, too but the experience was not good. “It won’t be in the interest of the board this time as well. The board was to take back these substations in a dilapidated condition due to the poor maintenance of the machinery by private contractors,” said HPSEBL Employee Union secretary HL Verma.“The contractor employs unskilled labour, which is not capable of maintaining these substations. In the long run, it’s a harmful for the board,” said Verma.Verma said the rate of accidents at the substations run and maintained on the outsource basis was also higher.The board’s Technical Employee Union, too, has opposed the decision. Urging the board MD to withdraw it, the union said it would launch an agitation if their demand was not met. The union demanded that the strength of technical employees should be increased because the existing staff at these substations putting in extra work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/outsourcing-of-33-kv-substations-in-himachal-opposed-310317
13-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Nurpur: Minor abducted, youth booked||Nurpur, September 12Following the complaint of a woman, a resident of ward number 5, in Nurpur town, the local police have registered a case against a person, identified as Shankar (24) of Nagrota Bagwan, in Kangra district, for allegedly abducting her minor girl (15) yesterday.The police have started the search to find the abducted victim and nab the culprit.Surinder Sharma, DSP, Nurpur, said a case under Sections 363 and 366 A of the IPC and Section 18 of the POCSO Act was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-minor-abducted-youth-booked-310318
13-09-2021||---||Action sought against Dharampur doctor for ‘faulty’ treatment of 11-year-old girl||Solan, September 12Gopal Singh, a resident of Badiyar village in Doon, today sought action against a doctor of Dharampur-based Community Health Centre whose “faulty” treatment allegedly rendered his 11-year-old daughter handicapped.He also demanded Rs 4 lakh as compensation, which he spent on her treatment in the last three years.Singh raised the issue at the 20th district-level Jan Manch organised at Banalgi village in Doon, which was presided over by Industries, Transport, Labour and Employment Minister Bikram Singh.As many as 74 complaints were received today and 27 were redressed on the spot. As many as 71 demands were also made at the Jan Manch. The minister assured Singh of appropriate action and directed him to give a written complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/action-sought-against-dharampur-doctor-for-faulty-treatment-of-11-year-old-girl-310320
13-09-2021||The Hamirpur Municipal Committee claims it is doing excellent work with door-to-door garbage collection||Waste dumped on Hamirpur roads||Drinking water woes continueThe problem of drinking water supply has always been a matter of concern in Kharura locality of Chamba town. The water tanks of HP Jal Shakti Vibhag are located on the top of the hill overseeing the locality. The pressure is low to fill the domestic water tanks. However, when the CM or the Jal Shakti Minister visits Chamba, round-the-clock water supply is ensured. — Puja, Kharura (Chamba)What our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/waste-dumped-on-hamirpur-roads-310321
13-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Paralympics silver medallist Nishad Kumar honoured||Una, September 12Agriculture, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Virender Nanwar presided over the Jan Manch programme organised today, in the upper Basal panchayat of Kutlehar Assembly segment. As many as 102 public complaints were received, most of which, were addressed on the spot.The minister gave a cheque of Rs 51,000 to Nishad Kumar from Amb, who had won a silver medal in the high jump event at the recently concluded Tokyo Paralympics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paralympics-silver-medallist-nishad-kumar-honoured-310305
13-09-2021||Shimla||1,609 complaints heard, most resolved at Jan Manch in in 11 districts of Himachal Pradesh||As many as 1,609 grievances and demands were received out of which most of complaints were disposed of on the spot during the Jan Manch organised in 11 districts of the state today. All safety and precautionary measures were properly followed by all district administrations in view if the Covid-19.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj presided over the Jan Manch at Kalbog in Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituency of Shimla district. On this occasion as many as 76 complaints were received and 73 were disposed of on the spot while remaining were sent to different departments for early redress.During Jan Manch, health check-up of 78 persons was done in free health camp and free medicines were given to 30 patients after tests. On this occasion Covid vaccination of 43 persons was done. As many as seven certificates of different types and six mutations were also prepared on the spot. In Bilaspur, Jan Manch was held at Jukhala Gram Panchayat of Shri Naina Devi Assembly Constituency. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-609-complaints-heard-most-resolved-at-jan-manch-in-in-11-districts-of-himachal-pradesh-310307
13-09-2021||---||JP Atray Memorial Tournament: Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association beat Ranstar Cricket Club Delhi, lift cup||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 12Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) beat Ranstar Cricket Club Delhi by 75 runs in the rain-truncated JP Atray Memorial Tournament final at IS Bindra PCA Stadium here today to lift the Trident Cup.The match was reduced to 20 overs a side due to rain.Batting first, HPCA rode on skipper Prashant Chopra’s half-century to score 175/3 in the allotted quota of overs.HPCA had a solid beginning as Chopra and Shubham Negi put on 84 runs for the first wicket.The duo was separated in the 12th over when Negi was stumped by Puneet Bisht off Rahul Chaudhary on 35.Ekant Sen, who replaced Negi at the crease, made 20 runs before he was caught by Chetanya Bishnoi off Chaudhary. Chopra, meanwhile, smashed 72 off 48 balls to propel HPCA to a challenging total. He was the last wicket to fell in the HPCA innings, caught by Pradeep Malik off Pradeep Prashar.Chaudhary (2/24) was the most successful bowler for Ranstar Club.Needing to score 8.80 runs per over victory, Ranstar Club lost wickets at regular intervals and were all out for 100 runs in 15.2 overs.Naveen Kanwar (3/15) and Ayush Jhamwal (3/28) shared six wickets between them, while Vipen Sharma bagged 2/21.For Ranstar Club, Sumit Verma made 36 runs, while Pradeep Malik contributed 26 runs to the chase.Kanwar was named man of the match, while Chopra was adjudged man of the series. HPCA’s Akash Vashisht got the best bowler award and PCC’s Nehal Wadhera received the best batsman award.Punjab Minister OP Soni awarded Rs2 lakh to the winning side, while Ranstar Club got Rs1 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jp-atray-memorial-tournament-himachal-pradesh-cricket-association-beat-ranstar-cricket-club-delhi-lift-cup-310353
13-09-2021||Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) failed to figure among the first 200 educational institutions in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). The state government is repeatedly talking about quality education and the thrust of HPU was on improving the NAAC grading and NIRF ranking but it slipped further from 167th position last year. The university is high on promises and low on delivery and standards are continuously falling||Himachal Diary: HPU low on delivery||Facebook page or photo galleryThe Facebook page of a key department in Solan district has become synonymous with the photo gallery of its head. The official is so obsessed with his pictures that they are also posted on the media group in heaps everyday much to the chagrin of the media persons. One wondered what is achieved through such ostentatious display of all and sundry visiting his office when serious law and order issues require more attention. The happenings prompted a resident to comment ‘One’s attitude determines one’s direction.’Politician’s SUV hogs limelightAn SUV bought by the son of a prominent politician from Kangra hogged political limelight this week. A rival leader addressed a press conference that two loans were raised for the vehicle and these were paid back in cash. The officials of the leading cooperative bank were left explaining how they accepted the entire loan payment for the SUV in cash despite RBI guidelines that cash of more than Rs 50,000 cannot be accepted from any individual. However, ironically the Opposition failed to cash in on the controversy and chose to keep mum over the issue.Contributed by Lalit Mohan, Ambika Sharma and Bhanu P Lohumi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-diary-hpu-low-on-delivery-310322
13-09-2021||Hamirpur||Minister counted works initiated by Cong: Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu||Former state Congress president Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu said Cabinet minister Sarveen Chaudhary counted development works started and announced by the Congress governments. Sukhu was reacting on the statement of Sarveen Chaudhary that development in Nadaun was undertaken by the BJP governments.He said major projects like construction of medical college campus, government hospital Nadaun, mini secretariat, sewerage scheme for Nadaun and irrigation scheme were started by the Congress governments.Sukhu said the state was reeling under debt burden of over Rs 60,000 crore and it would swell in the coming years. He said that laxity in handling the coronavirus pandemic led to increase in number of cases in the state. Had government acted responsibly, the spread of pandemic could be controlled. He alleged that unplanned opening and closing of borders had adversely affected the pandemic control measures. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-counted-works-initiated-by-cong-sukhwinder-singh-sukhu-310319
13-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Men more prone to suicide in Himachal Pradesh: Study||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 12Men are more prone to committing suicides in Himachal Pradesh as compared to women.This tendency is more pronounced in the youth while it declines with the increasing age as per an analysis undertaken on suicide by the 108 GVK Emergency Management Service.As many as 343 suicides have been reported in the state from 2011 to 2021. While nine cases were reported in 2011, this number rose to 18 in 2012 and 51 in 2014. There was some respite in 2015 and 2016 but 60 cases were reported by the emergency services in 2017. The number of suicides saw a dip in 2018 with merely 25 cases being reported but they again increased to 40 in 2019 and 48 in 2020. As many as 37 cases have been reported in 2021 till now.Those committed suicide comprise 68 per cent men.As many as 41 per cent of the victims are in the age group of 19-30 years followed by 23 per cent in the age group of 31 to 40 years and 20 per cent for the age group of up to 18 years while 16 per cent in the age group of above 41 years.“The alarming facts have brought to focus the increasing need to address the sense of despair which drives a person to commit suicide,” said Mehul Sukumaran, state head, 108 GVK EMRI.As many as 81 per cent of the suicide/self-harm emergencies are reported at the centre from 9 am to 12 noon with the highest frequency of 43 per cent being reported between 4 pm and 12 midnight.The maximum suicides have been reported from Kangra district followed by Solan, Mandi, Shimla, Sirmaur, Hamirpur, Una, Bilaspur, Chamba, Kullu, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti.Smaller districts like Solan is placed second in the number of suicides vis-à-vis larger districts like Mandi and Shimla.“GVK EMRI contributions range from saving lives through 108 emergency ambulance services by prompt response wherever there is an opportunity to save lives to significantly reducing deaths,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/men-more-prone-to-suicide-in-himachal-pradesh-study-310316
13-09-2021||---||Shimla ZP accuses govt of sitting on its grant since Feb||Shimla, September 12Shimla Zila Parishad has accused the state government of sitting on its grant issued by the 15th Finance Commission.Alleging that the state government has not disbursed even a penny to the Zila Parishad since it was elected in February this year, Shimla ZP chairperson Chandra Prabha Negi threatened to launch an agitation if the grant was not released soon. “We have sent several memorandums to the government in this regard but nothing has come out of it. If the government continues to disregard our genuine demand, we will have no option left but to launch an agitation,” said Negi.Unable to complete workWe have made commitments to people on the assumption that will get Rs 20 lakh. How can we do the any of the promised work if we don’t get our share of the grant? —Monita Chauhan, ZP memberShe further said that every time they ask for the grant to be released, the officials say records have not been updated yet. “Why has it not been updated? If there’s some problem in the system, then it’s the government’s fault,” she said, adding that the grant has not been disbursed to any ZP in the state.She further said that each ZP member gets around Rs 20 lakh from the grant. “Considering every ZP member represents 15-20 panchayats, the amount is miniscule. To make the institute and its members more productive, the state government must also provide funds from the state budget. The previous Congress government did give some grant to the ZPs from the state budget,” she said.Kaushal Mungta, ZP member from Saraswati Nagar, said the government was deliberately trying to weaken the crucial Panchayati Raj institution. “ZP member have already sent proposals of their proposed work to the Panchayati Raj Department. Yet, they are not releasing money on one pretext or the other. It clearly indicates that the government doesn’t want this institute to flourish,” said Mungta.Monita Chauhan, another ZP member, says it’s becoming increasingly difficult for them to face people in their wards. “We have made commitments to people on the assumption that would get Rs 20 lakh. We haven’t received any budget yet, but people keep reminding us about our commitments. How can we do any of the promised work if we don’t get our share of the grant?” said Monita Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-zp-accuses-govt-of-sitting-on-its-grant-since-feb-310308
13-09-2021||---||Illegal mining: Nalagarh police impound tractor, two trailers||Solan, September 12The Nalagarh police impounded a tractor and two trailers engaged in illegal mining at Palasda village on the Chikni riverbed during a surprise check last night.The police team found that illegal mining of stones was underway and the material was being loaded into three tractor-trailers on the Chikni riverbed.Two drivers managed to decouple the tractors from their trailers and fled on seeing the police while one tractor-trailer was impounded by the police team along with its driver. He was identified as Krishan, a resident of Hathras in Uttar Pradesh while those who had fled were identified as Raju, a resident of local Palasda village and Zameel, a resident of Nangal in Punjab.The driver Krishna could not produce any permission for undertaking mining on the government land.A case under sections 379 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for theft and under section 21 of the Mining Act has been registered against the three drivers.All three vehicles were impounded by the police and further investigation was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-mining-nalagarh-police-impound-tractor-two-trailers-310306
13-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Landslides block Shimla-Kinnaur NH, traffic resumes after 7 hrs||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 12Landslides triggered by incessant rain blocked the National Highway-5 at two places near Badhaal (border of Shimla and Kinnaur district) and Jeori in Rampur subdivision of Shimla district. However, no casualty was reported.A large number of vehicles, including trucks carrying vegetables and apples, were stranded on the Kinnaur side after a slide blocked the road near Badhaal and machinery was deployed to clear the road. Traffic on the NH-5, which was blocked near Badhaal, was restored after almost seven hours.28 roads closedAnother slide blocked the NH-5 at Jeori as big boulders hanging at the hilltop fell on the road due to heavy rain. “The stretch was restored for two-way traffic this morning only,” said Rampur SDM Yadvendra Pal, adding that the road was thrown open to traffic as machines were already deployed at the site.The traffic was partially disrupted on the Khalini-Vikasnagar road as an uprooted tree fell on the road. Shimla received 24 mm rain since last evening and several trees were uprooted, while electricity to Bemloe area remained snapped for hours.Another slide took place at Bhattakuffar, but one-way traffic has been restored.A portion of a house was damaged last night in Kanlog area of Shimla after a tree fell on it, but the family members escaped unhurt. The owner of the house, Abhishek Singh Negi, rued that three trees were posing threat to his property.“We requested the forest department to cut the trees thrice but nothing had been done so far. The authorities, however, swung into action today morning and removed the trees posing a threat to the house,” he said.Higher reaches and tribal areas, including the Kunjam Pass, the Rohtang Pass, the Sach Pass and the Baralacha la, received another spell of snowfall, triggering cold wave in the adjoining valleys.Moderate to heavy rains continued to lash parts of Himachal. Ghamroor (Kangra) received 77 mm of rain, followed by Dharamsala (59 mm), Shahur (57 mm), Jogindernagar (44 mm), Kangra (39 mm), Manali (38 mm), Sangraha in Sirmaur (35 mm), Kotkhai (30 mm), Kandaghat (25 mm), Shimla, Gohar and Hamirpur (24 mm each), Solan and Banjar (23 mm each), Nurpur, Dalhousie and Sundernagar (22 mm each), Narkanda (20 mm), Khadrala (19 mm), Jubbarhatti (18 mm), Rampur (17 mm), Kheri, Kufri and Palampur (15 mm each), Chamba (14 mm), Mashobra (13 mm), Pandoh and Mandi (11 mm) and Kothi, Gaggal and Kasol (10 mm each).The toll in rain-related incidents during the current monsoon season mounted to 381 with two more deaths (one each in Kinnaur and Shimla districts) in the past 24 hours. As many as 28 roads were closed in the state.The local MeT office has predicted wet weather in the region till September 17. There was no significant change in the minimum temperatures and Keylong was coldest at night, recording a low of 9.4 degree C. Maximum temperatures decreased by 5 to 6 degree and Una was hottest in the day with a high of 27.2 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslides-block-shimla-kinnaur-nh-traffic-resumes-after-7-hrs-310302
13-09-2021||Kullu||HRTC Delhi-Leh buses off road||Normal life was hampered due to incessant rains in many parts of the district since Friday night. The mercury dipped in the entire region as the higher reaches witnessed snow and lower areas were lashed by rainfall.Some buses were stuck due to landslides at various places on the Aut-Luhri NH-305. Many link roads were also blocked causing hassles for commuters and agriculturists. The HRTC has halted Delhi-Leh bus service due to snowfall in Baralacha. The water level of various rivers and rivulets has increased. The risk of landslides has increased on Jia-Ramshilla, Bhuntar-Manikaran and other routes due to rain. The residents of Chauki Dobhi village in Kharal valley adjoining the Kullu town were having sleepless nights due to the threat of landslide. Two houses of village were already damaged and some others had developed cracks in July 2020. Stones continue to fall from the hill adjoining Nangcha village in Jindour.Snow at Thamsar PassThe district administration has issued an advisory against going near the rivers and towards higher reaches. The harvesting of apples and pomegranate has been affected. However, no major loss was reported due to the inclement weather. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-delhi-leh-buses-off-road-310303
13-09-2021||Shimla||87 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 87 Covid cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours, besides one death in Kullu district. The total cases till date were 2,15,691 while the number of active cases is 1,536. The maximum cases were reported from Kangra (27) followed by Hamirpur (25) Mandi (9). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/87-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-310304
13-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Shimla: 4 Retreat staffers test +ve ahead of President’s visit||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 12Officials of the security agencies and district administration are on tenterhooks after four employees of The Retreat (summer resort of the President) tested positive for Covid ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to the state capital on September 16.Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh said The Retreat was being sanitised and everyone who would be in close proximity with the President, including the VIPs, would be tested for Covid. President Kovind will address a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to mark the golden jubilee of Himachal’s statehood on September 17. Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar today chaired a meeting to review the arrangements. He directed the officers to strictly follow the standard operating procedures and ensure that all arrangements were in place by September 15.There are about 50-60 employees at The Retreat, but the number has swelled as some staffers of the President have already arrived. Those tested positive have been quarantined at Craignano in Mashobra, said Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi.The President will arrive at Kalyani helipad on September 16 for a five-day programme. He would fly to Annandale and reach the Vidhan Sabha by road. He is also scheduled to visit the Indian Audit and Accounts Academy, Yarrows, and would host “At Home” on September 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-4-retreat-staffers-test-ve-ahead-of-presidents-visit-310340
