14-09-2021||Shimla||Massive landslide causes Section of NH-205 connecting Shimla to Mandi to cave in||A massive landslide near Judicial Academy Ghandal on Monday night blocked the National Highway 205 that connected Shimla to Mandi.A landslide triggered by heavy rain caused 50 metres of the road to cave in and forcing authorities to divert traffic, officials said. A car was damaged in the landslide but all passengers escaped unhurt.Traffic coming from Mandi has been diverted via Bangora to Nalhatti and Ghanati, and that coming from Shimla side from Ghanati on the Kobagh-Kalihatti road,  Deputy Commissioner Shimla Aditya Negi.Authorities are trying to have the road cleared and restored as soon as possible, he said.Meanwhile, Hema Thakur, Mahila Mandal Pradhan of Ghandal village, has claimed that the road had born a visible crack for three months but authorities from PWD and NHAI covered it with mud and ignored it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/massive-landslide-causes-section-of-nh-205-connecting-shimla-to-mandi-to-cave-in-311022
14-09-2021||Shimla||President Kovind to address special session of Himachal Assembly on Friday||President Ram Nath Kovind will be on a four-day visit to Himachal Pradesh from Thursday, a state government official said.He will address a special session of the Himachal Pradesh Assembly and will be chief guest at the Valedictory Ceremony of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts at Shimla, the official said.The President will stay at Cecil hotel at Chaura Maidan here instead of The Retreat—the President’s residence at Chharabra on the outskirts of Shimla—as four its employees had tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, he added.The state Assembly Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar told the media here on Tuesday that President Ram Nath Kovind would address the special session of the state Assembly on Friday at 11 am to mark the golden jubilee of Himachal Pradesh’s statehood.Kovind will be the third President to address the state Assembly. Then presidents APJ Abdul Kalam and Pranab Mukherjee addressed the state Assembly in 2003 and 2013, respectively, he added.Apart from the sitting MLAs, all the former MLAs including former chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal have been invited to attend the special session, the official added.Ninety-three former MLAs, including Kumar and Dhumal, have given their consent to attend the special session.Five MPs from the state and seven former MPs will also attend the session, the official said.All those who will come in close contact with the President will have to carry a COVID-19 RTPCR negative report, he added.A group photo of the President with the current and former legislators will also be taken as a memory at the Assembly, he added.On September 18, the President will be chief guest at the Valedictory Ceremony of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service (IAAS Officer Trainees of 2018 and 2019 Batches) at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts at Shimla from 11 am to 12 noon.According to the schedule, the President will reach Annadale Helipad on September 16 at 12 noon via Chandigarh from Palam airport, Delhi. Subsequently, he will reach Cecil hotel at Chaura Maidan here at around 12.25 pm, the official said.President Kovind will address the special session of the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha on Friday from 11 am to 12 noon, he added.In the evening on Friday, he will attend a cultural programme at 7.30 pm and banquet at 8 pm hosted by the state governor, he added.On September 18, the President will be chief guest at the Valedictory Ceremony at National Academy of Audit and Accounts at Shimla from 11 am to 12 noon, he added.On September 19, he will reach Annadale helipad at 11.15 am to leave for Palam airport in Delhi via Chandigarh. He will reach the Rashtrapati Bhavan at 1.35 pm on Sunday, the official added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-kovind-to-address-special-session-of-himachal-assembly-on-friday-311020
14-09-2021||Shimla||4 of family burnt alive as house catches fire in Himachal’s Chamba||Four members of a family were burnt alive after their house caught fire in Himachal Pradesh's Chamba district on Tuesday morning, an official said.Rafi Mohammad (25) and his three kids - daughters Julkha (2) and Jaitun (6) and son Samir (4) - died in the incident at Karatosh village in Churah tehsil at around 3 am, state Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said.Mohammad's wife had received burns, he said.More details were awaited, the official added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-of-family-burnt-alive-as-house-catches-fire-in-himachals-chamba-310975
14-09-2021||---||CID to probe death of Joginernagar woman||Mandi, September 13In the wake of public outrage, DGP Sanjay Kundu today handed over the case of deceased Jyoti (23) to the state CID (Crime). The victim, a native of Bhararu panchayat in the Joginernagar Assembly segment in Mandi district, went missing from her home on August 8. Her body was found after around one month on September 7.The parents of the victim had alleged a foul play in the case. It was stated that the victim had arguments with her husband on the day she went missing.The husband was arrested under Section 306 and 498A of the IPC but the people of the area wanted him to be booked for murder.Body found after a monthDue to the delay on the part of police to recover the body, there was public outrage in the Joginderngar Assembly segment, resulting in mass demonstrations. The people of the area insisted on a fair probe to provide justice to the victim.“The case has been entrusted to the state CID- Crime with immediate effect to complete the investigation expeditiously in a fair and transparent manner and also to maintain public credibility,” the DGP said.“The IGP, CID-Crime, Atul Fulzele, will constitute a Special Investigation Team (SIT) for the case. The SIT will be headed by Virender Kalia, SP Crime. The team will also comprise Mukesh Kumar, DSP, CID, and Sushant Sharma, DSP, CID, Mandi,” he added.“The SIT shall complete the investigation in an expeditious, transparent and objective manner. The IGP, Crime, will supervise the investigation of this case,” said the DGP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cid-to-probe-death-of-joginernagar-woman-310622
14-09-2021||Shimla||President Ram Nath Kovind’s Shimla visit cut short by a day||The programme of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to Shimla has been rescheduled and cut short by a day after four employees, including the manager of the Retreat (summer holiday resort of the President) tested positive for Covid.The President will not reside in the Retreat and instead stay in Oberoi Cecil, which is just 200 metres from the legislative Assembly where he is likely to address a special session to mark the golden jubilee anniversary of statehood on September 17.The President will arrive at the Annadale ground on September 16 and return on September 19. He will visit the Indian Audit and Accounts Academy, Yarrows (which is also close to Cecil) on September 18. The “At Home” and high tea have been cancelled, district administration officials said.Meanwhile, security has been beefed up in the state capital from Annadale to Cecil.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-ram-nath-kovinds-shimla-visit-cut-short-by-a-day-310624
14-09-2021||The authorities concerned should immediately improve the condition of a rain shelter constructed at Udaipur on the Pathankot-Chamba-Bharmour national highway. The rain shelter is filthy most of the time and requires immediate repair besides regular cleanin.—Residents||Rain shelter neglected||Girk silt affects watger supply The presence of heavy silt in the Giri river has affected the water supply to Theog. The town is getting no water from the IPH scheme for almost a week now and people are facing a lot of problems because of this. The department should restore the water supply without any delay. — Manish Sharma, TheogWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-shelter-neglected-310626
14-09-2021||Solan||2 rape cases in BBN area||Two cases of rape have been reported in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) area in the past 24 hours. A Madhya Pradesh resident, in a complaint to the Nalagarh police last evening, alleged that a local youth, whom she had met at Gwalior, had physically abused him for the past four years.She said Naeam had promised to marry her. She alleged that he called her to Nalagarh 10 days ago and raped her in his house.In another case, a 33-year-old woman told the police today that Gurdass Sharma came to her room in Barotiwala in March and raped her after giving her some drug that left her unconscious. She said she conceived thereafter and is now six-month pregnant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-rape-cases-in-bbn-area-310628
14-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Dalhousie: Olympic medallist Varun Kumar Sharma felicitated||Dalhousie, September 13Forest, Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania, Kangra Lok Sabha MP Kishan Kapoor, Bhattiyat MLA Vikram Jaryal, BJP’s district president DS Thakur, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana along with other officials and locals welcomed Indian hockey team Olympic medallist Varun Kumar Sharma on his arrival to his native Fati village near Dalhousie on Monday.Pathania presented Varun a shawl, cap and a Chamba ‘thaal’ during a ceremony at the nearby Bathri gram panchayat. Varun’s mother Shakuntala Sharma and father Brahmanand Sharma were also honoured.In his address, Pathania said during the proposed stay of the President in Shimla on September 17, Varun would be given an amount of Rs 1 crore and an appointment letter.Congratulating Varun and the Indian hockey team, Pathania said the sports policy had been changed by the state government and would be implemented soon.On the demand of people, Pathania directed the Forest Department to complete the construction of a road up to Varun’s native village within five months. Apart from this, he also announced a sum of Rs 21 lakh for various developmental works at his village and construction of a sports ground.Meanwhile, Varun shared his experiences related to sports during the Olympic event. He expressed his gratitude to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and the state government for felicitating him.MP Kishan Kapoor said the youth must take inspiration from Varun. He announced Rs 10 lakh for the construction of a community building in Varun’s village.He said under the ‘Khelo India’ programme, importance was being given to the promotion of various sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalhousie-olympic-medallist-varun-kumar-sharma-felicitated-310630
14-09-2021||Chamba||Grievances redressed at Jan Manch||As many as 304 demands and problems were presented by people of 11 panchayats, some of which were resolved on the spot in the 23rd Jan Manch programme, which was organised at Bhanjraru in Churah Assembly constituency of Chamba district on Sunday.The programme was presided over by Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Dr Hans Raj. In the programme, 30 eligible people were selected under various pension schemes.On the occasion, a camp was also organised by the Health Department, in which 14 people were issued certificates of disability. Besides, a health checkup of 396 people was conducted by the Ayush department and free medicines were distributed.Deputy Speaker distributed LPG connections under the Grihini Suvidha Yojana to beneficiaries. Apart from this, the Deputy Speaker also distributed 356 FDRs under the ‘Beti Hai Anmol’ scheme implemented by the Women and Child Development.Earlier, Hans Raj flagged off an awareness vehicle and Jeevandhara mobile medical unit vehicle for the promotion of various schemes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/grievances-redressed-at-jan-manch-310634
14-09-2021||Palampur September 13||CM inaugurates oxygen plants in Kangra, Una||The government has vaccinated 100 per cent eligible population and taken a lead. Over 74 lakh doses have been administered.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said this while addressing a video-conference organised at the Civil Hospital, Palampur, today. Earlier, he inaugurated a PSA oxygen plant at the hospital, built at a cost of Rs 2 crore.He also inaugurated the augmented PSA oxygen plant at the Zonal Hospital, Dharamsala, built at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. He also dedicated PSA oxygen plants at Una, Haroli and Palakwah health centres in Una district.Meanwhile, Thakur expressed happiness over the services offered by the Vivekanand Medical Research Trust (VMRT) to people. He praised the efforts of Shanta Kumar, former Chief Minister, and other trustees. He was speaking at a meeting of the trust organised on its campus today. “Kayakalp is the first Aayush hospital in Himachal recommended by the NABH. It has earned a good name in the treatment of lifestyle-related diseases,” he added.—OCThe Chief Minister said he had come to learn about a new project planned by Shanta Kumar, the foundation of which had been laid. The Vayovridh Seva Sahyog Kendra, under the name ‘Vishranti’, would prove to be a boon to the aged under medical emergency and geriatric care system.Shanta Kumar welcomed Thakur and others present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-inaugurates-oxygen-plants-in-kangra-una-310635
14-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Village ex-pradhan succumbs at PGI||Kullu, September 13Former panchayat president Paras Ram Negi, who was brutally assaulted at Chharudu on the Kullu-Naggar road on August 25, succumbed to injuries today at the PGIMER, Chandigarh.His wife Youm Devi was also seriously injured in the attack. Both were admitted to Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College, Nerchowk, from where Paras Ram was referred to the PGI the next day, as his condition was critical and he had suffered.The police had registered an attempt to murder case under Sections 307, 323, 147, 148 and 149 of the IPC, Section 25 of the Arms Act and Section 3 of the SC and ST Act and arrested nine persons, including the main accused Khimi Ram alias Kewalu of Seobagh. Two persons were later released after they were not found involved in the case. The remaining seven accused are still in jail. Now, the police have added Section 302 of the IPC after the death of the victim.Two groups had a scuffle at the Kullu courts complex on August 24 over a land dispute and a cross-FIR was registered by both groups. The next day, Khimi Ram, along with his accomplices, allegedly attacked the duo, grievously injuring them. They also damaged their Social media was flooded with condolence messages for Negi and many expressed resentment against such barbarism in the peaceful valley. Many stated that the incident was a threat to the peace of the valley and steps should be taken to ensure that such incidents do not happen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/village-ex-pradhan-succumbs-at-pgi-310637
14-09-2021||Dharamsala||Bee research centre to be bee heritage farm||Agriculture university at Palampur has decided to convert its historical bee research station at Nagrota Bagwan to a bee heritage farm.The university has submitted a project of Rs 6.20 crore to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Vice-Chancellor HK Chaudhary said he was hopeful that the project would be sanctioned soon so that work was initiated in the golden jubilee year of the statehood.HK Chaudhary said the station was established in 1936 under the Department of Agriculture, Punjab. It is an important station for the information and technical knowhow for beekeeping and is the pioneer for introducing European honey bee in 1964. The heritage farm will be a role model for beekeeping and be equipped with all modern research and teaching facilities for the benefit of beekeepers, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bee-research-centre-to-be-bee-heritage-farm-310640
14-09-2021||The Hindi Department of Wazir Ram Singh Government College||Webinar on 'Modern tech and Hindi'||'Ayush Week' OBSERVED at collegeAn 'Ayush Week' is being observed at Solan Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Kumarhatti, under the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme. A virtual communication was established with the schoolchildren from classes I to XII of different schools. Information about various medical systems under Ayush was given to them. Programme coordinator Dr Sumi Sharma informed that the Indian traditional medicine system such as ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homoeopathy falls under Ayush.Bahra students get placementsAs many as 11 students from the Department of Hospitality and Tourism Management, Bahra University, got placed with the globally run elite hotel chains like The Oberoi, Taj , Radisson, Lemon Tree etc across the country during a placement drive. Vikesh Kashyap, head, Department of Hospitality and Tourism Management, said the university always stands by its students. Dr BS Nagendra Prashar, Vice Chancellor, Bahra University, congratulated students and faculty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-modern-tech-and-hindi-310643
14-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Two tourists found dead near Manimahesh lake||Chamba, September 13The bodies of two persons, including a woman, have been found near the Manimahesh lake in Bharmour. One person has reportedly been missing.The bodies were recovered and being brought to Bharmour, said SSP Arul Kumar late this evening. He added that the details regarding the incident were still awaited as no communication could be established with rescue teams.As per the information, the deceased started tracking despite a ban due to the pandemic. A local, who had gone to the lake, spotted the bodies of two persons.The rescue operations could take around 12 to 14 hours, the SSP said. However, as per preliminary information, the deceased have been identified as Himangi Mehta of Gujarat and Vinod Kumar of Ludhiana. The search for Rahul of Ludhiana is still going on.The probability of the trekkers dying due to the lack of oxygen owing to high altitude and extreme weather conditions could not be ruled out. Manimahesh has been witnessing snow and heavy rain for the past two days.“However, the exact cause of the deaths could be ascertained after the post-mortem,” the SSP added.One more death was reported on the Manimahesh track yesterday. The deceased was identified as Aman, a resident of Chamba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-tourists-found-dead-near-manimahesh-lake-310650
14-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Administration looks for alternative land for CUHP in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 13Uncertainty prevails over the allotment of land offered for the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) at Jadrangal in Dharamsala. The Kangra district administration is now looking for an alternative land for the north campus. The land for the south campus at Dehra has been transferred in the name of the institution.Sources say that the university has proposed to start the construction of the campus. However, the Union Ministry of Education has asked the university authorities to make a comprehensive plan for the campus before the construction work is started.In July, a Geological Survey of India (GSI) team from Shimla had found the land, offered at Jadrangal, unsafe for the campus.The university administration had written tothe GSI head office in Kolkata to carry out further investigation to ascertain the geological stability of the proposed campus in Dharamsala.A team from Kolkatahead office is expected to visit Dharamsala.Vice-Chancellor Sat Prakash Bansal says that he will not comment on the development until something is finalised regarding the CUHP north campus land.Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal says, “We are looking for an alternative land for the campus. If the GSI team finds Jadrangal land unfit for development, we should have an alternative land ready for immediate transfer to the CUHP so that the construction work can start”. The CUHP authorities had identified land at Sakoh but did not find it fit as it also involved forestland.Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania says that the land offered for the CUHP at Jadrangal is in patches. They are trying to consolidate it so that the forest clearance can be received easily. Meanwhile, the issue has started gathering political heat as Congress leaders are alleging discrimination against the Dharamsala region. However, the real sufferers are students and teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/administration-looks-for-alternative-land-for-cuhp-in-dharamsala-310644
14-09-2021||---||Barotiwala industrial unit to lose power supply for causing pollution||Solan, September 13Barotiwala-based Sylvan Green is set to face power supply disconnection for continuous non-compliance of the orders of the State Pollution Control Board.The board’s Member Secretary issued the direction for power supply disconnection on September 10 under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, as the company did not take the desired remedial measures even after two show-cause notices issued to it on July 27 and August 23.Lgnored noticesA joint committee constituted by the NGT had also inspected the unit earlier this month. Residents of Kulhariwala village in its precincts had complained about untreated effluents being discharged from the unit into the nearby nullah causing widespread pollution.“The inspecting team had found a slew of shortcomings in the pollution mitigation measures, including the absence of a separate drain for carrying storm water and effluents, which are often mixed and are discharged into the open nullah. No shed was constructed over the waste paper storage area, leading to leaching and its subsequent discharge into the nearby water body,” said Nalagarh SDM Mahendra Pal, who was part of the inspecting team.“The team also found that solid waste dumped outside the industry had not been cleared and instead of sending it to an authorised facility for scientific disposal, it was dumped in the open nullah near the truck operators union office,” added Pal.Apoorv Devgan, Member Secretary, SPCB, said, “Sylvan Greenswas given opportunities to rectify its shortcoming but to now avail. Power supply disconnection of the unit has been ordered for continuous non-compliance”.The industry has also been directed to suspend production and not to operate on the diesel generation set or any other source of energy.Non-compliance will attract a penalty of Rs 10,000 and imprisonment up to seven years. Earlier also, the unit had faced power supply disconnection for the non-compliance of pollution norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/barotiwala-industrial-unit-to-lose-power-supply-for-causing-pollution-310638
14-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Cong slams govt at Jan Aakrosh rally in Kullu||Kullu, September 13Senior Congress leaders of the state participated in the Jan Aakrosh rally at Dhalpur ground here today.Taking the government to task, HPCC president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said that all sections of the society were feeling the brunt of the faulty policies of the government. The people were feeling cheated and were regretting voting for the BJP. The prices of all commodities were sky high. The unemployment was increasing while all development works had come to a halt.Rathore asked the people who should be the candidate for Mandi Lok Sabha bypolls and people raised slogans in favour of former MP Pratibha Singh.EC toeing BJP line: Mukesh AgnihotriThe Election Commission is working at the behest of the BJP and had postponed the by-elections indefinitely. The people are suffering from inflation and the government was unconcerned. The Jan Aakrosh rally had been launched from Kullu and such rallies will be held throughout the state. Mukesh Agnihotri, leader of oppositionLeader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri alleged that the Election Commission was working at the behest of the BJP and had postponed the by-elections indefinitely. The people are suffering from inflation and the government was unconcerned. He said that the Jan Aakrosh rally had been launched from Kullu and such rallies will be held throughout the state.Former HPCC chief Kaul Singh Thakur said that the days of the BJP government were numbered. He said that there was a lot of resentment among the masses and the people will oust the BJP in the Assembly elections.HPCC general secretary and Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh said that like Karnataka, Gujarat and Uttarakhand, the BJP can change the Chief Minister overnight in Himachal as well. He said the BJP postponed the bypolls due to the fear of defeat after receiving inputs from various agencies. He said that the masses of the state are frustrated with this government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-slams-govt-at-jan-aakrosh-rally-in-kullu-310636
14-09-2021||Mandi||HRTC pensioners announce stir in Mandi tomorrow||The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) pensioner welfare association has announced to protest against the state government in Mandi town regarding their long-pending demands on September 15.Brij Lal Dhiman, president of association, said that “due to apathy of the state government, the pensioners of HRTC were suffering across the state. We are not getting our pension in time like pensioners of other departments. The pensioners of other departments get their pension on the very first day of every month, while our pension gets delayed for months.”“We are getting 30 per cent less pension from the state government as compared to the pensioners of other departments. We are not getting our medical reimbursement in time,” he pointed out. “We are getting 140 per cent DA and 4 per cent IR, while the government pensioners are receiving 153 per cent DA and 21 per cent IR. We urge the state government to end this discrimination,” he demanded.“The state government is planning to purchase more buses, while buses are lying idle at several places across the state due to lack of adequate staff. The government has sufficient money to purchase buses but is reluctant to clear our dues,” said Dhiman.“We tried to raise our issues with the HRTC minister but he paid no heed. We also met the Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur over this issue but he did nothing,” he said. “Now we have decided to stage a massive protest in Mandi town on September 15,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-pensioners-announce-stir-in-mandi-tomorrow-310631
14-09-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Himachal youths come to rescue of Kullu apple orchardists||Kullu, September 13As the apple season peaks in the district, labourers from Kullu, Mandi, Kangra, Chamba and Bilaspur have come to the rescue of orchardists, who are facing a severe shortage of workers who have not come from Bihar, West Bengal and Nepal owing to the pandemic.Also read: Apple growers take to streets, seek better price for produceKullu Fruit Growers’ Association president Prem Sharma says that skilled labour is required for plucking, packaging and transportation of apples. The wages had shot up due to the manpower shortage last year and farmers were worried about the same issues this year as well. However, a large number of youths from all over the state have come to their rescue. They can be seen working in various market yards, orchards and temporary roadside tents set up for the season in Kullu, Kharal, Manikaran, Ujhi, Sainj and Banjar valleys.Many youths have come to Kullu to work in the orchards during the fruit season. They are being paid Rs 500 daily, along with food and beverages. Some big orchardists are providing them accommodation as well.Ashok, Mahinder and Sunil, all natives of Chamba, say that they are earning well by working in the orchards and market yards. Ramesh from Mandi and Prakash from Kangra say that the apple season has provided them employment during the Covid period.Local packers Mehar Chand Thakur and Govind say that better packaging fetch a better price in the market yards.Only skilled packers are doing grading and packaging, especially if the produce is to be sent to other states.Rahul, an orchardist, says that arhtiyas (commission agents) in the mandis charge the growers for per crate (20 kg) labour. They have to bear the cost of plucking, packaging and transportation, too. This year, the prices of cartons and other packaging material have also increased whereas the price of apples have come down. The orchardists are not able to even cover their expenses. The government should step in to rescue them as horticulture is the backbone of the state’s economy and also provides employment to a large number of people, he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-youths-come-to-rescue-of-kullu-apple-orchardists-310632
14-09-2021||---||Apple growers take to streets, seek better price for produce||Shimla, September 13The Sanyukt Kisan Manch, a group of over 15 organisations of apple and vegetable growers, today held protests at several places in apple-growing districts across the state. Demanding reforms for better remuneration for apple and vegetables through a 13-point memorandum submitted to the government, the SKM threatened to launch a bigger protest across the state on September 27 in case the government did not fulfil their demands.Also read: Himachal youths come to rescue of Kullu apple orchardistsAdani Group announces apple rates, Himachal farmers disappointedOffered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCsCongress misleading masses on apple price, alleges BJPTheir major demands included the introduction of the market intervention scheme for apple on the lines of Kashmir, MSP for all fruits and crops produced in the state, strict implementation of the APMC Act 2005, reservation of 25 per cent space for the produce of local farmers in the corporate CA stores, etc.Demand market intervention scheme on the lines of Kashmir“The protest was extremely successful. Even though apple harvesting is on, thousands joined the protest. In fact, this is the biggest protest over apple issues since 1990,” said SKM convener Harish Chauhan.Chauhan said that thanks to the crash in apple market this season, the Himachal growers and farmers are also becoming sympathetic towards the framers agitation against the three farm laws. “Apple growers are gradually understanding the threat the three farm laws hold for them,” said Chauhan, who incidentally has a BJP background.In Matiana, CPM MLA Rakesh Singha led the protest. “If the Centre can procure apple in Kashmir through MIS offering remunerative prices, why it can’t do it in Himachal? Is Himachal in Pakistan?” he asked in his trademark belligerent style.In Shimla, Himachal Kisan Sabha leaders Onkar Shad and Kuldeep Tanwar led the protest. While Onkar Shad highlighted the issues faced by the apple growers, Tanwar highlighted the plight of vegetable growers. “Sometimes, vegetables like cabbage and cauliflowers, capsicum, french beans and tomatoes do not get remunerative prices. Almost every year, the prices of one or two vegetables crash completely and farmers face massive losses,” said Tanwar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apple-growers-take-to-streets-seek-better-price-for-produce-310629
14-09-2021||---||Manali-Leh highway restored||Mandi, September 13The Manali-Leh highway was restored to traffic near the Baralacha Pass in Lahaul and Spiti district this afternoon. The district administration had closed the highway in the morning after fresh snowfall at the pass and its nearby places.The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) had engaged its workforce and machinery to clear the snow from the highway and restored it to normal traffic in the afternoon.However, the HRTC at Keylong suspended its bus service between Delhi and Leh from Keylong to Leh on Sunday due to snowfall.Today, the HRTC, Keylong, suspended its bus service on the Kullu-Kaza route due to fresh snowfall at the Kunzum Pass. HRTC officer at Keylong Mangal Menepa said due to fresh snowfall on the Manali-Leh highway, which passes through the Baralacha Pass and Talang La, the bus service from Keylong to Leh had to be suspended on Sunday.“Similarly, the Kunzum Pass received considerable snowfall on Monday, forcing us to suspend the bus service on the Kullu-Kaza route for the next few days until the road is restored,” he added.The Manali-Keylong road was also blocked today for hours as a huge boulder rolled down onto the road at Nehru Kund near Manali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-highway-restored-310627
14-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Structures being razed for Baddi-Nalagarh road widening||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 13Structures are being dismantled for the widening of the 17.37 km Baddi-Nalagarh highway to four lanes.A stretch of 36 km from Pinjore to Nalagarh is to be widened to four lanes, and 17.37 km of it lies in Himachal and the remaining portion of the highway lies in Haryana.“Of Rs 48 crore meant for payment as compensation to the owners of the structures that are being demolished, Rs 20 crore has been disbursed. As many as 460 structures will be demolished for the road project. Besides, 900 trees on the private land will also be axed,” said Mahendra Pal, SDM, Nalagarh, who heads the Competent Authority for Land Acquisition.Executive engineers of the Jal Shakti Vibhag and HP State Electricity Board Limited have been given directions to snap power and water connections of these 460 structures. Some residents, however, have begun demolishing their structures on their own a 30-day notice wasAll eyes are now on the tender process, which is likely to be awarded soon by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). This will finally pave way for the highway expansion to four lanes.Suresh Sharma, Project Director, NHAI, said, “As many as 33 bids have been received for the 17.37 km road widening project from Baddi to Nalagarh and these are being examined. The tender will be awarded by the month end and the contractor will get 30 months to complete the task”.He added that it would be an environment-friendly road where construction would be undertaken using fly ash. Five major bridges, 16 minor bridges and a flyover at Baddi would be constructed under the project.A sum of Rs 124 crore has been disbursed among 2,200 persons whose land has been acquired for the project in the state.“The highway has become prone to accidents due to the increase in the number of vehicles over the years. Investors have been keenly awaiting the construction of the project. It is heartening that a project for which we have toiled for years is finally going to see the light of the day,” said Sanjay Khurana, president of the Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Industries Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/structures-being-razed-for-baddi-nalagarh-road-widening-310625
14-09-2021||Shimla||202 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal||As many as 202 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 215,893. Besides, three persons died in Hamirpur.The maximum 54 cases were reported in Hamirpur, followed by 46 in Kangra, 38 in Mandi, 28 in Shimla, 25 in Bilaspur, four in Una, three in Chamba, two in Solan, and one each in Kinnaur and Kullu.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/202-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-310623
14-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Landslips damage bridges in Shimla, Kinnaur, block roads||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 13Shooting stones and landslides, triggered by incessant rain, wreaked havoc in Shimla and Kinnaur districts, damaging bridges and blocking roads at several places in the past 24 hours. However, no casualty was reported.The Shimla-Kinnaur National Highway was blocked at Urni, Nugalsari and Pagal Nullah as shooting stones damaged a Bailey bridge at Urni in Kinnaur. Another landslide occurred at Nugalsari while a mudslide at the Pagal Nullah obstructed the traffic.Roads closed 209However, all three stretches were restored in three or four hours, said Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq. He added that the highway was opened to traffic. Meanwhile, the two-way traffic was also restored at Jeori in Rampur.Another landslide blocked the Shoghi-Mehli road near Beolia in the suburbs of Shimla. The road was cleared in half-an hour but a building in the vicinity of the landslide was endangered. Residents rued that the construction of six-storey buildings led to the landslide as the foundation was filled with mud instead of concrete.Deputy Commissioner, Shimla, Aditya Negi, who visited the spot, said stones hanging at the site posed a threat to commuters and the road would be closed for traffic from 5 am to 8 am and 6 pm to 10 pm tomorrow so that the stones could be removed.A bridge at Tangnu Janglik in Rohru collapsed due to heavy rain, following which the road was closed to traffic. As many as 209 roads, including 87 in Mandi, 82 in Shimla, 22 in Kullu, six each in Chamba and Hamirpur, five in Kullu and one in Bilaspur district, are closed.The death toll in the rain-related incidents during the monsoon season has increased to 382 with one more death reported in Hamirpur district in the past 24 hours and the state has suffered a loss of Rs 1,016.52 crore.Meanwhile, higher reaches and tribal areas, including Baralacha and Kunjum received another spell of snow while moderate to heavy rain continued to lash parts of the state. Manali was the wettest with 101 mm of rainfall, followed by Nadaun 88 mm, Kothi 77 mm, Dharamsala 57 mm, Karsog 38 mm, Guler 36 mm, Banjar 34 mm, Ghamroor and Nagrota Surian 31 each, Amb 24 mm, Kalpa 24 mm, Reckong Peo and Gondla 22 mm each, Keylong 21 mm and Palampur 20 mm.The Met office has issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm and lightning in four districts of Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur tomorrow. The minimum temperatures decreased by 1 to 2 degrees while the maximum temperatures rose by 2 to 3 degrees. Keylong was the coldest at 7.2°C while Una was the hottest at 34.4°C.Loss to stateTotal deaths 382Total loss Rs1016.52 cr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslips-damage-bridges-in-shimla-kinnaur-block-roads-310621
14-09-2021||Mandi||Traffic hit on Manali-Leh highway after fresh snow||The Manali-Leh highway was restored for traffic near Baralacha pass in Lahaul & Spiti district of HP today, hours after the local administration shut it following fresh snowfall.Also read: Landslips damage bridges in Shimla, Kinnaur, block roadsThe Border Roads Organisation pressed into service its personnel and machinery to clear the snow from the highway. However, the Himachal transport corporation’s Keylong depot suspended its Delhi-Leh bus service.The bus service on the Kullu-Kaza route was also suspended due to fresh snow at Kunzum pass. The Manali-Keylong road also remained blocked for hours as a huge boulder rolled down from the hillside on the road at Nehru Kund near Manali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-hit-on-manali-leh-highway-after-fresh-snow-310768
14-09-2021||Dipender Manta ||Manali-Leh highway closed after fresh snow at Baralacha pass in Lahaul-Spiti||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 13The Manali-Leh highway was on Monday closed for normal traffic after fresh snow at Baralacha pass in Lahaul and Spiti district.Lahaul-Spiti SP Manav Verma said that according to the information received from Border Roads Organisation, there was fresh snow at Baralacha pass. As a result, traffic movement has come to a standstill on the highway.The HRTC authorities at Keylong have suspended their bus service between Delhi and Leh since Sunday.The SP said people were advised to avoid journey towards Leh until the situation improved. Due to fresh snow at Baralacha pass the Manali-Leh route has been closed for traffic till further orders."Further updates will be given when the road is cleared by the BRO and traffic resumes over Baralacha Pass," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-highway-closed-after-fresh-snow-at-baralacha-pass-in-lahaul-spiti-310524
