16-09-2021||Shimla||President Kovind arrives in Shimla on four-day visit to HP||President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in Shimla on Thursday for a four-day visit to Himachal Pradesh.Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and other dignitaries welcomed him at the Annadale Helipad here.Kovind will address a special session of the state assembly on Friday, and on Saturday, he will attend the valedictory ceremony of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts, Shimla, as the chief guest, an official said.Kovind will be staying at the Cecil hotel in Chaura Maidan here instead of The Retreat, the President's residence at Chharabra on the outskirts of Shimla, where he normally stays during his visit to the state.The President will be staying at the hotel as four staff members of The Retreat tested positive for Covid on Saturday, the official added.All those who come in close contact with the President will have to carry a Covid -19 RT-PCR negative report even if they have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus, he said.The President will address the special session of the state assembly on Friday at 11 am to mark the golden jubilee of Himachal Pradesh's statehood.Kovind will be the third President to address the Himachal Pradesh assembly after APJ Abdul Kalam in 2003 and Pranab Mukherjee in 2013, Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said.Apart from all sitting MLAs, former legislators, including ex-chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal, have been invited to attend the special session, he added.Ninety-three former MLAs, including Kumar and Dhumal, have given their consent to attend the session, the speaker said.Five MPs from the state and seven former parliamentarians will also attend, he added. On Friday evening, the President will attend a cultural programme and a banquet hosted by the governor, the state official added.On September 19, he will leave for Delhi around 11.15 am. Shimla Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Aditya Negi has imposed restrictions on traffic movement from Kennedy Chowk to Boileauganj via Chaura Maidan during the President's stay from Thursday to Sunday.Issuing the order on Tuesday under section 115 of the Motor Vehicles Act, Negi stated that vehicles of local residents of the area would be allowed on production of residence certificate.Vehicles of officials deployed in connection with the President's visit and emergency vehicles are exempted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-kovind-arrives-in-shimla-on-four-day-visit-to-hp-312036
16-09-2021||Dipender Manta||Manali-Leh highway blocked after massive landslide at Nehru Kund||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 16The Manali-Leh highway was on Thursday blocked for traffic movement after a massive landslide at Nehru Kund. The landslide occurred at Nehru Kund near Manali towards Keylong in Kullu district. No loss of life was reported.The Border Roads Organisation has engaged its workforce and machinery to clear the highway for normal traffic in the region. The restoration work of road is under progress in the region.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh-Manali highway was on Thursday morning restored for normal traffic between Mandi and Kullu. The road was blocked since Wednesday evening due to a massive landslide near Aut in Mandi district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-highway-blocked-after-massive-landslide-at-nehru-kund-312007
16-09-2021||Solan||Baddi girl recovered from Bihar||The Baddi police have recovered a 12-year-old girl, who was kidnapped by a 19-year-old youth working in an industrial unit here on September 1, from Naugachia town in Bihar.DSP, Baddi, Navdeep Singh said that the girl and the accused were traced on the basis of the footage of the CCTV cameras and other technical inputs. He was today produced before a local court that remanded him in judicial custody for two days.The accused has been booked for rape under Section 376 of the IPC and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences after the girl’s medical report pointed towards physical abuse.The DSP said that the accused works in a pharmaceutical company in Baddi and a probe was underway. The girl’s family had alleged that the youth had lured her to come with him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-girl-recovered-from-bihar-311877
16-09-2021||It has become difficult for to commuters to cross the Sujana-Sairi-Mamlik road. With the state highway closed due to landslide||Solan village road in bad shape||Traffic diverted to shimla NH troubles daily commuters The traffic from Kennedy Chowk to Boileauganj has been diverted to the National Highway, in view of the upcoming visit of the President. The additional traffic on the highway has become a nuisance for daily commuters due to slow movement of traffic and occasional jams. The police should ensure there is no traffic congestion on the highway. — Praveen Sharma, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-village-road-in-bad-shape-311878
16-09-2021||‘Hindi Divas’ was celebrated at St Bede’s College||‘Hindi Divas’ event at St bede’s college, Shimla||GGDSD society ties up with tech firmThe GGDSD Education Society, Baijnath, has introduced short-term upskilling courses for students, in partnership with India's leading educational technology company — Teamlease EdTech Ltd. With these courses, which are designed to enable students to learn skills that will make them job-ready, the college aims to give them exposure to industry demands. “At GGDSD, we understand the need to bridge the academia and the industry. With these courses designed by experts at Teamlease Edtech, we aim to make our students employable,” said Dr Vivek Sharma, executive officer of the society.Submission date extendedThe executive council of HPU has approved extension of six months for the students of MPhil, LLM, MTech and PhD to submit their research work. The students can now submit their work without any extension fee up to December 31.Students learn importance of hindiThe Himachal Pradesh National Law University, Shimla, organised a special event on ‘Hindi Diwas’. The event was held online through ‘WebEx’ platform. The event was presided by Vice-Chancellor Nishtha Jaswal. She talked about the significance of the mother tongue in the cognitive development of children. The faculty and students presented their views in the form of speeches, poems and personal narratives in Hindi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hindi-divas-event-at-st-bedes-college-shimla-311879
16-09-2021||Kullu||Kullu DC holds meeting  with patwaris||Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg presided over a meeting with representatives of the Kullu Patwari Evam Kanoongo Mahasangh here today. Assistant Commissioner SP Jaswal placed the agenda of the meeting, highlighting various requirements of the federation, including the improvement of the condition of patwarkhanas and kanungo bhawans; provision of computers, printers and Internet; appointment of assistants and watchmen; and imparting training for online tasks.The other agendas included increasing the monthly pay scale and other allowances of the patwari, filling vacant posts of patwari and kanoongo and reducing the condition of service period of six years for kanoongo or giving one-time exemption. Discussions were also held on giving priority to the works written in the patwari’s manual and not assigning other work while doing the works like girdawari, working sphere of patwaris in Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and creating new circles by reducing large patwar areas and big kanoongo circles.The association president, Yuvraj, said the Deputy Commissioner listened to all problems and demands and assured them to resolve these at the earliest. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-dc-holds-meeting-with-patwaris-311882
16-09-2021||Kullu||Two-month ban on paragliding, rafting in Kullu ends||The two-month ban on adventure activities such as rafting and paragliding in Kullu imposed due the rainy season ended today. Thrill-seekers and revellers will now be able to enjoy adventure sports. There are around 800 rafts that provide thrill rides in the Beas at Raison, Babeli, Bashing, Pirdi, Bhuntar and Sarabai. There are around 300 paragliders operating at Taleti, Raison, Falayn, Marhi and the Solang Nullah.Many tourists from other states and abroad visit Kullu to enjoy adventure activities that provide employment to thousands of local youths. Adventure activities like river rafting, paragliding, river crossing, trekking, rock climbing etc give a different experience to the tourists visiting Kullu and also encourage them to stay longer. Kullu District Tourism Development Officer (DTDO) Rajesh Bhandari said that the ban on adventure activities ended today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-month-ban-on-paragliding-rafting-in-kullu-ends-311860
16-09-2021||Shimla||215 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal||As many as 215 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 216,303. Besides, two persons died in Mandi and Shimla.The highest 42 cases were reported in Bilaspur, followed by 41 each in Hamirpur and Mandi, 35 in Kangra, 32 in Shimla, 12 in Una, 8 in Chamba, and two each in Lahaul-Spiti and Solan.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/215-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-311869
16-09-2021||---||Public holidays for panchayati raj institutions poll on Sept 29, Oct 1||Shimla, September 15Public holidays have been declared on September 29 and October 1 for phase-I and II elections to panchayati raj institutions, respectively, in Udaipur, Keylong and Kaza subdivisions of Lahaul & Spiti and Pangi subdivision of Chamba district, a spokesperson for the government said here.All government offices, boards, corporations, educational institutions and industrial establishments in Himachal and shops will remain closed on the said dates in these areas. He said this would also be a paid holiday for daily wage employees within the meaning of Section 25 of Negotiable Instrument Act, 1881.The spokesperson said a special casual leave could be given to those employees who are working in other places in the state but have a right to vote in above concerned institutions on the production of certificate from the presiding officer concerned that the employee has cast his vote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/public-holidays-for-panchayati-raj-institutions-poll-on-sept-29-oct-1-311872
16-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan-based research centre develops apple seed extractor||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 15Separating seed from apple for germination on a large scale will now become easier as the Solan-based Centre of All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Post Harvest Engineering and Technology (PHET) at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, has developed an apple seed extractor.Scientists from the Department of Food Science and Technology (FST) had begun research work in 2012 to find a solution to the problem of low germination capacity and for the availability of good quality seeds for raising apple seedlings. Rigorous experimentation across four years, involving several modifications in the designs, led the scientists to finally achieve success in 2016.Dr KD Sharma, Professor and Head of the Department of FST, said Dr Devina Vaidya, Dr Manisha Kaushal, Dr Anil Verma and Anil Gupta worked tirelessly to improve the efficacy of the machine.Thereafter, field trials were conducted at nurseries and farmers’ fields in Kullu, Shimla and Kinnaur districts to gauge its efficiency. A patent application was filed in 2018 after receiving positive results from the trails. The patent was published last year.Dr Parvinder Kaushal, Vice Chancellor, said, “Since the apple business in the state is worth than Rs 5,000 crore, one lakh new plants are planted every year. This machine helps in efficiently and safely removing seeds.”The machine will prove to be a boon to the apple growers. “The seeds are protected against mechanical damage owing to the presence of water in the centrifugation chamber which cushions the seeds and ensures their gentle removal. The viability of these seeds is up to 89.9 per cent, and the seedlings produced from these seeds are true to type,” said Dr KD Sharma.He added, “The limitation of seed separation from pomace after juice processing has also been overcome. This process was cumbersome as most of the seeds were crushed during grating and pressing of apple fruits, resulting in poor germination potential of seeds of as less as 45-50 per cent.”It weighs 53.5 kg and can be fabricated for Rs 30,000. It costs less than Rs 6 to run this machine for an hour. Chemicals to soften the apple core to release the seeds, will no longer be required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-based-research-centre-develops-apple-seed-extractor-311862
16-09-2021||Solan||Shoolini varsity to support start-ups||A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed today between the Shoolini University and iHUB Divyasampark, based out of the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee. Vice-Chancellor Atul Khosla and iHUB Divyasampark CEO Manish Anand signed the MoU in the presence of other university officials. A technology innovation hub, iHUB Divyasampark is a joint initiative of the Department of Science and Technology and IIT-Roorkee. “It will provide technological know-how for contributing to smart agriculture, smart cities and digital medicine. It will involve budding entrepreneurs and researchers to build cyber physical systems and smart technologies,” said Khosla. The agreement would help not only the faculty and students of Shoolini University, but also focus on solving problems related to HP. The project was set up under the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems with a seed fund of Rs 135 crore. “With the help of this fund, we will be supporting innovators and start-ups,” said PK Khosla, Chancellor, Shoolini University. Anand said, “The MoU will facilitate broader area of cyber physical systems for the future industry.” Products and publications developed by students and faculty of the university would be converted into real products that could solve societal needs through this understanding, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-varsity-to-support-start-ups-311863
16-09-2021||Dharamsala||Dharamsala hoteliers want waste collection charges reduced||Members of the hotel association of Dharamsala today met the Mayor of Dharamsala MC Onkar Nehria and demanded rationalisation of garbage collection charges.Association president Ashwani Bamba said, “The hotel industry is suffering due to the lack of business. The garbage collection were fixed at Rs 1,200 for hotels with less than 20 rooms, Rs 2,500 on hotels having 20 to 30 rooms and Rs 500 per room on hotels having more than 30 rooms.” The Mayor assured to rationalise the charges, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-hoteliers-want-waste-collection-charges-reduced-311864
16-09-2021||Mandi||HRTC pensioners protest in Mandi||The pensioners’ welfare association of Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) staged a protest march here today against the state government in support of their long-pending demands. HRTC pensioners across the state gathered in Mandi town today to express their resentment against the state government, saying it had failed to resolve their issues.  They took out a march from the Mandi bus stand to Seri Manch.      Satya Prakash Sharma, state president of the association, said, “Due to the apathy of the state, the pensioners are suffering. The pension of August is yet to be paid. The pensioners of other departments get their pension on the first day of every month.” “We are demanding the release of our pending DA arrears in one-time payment, which has been pending since 2015. We want the government to provide us DA on a par the pensioners of other departments. Pension allowance to HRTC pensioners should be on a par with that given to pensioners of other departments as 5, 10 and 15 per cent to those who have attained the age of 65, 70 and 75,” he said.    “The state is planning to purchase more buses, while buses are lying idle at several places due to the lack of adequate staff,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-pensioners-protest-in-mandi-311865
16-09-2021||---||Victory Flame installed at Dharamsala cricket stadium||Dharamsala, September 15The Victory Flame of Swarnim Vijay Varsh that symbolises India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971 war reached Yol Cantonment, Dharamsala. It was installed in the Dharamsala cricket stadium today.The army spokesperson said that after the Victory Flame landed in Dev Bhoomi of Himachal at Palchan, it was subsequently taken to Pandoh, Mandi and Palampur. A representative from Army brought the flame from Palampur to Yol Cantonement and was received by Brig Manoj Kumar Sharma, Station Commander, Yol Cantonment.To pay tribute to the valour of Indian Armed forces that fought 1971 war, the Victory Flame was ceremoniously installed at Dharamsala War Memorial for war memorial Service yesterday. Brig Manoj Kumar Sharma laid wreath to honour the sacrifice of Indian Armed forces in 1971. Dr Nipun Jindal, DC Kangra, Dr Kushal Chand Sharma, SP Kangra and many senior ex-servicemen also laid wreath at the war memorial.The flame was installed in Dharamsala Cricket Stadium today for final ceremony of Swarnim Vijay Mashaal. The event started with patriotic songs being played in the background when the flame was received by Lt Gen PN Ananthanarayanan, GOC Rising Star Corps and installed at the centre of cricket stadium to memorise the sacrifices of the valiant soldiers.A cultural program was organised on the occasion which comprised various performances touching the spirit of different Indian states. NCC cadets also marked their presence by their group song, bhangra and Natti dance. The cultural program ended with Gutka performance by Indian Army.Lt Gen PN Ananthanarayanan, GOC Rising Star Corps felicitated Veterans and families of veterans.A large number of veteran officers, ex-servicemen and many civil dignitaries, including Forest Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania, DC Kangra Dr Nipun Jindal and SP Kangra Dr Kushal Chand Sharma, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/victory-flame-installed-at-dharamsala-cricket-stadium-311866
16-09-2021||Mandi||NCC Air Wing training camp from Sept 20||Commanding Officer of Himachal Pradesh Air Squadron, NCC, Dhalpur Branch, SK Sharma said the annual training for cadets appearing in BEE and CEE Certificate Examination-2022 would be organised from September 20 to 24 (five days) and September 25 to October 1 (seven days) at Government Senior Secondary School, Haripur, in Kullu district, respectively. He said during the camp, training and social activities such as awareness rally, cleanliness campaign and Covid vaccination awareness drive would be held. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ncc-air-wing-training-camp-from-sept-20-311867
16-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||80 pc faculty of 2 varsities in Una, Kangra found ineligible||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 15Around 70 to 80 per cent faculty of two private universities in Una and Kangra districts have been found to be ineligible for the posts they are serving on. These teachers do not have the desired qualifications, according to the UGC norms.The screening of the documents of the faculty of 12 of 17 private universities has revealed that 30 to 40 per cent faculty is not eligible for the posts they are holding, said Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman of the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC), here today. He added that around 70 to 80 per cent faculty of two universities in Una and Kangra districts had been found to be ineligible while the screening of the faculty of the remaining universities was underway.HPPEIRC may appoint administrators in 4 varsitiesThe universities have been told to fill the gaps and replace the ineligible faculty. The commission is contemplating to appoint administrators in three or four universities where financial viability has been diluted and admissions have gradually come down. These universities have also failed to comply with the orders of the HPPEIRC. —Maj Gen Kaushik (retd), Chairman of  HPPEIRCThese faculty members do not fulfil the UGC norms issued in 2009 and 2016. They have either not provided information regarding the National Eligibility Test (NET) qualification or the Phd exemption certificate. Moreover, the name of a teacher appeared in the faculty list of more than one university.“The universities have been told to fill the gaps and replace the ineligible faculty. The commission is contemplating to appoint administrators in three or four universities where financial viability has been diluted and admissions have gradually come down. These universities have also failed to comply with the orders of the HPPEIRC,” Maj Gen Kaushik (retd) said.He said, “Similarly, the principals of 60 private colleges (50 per cent of 120 colleges) are either ineligible for the posts they are holding or are working in the officiating capacity. Either they do not meet the required qualifications or experience or the proper selection procedure was not followed in their appointments. In some cases, the member of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) was not included in the selection process while in other cases the concurrence of the HPU was not taken in appointments”.Maj Gen Kaushik (retd) said, “The commission has sought bio-data (education qualifications and experience) to establish the credibility of the institutions and the academic integrity and notices have been sent to the managements of 20 private colleges that have not submitted the required documents. Earlier, the principals of 102 private colleges were found to be ineligible for the posts they were holding. However, the number reduced after the colleges submitted additional information and documents”.He said, “The final report will be shared with the HPU and the Higher Education Department for appropriate action against the erring colleges and the UGC and other bodies will also be informed”.He added that malpractices in education would not be tolerated as it brings a bad name to the state and the appointment of ineligible teachers was a bad reflection on the quality of education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/80-pc-faculty-of-2-varsities-in-una-kangra-found-ineligible-311868
16-09-2021||Mandi||Vehicles stuck on Chandigarh-Manali NH||The Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked for traffic movement near Aut in Mandi district due to a massive landslide in the area this evening. As a result, the traffic has come to a halt between Mandi and Kullu. Long queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the road at the landslide spot. The people traveling to Manali from Mandi and coming to Mandi from Manali have been stuck.The police have diverted light vehicles on other route between Mandi and Kullu via Kataula road. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vehicles-stuck-on-chandigarh-manali-nh-311858
16-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||High Court notice to Himachal over poor condition of rehab centres||Shimla, September 15The High Court today issued notices to the Additional Chief Secretary and the Director, Social Justice and Empowerment, over the deplorable condition of the Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts (IRCA) due to the financial crunch.Passing the order, a Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua directed them to file their response within two weeks.The court passed these orders on a petition taken up suo motu by the court as a PIL petition on a news item published in The Tribune on August 9, 2021, under the headline “De-addiction centres battle fund crunch”.It was reported in the news item that notwithstanding the claims of the government to make Himachal a drug-free state, the condition of the IRCA tells a different story.While the centres, established in Kullu (women), Dharamsala, Chamba, Mandi, Sirmaur, Bilaspur and Solan, are yet to be operational despite the receipt of the first grants, the 15-bed centre, started in Shimla in 2019, is facing closure as it has not received grants (over Rs 54 lakh ) from the Centre during the past two years.It was further mentioned that the centre is not in a position to add new patients and it has occupancy of only three. The staff have been forced to leave due to the non-payment of salaries for one year. The centre, being located in a rented building, is unable to pay rent, electricity, water, telephone and internet charges and, moreover, it has become difficult to provide medicines and food to the inmates. The OPD and IPD facilities have also been discontinued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-notice-to-himachal-over-poor-condition-of-rehab-centres-311859
16-09-2021||---||8 houses destroyed in Kinnaur fire||Shimla, September 15As many as 14 families were rendered shelterless after eight houses were gutted by a major fire at Ramni village in Kinnaur district today. However, no casualty was reported.Two fire engines were rushed to the village to douse the fire but it spread to adjacent wooden houses. The power supply was immediately disconnected to stop the fire from spreading. An immediate relief of Rs 20,000 has been given to the victims and arrangements of food and shelter have been made. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, said Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq, adding that the damage would be assessed tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/8-houses-destroyed-in-kinnaur-fire-311873
16-09-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission ex-chief Dharamvir Singh Rana joins Cong||Shimla, September 15Major General Dharamvir Singh Rana (Retd), former chairman, Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC), today joined the Congress in New Delhi in the presence of former Union minister and treasurer of the AICC Pawan Bansal and Congress in-charge of Himachal Rajiv Shukla.Shukla said he hails from Kangra and wielded influence over people in most parts of the state, including Solan and Palampur. He was a popular leader.Shukla said General Rana had come forward to serve people and joined politics to pursue his mission.He said the “One rank, one pension” (OROP) scheme was initiated by the Congress government but the BJP only believed in making announcements. He added that the country won the 1965 and 1971 wars against Pakistan under the Congress government.He said that the Congress had no dearth of leaders in Himachal and it would carry forward the legacy of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-public-service-commission-ex-chief-dharamvir-singh-rana-joins-cong-311874
16-09-2021||---||Events marking PM Modi’s birthday from Sept 17 Oct 7||Shimla, September 15The Seva and Samarpan Abhiyan will mark the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The campaign will begin on September 17 and conclude on October 7, said state BJP president Suresh Kashyap.Kashyap, in a press note issued, said that as per the instructions of BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda, the Seva and Samarpan Abhiyan would be celebrated through various service programmes.He said that the BJP Yuva Morcha would organise the Modi Mela at the state and district levels. All district- level BJYM committees would organise an exhibition depicting the works done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the past seven years.Blood donation camps would be orgainsed at district level, Amrit Mahotsav programme of freedom would be organised on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on October 2 and the Swachhata Se Samman Abhiyan would also be organised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/events-marking-pm-modis-birthday-from-sept-17-oct-7-311875
16-09-2021||---||4,200 cr fraud: CBI raids Paonta firm||Solan, September 15A CBI team today raided Paonta Sahib-based Indian Technomac Company Limited (ITCL), involved in a fraud of around Rs 4,200 crore.An FIR was registration against the company by the CBI, which had arrested its director Vinay Sharma.The CBI is investigating the fraud with a consortium of banks from where company directors had obtained credits worth crores using shell companies. The dues were not paid and directors had fled.DC, State Taxes and Excise, Sirmaur, Pritpal Singh, said, “A team of CBI officials raided the ITCL. They also examined the records of tax returns and registration of the firm.”The company premises had been sealed ever since the CID had registered two FIRs against it in 2016. The CBI team could not find any records as these had been lifted by the CID.The case, which rocked the state in 2014, is being inquired into by the CID as well as the Enforcement Department.The Economic Intelligence Unit of the Excise and Taxation Department had detected the fraud on February 18, 2014, as a huge mismatch was found in the returns filed by the company and the VAT-26-A declaration. The company, manufacturing steel, ferro alloy and steel ingots, had become liable to pay tax from January 2008.Rakesh Sharma, MD, the main accused, had fled abroad despite flashing of a red corner notice by the Interpol against him.Sharma owed Rs 2,175.51 crore to the Excise and Taxation Department, Rs 2,167 crore to banks and Rs 750 crore to the Income Tax Department.Three chargesheets covering 22 accused had been filed in the case after the completion of the investigations by the CID.The ED had also filed a prosecution complaint before a special court in Shimla against the firm, its MD, director Vinay Kumar Sharma and 12 other accused under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in March 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-200-cr-fraud-cbi-raids-paonta-firm-311876
16-09-2021||Hamipur||Hamipur: Rajiv Saizal reprimands Dr Radhakrishanan Medical College and Hospital for casual approach||Rajiv Saizal, Health and Family Welfare and Ayurveda Minister, today reprimanded the administration of Dr Radhakrishanan Medical College and Hospital here for his casual approach towards administrative and health services. The incident happened while the minister was addressing a meeting of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti (RKS). The meeting of the RKS was held after three years and the minister observed that the authorities had come unprepared.When the college principal requested the minister for approval of some posts and expenditure, the latter asked for the documents that the former failed to produce. It is learnt that the college authorities submitted that the old defunct CT scan machine could be sold at Rs 1 lakh. Secretary Health Amitabh Awasthi rejected the proposal and asked the principal to submit requisitions on the file as nothing verbal is done.The CT scan machine was out of order for the past two years and patients coming to the medical college had to go to private centres to get the tests done.Saizal directed the medical college authorities to re-convene the RKS meeting within one week and submit a detailed report to his office.Later, the Health Minister addressed the staff and students on the foundation day of the college. He said the government was committed to providing best health facilities to people of the state.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamipur-rajiv-saizal-reprimands-dr-radhakrishanan-medical-college-and-hospital-for-casual-approach-311870
16-09-2021||---||Shimla-Kinnaur highway blocked||Shimla, September 15The Shimla-Kinnaur National Highway No. 5 was blocked near Chaura (Kinnaur Gate) late last night following a massive landslide. A large number of vehicles were stranded on both sides of the road as trucks carrying apple from lower areas of Kinnaur were plying on the route. The authorities are facing problems in clearing the road, as machines were unable to clear big rocks.A huge rock came rolling down and blocked the road completely. Blasting is going on at the site to clear the road, said Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq. He added that the road was expected to be cleared by tonight or tomorrow morning. Fortunately, no casualty was reported as there was no vehicle on the stretch when the landslide occurred around 11.30 pm yesterday.Meanwhile, six persons, five in Chamba and one in Kullu, have lost their lives in the rain-related incidents in the past 24 hours, taking the toll in the ongoing monsoon season to 397. The state has suffered a loss of Rs 1,017.45 crore and 10 roads are still closed.The local Meteorological office has issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm and lightning in the districts of Mandi, Shimla, Una, Chamba, Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur on September 18 and 19.Meanwhile, light to moderate rain lashed parts of Himachal. Sarahan received 49 mm of rain, followed by Palampur 13 mm, Janjehli and Pandoh 10 mm each, Nahan 7 mm, Bhuntar 7 mm, Jogindernagar and Dharamsala 6 mm each and Kothi, Banjar and Rampur 5 mm each.There was no appreciable change in the minimum and maximum temperatures. Keylong was the coldest at 9.3°C while Una was the hottest at 36.6°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-kinnaur-highway-blocked-311871
16-09-2021||---||President Ram Nath Kovind’s Shimla visit begins today, security beefed up||Shimla, September 15Security has been beefed up in Shimla city ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s four-day visit beginning tomorrow. Police, CID and the staff of other security agencies have been deployed in strength at all vulnerable places and the movement of vehicles have been restricted between Kennedy House and Boileauganj from September 16 to 19, as Oberoi Cecil hotel, where the President will stay, is located on this road.The security arrangements have also been scaled up at the Annadale ground where the President’s helicopter will land around noon tomorrow, besides all other places he will be visiting. Policemen in uniform and plain clothes have been deployed at every few metres from Annadale to Oberoi Cecil. SPG personnel have been positioned at Oberoi Cecil and 43 rooms of the hotel have been got vacated.Cong assures of supportThe event is above party politics and I assure the government of full cooperation of the Congress. —Mukesh Agnihotri, Leader of oppositionThe President will address a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to mark the golden jubilee of the statehood on September 17 and visit the National Academy of Audit and Accounts on September 18.The process to conduct the RT-PCR test of all persons, who will come in the close proximity of the President, has started. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar got the test done today. All present and former MLAs attending the special session and the staff of the Vidhan Sabha, security and the staff of Oberoi Cecil will also undergo the test.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur took stock of the arrangements at the Vidhan Sabha and at an all-party meeting sought the full cooperation of the leaders of all political parties.Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said that the event was above party politics and assured the government of full cooperation of the Congress. The Speaker said that 73 former MPs and MLAs had given their consent to take part in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-ram-nath-kovinds-shimla-visit-begins-today-security-beefed-up-311861
16-09-2021||---||Landslip blocks Chandigarh-Manali national highway in Mandi||Mandi, September 15Chandigarh-Manali National Highway-21 has been blocked near Aut due to a landslide.The restoration work is under way to clear the debris from the road. Traffic has come to a standstill between Mandi and Kullu on Chandigarh-Manali highway.The traffic has been diverted on alternate route between Mandi and Kullu via Kataula road for the movement of light vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslip-blocks-chandigarh-manali-national-highway-in-mandi-311597
