17-09-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||President Ram Nath Kovind addresses special session of Himachal Assembly||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 17President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday addressed the special session of the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha to mark the golden jubilee celebrations of Himachal’s statehood.President Kovind, in his address, said he felt honoured to address the assembly on its golden anniversary.  “This Council Chamber building where we are meeting has been witness to historic moments. It was here that Vitthal Bhai Patel defeated the British nominee to win the Central Legislative Assembly election,” he said.He said 101-year-old Ram Sharan Negi of Kinnaur was the first voter of independent India and is now the brand ambassador of the Election Commission of India.He said Himachal had been ranked second in Development Indicators as per the India Index Report, 2020-21. He recalled all former CM’s, both from the Congress and the BJP, for their contribution in taking Himachal ahead on path of development. He paid tributes to valiant soldiers, including Param Vir Chakra awardees Major Som Nath Sharma, Capt Vikram Batra and Rifleman Sanjay Kumar. Addressing the Assembly, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said Himachal had become the 18th state of the country on January 25, 1971. He said Himachal had come a long way as due to geographical constraints there were hurdles in development. “Today, Himachal is ranked a model hill state,” he said.  He said there were 7,370 km roads in HP then as compared to 37,808 km now. Thakur said Himachal had emerged as a power-surplus state with its share of 11,000 MW in the country’s total power generation of 45,000 MW. He said Himachal is the fruit bowl of the country and is a top international tourist destination.Governor Rajender Vishwanath Arlekar also addressed the special session. He thanked the President for gracing the occasion. “The Vidhan Sabha is temple of democracy as MLAs raise issues concerning the public,” he remarked.  He said such an assembly should be considered a place for healthy debate and not for confrontation.Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur, former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal and former Vidhan Sabha Speakers are also attending the session.This is the third occasion when the President is addressing the Vidhan Sabha. Prior to this, APJ Abdul Kalam and Pranab Mukherjee had addressed the special session of the Assembly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-ram-nath-kovind-addresses-special-session-of-himachal-assembly-312510
17-09-2021||The problem of stray cattle continues to trouble people. The presence of animals on the Dhanda-Gandhal stretch poses a threat to the commuters. It seems that the cowsheds and sanctuaries of the state government exist only on paper. A large number of cattle can be seen roaming around on both urban and rural roads. — Amit||Cowsheds exist only on paper||Tourists flout norms, roam without face masksTourists can be seen roaming freely on The Mall, The Ridge and other places without face masks, even when the police have started challaning people for not following the Covid norms. The repeated offenders should be put behind bars to ensure that rules are followed. — Pooja, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cowsheds-exist-only-on-paper-312350
17-09-2021||University Institute of Technology (UIT) of Himachal Pradesh University celebrated Engineers’ Day. Superintending Engineer (P&D)||Engineers’ Day celebrated at UIT of Himachal Pradesh University||Webinar on new education policyA webinar on New Education Policy-2020 and directions of change in higher education was organised by the internal quality assurance cell, St Bede's College, Shimla. Vice-Chancellor, National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration, New Delhi, NV Varghese, highlighted the main features of the NEP and explained that under it the students would be able to pursue inter-disciplinary studies. He said that the underprivileged classes of the society and people living in remote areas should be made aware of the benefits of NEP.Talk on online tools adopted in schoolsThe second meeting of the 'hub of learning' took place at Lawrence School, Sanawar. All five member schools namely VR Public School, Housing Board, Baddi, Doon Valley Public School, Nalagarh, Alpine Public School, Nalagarh, Vivek International Public School, Baddi, and Shri Arvind Public School, Baddi, attended the meeting chaired by headmaster Himmat Singh Dhillon. Member schools deliberated upon various pedagogical tools and online methods that had been applied during the Covid-19 pandemic. Extracurricular activities such as debating, painting, physical exercises and music were organised throughout the year, fostering overall development of children, the schools discussed. The members agreed that schools must continue to explore the virtual learning space in future as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/engineers-day-celebrated-at-uit-of-himachal-pradesh-university-312349
17-09-2021||Kullu||Manali hoteliers poll on September 25||The elections to the Manali Hoteliers Association will be held on September 25. The elections will be held for the posts of president, vice-president, general secretary, joint secretary, treasurer and press secretary. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-hoteliers-poll-on-september-25-312348
17-09-2021||---||Illegal mining: Three vehicles impounded by Baddi police||Solan, September 16In a crackdown on illegal mining, the Baddi police seized two mini-trucks, a tractor and an earth excavation machine from three places.DSP, Baddi, Navdeep Singh said that a penalty of Rs 25,000 had been imposed on the owners of the impounded vehicles. A mini-truck was found transporting illegally quarried material near the Sirsa river while a tractor was impounded at Androla village.An earth mover and another mini-truck were impounded at Barotiwala. The owners of the mini-truck and the earth excavation machine were yet to pay the penalty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-mining-three-vehicles-impounded-by-baddi-police-312347
17-09-2021||Mandi||Two minors found pregnant in Mandi||Two minor girls were found pregnant in Mandi district today. According to the police, a boy (17) raped the 15-year-old girl in February. When the victim felt some health complications, the family took her to a hospital, where the victim was found six-month pregnant. The police have registered a case.In another incident, a special girl (16) was found four-month pregnant. She was raped by some miscreants a few month ago. The victim could not speak and hear. The police have registered a case against the unidentified accused. The SP said the police would produce the accused in Juvenile Justice Board tomorrow. In another case, the police were trying to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-minors-found-pregnant-in-mandi-312346
17-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Posts of doctor in Palampur civil hospital filled: Kapoor||Palampur, September 16Trilok Kapoor, Chairman, Wool Federation, and general secretary, BJP, today thanked Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for filling the posts of postgraduate doctor in the local civil hospital.Addressing mediapersons here, Kapoor said the posts of surgeon, gynaecologist and other doctor had been vacant for the past one year, resulting in inconvenience to the public.He had taken up the issue with Thakur and Health Minister Rajiv Saizal during their visit to Palampur last week. On his request, the Chief Minister directed the Health Department to fill these posts.Kapoor said earlier, all surgical cases were being referred to the Tanda Medical College. Now the surgeries would be conducted in the hospital.X-Ray and CT Scan machines of the radiology department had also been made functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/posts-of-doctor-in-palampur-civil-hospital-filled-kapoor-312345
17-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Water sports trials begin in Una village||UNA, SEPTEMBER 16The trials for the adventure water sports activities in the Gobind Sagar lake on the Sutlej near Androli village in Una district began today. Motorboats, kayaks, water scooters and e-hydrofoil surf boards were tested by experts from the Water Sports Centre at the Pong Dam.The six-day trials will end on September 21 during which some more equipment will also be tested and displayed. The promotion of the adventure sports in and around the lake is being undertaken under the aegis of the Kutlehar Tourism Development Society, constituted under the chairmanship of the Una DC.The Bhakra Beas Management Board has issued the no-objection certificate and also notified water sports routes in the reservoir. Besides, the State Tourism and Civil Aviation Department had permitted and notified water and paragliding sports activities in the region.Last month, instructors from the Directorate of Mountaineering and Allied Sports, Manali, had conducted paragliding sorties from the Solasingi mountain range of Kutlehar and notified two launch sites at Piplu and Gharvasada villages, besides two landing spots in the valley.Kutlehar MLA and Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar, who was present to witness the water sports trials, said water sports and paragliding would be launched soon and basic infrastructure to sustain week-end tourism be created initially.Kanwar said Kutlehar did not have any big industries and the hills provided fewer opportunities for agriculture, adding that tourism would boost economy of the locals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-sports-trials-begin-in-una-village-312344
17-09-2021||---||127 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, September 16As many as 127 Covid cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. Three deaths were reported in Hamirpur, Shimla and Una districts.Hamirpur reported 37 cases, Shimla 25, Kangra 22, Bilaspur 16, Mandi 11, Kullu and Solan 4 each, Chamba 3, Sirmaur and Una 2 each and Lahaul-Spiti (1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/127-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-312343
17-09-2021||Shimla||Justice Dharam Chand Chaudhary Armed Forces Tribunal member||The Centre has appointed Justice Dharam Chand Chaudhary (Retd), former judge of the Himachal Pradesh High Court, as Judicial Member in the Armed Forces Tribunal.As per notification issued by the Chairperson of the Armed Forces Tribunal yesterday, he will be posted as Judicial Member at the Regional Bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal in Chandigarh.Justice Chaudhary belongs to Lohara village, Mandi. He had obtained a degree in law from HP University, Shimla, and enrolled as an advocate in 1983. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/justice-dharam-chand-chaudhary-armed-forces-tribunal-member-312342
17-09-2021||---||Three hospitals get PSA plants in Himachal Pradesh||Solan, September 16Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today virtually inaugurated three pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants at the regional hospital, Bilaspur, civil hospital, Ghumarwin, and civil hospital, Arki, in Solan district, from here, today.He also inaugurated Rs 2.16-crore PSA plant at the regional hospital, Solan, set up under the PM Cares.The CM, who was visited Solan today, also inaugurated the circuit house at Chambaghat, constructed at a cost of about Rs 8 crore. Thakur said, “Earlier, there were only two hospitals with oxygen plants, whereas now, 15 are functional in the state. Seven plants are ready for inauguration and six are nearing completion. As many as 28 fully functional oxygen plants will be there by the month end.”Food and Civil Supplies Minister Rajinder Garg, while addressing the event virtually from Shimla, said under the leadership of Jai Ram Thakur, the state had succeeded in effectively fighting the pandemic. He said the initiatives taken by the state had been appreciated at the national level.Health Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, state BJP president and MP from Shimla Parliamentary Constituency Suresh Kashyap, MLAs Dhani Ram Shandil and Paramajit Singh Pammi were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-hospitals-get-psa-plants-in-himachal-pradesh-312341
17-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Rehab centres under scanner in Una district||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 16The drug de-addiction centres in Una district are under the scanner of the police.Sources here said the police had written to the State Mental Health Authority to check the abuse of drug addicts in the centres.The district has about 35 registered de-addiction centres having 20 to 50 addicts in each centres. Most addicts were kept here from the adjoining Punjab.SP Arjit Sen admitted that he had written to the authority to check the violations in the centres. The police had got a tip-off regarding the drug abuse in some centres. Officials surveyed various centres. Though no case of drug abuse was substantiated, various cases of violations of rules and regulations came to the notice, he said.The SP said it was found that some centres had admitted 50 addicts whereas the permissions were given to keep just 25. This created inhuman conditions. A matter was brought to the notice of the police when an addict fell from the roof and died. The matter was being investigated by the police.In Gagret also, a complaint had been received regarding the death of an addict due to ‘mishandling of the staff’. In Galuwal, an inmate was allegedly beaten up. Arjit Sen said since the centres were under the State Mental Health Authority, they had written to the authority to look into the violations in these centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rehab-centres-under-scanner-in-una-district-312340
17-09-2021||Solan||Poor amenities in Baddi township, residents protest||The Residents Welfare Association of Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban Development Authority’s (HIMUDA) integrated township at Mandhala in Baddi has initiated a chain hunger strike in protest against lack of civic amenities at the colony.Raj Kumar Grover, head, action committee, said chain hunger strike was started yesterday by the Hukum Chand, member, executive committee at the colony’s gate. He said if the HIMUDA officials fail to solve their problems, a fast unto death would be initiated by the president on September 26.Demands like strengthening security measures, de-weeding and removal of wild grass, setting up electrical poles for domestic power supply, rectifying street lights, timely repair of roads, proper solid waste disposal mechanism, setting up a community hall, developing parks and play grounds, creating green belts, developing health centre, place of worship as well as a crematorium, sewage and storm water disposal mechanism as well as proper sewage treatment plant were aired by the association.Other demands included proper water supply after rationalisation of charges and utilizing various penalties for the welfare of the colony.Fed up with the indifferent attitude of HIMUDA officials, the residents said they would not rest till their problems were solved. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-amenities-in-baddi-township-residents-protest-312339
17-09-2021||Shimla||CM inaugurates Shimla trade expo||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated the Shimla International Trade Expo-2021 organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the car parking-cum-commercial complex, near the lift, here.Thakur visited the stalls put up on the occasion and appreciated the efforts of the industrialists in displaying their products at the exhibition. He said such exhibitions went a long way in popularising the products and provided a platform for showcasing their salient features.These exhibitions also provided an opportunity to the consumers to avail thebest products for their homes, he said. Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj and other senior officers were also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-inaugurates-shimla-trade-expo-312338
17-09-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||‘Kushtu Kahika’ on 3rd day of Kullu Dasehra||KULLU, SEPTEMBER 16A ‘Kushtu Kahika’ (expiation ceremony) will be performed on the third day of the Kullu Dasehra festival on October 17. It has been decided by the caretakers of deities.During a ‘Dev Sansad’ (Jagati) held at Naggar village in the district, the deities had pronounced their verdict through their “gurs” (oracles) to placate the irate deities, who were not allowed to attend the Dasehra festivities due to the curtailed celebrations in view of Covid last year. The deities had also expressed displeasure over interference in the age-old rituals.The Kardars (caretakers) of 24 deities fixed the date of the ‘Kushtu Kahika’ at Raghunath Temple on Saturday. Various rituals will be performed for two days and palanquins of deities will circumambulate the entire Dasehra ground through the same path from where the “Jaleb” of Lord Narsingh is carried out during the Dasehra. The cleansing ceremony, known as “Chhidra”, will also be held.This year the seven-day Kullu Dasehra festival will commence from October 15. There is still uncertainty on the participation of all deities amid the pandemic. Even last year, only seven deities were invited, however, 14 participated in the festival.Many deities had objected to not allowing the deities to attend the festivities. A Jagati was held in Raghunath Temple on November 16, in which 200 deities participated through their ‘gurs’ (oracles) with their symbols and passed the verdict to hold a ‘Kahika’.While it is likely that the Kullu Dasehra celebrations will be scaled down this year as well, it will be a tough task for the Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee to find out an amicable solution amid the Covid crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kushtu-kahika-on-3rd-day-of-kullu-dasehra-312337
17-09-2021||---||Stone of regional hospital laid in Solan||Solan, September 16Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated and laid foundation stones of development projects worth about Rs 110 crore in Solan Assembly segment during his one-day visit to the city today.He also laid foundation stone of regional hospital building, which would be constructed at a cost of Rs 90.33 crore. While addressing the people, the Chief Minister said the state government was committed to the development of Solan city.While referring to those questioning him, he said “There were chief ministers before him who served under usual circumstances but none faced the challenges like Covid-19 pandemic. Nearly one-and-a-half year of his tenure was lost in the pandemic.”He asked his detractors who had been questioning him about their achievements in their more than 20-year rule. He advised the Congress leaders not to make wild and baseless allegations as people of the state were aware of their nefarious designs and vested interests. He said the previous regime had barely erected foundation stone of the new circuit house while his government has ensured that its work was completed.Thakur said the government has ensured that there was no dearth of oxygen, ventilators, beds etc., during Covid pandemic. “When this pandemic broke out, there were only 50 ventilators in the state. The matter was taken up with the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi following which 500 ventilators were provided immediately to the state.”He said the state government transported doctors, staff and vaccine to the people of Bara Bhangal area to ensure that no one was deprived of vaccination. As many as 1,150 people were vaccinated in Malana area of Kullu district by launching a special drive.State Health Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal said that the Rs 90-crore 200-bedded hospital, when completed, would provide best healthcare facilities to the people of the area.Mechanics left high and dry||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-of-regional-hospital-laid-in-solan-312336
17-09-2021||---||Nauni University introduces pisciculture for Himachal farmers||Solan, September 16To enhance farmers’ income from agri-horticulture and allied activities, pisciculture has been introduced at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni.As many as 3,000 fingerlings of four improved strains and varieties of fish were recently introduced at the model farm by Vice Chancellor Parvinder Kaushal.The introduced stock, procured from the Fishery Department Breeding Farm, Nalagarh, comprises hungarian carp, mrigal, jayanti rohu and catla.Hamir Chand, Assistant Director, Fisheries, had earlier visited the campus to study the scope of fish farming. The staff was imparted training by Dr Som Nath, Senior Fisheries Officer. Exposure visits to fish breeding farms at Nalagarh and Deoli were also undertaken by the staff.Kaushal said fisheries combined with agriculture, horticulture and dairy activities could lead to a substantial increase in the farm income. “We aim at establishing commercial fish culture and production, as well as demonstration units on scientific lines. Research work on refining existing practices through technological interventions will also be undertaken,” he said.Kaushal said efforts were being made to introduce fish culture-based integrated farming model by including backyard poultry and duck culture in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-university-introduces-pisciculture-for-himachal-farmers-312335
17-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Not allowed to collect herbs in Kangra district, tribals upset||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 16Tribals of Bara Bhangal and Chota Bhangal areas of Kangra district are upset as forest officials are not allowing them to harvest herbs in nearby forests. They say that their families have been collecting herbs from forests for centuries and the Forest Rights Act provides them legal right to gather forest produce. They also allege that the failure of the Forest Department to allow them to collect herbs legally was leading to illegal trade of herbs.Pawana, a resident of the Bara Bhangal area, says that forest officials are not allowing the tribals to collect and take these to open markets. As a result, the residents of Bara and Chota Bhangal are being forced to sell the herbs collected from forest areas illegally to traders.Akshay Jasrotia, an activist, who has been fighting for the forest rights of tribals, says that as per the Forest Rights Act, tribals have the right to graze animals and collect forest produce. The district-level committee formed in Kangra to implement the Forest Rights Act has also endorsed the rights of the tribals to collect and sell herbs. Under the Act, panchayats have the rights to issue permits to their residents to collect herbs from forest and sanctuary areas. However, the field-level forest officials, including forest guards, and block-level officials, are still not allowing locals to gather and sell herbs from forest areas. This is leading to illegal trade of herbs, he alleges.The DFO, Dharamsala, Sanjeev Sharma, says that the collection of herbs from forest or sanctuary areas has been regulated. The Forest Department allows extraction of herbs from forest areas only once every four years to avoid over-extraction of herbs.He says that to take out herbs from forest areas, traders must register with the Forest Department. They will have to obtain an export permit from the Forest Department to take out herbs. About the rights of the panchayats to allow the extraction of herbs from forests in their vicinity, the DFO says that earlier panchayats were allowed to give permits for the extraction of some herbs. However, those rights have now been withdrawn and one has to obtain a permit from the Forest Department.Some herbs that have known medicinal value such as tejpatta, kala zara, ratanjot, kashmal and mitha telia are found commonly in the wild of Himachal. However, in view of the over-exploitation by pharmaceutical companies, 55 such herbs are on the verge of extinction.However, the tribals allege that they have been taking herbs from forests for centuries and have never over-exploited them. Instead, the forest contractors with commercial interests are over-extracting herbs from forests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/not-allowed-to-collect-herbs-in-kangra-district-tribals-upset-312334
17-09-2021||Solan||Eroding hillock: GSI team visits Shillai||A three-member team of the Geological Survey of India (GSI) visited Ambon village in Shillai subdivision of Sirmaur district yesterday to take stock of the eroding hillock, threatening residents.Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Paonta Sahib, Vivek Mahajan said, “The GSI team has surveyed the village. Its report is awaited.”Scientists drew samples of the strata and also inspected the eroding hill where seepage of water had caused havoc in July when the monsoon was at its peak. Three families, whose houses had been damaged with muck and rain water, had been shifted to safer places.Residents have been living in fear as danger looms over the village with the fragile hillock eroding with each spell of rain. It is posing danger to 60 families in the village. “The possibility of rehabilitating the villagers is also being explored. The move is, however, fraught with problems as an NOC has to be sought from apanchayat where these families will be rehabilitated,” said Mahajan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eroding-hillock-gsi-team-visits-shillai-312333
17-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Encroachments on the rise in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 16Encroachments on the forest land in McLeodganj and other areas of Upper Dharamsala like Dharamkot and Bhagsunag are increasing. Already there are 202 cases of encroachments on forest lands registered against the Tibetans residing on the Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts (TIPA) road.After the matter was brought to its notice, the forest department registered an FIR against some Tibetans for raising illegal structure on forest land. Sources here said that many cases of encroachments on forest land and illegal felling of trees on private properties were being brought to the notice of forest and Dharamsala municipal corporation by locals.Raghav Guleria, a resident of Dharamsala, said he had brought the case of huge deodar trees being dried up by some people on their private land in Dal lake area to the notice of forest authorities. However, nothing much has been done in the matter.Gazalla, an environment activist, has also submitted a written complaint to forest, MC and district administration regarding violations of forest and MC laws by locals in the McLeodganj area. However, no action has yet been taken on her complaints.The DFO, Dharamsala, Sanjeev Sharma, when contacted, said 202 cases of forest encroachments were registered against the Tibetans and eviction and demolition orders were passed. However, the matter of demolition of properties has been put on hold due to the intervention of the Union Ministry of External Affairs. The union ministry had halted action against Tibetans on the plea that if the demolitions are carried out a large numbers of Tibetans would become homeless.The DFO said that in case they make additions on their existing structures cases would be registered against them. A case was recently registered against some Tibetans for raising additional structures on forest land on the TIPA road, he said.When asked about the complaints of encroachments on forest land by locals, the DFO said that action would be taken as and when the matter was being brought to their notice. If the felling of trees takes place on private lands, the DFO said, that action has to be taken by the MC.The Dharamsala MC has appointed a Tree Officer to check illegal felling of trees. However, the MC officials lack of support staff and infrastructure to act against complaints of illegal felling of trees in city area. Though the Dharamsala MC was upgraded as corporation in 2015 and eight adjoining villages were added to city area no additional staff has been given to the local body by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/encroachments-on-the-rise-in-dharamsala-312332
17-09-2021||---||Rains likely to last till early October in Himachal||Shimla, September 16The monsoon will withdraw by September-end or in the beginning of October and rain is likely to continue till the third and fourth week.The MeT office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rain in five to 10 districts, barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti, on September 19 and 20.Till now, 399 persons have died since June 13. As many as 54 persons lost their lives in landslides, 10 in cloudburst and flash floods, one in lightning while 33 were drowned. The state has suffered a total loss of Rs 1,035.51 crore and 12 roads, including Shimla-Mandi highway and Shimla-Kinnaur highway, were blocked.The Shimla- Kinnaur road, which was blocked near Chaura in Kinnaur district after a massive rockslide, could not be opened even after blasting as the rock was big and efforts were afoot to clear the road at the earliest, said Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq. A team of the Geological Survey of India was likely to visit Kinnaur to see 15 sliding points.The orchardists, whose apple-laden trucks are stranded, are a harried lot. Residents are of the view that there is a dire need to construct an alternative route to Kinnaur.Light to moderate rain continued to lash parts of Himachal and Sujanpur Tihra received 51 mm of rain followed by Solan 34 mm, Nahan 31 mm, Mandi 28 mm, Jogindernagar 24 mm, Palampur 23 mm, Pandoh 21 mm, Nadaun 19 mm, Gaggal 18 mm, Rampur and Ghamroor 15 mm each, Bangana 12 mm, Amb, Paonta Sahib and Nagrota Surian 11 mm each and Sarahan 10 mm.Keylong was the coldest with a low of 9.5 degree C while Una recorded 34.3 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rains-likely-to-last-till-early-october-in-himachal-312331
17-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Manali-Leh NH blocked after landslide at Nehru Kund||KULLU, SEPTEMBER 16The Border Roads Organization (BRO) got down to the task of restoring the Manali-Leh highway which was blocked due to a massive landslide at Nehru Kund in Manali last night. A massive boulder and debris fell on the road blocking the road. However, there was no major loss due to the incident.The vehicles were stuck on both sides of the road. However, light vehicles were diverted through the alternative route via Buruwa to Palchan. The heavy vehicles were queued up and remained stuck overnight. The BRO started the job of restoring the road in the morning.The 38 Border Road Task Force (BRTF) Commander Colonel Uma Shankar said drilling and blasting of the boulder was being done. He said the boulder was massive. If the boulder breaks by the evening, then the debris will be cleared in the night. However, if more blasting is required, then it will be done tomorrow.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh-Manali highway was restored in the morning which was blocked due to a landslide near Aut in Mandi district yesterday. Vehicles remained stuck overnight.The landslides have become frequent on the Mandi-Aut stretch due to excavation of hills for the ongoing four-laning project. Experts stated that retaining walls should be made after excavation to avoid the landslides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-nh-blocked-after-landslide-at-nehru-kund-312330
17-09-2021||---||President Ram Nath Kovind arrives in Shimla, to address Himachal assembly session today||Shimla, September 16Amid tight security, President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in Shimla this afternoon. He landed at the Annadale ground from where he drove straight to Cecil Hotel.The President was received at the Annadale helipad by Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Mayor, Shimla Municipal Corporation, Satya Kaundal, Army Commander Lt General, ARTRAC, Raj Shukla, Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh, Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu, Secretary, GAD, Devesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Shimla, Aditya Negi and Superintendent of Police, Shimla, Monika Bhatungru.During his four-day visit to Shimla, the President will address a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to mark the golden jubilee anniversary of statehood on September 17, visit the Indian Audit and Accounts Academy - Yarrows on September 18 and return on September 19.Kovind will be the third President to address the Assembly. Former Presidents APJ Abdul Kalam and Pranab Mukherjee addressed the Vidhan Sabha in 2003 and 2014, respectively. As many as 73 former MLA and MPs, including two former chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal, and former Speakers, are likely to attend the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-ram-nath-kovind-arrives-in-shimla-to-address-himachal-assembly-session-today-312317
17-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||14 Himachal de-addiction centres close down during pandemic||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 16Since March last year, 14 private de-addiction and rehabilitation centres in Himachal have shut down due to death of inmates, financial crunch or failure to adhere to norms.Also read: Rehab centres under scanner in Una districtInhuman behaviour reported at few centres In the past one and a half years, five deaths of inmates have been reported —- three in Solan and two in Una —- following which four centres were closed while 10 were either unable to fulfil the minimum standards of service or became financially unviable due to decrease in the number of patients during the pandemic. The death of inmates leads to closure as people start avoiding such centres.Five centres each closed down in Solan and Una, two in Kangra and one each in Mandi and Shimla districts. At present, the number of private de-addiction and rehabilitation centres functioning in the state is 67, said Chief Executive Officer, Himachal Pradesh State Mental Health Authority (HPSMHA), Sanjay Pathak.It is mandatory for the drug de-addiction centres operating in the state to get registered with the HPSMHA and meet the minimum standards for infrastructure and manpower and fulfil the criteria of the Rehabilitation Council of India and WHO-recommended treatment protocols.The centres must have 75-100 square feet area per person, facility for sports, yoga and meditation, qualified staff and medical officer or psychiatrists on call among other amenities.The provisional registration of 57 centres, meanwhile, has been renewed after the visit of district inspection teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/14-himachal-de-addiction-centres-close-down-during-pandemic-312206
