18-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan MC ropes in Haryana-based firm to dispose of solid waste||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 17After facing flak from the NGT and the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Solan MC officials have woken up to ensure scientific disposal of solid waste.Commissioner, Solan MC, LR Verma said, “A Haryana-based firm, Suntan, has been awarded the work to scientifically dispose of the solid waste generated in the Solan MC area as well as lift the legacy waste lying at Salogra.”The Panchkula-based firm will collect the waste after due segregation into dry and wet and transport it to its facility for scientific disposal. The firm has been given time to seek requisite permissions from the SPCB, NGT as well as the Haryana authorities.“The tender has been initially awarded for a six-month period and if the work is satisfactory, it will be extended to three years,” said Vishrut Bharti, Joint Commissioner, MCWith nearly 8,000 tonnes of legacy waste having accumulated at Salogra, the firm will also transport and dispose it of within six months.“About 10-15 tonnes of solid waste is generated on a daily basis in the MC area with the component of wet and dry waste being 60 and 40 per cent, respectively. The wet waste will be segregated daily at Salogra and transported everyday while the dry waste will be transported after four-five days to the processing facility,” said Bharti.The MC will pay about Rs 900 per tonne for disposing of and processing the legacy waste while about Rs 1,970 per tonne will be paid for the solid waste generated daily.The work will begin only after permissions have been sought from the SPCB, NGT and the Haryana Government as they will also assess the waste disposal facility of the firm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-mc-ropes-in-haryana-based-firm-to-dispose-of-solid-waste-312792
18-09-2021||hinav Vashisht
||10K sheep stranded in Mantalai area rescued||Kullu, September 17 A team of The Little Rebel Adventures Pvt. Ltd, Katagla, headed by Director Shiv Ram, were able to rescue over 10,000 sheep and more than 50 shepherds stranded in pastures in the over 13,000-feet high Mantalai area in the Parbati valley of the district. The alternative route of their return was damaged following the collapse of the glacier in the Tunda Bhuj area; the bridge over the Parbati on their original route was broken seven years ago.  Shepherds take their livestock to the pastures in the higher reaches during the summer and return in September on the onset of the winter. The stranded shepherds had appealed to the district administration for help, which sent a team on September 9 that made a temporary way for the safe passage of sheep.  Shiv Ram said that building a temporary path was not an easy task but the enthusiasm of the youth made this possible. He added that it took them a week to rescue the stranded animals.  He said that horses were made to cross the river with the help of ropes so that they were not swept away by the strong current of the Parbati. Now, only three sheep herders were left in Mantalai while others along with their sheep had been rescued.  Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg said that the broken bridge at Tunda Bhuj on the Mantalai route would be readied by next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10k-sheep-stranded-in-mantalai-area-rescued-312793
18-09-2021||Shimla||13 pc farmers in Himachal adopt low-cost natural farming||Around 13 per cent of the farmers of Himachal Pradesh have adopted the low-cost non-chemical climate-resilient Subhash Palekar Natural Farming (SPNF) technique in just three years. It is being promoted under a state-led programme to meet the objectives of the Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Kisan Yojana Project since 2018.As per government records, 129,299 farmers, including 12,000 apple growers, have switched over to the SPNF largely on small land. The total area under the SPNF is 7,456 hectares. However, the number of farmers, who have been trained to adopt the technique, is 1,35,172.Experts say the SPNF technique cuts dependence on the external market and is based on indigenous cows. The farmers can prepare sprays from the urine and cow dung at the farm and just need some local resources like plant extracts, jaggery and gram flour. It reduces water requirement of the crops, too.The natural farming checks plant diseases and the produce is chemical free and healthy.Surender Pirta, an apple grower in Jubbal of Shimla district, says, “I adopted natural farming on my 55 bighas. Earlier, I was spending Rs 3 lakh on chemical fertilisers and pesticides in my orchard but now my cost has now come down to Rs 50,000. My income has risen from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 15 lakh in the past two years”.State project Director Rakesh Kanwar says that the focus now is to increase the area under natural farming on a mass scale. “Still those who have adopted have been practising natural farming on a small land, say one-third of the farm, and this is the major challenge. Once farmers start getting better results with reduced direct costs, boosting yields and also incentivised by the market, this will bring a behavioural change to stop the use of costly fertilisers and pesticides that is degrading the soil and leading to health hazards,” he says. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-pc-farmers-in-himachal-adopt-low-cost-natural-farming-312794
18-09-2021||Solan||Baghat Coop bank’s working  under scanner||The manner in which the managing director, an AGM and a senior manager of Baghat Urban Cooperative Bank Limited here were suspended and later the order was revoked within five days has brought its working under scanner. Irregularities and misconduct were cited by a nominated committee after scrutinising the records of the officials, and chargesheets were served on them. Their replies were not found satisfactory. They were placed under suspension on September 10. An administrator, who is looking after the bank now, however, revoked their suspension on September 14. He termed the suspension orders as illegal and stated that the chairman of the nominated committee was removed on September 10. The administrator also quoted an order received by the Deputy Registrar, Cooperative Societies, HP, dated September 14, to revoke the suspension. A resolution was passed in a meeting held under the chairmanship of the administrator on September 15 to revoke the suspension of the three officials. The Tribune assessed the two orders. Officials said the bank has a list of defaulters, declared as non-performing assets, which had severely hit the financial condition of the bank. The bank has now announced elections to its board of directors on November 14, they said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baghat-coop-banks-working-under-scanner-312795
18-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Congress seeks CBI probe into fake degree scam||NURPUR, SEPTEMBER 17The Himachal Pradesh Congress has threatened to hold protest demonstrations at all district headquarters in the state if the state government fails to order a CBI inquiry into the fake degree scam involving a private university established in the state during the previous BJP regime.Rajinder Rana, state vice president of the Congress, said here today that the Congress had been demanding a CBI probe into the scam within and outside the Assembly for the past one year as the government had failed to bring the truth before the people of the state. He alleged that the inquiry being conducted by the Special Investigating Team (SIT) constituted by the government was an eyewash paving the way for the culprits to escape scot-free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-seeks-cbi-probe-into-fake-degree-scam-312796
18-09-2021||KULLU||Youth Congress protests against unemployment||On the birthday of PM Narendra Modi, the Kullu Youth Congress held a dharna here today, marking the day as ‘Rashtriya Berozgari Diwas’ in protest against the rising unemployment. They raised slogans against the government and said it should stop the exploitation of the youth.  The workers fried ‘pakoras’ (fritters) and cut a cake to express resentment. Kullu Youth Congress president Veer Singh Thakur said Narendra Modi had promised during the elections in 2014 to provide employment to 2 crore persons per year, but there was no respite and unemployment was growing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youth-congress-protests-against-unemployment-312797
18-09-2021||Mandi||By-poll delayed as Himachal Govt feared defeat: Congress||HPCC president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said yesterday that the by-elections had been pushed back in the state due to the fear of defeat. The Congress was ready to take on the BJP. Due to poor governance, there is strong resentment among people against the BJP as they were suffering due to inflation and rising unemployment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/by-poll-delayed-as-himachal-govt-feared-defeat-congress-312798
18-09-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Union minister Anurag Thakur slams Congress for trying to take credit for development||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 17Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur today ticked off the Congress for trying to take credit for Himachal’s development on the occasion of the function held to mark the golden jubilee celebrations of statehood here.“For a moment, I though it is a routine Assembly session as demands were made. I personally feel that it is not an occasion to take credit but to rise above petty political considerations and together pledge for the state’s development,” he said. “On this glorious day it is immaterial as to who signed an agreement or who got special industrial package as the sole objective should be to ensure that the state surges ahead on the path of development and achieves greater heights,” he said.Anurag made these remarks in an oblique reference to the speech of Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri at a function held in the Vidhan Sabha to felicitate all former Speakers and legislators.“If the British had not made the railway line to Shimla, probably it would have never been made and till date the rail and air connectivity to the state remains very poor,” he said. He also made a reference to Himachal not being given its arrears by the neighbouring states.“Either the Centre should give this amount as it is huge or pressure the states concerned to give it,” he said. He added that the interest of the apple growers must be protected as it is a thriving Rs 5,000 crore economy. “You are holding a very important portfolio of Information and Broadcasting Minister, a post held by great leaders like Indira Gandhi. So, you must assert to get Himachal its legitimate rights,” Agnihotri said.“It is immaterial who did what as everyone, including chief ministers from both Congress and BJP, have made invaluable contributions to the state’s development,” said Anurag. So, this was not a forum to list achievements and take credit and create political divisions but to join hands and work unitedly to make Himachal, the crown of India, as aptly remarked by the President, he added.Anurag said only a few get the opportunity to become Chief Minister so contribution of every MLA was significant. “In fact, we should have set a road map for the future development of Himachal,” he said. He also asked his Information and Broadcasting Ministry to make a special documentary, highlighting HP’s journey of success.The minister suggested that the library of the Vidhan Sabha should be thrown open for school and college students so that they get to see and read the quality debates and speeches and not just the confrontation between MLAs.“The contribution of the apple growers cannot be ignored and their interest must also be protected,” Anurag said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/union-minister-anurag-thakur-slams-congress-for-trying-to-take-credit-for-development-312799
18-09-2021||ibune News Service||Need to document Himachal Pradesh’s 50-year journey, says CM||Shimla, September 17Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today stressed the need to document the achievements of Himachal Pradesh on the path of development in the past 50 years.He was speaking at a function organised in the Vidhan Sabha to honour all former Speakers, MPs and MLAs here today on the occasion of the Golden Jubilee celebrations of the statehood.Thakur expressed gratitude to people for their significant contributions to the development of the state. “It is a journey full of achievements and accomplishments and it is our duty to educate the new generation about it,” he said.Thakur said that 51 programmes of major departments were planned to showcase the developmental journey of the state but these could not be held due to the Covid pandemic. “Now, the state government has planned to hold the Swarnim Himachal Rath Yatra to showcase the developmental journey of the state,” he added.He said that the documentation of the state’s achievements must be done so that the coming generation could get a glimpse of the eventful journey.“Today, Himachal is ranked as a top state in the country and a model hill state, which has come a long way. Himachal has emerged as a power surplus state. My efforts in my almost four-year tenure have been to provide clean, transparent, and accountable governance”.He said that former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had given liberal financial assistance to the state and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, had ensured that the state gets special attention. He also remembered all former Chief Ministers and paid tributes to Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar, Ram Lal Thakur, Virbhadra Singh, Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal for their contributions to the development of the state.Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said that the role of first Chief Minister Yashwant Singh Parmar in getting a separate identity was significant. He raised the demand for the creation of a Himachal or Himalayan regiment so that the youth of the state could get more jobs in the Army. He said that Himachal should be compensated for protecting forests.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said Himachal that came into existence on January 25, 1971, as the 18th state of Indian Union had made unparalleled progress in all spheres.Speaker Vipin Parmar said, “In 2014, the HP Assembly had achieved the feat of becoming the first paperless House in the country. Himachal has taken the lead in enacting several legislations,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/need-to-document-himachal-pradeshs-50-year-journey-says-cm-312800
18-09-2021||---||209 new cases, no death in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, September 17As many as 209 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 216,639. However, there was no death due to the virus.The highest number of 58 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 47 in Hamirpur, 43 in Mandi, 27 in Bilaspur, 14 in Una, 11 in Shimla, four in Solan, three in Kinnaur and two in Kullu. The number of active cases declined to 1,580.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/209-new-cases-no-death-in-himachal-pradesh-312802
18-09-2021||Shimla||HC transfers six judicial officers||The HP High Court today transferred six judicial officers in the cadre of District Judges/ Additional District Judges.As per the notification, Dole Ram Thakur, District and Sessions Judge (Forests), Shimla, has been transferred as Principal Judge, Family Court, Mandi, in place of Bahadur Singh, who has been posted as District and Sessions Judge (Forests).Jyotsna Sumant Dadhwal, Additional District and Sessions Judge-I, Shimla, on her placement as District and Sessions Judge, has been posted as Registrar, Lokayukta, Himachal Pradesh. Madan Kumar, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Fast Track Special Court (POCSO), Solan, on his placement as District and Sessions Judge has been posted as District and Sessions Judge (Leave/ Training Reserve) in the High Court.The services of Hans Raj, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Nalagarh, on his placement as District and Sessions Judge, are forwarded to the government, for being posted as Chairman, Waqf Tribunal at Dharamsala.Barinder Thakur, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Kinnaur, at Rampur Bushahr, on his placement as District and Sessions Judge, has beenposted as Secretary, Human Rights Commission.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-transfers-six-judicial-officers-312803
18-09-2021||aramsala||Youth Cong holds protest in Kangra's Shahpur||Youth Congress workers, led by general secretary Surjit Bharmouri, organised a protest in the Shahpur area of Kangra district on the occasion of the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi today.The protesters fried pakoras on the roadside at Shahpur and distributed these among the passersby. They said that they were observing the occasion as unemployment day.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youth-cong-holds-protest-in-kangras-shahpur-312804
18-09-2021||---||Machines worth lakhs gather dust in Shimla fruit mandis||Shimla, September 17 Machines worth lakhs of rupees are gathering dust in some of the fruit and vegetable mandis in Shimla and nearby areas. While a waste management machine worth around Rs 30 lakh is lying unused for over a year at the Dhalli Sabji Mandi, one of the largest vegetable markets in the state, a bio toilet and touchless machine for dispensing water and sanitiser are not functional at a fruit and vegetable mandi in Theog. The state Agricultural and Marketing Board had bought five waste management units each costing around Rs 30 lakh last year for five different mandis, including Dhalli mandi, for managing vegetable waste in these mandis. However, a year has gone by but the machine has not been installed in the Dhalli Sabji mandi.  “There was an expansion plan of the mandi, so we could not find a proper site for installing this machine,” said Om Prakash, secretary APMC, Shimla. “We have, however, now asked the engineers of the company to find a suitable site and install the machine as early as possible. I think it will become functional within a week,” he said.  When asked about the bio-toilet and touchless machines lying unused at the Theog sabji mandi, Om Prakash said he would shortly visit the mandi and find out why they were not functional.  “As per the preliminary inquiry, the bio toilet and touchless machines are not being used at the moment because of some construction activity going on in the mandi,” he said. Such equipment was sent to a few mandis by the APMC to check the spread of corona as part of the SOPs issued by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/machines-worth-lakhs-gather-dust-in-shimla-fruit-mandis-312805
18-09-2021||Mandi||Master plan to beautify Mandi||Mandi Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhary said today the Municipal Corporation had prepared a master plan to beautify the town and its surrounding areas to attract tourists.  He said under the plan, Mandi would be developed as a modern city. Under the master plan, the authorities are contemplating constructing ghats on the banks of the Beas and the Suketi rivers in Mandi.  “Pedestrian paths leading to river banks will be constructed in a planned manner. Haphazard electric wires will be removed from the town and power lines will be installed underground. Smart street lights will be installed in the town,” Chaudhary said.  “Apart from this, work will be done to beautify all squares of the town and improve and expand the roads, walkways and ‘overhead bridges’. The drainage network will be further strengthened to keep the town clean. Apart from this, parks and parking lots will be developed in the town,” he added. The DC said last week, a meeting was held with the MC authority over this issue to make an action plan to execute the master plan for the development of Mandi town. He said the MC authority had been asked to utilise funds of Rs 15 crore, announced by CM Jai Ram Thakur for the development of th Mandi MC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/master-plan-to-beautify-mandi-312806
18-09-2021||Dalhousie||Dalhousie school to educate 9 SC meritorious kids||Dalhousie Public School (DPS), Dalhousie, has been selected by the Centre, on the basis of the 100 per cent examination results in the past five years, to impart education to meritorious students belonging the SC category.Accordingly, nine meritorious students, including four girls of Chamba district, were given admission to the school, said Deputy Commissioner DC Rana here on Friday.He said these students were selected on the basis of the merit list of Classes VIII and X, comprising students belonging to the SC category with families earning less than Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. “The Union government will bear the cost of education of these meritorious students up to Class XII in Dalhousie Public School,” said Rana.The school will also bear additional expenses not included in the list of the government. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalhousie-school-to-educate-9-sc-meritorious-kids-312807
18-09-2021||Lalit Mohan
||Govt allows paragliding to restart in Bir Billing||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, September 17 The government has allowed paragliding to resume in Bir Billing and Dharamsala. Paragliding was banned due to Covid-19. However, despite the government allowing paragliding, those involved in profession say that the operations are unlikely to resume till the second week of October as the region was experiencing heavy rain. As the rain is likely to continue till the first week of October not many tourists were travelling to the area. Gurpreet Dhindsa, who runs a paragliding school in Bir, said that September was not good for paragliding as the skies remain overcast and it rains heavily in the region. The paragliding operations are likely to begin in Bir in the second week of October when the weather for sports becomes ideal. Tandem paragliding in which the tourists take to skies with paragliding pilots is the lifeline of Bir area. Bir Billing is a top paragliding site and attracts adventure sports enthusiasts from all over the world. The area has hosted a paragliding world cup and many pre-paragliding world cups.  About 150 trained pilots earn their livelihood from paragliding in Bir area. Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Bir, said that though there was no paragliding for the past almost two years due to the pandemic, the economy of the area has not been hit that badly. There are about 2,000 IT and other professionals who have moved to Bir and are staying in homestays. They are working online from Bir and have helped sustain the business in homestays and restaurants in the area. There are about 200 homestays registered with the tourism department in Bir Billing area.  Those involved in paragliding are waiting for skies to clear so that they can take to skies and attract people towards the adventure sport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-allows-paragliding-to-restart-in-bir-billing-312808
18-09-2021||Kullu||Experts to re-examine Kullu bridge on Beas||Experts will re-examine the concrete double-lane Bhootnath bridge in the Sarwari area of Kullu town that has been lying closed for vehicular traffic since January 6, 2019. It was closed after it developed cracks barely five years after its construction. Freyssinet Menard Company of France started the repair work in January 2020, but it was hampered due to the Covid outbreak. The Public Works Department (PWD) has been postponing the completion of the repair and restoration of the bridge. Now, the company experts will conduct five tests on the bridge and prepare a report. The next process of bridge repair will start based on this report. The experts will examine the slot method, superstructure and static load, core extraction, impact and types of layers of the bridge. KK Sharma, Superintending Engineer, PWD, Kullu, said that the expert team had arrived and was carrying out tests. He added that the next step would be taken according to its report. The retrofitting work of the bridge would be started soon.   The foundation stone of this 96-metre bridge built on the Beas was laid in 2005. It was completed in 2013 and it developed cracks in 2018. It connects the left riverbank bypass to the right riverbank near the Kullu bus stand in the Sarwari area of Kullu town. The tender for the repair work was awarded to Freyssinet Menard Company in December 2019 and the project was to be completed by May 2020. A budget of Rs 2.68 crore was sanctioned for the repair work. The company had been carrying out repairs intermittently, hampered because of Covid, for the past 20 months.  Meanwhile, local residents will have to wait longer to use the bridge. The traffic problem in Kullu town has escalated  due to the closure of the bridge. A stop-gap temporary bailey bridge was erected at Akhara Bazaar at a cost of about Rs 2.5 crore on April 15, 2019. However, people are demanding a permanent solution for the Bhootnath bridge problem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/experts-to-re-examine-kullu-bridge-on-beas-312809
18-09-2021||---||Two vehicles damaged in landslide near Aut||Mandi, September 17 Two vehicles were badly damaged in a landslide near Aut on the Chandigarh-Manali highway in Mandi district this morning. However, no loss of life was reported in the incident.   Meanwhile, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) restored the Manali-Leh highway to traffic at Nehru Kund near Manali in Kulu district today. According to the police, the highway was blocked due to a massive landslide at Nehru Kund in Manali subdivision on Wednesday night. A massive boulder and debris had fallen on the road, as the hill caved in, blocking it completely.  “The Border Roads Organisation engaged its workforce and machinery to reopen the highway for normal traffic and finally restored it on Thursday,” said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-vehicles-damaged-in-landslide-near-aut-312810
18-09-2021||Rajiv Mahajan
||Tobacco sale rampant in lower Kangra||Nurpur, September 17 Notwithstanding the ban imposed by the then Prem Kumar Dhumal government in 2012 on the import, transportation, stocking and sale of chewable tobacco, these products are being sold clandestinely in lower Kangra areas, bordering Punjab.  ‘Gutka’, ‘khaini’ and chewable tobacco products are not available in shops, but consumers can easily procure them in black market by paying a higher price than the printed. The addicts have identified the vendors, who provide banned tobacco products to them. The sellers transport and stock these products from Pathankot, neighbouring Punjab, and sell them clandestinely to regular buyers.  Labourers and migrants are habitual consumers of these products. Vendors in Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions are selling the banned products with impunity as there is no check by any government authority. After the ban was imposed on these products, the vendors have started selling them at higher prices and the habitual consumers have never raised an objection to overcharging. A packet of Rs 10 is being sold for Rs 15 to Rs 20, and that of Rs 5 is being sold for Rs 10.  Surinder Sharma, sub divisional police officer, Nurpur,  while cautioning the vendors to not indulge in illegal sale of banned tobacco products, said the police would take action against offenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tobacco-sale-rampant-in-lower-kangra-312811
18-09-2021||---||Want to see Himachal Pradesh most developed: President in Assembly||Shimla, September 17President Ram Nath Kovind today said Himachal Pradesh had emerged as a model hill state and he hoped it would emerge as the most developed state of the country in its onward journey.The President addressed a special session of the Himachal Assembly to mark the golden jubilee of its statehood. “Himachal’s journey of development is remarkable and I hope it becomes the “Sirmaur” (crown) of the country, which is also a district in the state,” he said. Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, Union Minister Anurag Thakur, former CM PK Dhumal, several former Speakers and 73 former MLAs attended the function.This is the third occasion when a President is addressing the Vidhan Sabha. Earlier, APJ Abdul Kalam (2003) and Pranab Mukherjee (2014) have addressed special sessions. The Himachal Vidhan Sabha building was built in 1925 as Shimla remained the summer capital of the British. “This Council Chamber building where we are meeting has been witness to many historic moments. It was here that Vithalbhai Patel defeated the British nominee to win the Central Legislative Assembly election,” he said. Lauding the democratic consciousness of people of the state, he said the first voter of Independent India —- 101-year-old Ram Sharan Negi of Kinnaur —- was the brand ambassador of the Election Commission of India.“According to a report of the NITI Aayog, Himachal Pradesh ranks second in the country in the Sustainable Development Goals – India Index 2020-21,” he said. He said the state has vast potential in the agriculture, horticulture, tourism and education sectors which can help it to surge ahead.He praised the efforts of all previous governments, including those headed by first CM Dr YS Parmar, Thakur Ram Lal, Shanta Kumar, Prem Kumar Dhumal and Virbhadra Singh. The President said the Himachal Assembly became the first paperless Vidhan Sabha of the country in 2014, a feat which would go a long way in protecting the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/want-to-see-himachal-pradesh-most-developed-president-in-assembly-312729
