21-09-2021||Ravneet Singh||Prime accused in Punjabi University UGC funds scam held in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 20The police have nabbed a prime accused in misappropriation of the UGC funds scam at Punjabi University. The accused has been identified as Nishu Chaudhary. He was arrested along with two others after over a month-long struggle.We arrested Jatinder from Patiala. After extracting information from him, Nishu, Ashu and Sonu were nabbed from Kangra. They were presented in a local court, which sent them to five-day police remand. — Ronnie Singh, SHO, Urban Estate , PatialaOfficials said the accused were nabbed from Kangra in Himachal Pradesh (HP). They were presented in a local court here, which sent them to five-day police remand.Till now, the police have managed to nab five accused in the case. Nishu Chaudhary, Ashu Chaudhary and Sonu Kumar were arrested on Sunday while Jatinder Singh and Vinay were nabbed earlier.The Station House Officer (SHO), Urban Estate, Ronnie Singh, said, “We arrested Jatinder from Patiala. After extracting information from him, Nishu, Ashu and Sonu were nabbed from Kangra. They were presented in a local court and sent on five-day police remand.”Ashu was identified as part of the investigation while Nishu and Sonu had been named in the FIR, the SHO addedThe matter revolves around misappropriation of university funds related to UGC grants in which the police had registered a case against seven individuals on August 1 after carrying out a preliminary investigation upon complaint of the authorities concerned.As per the university complaint, many employees on the campus had prepared fake scholarship bills in the name of at least seven research fellows, wrongly verified them and passed them for payment.The university accused employees of forging signatures of a head of the department and later, fraudulently misutilisation of the released amount after withdrawal from various bank accounts for personal use.While the police were trying to locate the accused, the university, which was conducting an inquiry into its bank accounts, also found involvement of 10 others, including its seven regular employees last week.The police said they had managed to nab five out of seven accused, who were named in the FIR. “The remaining accused will also be arrested soon,” the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/prime-accused-in-punjabi-university-ugc-funds-scam-held-in-himachal-pradesh-313974
21-09-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh schools to remain closed till September 25||Shimla, September 20Keeping in view the prevailing Covid situation, the Himachal Pradesh Government today extended the closure of schools till September 25. Issuing the order, Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh said both teaching and non-teaching staff had been directed to continue attending the schools.The government has taken the decision to keep the schools closed for some more time as the state is still witnessing around 150-200 new Covid cases daily.Residential schools, which are functional, have been asked to ensure strict adherence to Covid protocol. Most of residential schools in Shimla, Solan, Kasauli and Dalhousie are open for the past about one month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-schools-to-remain-closed-till-september-25-313980
21-09-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Restore Chamba temple paintings||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Restore Chamba temple paintings The paintings of ancient Shiv Shakti temple at Chhatrari in Chamba district, which is a monument under the Archeological Survey of India (ASI), demand attention. The paintings are decaying and it appears as if the ASI has stopped paying attention to the temple. Efforts should be made to restore the Chhatrari temple paintings. — Ravi, ChambaDense fog, ponies on road make driving toughWith the Kufri-Fagu stretch covered in dense fog most of the time these days, especially during morning and late evening, driving becomes quite difficult. Moreover, ponies keep wandering on the road, which can cause accidents as it becomes difficult to spot the animals in fog. — Vikas, Theog||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restore-chamba-temple-paintings-313901
21-09-2021||Diwan Chandel||Workshop for science faculty||Webinar on income taxThe Department of Commerce, Government Degree College, Jawali, organised a webinar on ‘Understanding the basics of income tax’ through Google Meet platform. SB Rathore, former associate professor at Shyam Lal College, University of Delhi, was the key speaker. The webinar commenced with a welcome address by principal Neeru Thakur. Rathore discussed the basics of income tax, old tax rates, new tax regime and filing of income tax returns. He said anyone who wished to file income tax returns online, must have a basic understanding of the tax system. Rathore demonstrated the process of filing income tax returns.HPUTA observes symbolic protestThe HP University Teachers’ Association (HPUTA) observed a symbolic protest day by wearing black badges to highlight their long-pending demand of implementing the 7th Pay Commission UGC scale-2016. The HPUTA thanked teachers for observing no-teaching hour, without disturbing exams and admission counselling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workshop-for-science-faculty-313902
21-09-2021||Solan||Nalagarh woman duped of Rs 3 lakh||A resident of Ramshehar tehsil in Nalagarh was duped of Rs 3,04,344 on the pretext of winning Rs 25 lakh in a lottery.In a complaint registered last evening, Seema Devi said she received a WhatsApp call on her mobile number on September 11, and the caller asked her name and other personal details. She was then told to deposit some money as she had won a lottery worth Rs 25 lakh.The women paid Rs 37,000 and Rs 7,344 through Google Pay, the same day, in two instalments, Rs 5,000 on September 12, Rs 1 lakh on September 14, Rs 25,000 on September 15 and Rs 40,000, through her father’s account, on September 18. Another man called her through two different numbers and she ended up paying Rs 3,04,344 in all. A case under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered and further probe is on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nalagarh-woman-duped-of-rs-3-lakh-313903
21-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Panel to look after ropeways work in Kullu||KULLU, September 20A committee has been formed to look after the construction of the ropeway for the famous Bijli Mahadev.Presiding over a review meeting with officials of various departments here today, Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg said the road should be constructed soon for the ropeway. He asked officials of the NHAI, the Revenue Department, the PWD, the SDM and the District Tourism Development Officer to inspect the spot. He directed the departments to complete the formalities for the construction of the road.He also directed to complete all formalities for the construction of the Palchan-Rohtang ropeway at the earliest.The DC said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had made several developmental announcements for Kullu district and it was the responsibility of department officers to implement these.A grand auditorium for the capacity of 1,740 people would be constructed on two bighas at Rambagh in Manali and Rs 7.64 crore had been released to the PWD for the project.The construction of the Arts and Crafts Centre at Baragran in Manali had been completed and it would be inaugurated soon. He directed the officials to start the work on the sewerage project for Manaliy and nearby villages. He asked to start the work on the building of the Primary Health Centre at Thatibehar for which Rs 2.53 crore had been approved.The Deputy Commissioner said Rs 1 crore had been allocated for the helipad at Banjar and the connecting road was ready. The tourism, revenue and forest departments should complete the process of the construction of the Anni helipad. Instructions were also given to start the work on a 100-bed hospital at Anni.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panel-to-look-after-ropeways-work-in-kullu-313904
21-09-2021||Ravinder Sood||A 22-year-old Himachal village pradhan 'cleans up' BPL list. Read to know how||Palampur, September 20Neha Verma, 22, panchayat pradhan of Tambar in Jaisinghpur, has removed those beneficiaries from the BPL list, who owned four-wheelers. Neha is the first woman panchayat pradhan of Kangra, who has taken the bold step.Neha said her next step would be to remove those persons from the list, who were involved in drug trafficking and liquor smuggling in the panchayat. At the same time, she would add the names of those, who were deserving.Neha said the full house of panchayat had passed a resolution to erase the names of those who were well-off. A few persons, who own four-wheelers, are still left because of some legal issues. She had requested the government to constitute a committee to review their names.Neha said she would implement the latest guidelines. “I remain pradhan or not but will follow the guidelines of the government and select BPL/IRDP and Antodaya beneficiaries in a fair manner,” she added.The Tribune had highlighted the issue of irregularities in the selection of BPL members in these columns three months ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/a-22-year-old-himachal-village-pradhan-cleans-up-bpl-list-read-to-know-how-313884
21-09-2021||---||Hotel pillar collapses, labourer dies in Chail||Solan, September 20A 51-year-old labourer died when a pillar, which he was dismantling at a hotel in Chail, collapsed last evening.Additional SP, Solan, Ashok Verma said the labourer had been identified as Roop Lal and he was a resident of Nagali village. He was engaged by hotel manager Udaybir Chandel to dismantle a pillar for Rs 10,000.Though the injured labourer was rushed to the nearest hospital, he succumbed to his injuries.Since no foul play is suspected in the incident, the police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hotel-pillar-collapses-labourer-dies-in-chail-313891
21-09-2021||---||Big boulder blocks road at Shilaru||Shimla, September 20All vehicular movement has been stopped on the National Highway No-5 due to a massive landslide near Shilaru, about 35 km from Shimla.A huge boulder and debris have blocked the road. The restoration work is underway to clear the road for vehicular movement. However, there has been no loss of human life or damage to any vehicle.In another incident, a building collapsed at Rouni near Matiana village in Rampur tehsil in the district, injuring five persons.According to the police, it was around 11 am today that the building collapsed. However, no loss of human life was reported in the incident though five persons sustained minor injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/big-boulder-blocks-road-at-shilaru-313889
21-09-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 234 new cases in Himachal, three deaths||As many as 234 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 217,140. Besides, three persons died of the virus—one in Una and two in Hamirpur.The highest number of 70 cases was recorded in Mandi and 25 in Shimla. The number of active cases rose to 1,616. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-234-new-cases-in-himachal-three-deaths-313888
21-09-2021||Solan||Two industrial plots cancelled in Solan||The state Industries Department has cancelled two industrial plots in the Banalgi and Waknaghat industrial areas as there has been no activity there in the past several years.“A plot measuring 500 sqm was allotted to Shivam Enterprises for manufacturing carpets at Banalgi in Kasauli in February 2006. The possession of the plot was given to the investor in September 2007, but there had been little activity on it. The investor, however, applied for permission for steel fabrication business and this, too, was accorded in May 2011,” said officials of the department.A show-cause notice was served on him in September 2020 for the cancellation of the plot. The officials did not receive any reply even after 90 days, violating the terms of the allotment.In yet another case, a plot measuring 840 sqm was allotted to Parlab Industries at Waknaghat in April 2018 for manufacturing sweets and namkeen. An agreement was executed in May 2018 after the investor deposited 30 per cent of the lease premium and other charges amounting to Rs 1,76,400. He was directed to take the possession of the plot.He, however, failed to do so and instead requested for the exchange of the plot. “Since no plot was available for exchange, the investor’s request could not be considered. He was again asked in October 2020 to take the possession of the plot within seven days and deposit the remaining amount,” said Rajiv Kumar, General Manager, District Industries Centre (DIC), Solan.As he failed to deposit the remaining amount, his plot was cancelled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-industrial-plots-cancelled-in-solan-313886
21-09-2021||---||Cut GST on ropeways to 5 pc, Himachal Govt urges Centre||Shimla, September 20The Himachal Pradesh Government has urged the Centre to reduce the GST rate from 18 to 5 per cent by adding a specific entry related to ropeways and other unconventional modes of transportation in the category of services covered under 5 per cent GST.In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur apprised her that Himachal had taken a decision to use the concept of ropeways for transportation of passengers and goods throughout the state. “The objective behind this decision is to connect the left-out habitations where construction of roads is not environmentally and economically feasible. It also aims at connecting new places of tourist attraction and exploring new opportunities for employment generation and economic growth,” he said.Thakur said the government had created Ropeways and Rapid Transportation System Development Corporation (RTDC) as a single nodal agency for the construction of ropeways and other mass rapid transportation systems. Therefore, the ropeways would not act merely as the tourist attraction but also help in providing sustainable means of transport in rural areas.Thakur said the ropeways and other unconventional modes of transport are not defined separately under specific entry of GST schedules. “To make ropeway projects financially viable for mass transit, the GST rates on ropeways and other unconventional modes of transportation system should be equated with conventional road transportation so that the investments in the ropeways projects are received,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cut-gst-on-ropeways-to-5-pc-himachal-govt-urges-centre-313885
21-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||High Court notice to CS, Kangra DC over stone crusher||Shimla, September 20The High Court of Himachal Pradesh today issued notices to the Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary (Forest), Member Secretary of the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, Deputy Commissioner of Kangra and the Jawalamukhi SDM in a matter related to the installation of a stone crusher at Adhwani village in violation of the norms.A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the order on a petition taken up suo moto as a public interest litigation (PIL) on a letter written to the Chief Justice by the residents of Adhwani village in Kangra. While treating the letter as a PIL, the court sought replies from the state authorities within two weeks.The petitioners have alleged that a firm owned by Gian Chand is installing a stone crusher at Adhwani village despite a protest by them. The stone crusher is being installed forcibly without following the norms of the State Pollution Control Board, which will be injurious to the health and physical comfort of the villagers. The people have their homes, agricultural land and grazing land for cattle nearby.It is stated in the letter that children and aged people also go to the fields to rear cattle and for farming and dust and pollution will cause harm to everybody. The trees on the land of the villagers will wither, causing loss of green environment.The petitioners have alleged that the stone crusher is being installed in violation of rules at a distance of less than one kilometre from Government Senior Secondary School and less than 100 metres from the water reservoir (bawri) used by the villagers. Moreover, the crusher is being installed within 500 metres of the houses in the village.They urged the court to stop the installation of the stone crusher immediately to protect the life and health of the villagers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-notice-to-cs-kangra-dc-over-stone-crusher-313887
21-09-2021||---||Balh Assembly segment gets Rs 291 cr projects||Mandi, September 20Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated and laid foundation stone of development projects worth Rs 291 crore in the Balh Assembly segment of Mandi district.Addressing a public meeting at Gaggal, the CM announced the opening of the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) division at Nerchowk, an Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya at Balh, the upgrade of the primary health centre (PHC), Gaggal, to the community health centre (CHC), the opening of veterinary dispensaries in Seoli and Sakroha gram panchayats, the upgrade of health sub-centre, Rajgarh, to the PHC, starting of science classes in Government Senior Secondary School, Bhangrotu, and the renaming of Government Senior Secondary School, Gasanu, as Shaheed Naik Pushpraj Government Senior Secondary School, as a mark of respect for the martyr.He announced Rs 10 lakh each for the construction of panchayat bhawans in 14 newly created gram panchayats in Balh and Rs 10 lakh for the playground at Government Senior Secondary School, Pauri.He said the matter regarding the setting up of an NCC Academy in Balh would also be taken up with the authority.The CM said a survey had been completed for an international airport at Balh and the Lidar survey would be completed soon. This would pave the way for a world-class airport. He said the 15th Finance Commission had also recommended Rs 1000 crore for the airport.He laid the foundation stone of the Rs 1.50 crore Public Works Division Office building, Nerchowk, Rs 10.25 crore Government ITI building at Balh, Rs 2.21 crore 40-meter bridge over the Raatti khud on the Mundru-Taroh-Dayon-Badwahan road, Rs 86 crore sewerage scheme to Nerchowk, and a Rs 26 crore building of jail. He also performed a bhumi pujan of the Rs 2.17 crore PHC building and the Rs 3.52 crore Tanda-Kohla-Tikkari-Kawalkot-Sidhkothi road.He announced the upgrade of the CHC, Rewalsar, to the Civil Hospital, the opening of fire sub-station at Rewalsar, the upgrade of the police post, Rewalsar, to the police station, the opening of a veterinary hospital at Durgapur, the construction of a helipad in the area, Rs 2 crore for the upgrade of the Kalkhar-Ratti road and the starting a bus service from Sundernagar to Bathan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/balh-assembly-segment-gets-rs-291-cr-projects-313890
21-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Man killed in freak car mishap in Bharmour||Bharmour, September 20A man was killed while his wife was reported to be missing after their car fell into the Ravi at Dakog near Durgathi on the Chamba-Bharmour National Highway in the Bharmour tribal area of Chamba district this afternoon. The mishap occurred when a cow fell from the hillside onto the bonnet of the car, pushing it into the Ravi, the police said.The police said that the initial inquiry revealed that Pawan Kumar (39), a resident of Rahela village in Bharmour teshil, and his wife Anita Devi (34), who had come to the Chamba hospital this morning, were going back home when a cow came rolling down the hillside and fell on the bonnet of their car. Pawan panicked and failed to control the car that fell into the Ravi.The police, firemen, Home Guard jawans along with local administration officials launched a rescue operation and fished out Pawan’s body from the car stuck in the Ravi while Anita Devi was untraceable. The search operation was still going on to locate the missing woman. A postmortem was conducted at the Bharmour Civil Hospital, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-killed-in-freak-car-mishap-in-bharmour-313882
21-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Traffic diverted as bridge in Kullu suffers damage||KULLU, SEPTEMBER 20The bridge connecting Bajaura to Gadsa valley has suffered damage. The vehicles heading towards Gadsa are being diverted from Bhuntar resulting in traffic jams on the narrow bailey bridge in Bhuntar.A resident Gautam said that the bridge connects nine panchayats of Garsa valley and heavy tippers and dumpers also use this bridge. He said that bridge was built by the NHPC for its Parbati Hydro Electric Project in 2001 but no maintenance was carried out since then due to which the bridge was getting damaged. The concrete had started wearing out from a portion of the bridge and a plate had been damaged.The residents demanded that proper repair work of this bridge should be undertaken otherwise the possibility of a major mishap can’t be ruled out. The residents said that the people going to Gadsa valley were using this bridge. They urged that the authorities concerned should carry out regular monitoring and maintenance of the bridge to ensure uninterrupted flow of traffic.Kullu PWD Superintending Engineer KK Sharma said that the work of repair of the bridge has been started and traffic via the bridge would be restored soon.Meanwhile, some residents raised questions on the quality and designs of the bridges being built in the state. They said that some bridges of the British era were still good and while the recently constructed bridges were not lasting even for two decades. They said that Bhootnath bridge at Sarwari area of Kullu town developed cracks within five years of its construction and has been lying closed since January 2019. They demanded that the constructing companies should be made accountable for the stability of the bridges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-diverted-as-bridge-in-kullu-suffers-damage-313879
21-09-2021||shimla||Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka Vadra in Shimla||With the Punjab political crisis settled, at least for the time being, Congress president Sonia Gandhi arrived at her daughter Priyanka Vadra’s house at Charabra, near here, today.Sonia reached Chandigarh by air from where she headed straight to the cottage by road. Priyanka arrived at her house on Saturday, accompanied by her husband Robert Vadra. Sonia is expected to stay here for three days.Sonia and Priyanka could be seen taking a walk in the expansive lawns of the house. Priyanka has planted flowers and fruit trees like cherry and apple, specially brought from Kashmir. The cottage has beautifully done landscaping and a small hut in the lawns.Priyanka and Sonia come to stay the cottage often, located close to the summer residence of the President of India, ‘The Retreat’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sonia-gandhi-priyanka-vadra-in-shimla-313880
21-09-2021||---||World Bank okays Rs 1,168 cr aid for Shimla water supply project||Shimla, September 20The World Bank has finally approved a financial assistance of $160 million (Rs 1,168 crore) for the Shimla Water Supply and Sewerage Service project.The lengthy negotiations concluded today and now Shimla residents can look forward to 24x7 water supply and effective sewerage services in the next few years. The project will be completed by 2026.“The negotiations with the World Bank and the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) concluded today. I am happy to disclose that negotiations concluded successfully. The World Bank has agreed to provide $160 million for the project,” said Rajneesh, Secretary, Urban Development, who headed the negotiation committee of the state. “The date of effect for the project will be January 1, 2022. Shimla residents can hope for 24x7 water supply in the next two to three years,” he added.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said that the project would surely see the light of the day. “The World Bank will soon start releasing funds for the project. Once it is completed, Shimla will not have to worry about water supply and sewerage service for the next couple of decades,” he added.The project that aims to provide 24x7 pressure water supply and improve and augment sewerage services in and around the city has a total financial outlay of $250 million (Rs 1,825 crore).Of the total amount, the World Bank will provide $160 million (Rs 1,168 crore) while the state government will borne the remaining $90 million (Rs 657 crore). Rajneesh said the Urban Development Department managed to secure funding from the World Bank despite fiscal constraints due to Covid-19 pandemic.Objectives of the project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/world-bank-okays-rs-1-168-cr-aid-for-shimla-water-supply-project-313878
21-09-2021||---||Gujarat, Kerala, Tamil Nadu lead food safety ranking; Himachal tops in region||New Delhi, September 20Gujarat, Kerala and Tamil Nadu lead the third state food safety index rankings released by the food regulator on Monday while Himachal Pradesh is the top ranked regional state at sixth place.Punjab and Haryana are 11th and 12th, respectively, among 20 large states with Bihar ranked last.Among the UTs, Jammu and Kashmir is the leader followed by Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Delhi and Chandigarh.Among eight small states, Goa is ranked first and Mizoram last.The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India releases the State Food Safety Index annually based on the overall performance on food safety indices.The first such report was released on World Food Safety Day on June 7, 2019.The report assesses the following major indicators – availability of human resources in the food sector in proportion to the population; overall coverage of food businesses in licensing and registration commensurate with size and population; promptness in attending to the consumer grievances and availability of help desk and web portals for grievance redressal; food testing infrastructure and surveillance to ensure quality of foods; training and capacity building of the regulatory staff and laboratory personnel; and consumer empowerment through food fortification, eat right and hygiene rating of restaurants.Rankings (in order of rank)Large states (20): Gujarat, Kerala, TN, Odisha, UP, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Telangana, Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, BiharSmall states (8): Goa, Meghalaya, Manipur, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Tripura, MizoramUTs (8): J&K, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Delhi, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Ladakh, Puducherry, Lakshadweep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gujarat-kerala-tamil-nadu-lead-food-safety-ranking-himachal-tops-in-region-313828
