22-09-2021||The menace of stray dogs has become a cause for concern for residents of Mandi town. They can be seen lying along the pedestrian paths in Mandi town||Stray dog menace in Mandi||— Hansraj, Mandi residentNullahs choked in ShimlaThe failure of the Shimla municipal authorities to clean choked nullahs and waterways results in heaps of garbage and plastic getting littered on roads when it rains heavily. This causes inconvenience to people as at times it gets difficult to drive on such roads. There should be frequent cleaning of the nullahs to prevent them from getting choked. — Anish Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-dog-menace-in-mandi-314561
22-09-2021||An awareness and cleanliness campaign was held at the DAV Centenary Public School||Cleanliness campaign at DAV Centenary Public School in Mandi||Competition winners fetedThe state-level winners of poetry and poster-making competition were honoured at Sanjauli College by Principal CB Mehta and staff members Devender Sharma and Namita Khagta. The competition on the theme 'Why morality matters' was organised at the state level by St Bede's College in which almost all colleges of Himachal Pradesh participated and the results were announced recently. In the category of self-written poetry competition Sarvjeet Kaur bagged the first position. In the poster-making competition, Ankit Kumar attained the first position at state level. All three represented Sanjauli college in the competition.2 varsity students get fellowshipTwo students of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, have been selected for innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research fellowships. Neha is pursuing PhD in statistics and Jatin is doing his doctorate in Agroforestry. A monthly scholarship of Rs 31,000 will be granted to them for their PhD, besides Rs 20,000 as an annual contingency allowance. Jatin is studying the influence of fruit trees and crop components. The identification of stable varieties and a forecasting model for assessing climate change impact on apple yield and harvest losses in Himachal Pradesh is Neha's subject of research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cleanliness-campaign-at-dav-centenary-public-school-in-mandi-314559
22-09-2021||Mandi||Himachal Mahila Cong slams government over inflation||Prem Lata Thakur, state vice-president of Mahila Congress, has lambasted the BJP governments in the state and at the Centre over the rising inflation and unemployment issues.Addressing a press conference here today, she said during the BJP regime in the state and centre, there was no control over rising inflation. The prices of essential commodities like pulses, edible oil and cooking gas have increased manifold. It directly impacted the common people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-mahila-cong-slams-government-over-inflation-314557
22-09-2021||Shimla||Himachal: Power board joint director, PR, awarded||Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited’s (HPSEBL) Joint Director, Public Relations, Anurag Prashar was honoured with the Chanakya Award by the Public Relations Council of India (PRCI) yesterday.The award was given to him in view of his services in the field of public relations for 2021 at a conclave held last night in Panjim, Goa. The award was presented to Prashar by Goa Chief Minister Dr Pramod Sawant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-power-board-joint-director-pr-awarded-314556
22-09-2021||---||Nauni varsity launches courses||Solan, September 21In a bid to promote entrepreneurship among students, five vocational and three certificate courses were launched at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, today by Vice Chancellor (VC) Parvinder Kaushal. They are part of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research’s National Agricultural Higher Education Projects, Institutional Development Plan (IDP), being implemented by the university. Vocational courses on medicinal plants, nursery production of temperate fruits, apiculture, mushroom cultivation and flowers were launched. A certificate course on proficiency in English was also launched.VC Kaushal said these course would enhance the knowledge and skills of trainees on various aspects. He urged students to adopt entrepeneurship and utilise government schemes. “These courses were developed after brainstorming sessions with experts for realising the optimum scope of horticulture and forestry and recognising their potential.”Dr KK Raina, Principal Investigator of IDP, informed that the courses would be offered to BSc third and fourth year students. Students can opt for the three-month vocational courses as per their preference. The certificate courses will be of shorter duration spanning a month.A virtual counselling cell was also started today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-varsity-launches-courses-314554
22-09-2021||---||Elephant electrocuted in Paonta Sahib||Solan, September 21An elephant was electrocuted after it accidentally bit an electricity wire connected with a poultry farm near Kedarpur in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district last night. It had strayed into the habitation from the nearby forest around 11 pm.DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur, said the tusker was found dead in the fields near Kedarpur. A power supply line leading to a poultry farm was found in it's mouth which it might have chewed accidentally. Since the farm lies in a forest area, the elephant had strayed into the habitation.Being a Schedule 1 animal, the police are probing the matter to ascertain if any laxity like loose power lines led to the animal's death.Kunal Angrish, Divisional Forest Officer, Paonta Sahib, said that a team of experts comprising a veterinarian had been requisitioned to conduct a post-mortem following which the elephant would be buried as per the norms. Experts from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, would also examine the animal to rule out any foul play. The tusks of the fully matured elephant were, however, found intact.A case under section 429 of the IPC for mischief and section 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act , 1972, has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/elephant-electrocuted-in-paonta-sahib-314552
22-09-2021||---||Debris-laden tipper skids off road near Kandaghat, driver killed||Solan, September 21A person was killed when the debris-laden tipper (Pb-11CQ 8636) he was driving fell off the road and hit a house at Deyon village near Kandaghat around 3 am today.“The injured driver was taken to the IGMC, Shimla, in the ambulance of a company executing a road widening project.He was engaged by the company to transport debris and was on his way to a dumping site close to the accident spot,” said a police official. The cause of the accident was yet to be ascertained.The Sub Divisional Magistrate of Kandaghat, Vikas Sood, said that the 54-year-old driver had been identified as Ashwani Rohal, a native of Jalel village in Shimla district.The roof and walls of the house that the tipper hit were damaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/debris-laden-tipper-skids-off-road-near-kandaghat-driver-killed-314551
22-09-2021||---||Panchayat secretary transferred by Kangra Deputy Commissioner||Dharamsala, September 21Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal has transferred a panchayat secretary back to the DRDA office in the district headquarters following a protest by the panchayat pradhans of Dharamsala block.Yesterday, a large number of panchayat pradhans had tendered their resignations alleging that the panchayat secretary was not allowing them to work. They had demanded his transfer from Dharamsala block and threatened to resign if he was not shifted. The panchayat secretary concerned is a relative of a BJP office-bearer of Kangra.Jindal said that after the panchayat pradhans’ protest he took up the matter with the government and the panchayat secretary was transferred to the DRDA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panchayat-secretary-transferred-by-kangra-deputy-commissioner-314550
22-09-2021||---||Cloudburst at Nahan village, crops damaged||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 21A cloudburst at Sheel Chamyar village in Nahan tehsil of Sirmaur district last evening damaged standing crops worth Rs 90,000.Tehsildar, Nahan, Maya Ram Sharma said that four villagers lost their standing crops of maize, rice, lemon, ginger and chilly as the arable land was washed away by the gushing flood water. A boundary wall was also damaged. Gyan Chand, Rajesh Kumar, Balkishen and Rameshwar Dutt, all residents of Nahan, lost their standing crops.However, no loss of life or cattle was reported though two potable water tanks were buried under slush brought in by the flood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cloudburst-at-nahan-village-crops-damaged-314549
22-09-2021||---||Complete projects in ‘time-bound manner’: Himachal BJP president||Shimla, September 21State BJP president Suresh Kashyap today said that all government departments must work in close coordination so as to complete the projects and the schemes in a time-bound manner. He presided over a DISHA meeting held here.Theog MLA Rakesh Singha, Zila Parishad chairperson Chandra Prabha Negi, Mayor Satya Kaundal, besides representatives of 29 departments attended the meeting.Kashyap stressed the need for setting targets and ensuring early completion of all projects. This will not only benefit the general public but will also prevent cost escalation, he added.Addressing the PWD officials, he said some works were pending since 2013-14 and 2017-18. He directed that these delayed projects be completed at the earliest.He stressed that farmers must avail the benefit under the PM Fasal Beema Yojana. “The CA stores made under various government schemes will benefit our farmers in a big way,” he remarked. “We are currently working with 14 stores where we store up to 52,843 MT of apples. Two more CA stores are coming up where an additional 8550 MT of apples can be stored”, he added.He also said permission must be granted for removal of unsafe and dry trees as these could pose a threat to life and property of the citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/complete-projects-in-time-bound-manner-himachal-bjp-president-314548
22-09-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Embarrassed’ Palampur administration return money given by martyr Captain Vikram Batra’s father for statue repair||Palampur, September 21The district administration today returned the money given by GL Batra, father of Captain Vikram Batra, PVC, for the repairs of the statue of his martyred son installed in the heart of Palampur town.Batra had visited the local authorities six months ago with a request to repair the statue which was in bad shape. Since the administration said it had no funds, Batra handed over a cheque for Rs 1 lakh to the SDM Palampur.The parents of martyr Captain Vikram Batra, who sacrificed his life while fighting with Pakistani intruders in the Kargil war in 1999, had urged the Chief Minister in April, seeking his personal intervention for the repair of statue of his son which is in a state of neglect and needed immediate repair.The father of the martyr had said if the state government was unable to maintain the statues, these should be handed over to the families of the martyrs, army authorities or private bodies like ex-servicemen league so that these could be looked after properly. However, the CM office neither released the funds, nor replied to the letter.Captain Vikram Batra was honoured with Param Vir Chakra (PVC) posthumously after the Kargil war. The statue of the martyr was installed at Pragati Maidan. The platform of the statue had developed cracks and in the absence of repair, it can collapse any time. The platform was damaged a year ago and nobody bothered to repair it.In another case, parents of martyr Sanjay Kumar had also given money for the installation of a statue of his son, who had sacrificed his life for integrity and unity of the country.On the directions of Kangra DC money was returned to both families with the assurance that the government would meet all the expenses for the repair of the statues of the martyrs in Palampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/embarrassed-palampur-administration-return-money-given-by-martyr-captain-vikram-batras-father-for-statue-repair-314547
22-09-2021||Shimla||Himachal Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj calls on Amit Shah, Hardeep Singh Puri||Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today called on Union Minister for Home Amit Shah in New Delhi today.He said, “Himachal is formulating a policy to promote FPOs in cooperative sectors and has set a target of registering 100 FPOs in one year and reaching out to a minimum of 10,000 farmers through them.”Bhardwaj also apprised Shah about the process of computerisation of cooperative societies in collaboration with NABARD. He said Rs 5 crore had been allocated to computerise 300 societies. He urged for Centre-state partnership scheme in the ratio of 80:20 or 90:10 so that all societies could be covered. He also requested Shah for extension of the interest subvention scheme to Primary Agriculture Credit Societies and cooperatives working in health, education, MSMEs and eco-tourism sectors.Bhardwaj also met Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-urban-development-minister-suresh-bhardwaj-calls-on-amit-shah-hardeep-singh-puri-314546
22-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||Himachal Pradesh High Court quashes appointment of 2 judicial officers||Shimla, September 21The High Court has set aside the appointments of two judicial officers.A Division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Sandeep Sharma passed the order yesterday on a bunch of petitions challenging the selection process for the posts of Civil Judge (Jr Div). It was contended in the petitions that on February1, 2013, the HPPSC issued an advertisement inviting applications for filling eight vacancies of Civil Judge (Jr Div).It was contended that the petitioners, after having cleared the preliminary exam were permitted to take the main examination held from July 15 to 18, 2013.It was alleged in the petition that Vivek Kaisth and Akanksha Dogra were wrongly appointed. They were appointed against the vacancies which arose subsequent to an advertisement and these could not be filled from the existing select list and the waiting list.However, it was contended on behalf of the Judicial Officers that since there was no fault on their part, as far as their selection was concerned, declaring their appointment as illegal, after around seven years of their selection, would not only be harsh, but also stigmatic for them and, as such, a lenient view was required to be taken.The court observed, “An anomalous situation has arisen only on account of the non-application of mind on the part of the commission, which, on the receipt of the requisition for three more posts from the government, ought to have adopted a selection process as per its rules and ought not have straightway recommended the two persons for appointment to the posts, especially when it was in its knowledge that the posts had never been advertised and no selection process qua such posts had ever taken place”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-high-court-quashes-appointment-of-2-judicial-officers-314545
22-09-2021||Shimla||Cong seeks judicial probe into attack on Kullu SC couple||Led by HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore, the Congress today submitted a memorandum to the Governor against police inaction over the complaints of atrocities against Scheduled Castes (SC) people.Rathore, along with party MLAs Jagat Singh Negi, Mohan Lal Brakta and Nand Lal and office-bearers, sat on a silent protest in front of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on The Ridge. Later, they went to Raj Bhawan to submit a memorandum to the Governor, seeking a judicial probe into the fatal attack on an SC couple from Kullu.“The attacks on the oppressed communities by those associated with the BJP is a matter of concern,” alleged Rathore. Earlier, former Chief Parliamentary Secretary Jagjivan Pal was attacked by some people, close to the ruling party in the presence of the police. Till date, no action had been taken against the culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-seeks-judicial-probe-into-attack-on-kullu-sc-couple-314530
22-09-2021||---||Demanding regular jobs, wool shearers go on strike in Himachal||Dharamsala, September 21Protesting against the non-fulfilment of their demand, wool shearers of the Wool Federation of Himachal have gone on strike. They have started a dharna in Palampur.They are alleging that the government has not regularised their jobs despite an assurance given in this regard by Chairman of the Wool Federation Trilok Kapoor and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.Malwar Singh, general secretary of the Wool Shearer Association, said 15 wool shearers had been working for the Wool Federation for the past 12 years. They were being paid on a commission basis despite the fact that they had to work round the year.“Last year when we went on strike, the Chief Minister assured us that we would be absorbed in the corporation on a contract basis. However, despite the assurance, our jobs have not been regularised. Now, we have again gone on strike and will continue the protest till our demands are met”, he said.Trilok Kapoor supported the demand of the wool shearers and said absorbing 15 wool shearers on the contract basis involved no financial burden. “I am taking up the matter with the Chief Minister and hope that the demand of the wool shearers will be met”, he said.The strike of wool shearers is a bad news for shepherds, who are coming back from hills to Kangra district with their flocks of sheep. They have to get the wool sheared from their sheep before they start moving to lower areas of the state. If the wool is not sheared on time, the shepherds will suffer losses.Sources said that 15 wool shearers were responsible for taking wool from about 7 lakh sheep in Himachal. The shearers had been trained and provided modern machinery for the purpose by the Wool Federation. However, if the wool shearers continue their strike it would spell trouble for thousands of shepherds of Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/demanding-regular-jobs-wool-shearers-go-on-strike-in-himachal-314529
22-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Slush from flooded nullah enters houses in Buruwa village near Manali||Kullu, September 21Slush and water from a nullah that was flooded following a cloudburst in the higher reaches damaged crops and entered houses in Buruwa village near Manali in Kullu district in the wee hours today. Goods and articles kept in the houses in ward number 4 and 6 of the village, besides apple trees and standing crops in the fields were also damaged.Villagers said that overnight rain and the cloudburst led to the flooding of the nullah adjoining ward number 6 after midnight. They added that there was chaos in the village following the flood and they spent the night fearfully.They said that big boulders along the nullah were also dislodged but they halted above the village, saving people from a big tragedy. There was no loss of life reported in the incident but more than two feet of water and slush entered the houses and damaged clothes, bedding and other goods.The villagers urged the state government to compensate them for their losses and remove the dislodged boulders lying above the village and clear the debris.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/slush-from-flooded-nullah-enters-houses-in-buruwa-village-near-manali-314528
22-09-2021||Dipender Manta||Kullu: New road in poor state, HRTC bus service suspended||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 21Poor condition of Grahon-Dalwad road leading to Pedcha village in Banjar subdivision of Kullu district has irked the residents. They have urged the Public Works Department to undertake maintenance of the road so that they do not face transportation problem.TC Mahant, resident of Pedcha village, said that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had inaugurated this road last month to provide better transportation facility to the area residents. An HRTC bus service was also started on this route.Was inaugurated by CM last monthChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had inaugurated the Grahon-Dalwad road in Banjar subdivision of Kullu last month. The HRTC bus service was also started on the route.However, the road turned muddy due to the ongoing rains at a few locations due to the lack of proper tarring, said area residents.“In view of the rainy season, the road turned muddy and developed potholes at a few locations due to lack of proper tarring. As a result, the bus service was stopped about 25 days ago. The residents of Pedcha and its nearby places are suffering due to the poor condition of the road,” he added.Om Prakash, another resident of the village, said that “the farmers are facing difficulty in transporting their agriculture and horticulture produce to distant markets in time. If the PWD authorities fail to improve the condition of the road in time, we will be forced to stage a protest against the authorities concerned.”The area residents have requested the Banjar MLA Surender Shourie to look into the matterand give direction to the PWD authorities to improve condition of the road so that they are able to transport their produce to markets in time and earn their livelihood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-new-road-in-poor-state-hrtc-bus-service-suspended-314527
22-09-2021||---||Chandigarh-Manali road blocked near Pandoh||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 21The Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked for traffic movement near Pandoh in Mandi district today evening after a massive landslide. As a result, traffic has come to a standstill between Mandi and Kullu. Long queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the landslide spot as travellers have been stuck since evening.The NHAI has engaged its machinery and workforce to clear the debris from the road and the highway was expected to be restored for normal traffic after a few hours. The police have diverted traffic via Kataula between Mandi and Kullu.SP, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri said that police personnel have been deployed on the spot to regulate traffic. People traveling between Mandi and Kullu area have been advised to take alternative route till the restoration of the highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-manali-road-blocked-near-pandoh-314526
22-09-2021||---||Delhi woman, son drown in Beas near Manali||Abhinav VashishtKullu, September 21A woman and her son from South Delhi drowned in the Beas at Bahang near Manali today. Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said that Priti Bhaseen (37) and her son Rehan (12) along with other family members were clicking pictures on the riverbank adjacent to their hotel when the duo slipped and fell into the river and drowned.He said that a hotel employee jumped into the river but couldn’t save them; he was injured in the rescue attempt. He added that the bodies of the victims were recovered about three to four kilometres downstream. The family had arrived in Manali today. The bodies had been kept in the mortuary of a hospital for a postmortem.Many tourists venture close to rivers, ignoring the risk; several of them have lost their lives by drowning in the Parbati and the Beas. The Kullu district administration and the police have installed warning boards at various places along the Beas, but many a time tourists ignore the warning, leading to fatal mishaps.On June 8, 2014, 24 engineering students from Hyderabad were washed away by the Beas near Thalaut in Mandi. After the incident, the High Court of Himachal Pradesh had directed the government to plug illegal routes.Local residents said that such incidents could be avoided by channeling the Beas. A plan to channel the Beas from Manali to Aut was hanging fire since long. Local people had raised the matter with the state government many times but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delhi-woman-son-drown-in-beas-near-manali-314525
22-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu: Man booked for forcing wife, daughter to change religion||Kullu, September 21Mohammad Junaid has been booked on the complaint of his wife that he was forcing her for religious conversion.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said a woman, living in Shamshi in Bhuntar, said in her complaint that she was married to Jaswant Rai of Phagwara, who was employed in the NHPC and posted in the Parbati project at Kullu in 2008.He added that in 2012, he was shifted to Bandipora in Kashmir and they begot a daughter in 2015. Jaswant started practising Islam and pressuring her to adopt the religion. The accused was again transferred back to Kullu in 2017 and he continued to harass his wife, forcing her and their daughter to embrace the religion.He said, according to the complaint, her husband officially changed his religion in July 2021 and got his name registered as Mohammad Junaid but her wife refused to change her religion and approached the police.The SP said an FIR had been registered under Sections 3 and 4 of the HP Religious Freedom Act and Sections 506, 298 of the IPC. The case would also be referred to the court under the Domestic Violence Act, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-man-booked-for-forcing-wife-daughter-to-change-religion-314524
22-09-2021||Our Correspondent||300 deities to be invited for Kullu Dasehra fest||Kullu, September 21Unlike last year, over 300 deities will be invited to participate in the week-long Kullu Dasehra festival, commencing from October 15.Chairman of the Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee, Education and Language, Arts and Culture Minister Govind Singh Thakur said the deities would remain in their camps during the festivities. The historic Dhalpur ground would be the centre of faith for the devotees during Dev Maha Samagam. However, cultural programmes and commercial activities would not be held again this year.Nod to Maha SamagamIt is not possible to organise so many activities other than Maha Samagam of the deities as the possibility of the third wave cannot be ruled out. — Govind Thakur, ministerHe said more discussions would be held as to how Dasehra would be organised in the midst of Covid. A meeting would soon be organised in Shimla under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister. Suggestions were being received from all intellectuals, the Kardar Sangh, elected representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions, municipal bodies and people for the Dasehra festival.The minister said all above 18 years in the district had received the first dose of vaccine and more than 60 per cent would be provided both doses by October 15. In this way, the district would be safe.At present, there were only 22 active cases and every day only 4 or 5 cases being recorded from Kullu. He said, “This is a good news for the district, but despite this, we have to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour.”He said it was not possible to organise too many activities other than Maha Samagam of the deities as the possibility of the third wave could not be ruled out.A meeting with the Kardar Sangh would be held on September 25 to discuss the arrangements to be made for members. He said the final decision would be taken after a detailed discussion regarding the arrival of deities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/300-deities-to-be-invited-for-kullu-dasehra-fest-314523
22-09-2021||---||79 students of Mandi school Covid +ve in 3 days||Mandi, September 21As many as 79 students and three staff members of Sai School at Dharampur in Mandi district were found Covid positive in the past three days. While 25 students were found infected on September 19, 18 students tested positive yesterday and 36 more were found infected today. The three staff members were also found infected today.Chief Medical Officer, Mandi, Dr Devender Sharma confirmed that 79 students and three staff members were found positive at Sai School, Dharampur, a boarding school. The students are living in a hostel. The cause of the infection spread is yet to be ascertained.Dr Sharma said that the students had joined the school in the first week of September. The infected students had been put in isolation and were being provided treatment. Most of them were asymptomatic, while some of them had mild symptoms.“A medical team will visit the school tomorrow to ascertain the actual cause of the Covid outbreak,” he added. He said that the school premises had been declared a containment zone.Meanwhile, 263 Covid cases were reported in the state on Tuesday, taking the tally to 217,403. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Kangra district.The highest number of 69 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 64 in Mandi, 63 in Hamirpur, 19 in Shimla, 14 in Una, 12 in Bilaspur, seven in Kullu, three in Chamba, two in Solan and one each in Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases rose to 1,715.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/79-students-of-mandi-school-covid-ve-in-3-days-314522
22-09-2021||Palampur||Two paragliders crash in Himachal Pradesh, 4 hurt||Four persons, including two tourists, had a narrow escape when their paragliders got stuck in trees near Bir, 30 km from here, last evening.Both paragliders took off from Billing in tandem flights with two tourists. After a few minutes, the pilots lost control because of bad weather and high-velocity wind. They tried to land at a safer place, but were caught in trees. A big tragedy was averted as there were no power transmission lines nearby. Both pilots contacted the ground rescue teams on mobile phones, which reached the spot immediately and rescued all four persons. A police team shifted the injured to the Civil Hospital, Baijnath, where their condition was stated to be out of danger. Last year, Delhi-based pilot Rohit Badhoria was killed after his glider crash-landed in Dhauladhar hills. In 2019, Singaporean pilot Kok Chang had died after his paraglider crash-landed near Jalsu pass.A Russian and a Latvian pilot sustained serious injuries when their gliders crashed near Jhatingari (Mandi) and Bundla hills (Palampur), respectively. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-paragliders-crash-in-himachal-pradesh-4-hurt-314411
22-09-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||Four people, including 2 tourists, have a narrow escape as para gliders get stuck in trees in Bir||Four persons, including two tourists had a narrow escape and survived a crash when their para gliders got stuck in trees near Bir, thirty kilometres from Palampur, Monday evening.Reports reaching here said that both the para gliders took off from Billing in tandem flights along with two tourists. Within few minutes of taking off, both the pilots carrying the tourists lost their route because of bad weather and high-velocity wind. Since both the pilots were quite experienced they tried to land at a safer place but were caught in trees.Eyewitnesses said they did not get the thermals (warm wind that lifts the para gliders upwards) due to bad weather. Both the para gliders took a plunge soon after the take-off and were stuck on top of the trees. However, there were no power transmission lines nearby which averted the big tragedy.Later both pilots contacted the ground rescue teams through mobile phones which immediately reached the spot and rescued all four persons.SDM Baijnath Sleem Azam also reached the spot with the police team and shifted all the injured to civil hospital Baijnath where all were stated to be out of danger.It may be recalled that due to the failure of the state government for not putting in place a robust safety mechanism, paragliding has become a risky affair in Billing.In Billing last year, Rohit Badhoria, a Delhi-based pilot, died when his glider crash-landed in the high mountains of Dhauladhar hills.Singaporean pilot Kok Chang had died in 2019 after his para glider crash-landed near Jalsu pass after he took off from Billing. His body was spotted by the rescue team trapped in dense forests.Besides two foreign pilots, a Russian and a Latvian, sustained serious injuries when their gliders crashed near Jhatingari in Mandi district and in Bundla hills of Palampur. Both the pilots had taken off from Billing. However, another missing pilot, Jostewis, was lifted by rescue operation from high mountains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-people-including-2-tourists-have-a-narrow-escape-as-para-gliders-get-stuck-in-trees-in-bir-314235
