24-09-2021||Shimla||Himachal’s Nalagarh to have industrial park for medical devices||Himachal Pradesh is set to build an industrial complex to manufacture medical devices, helped by a central government grant of Rs 100 crore.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the medical devices park will be developed over 265 hectares in Solan’s Nalagarh at a cost of around Rs 267 crore and the state will get Rs 100 crore grant for it from the Centre, according to a statement.The state is expecting an investment of over Rs 5,000 crore with a turnover of Rs 20,000 crore besides gainful employment for about 10,000 people, Thakur said. The CM said the park will be first in northern India, giving a boost to the second stage of industrialisation.Thakur thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union government for approving the park in the state. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-nalagarh-to-have-industrial-park-for-medical-devices-315648
24-09-2021||Shimla||Landslides in Kinnaur, Shimla following heavy rain||Heavy rain has triggered landslides in Kinnaur and Shimla districts of Himachal Pradesh, a senior disaster management official said on Friday.State Disaster Management Director, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, said the national highway from Puwari to Kaza in Kinnaur district has been blocked after a landslide on Thursday evening.In Shimla, a road near Home Guard Office has been blocked due to a landslide on Thursday evening and road restoration work is underway.The official said that Naina Devi in Bilaspur received 180.6 mm rain followed by Kandaghat in Solan that received 65.2 mm rain. Shimla received 54.6 mm in the 24- hour period ending 9.30 am on Friday. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslides-in-kinnaur-shimla-following-heavy-rain-315591
24-09-2021||It is almost impossible to find parking for vehicles even close to the hospitals in Shimla. Be it government hospitals||No parking at hospitals||Widening fails to ease traffic snarlsThe widening of roads in Shimla has not helped with the flow of traffic as the widened area is being used for parking, resulting in traffic jams and causing inconvenience to the commuters. The traffic police must ensure that there is no parking on the widened stretches in Shimla. — Sangeeta Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-parking-at-hospitals-315477
24-09-2021||The Department of Higher Education has directed the principals of government colleges to lay emphasis on completion of practical work of subjects||Emphasis on completing practical work||Data of asst profs on contract soughtInformation regarding all assistant professors working on contract basis in government colleges, who have either completed three years in service or would complete three years on September 30, have been sought by the Education Department, along with other relevant documents, including work done and conduct during the past three years. The data is mandatory for regularisation their services.Mediation competition at HPNLUHPNLU, Shimla, is organising the first national mediation competition on September 25 and 26, in association with the Indian Institute of Arbitration and Mediation (IIAM), Nani Palkhivala Arbitration Centre, SCC Online and Eastern Book Company, featuring participants from across the country. To address participants and students of the university, an inauguration ceremony was organised on Wednesday, in which dignitaries from various institutions expressed their views. Vice-Chancellor Dr Nishtha Jaiswal inaugurated the event. She gave insights into the university and spoke about the graduation of its first batch.Science and Technology webinarThe science faculty of St Bede’s College, Shimla, in collaboration with the Indian Science Congress Association (ISCA), Shimla Chapter, organised a webinar titled ‘Science and Technology: India @75’ on Thursday. Principal Sister Molly Abraham welcomed the dignitaries. Prof (retd) PK Ahluwalia, convener of ISCA Shimla Chapter, delivered a talk on the “Impactful 75 years of India in the field of science and technology’ while Dr Deepak Tuli, adviser on Mission Innovation Clean Energy Programme, delivered a talk on ‘Energy Scenario in India — Advances in Bioenergy’. An interclass quiz on science and technology was also conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/emphasis-on-completing-practical-work-315475
24-09-2021||---||1 killed, three hurt as two bikes collide in Mandi district||Mandi, September 23One person was killed while three others were injured when their motorcycles collided at a degree college at Sarkaghat in Mandi district last evening.According to the police, Gagneshwar Verma, a native of Rakhoh village, was killed and three other youths were injured when the two motorcycles they were riding collided at the degree collegeat Sarkaghat.Two injured persons were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Sarkaghat, and their condition was stated to be stable while critically-injured Pankaj Kumar was referred to the government medical college, Hamirpur. The police have registered a case and launched a investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-killed-three-hurt-as-two-bikes-collide-in-mandi-district-315474
24-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Rajiv Nayyar appointed head coach of UTCA Ranji team||Chamba, September 23Former cricketer of Himachal Rajeev Nayyar from Chamba has been given the assignment as head coach of Ranji Trophy cricket team by the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) Chandigarh.Expressing his gratitude to the governing body of the UTCA here on Thursday, Nayyar said he was thankful to UTCA president Sanjay Tandon for giving him the assignment as level ‘B’ coach.“I have an experience of 20 years in first class cricket. I was earlier a selector with Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) senior team for five years”, said Rajeev while sharing his experience. He said he had played cricket under the guidance of his father Major SC Nayyar, who was captain of the first HP Ranji team.Rajeev captained Himachal Pradesh Ranji Trophy for 10 years. He has to his credit several records at national and international level.Recipient of Parshuram award from the Himachal government, Rajeev’s name figured in the Guinness Book of World Record in 1999 for the longest stay at the wicket. He broke the 40 year old record made by legend batsman from Pakistan Hanif Mohammad.He emerged the first batsman from Himachal to score 952 runs in 1999 in first class cricket and got second position in batting in India in the year. He is the first batsman who scored a century for HP in Ranji Trophy. He is the first batsman of the state to score first century against Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Services and J&K and the first state bowler to get five wickets in a Ranji match.“I scored a century in my last game of Ranji match and won the game for my team,” Rajeev said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rajiv-nayyar-appointed-head-coach-of-utca-ranji-team-315473
24-09-2021||Shimla||Author Gurmeet Bedi presents books to Himachal Pradesh Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar||Himachal Pradesh Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar was presented books by Gurmeet Bedi, deputy director of Information and Public Relations Department, Himachal Pradesh, at Chandigarh last evening.The Governor said the state government was committed to preserving and promoting literature, art and culture and many platforms were being provided to encourage writers and artistes. It was a matter of pride that authors and litterateurs of the state were constantly contributing towards literature. Arlekar congratulated Gurmeet Bedi for winning various national and international awards for his writing spanning different genres of literature. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/author-gurmeet-bedi-presents-books-to-himachal-pradesh-governor-rajendra-vishwanath-arlekar-315472
24-09-2021||Palampur||Palampur: Neglect of martyrs’ statues flayed||Ashish Butail, local MLA and general secretary, HPCC, has criticised the state government for its failure to maintain the statues of martyrs installed in Palampur town.Also read: ‘Embarrassed’ Palampur administration return money given by martyr Captain Vikram Batra’s father for statue repairButail said Palampur is the land of brave soldiers, and statues of a few of them were installed in the town but most of these were in a state of neglect. Some were on the verge of collapse, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-neglect-of-martyrs-statues-flayed-315471
24-09-2021||Mandi||Mandi: Mother booked for murder of newborn girls||A woman has been booked on the charges of murder of her newborn girls after their bodies were found in a water stream near Sakodi bridge. The police today booked her under Section 302 of the IPC after the post-mortem report came in, according to which the cause of death of both infants was head injuries.The twins were found dead on September 19 and the woman was arrested.SP Shalini Agnihotri said on the basis of the post-mortem report and circumstantial evidences, including CCTV footages and statements, Section 302 had been added to the case.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-mother-booked-for-murder-of-newborn-girls-315470
24-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||Himachal High Court: Interim maintenance similar to giving first aid||Shimla, September 23Granting interim maintenance is similar to giving first aid. This was held by the High Court while dealing with a petition pertaining to monthly maintenance to a woman (wife).The court passed the order on a petition filed by Subhash Chand of Bilaspur, challenging the order of a trial court granting a monthly maintenance of Rs 2,000 to his wife. Dismissing the petition, the court observed: “There is neither any illegality nor the maintenance amount beyond the petitioner’s means. As such, there are no merit in the petition”.Justice Anoop Chitkara observed, “The CrPC 1973 provides a quick remedy by a summary procedure to protect the applicant from starvation and tide over immediate difficulties”.As per the facts of the case, the petitioner’s wife had filed an application under Section 125 of the CrPC before the Judicial Magistrate, Bilaspur, seeking monthly maintenance from the petitioner husband. In the application, she averred that they had solemnised marriage on September 22, 2000, at Bilaspur. In the beginning, her marital life was good, but later the attitude of her husband changed, leading to discord. He even withdrew financial support. He would spend money on liquor instead of giving it to her and her children. However, the husband petitioner rebutted the allegations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-high-court-interim-maintenance-similar-to-giving-first-aid-315469
24-09-2021||Our Correspondent||263 officials on duty for panchayat poll in Pangi||Pangi (Chamba), September 23As many as 63 presiding officers and 200 polling officers have been deployed on duty for the panchayat elections in Pangi subdivision of Chamba district. As many as 22 polling stations in four panchayats of Pangi have been declared as sensitive.According to an official order issued here, the elections to all 19 gram panchayats and a panchayat samiti in the subdivision would be conducted in two phases.The first phase of the elections would be held on September 29 in Sechu, Shun, Kumar, Sural, Rei, Shaur, Hudan, Luj, Kothi and Karyas panchayats. In the second phase, the elections would be held on October 1 in Sahli, Sach, Findru, Dharwas, Mindhal, Purthi, Kufa, Karel and Killar panchayats.The counting of votes for the posts of the members of panchayats would be taken up immediately after the elections at the gram panchayat headquarters, while the counting of votes of the election for the members of the lone panchayat samiti would be held at Killar on October 4.Meanwhile, 227 nominations were filled for the posts of panchayat ward member and 14 candidates of them were elected unopposed, the order said.Ist phase on Sept 29||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/263-officials-on-duty-for-panchayat-poll-in-pangi-315468
24-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Proposed Saina Nehwal academy at Dharamsala hits roadblock||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 23The Saina Nehwal badminton academy that was proposed to be set up in Dharamsala has hit a roadblock. The Department of Sports and Youth Affairs has not been able to reach a consensus with the proposed academy officials over the terms at which the land is to be allotted for the project, say sources.Rakesh Pathania, Minister for Forests, Sports and Youth Affairs, had announced 70 kanals in the Sakoh area of Dharamsala for the badminton academy. He had said that the academy would help promote sports tourism in Dharamsala that already has an international cricket stadium. However, no progress had been made on the project since the the minister made the announcement.Pathania said that officials of the academy were asking the government for the allotment of land free of cost or at very low rates. The government was ready to accept their request on a condition that players from Himachal should be given training in the academy free of cost. However, the academy officials did not agree to the government proposal.The minister said that the academy officials also wanted the government to develop sports infrastructure but were not ready to offer free training facilities to the residents of the state. “We are still ready to give land for the academy. But if the academy is to be run only on the commercial basis, the state government will charge commercial lease money for the land to be allotted for the project,” he added.He said that the Sports Department was expecting help from Union Minister for Sports Anurag Thakur to develop sports infrastructure in the state. “We want to construct more stadiums at the sub-divisional level so that budding players can train under the able guidance of national-level coaches. The Union minister has promised to help in developing the sports infrastructure,” he added.Pathania said, “The budget of the state Sports Department is meager for infrastructure development. We are also looking for private investment for the development of sports infrastructure. However, the help of the Union Government in this regard is vital”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/proposed-saina-nehwal-academy-at-dharamsala-hits-roadblock-315467
24-09-2021||---||Rail car derails near Barog||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 23A rail motor car carrying nine passengers derailed near Barog on the Shimla–Kalka heritage railway line this morning after stones hit the track. However, all passengers were safe.The incident took place between Kumarhatti and Barog around 7.45 am. The rail car was on its way from Kalka to Shimla and prima facia it appears that stones rolled down the hils due to incessant rains in the region and hit the railway track, derailing the rail car, said Shimla Station Superintendent Joginder Singh.The movement of the train was halted for almost two hours. The Railways authorities later restored the track and trains were now plying on the route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rail-car-derails-near-barog-315466
24-09-2021||Shimla||SJVN, HPU tech institute sign pact||The SJVN and the University Institute of Technology, HPU, Shimla, have signed an MoU for capacity building and providing industry exposure to students. The MoU was signed by DP Kaushal, executive director-HR, SJVN, and Prof PL Sharma, UIT director, at the SJVN corporate headquarters here.Nand Lal Sharma, chairman and MD, SJVN, said the agreement was a testimony to SJVN’s commitment towards holistic development of society.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjvn-hpu-tech-institute-sign-pact-315465
24-09-2021||UNA||Three of IRBn die in Una accident||Three personnel of 4th India Reserve Batallion (IRBn), Jangal Beri, who were on Covid duty at the Ashapuri inter-state barrier in Gagret of Una district, died in a road accident last night.The victims have been identified as constables Vishal Kumar of Jhandvin village and Manoj Kumar of Pidrada village, and Shubham of Narkad village in Badsar, Hamirpur district.The Gagret police said around 10.40 pm after their shift at the barrier, the policemen were going for dinner on a two-wheeler when they were hit by a vehicle.DSP, Amb, Manoj Jamwal said they were all in their twenties and unmarried.The DSP said that the truck, involved in the hit-and-run case, was spotted later and impounded. Driver Simarjit, a resident of Nadaun in Hamirpur, was arrested. The bodies were handed over to the bereaved family members after a postmortem.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-of-irbn-die-in-una-accident-315464
24-09-2021||Shimla||161 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 161 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 217,776. Besides, three persons died of the virus in Kangra, Hamirpur and Mandi.The highest 45 cases were recorded in Kangra, 34 in Mandi, 32 in Shimla, 22 in Hamirpur, 11 in Bilaspur, seven in Una, four in Kullu, three in Chamba and one each in Solan, Kinnaur and Sirmaur—TNS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/161-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-315463
24-09-2021||---||Shimla: Six Army training units bag citations||Shimla, September 23The Army Training Command (ARTRAC) Investiture Ceremony-2021 was held at ARTRAC headquarters here today. The ceremony was presided over by Lt Gen Raj Shukla, GOC-in-C, ARTRAC.The Command has 33 CAT ‘A’ training establishments under its ambit, spread across the country, looking after the training requirements of the Indian Army and students from Friendly Foreign Countries.During the investiture ceremony, unit citations for the training year 2018-19 and 2019-20 were awarded to six CAT ‘A’ establishments, in recognition of their outstanding and meritorious contribution in enhancing the training ethos of the Army.The felicitated CAT ‘A’ establishments were Army War College, Mhow, Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, Armoured Corps Centre and College, Ahmednagar, Simulator Development Division, Secunderabad, Junior Leaders Academy, Bareilly, and Counter Insurgency and Jungle Warfare School, Vairengte. Commandants and subedar majors of the respective establishments received the citations.The Technical Excellence Award, instituted to encourage innovation and research in the field of training, was given away to five officers, five JCOs and one civilian associate professor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-six-army-training-units-bag-citations-315462
24-09-2021||Kullu||No nazrana to deities during Kullu Dasehra||The deities, coming to the 7-day Kullu Dasehra festival from October 15, will not be given nazrana (honorarium) this year as well.Around 300 deities participate in the festivities and around Rs 80 lakh is given as nazrana to them. However, in the wake of Covid, it has been decided not to hold commercial activities this year also due to which there will be no income. Like last year, nazrana will not be given.The final decision to invite the deities will be taken at a meeting with members of the Kardar Sangh to be presided over by the Chairman of the Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee and Education and Language, Arts and Culture Minister Govind Singh Thakur on September 25.The cultural programmes will also not be held. Some members have suggested that local traders should be allowed to sell dishes and products. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-nazrana-to-deities-during-kullu-dasehra-315461
24-09-2021||---||SPCB adds leftout polluting units of Himachal to red, orange, green, white categories||Shimla, September 23The State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) has added more leftout industries to the list of companies falling in the red, orange, green and white categories.Prior to this, there were 86 industrial sectors in red, 107 in orange, 69 in green and 137 in white categories of industries in the state.It was on the subsequent directions received from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for adoption of newly categorized sectors and addition of any new or leftout sectors for categorization that the addition has been made.Information was also received from the regional offices of the State Pollution Control Board, informing that there are industrial sectors with pollution potential which are still unidentified for categorization in red, orange and green.Consequently, an inter-departmental committee was constituted by the SPCB to conduct an exercise to ensure that all the left out industrial sectors may be categorized as per the revised criteria and guidelines of the CPCB.Now, after careful consideration, the units engaged in washing of contaminated hazardous waste have been added to the red list of industries, taking the tally to 87.Similarly, screening plants for aggregate/sand with DG set and or washing, micro-brewery, herbal extract/essential oil extraction and screening plants for aggregate/sand without DG set have been added to the orange list taking the tally up to 111.In the green category of industrial units, 10 more industries have been added, taking the tally to 79.The list of industrial units/sectors classified in red, orange and green category of industries are required to obtain Consent to Establish and Consent to Operate from the State Board under Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and Air ( Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981.The 137 number of industrial sectors classified under white category of industries are covered under the consent purview as per Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, if the manpower employed exceeds 20 persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spcb-adds-leftout-polluting-units-of-himachal-to-red-orange-green-white-categories-315460
24-09-2021||---||World’s highest electric vehicles charging station opened at Kaza||Mandi, September 23The world’s highest charging station for electric vehicles was inaugurated at Kaza in Spiti today. Mahender Pratap Singh, SDM, inaugurated it. It was set up by goEgo company.The SDM said the inauguration of the charging station would play a crucial role in protecting the environment of the area. Travellers using electric vehicles would be able to avail charging facilities at Kaza.On a trial basis, two electric scooters were charged successfully.An official of the company said two workers of the firm arrived at Kaza from Manali on an electric scooty. During the trip, scooty was charged at three places. They did not face any trouble reaching Kaza.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/worlds-highest-electric-vehicles-charging-station-opened-at-kaza-315459
24-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Adventure water sports trials conclude in Gobind Sagar lake||Una, September 23The week-long trials of adventure water sports in the Gobind Sagar lake near Androuli village in the Kutlehar Assembly segment concluded yesterday. Speed motor boats, kayaks, water scooters and e-hydrofoils were tested and showcased to the public during the trial by instructors and experts from the Pong Dam water sports centre and the state Fisheries Department.The Bhakra Beas Management Board and the state Tourism Department recently gave their consent to the development of the Andrauli bank of the lake and its use for water sports activities. A ‘Kutlehar Tourism Development Society’ (KTDS) was constituted under the chairmanship of the Una Deputy Commissioner which would be responsible for organising tourism development activities in Kutlehar.Successful paragliding sorties from Garvasada and Piplu villages atop the high Solasingi mountain ranges in Kutlehar were conducted in July this year and consequently, the Directorate of Mountaineering and Allied Sports, Manali, had notified the launch and landing sites for paragliders.Agriculture and Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar, who was present at Androuli, said the Forest Department was identifying trekking routes into the dense forests of Kutlehar, which would be notified shortly, allowing tourists to see and feel the nature from a close range.Kanwar said ‘haats’ would be set up at vantage locations for locals and members of women self-help groups to showcase their products. Besides, some stalls would also be allotted to locals to prepare and serve authentic local cuisine to tourists, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adventure-water-sports-trials-conclude-in-gobind-sagar-lake-315458
24-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||CCTV cameras enhance rate of crime detection in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh area||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 23The installation of closed circuit cameras in the state’s crime capital Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) area has led to a sizeable decline in property offences like theft and burglary and recovery of stolen property.A study on the impact of CCTV surveillance on crime in the BBN belt undertaken by Cyber Crime Superintendent of Police (SP) Rohit Malpani and information technology consultant Madhav Chablani has brought to light how the crime scene had transformed following the installation of CCTV cameras in 2019. As many as 1,306 CCTV cameras were installed by the police during this period.“A decrease of 37 per cent was registered in 2020 in the theft and burglary cases vis-à-vis 2018. While the decrease was 19 per cent in 2019, the recovery percentage, which stood at a mere 21.84 per cent in 2018, increased to 73.67 per cent in 2019 and 77.10 per cent in 2020. A majority of it was owing to the presence of CCTV cameras,” said Malpani.As many as 88 cases of theft and burglaries were registered in 2017. This number rose to 126 in 2018 and dipped partially to 103 in 2019 and to a mere 79 in 2020. The number of unsolved cases which stood at 49 in 2017, 71 in 2018 declined to 36 in 2019 and 34 in 2020.A majority of these offences were registered in Nalagarh residential area which is flanked by a network of CCTV cameras.The Nalagarh police station (PS) had the highest average crime per lakh population figure of 59.8 per cent in 2019-2020.Cameras were found the most effective in solving cattle and mobile theft cases and burglary-related offences with 100 per cent success rate, followed by offences related to cash and jewellary theft that accounted for 83 per cent success. As many as 74 per cent of the vehicle theft cases and 64 per cent of industrial material theft cases were solved with the help of CCTV cameras.Out of the 112 cases settled in 2019 and 2020, as many as 81 were solved with the help of CCTV cameras. Out of the total recovery of Rs 2.72 crore made in the two years, the lion’s share of Rs 2.41 crore was recovered with the help of these cameras.Challenges like interpreting hazy images, operational issues and human error do cause problems but researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, were roped in to enhance such images. Select policemen were trained to handle CCTV cameras in a specially set up control room.The percentage of crime hotspots also declined from 79 per cent in 2018 to 55 per cent in 2020 in Baddi and Nalagarh though the Nalagarh rural area bordering Ropar district of Punjab developed as a new hotspot in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cctv-cameras-enhance-rate-of-crime-detection-in-baddi-barotiwala-nalagarh-area-315457
24-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Paonta-Surajpur highway widening irks residents||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 23The work to widen the Paonta Sahib-Surajpur section of National Highway (NH)-707 has become a cause for concern for people of Sirmaur district. The work is causing traffic hassles. Besides, a large number of inter-state buses and tractors also ply on this road.“Mounds of cut stones and earth are piled up at several places, reducing the width of the road,” said Lalit, a local youth. In the absence of timely repair, the potholes on the roads have deepened. Crushed bricks have been used to fill potholes at several places.“Even at places where tarring is being done, the work is substandard as the road starts wearing out within no time in view of the ongoing rainy season,” said Sunil, another local resident.“No barricading has been done at places where the work is underway, thus posing problems to the motorists on this busy highway. While driving, one can see pipes jutting out of the road increasing the chances of a mishap,” said a traffic policeman. He added that the widening work had become an impediment in smooth traffic management. The problem becomes acute in the evening when the traffic influx is the maximum. With no alternative route to divert traffic along this road, the motorists are facing a challenging time.The work to widen the highway began in April this year. The Union Ministry of Roads Transport and Highways is executing the work. SDM, Paonta Sahib, Vivek Mahajan, said, “The issues will be brought to the notice of the private company that is widening the road and efforts will be made to streamline the work”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-surajpur-highway-widening-irks-residents-315456
24-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Cloudburst damages arable land, pea crop in Kullu village||Kullu, September 23The flood in the Fanauti Khud following a cloudburst in the Raghupur valley of Anni subdivision in the district yesterday damaged standing crops and arable land. A large portion of the Rohachda-Juhad road was washed away. Footpaths connecting villages with the road and the drinking water supply line from Fanauti to Bishladhar villages were damaged. Many electricity lines and the standing pea crop were completely damaged due to heavy rain.Local residents said that the cloudburst caused the maximum damage in Raghupur, Fanauti, Juhad, Lower Fanauti, Banala and Garh areas. They added that the standing pea crop in Chrandi, Jamala, Gahi and Jhakdupani was also destroyed.A local panchayat vice-president, Bhajan Singh, said that no loss of life or livestock had been reported. He added that the link to many villages was snapped after the road washed away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cloudburst-damages-arable-land-pea-crop-in-kullu-village-315455
24-09-2021||---||Landslide damages farmland in Mandi||Mandi, September 23Around 10 bighas of agricultural land was damaged at Sahan village in Gharwasra panchayat in Dharampur subdivision of the district yesterday due to a landslide.Residents of Sahan village said the incident occurred in the wee hours, when a huge portion of a hilltop slid down onto the agricultural land. Five families of the village have lost their source of livelihood.Vinod Rana, a resident of Sahan village, said, “A huge crack had developed on the hilltop a few days ago. The crack widened due to heavy rain. In the morning, a huge portion of the hill fell on the agricultural field”.“Around 10 bighas of agricultural land belonging to five families bore the brunt of the landslide. It is a major loss for us as we have lost our source of livelihood,” he said.Hansraj, another villager, said, “We urge the government to provide compensation for our losses”.Daan Singh, pradhan of Gharwasra gram panchayat, said, “A panchayat team visited the spot to assess the losses. No loss of life was reported but a 100-metre stretch of an under-construction road was damaged”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-damages-farmland-in-mandi-315454
24-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Manali-Leh road blocked again||Kullu, September 23The Manali-Leh national highway was again blocked for around 2 hours due to a landslide at Nehru Kund near Manali today.A team of Border Roads Organisation (BRO) restored the road. Small vehicles were sent through another route.The spot also witnessed a massive landslide on September 15 due to which the road remained blocked till afternoon of September 17. The spot has become vulnerable to landslides and commuting has become risky on the road.Bypass on the cardsNehru Kund also witnessed a massive landslide on September 15 due to which the road remained blocked for two daysThe spot has become vulnerable to landslides and commuting on the road has become riskyProcess to acquire land for the construction of a bypass from Nehru Kund to Palchan has startedMeanwhile, the land acquisition process has started for the construction of a bypass from Nehru Kund to Palchan. The BRO will construct the road along the Beas towards Buruwa. According to information, 165 bighas of land is being acquired for the road.The land acquisition process is going on under Manali tehsildar NS Verma.The journey from the Nehru Kund curve to Kulang village has become risky due to shooting stones from the mountain. The bypass will provide a safe travel.Manali SDM Surender Thakur said the BRO had submitted revenue papers for the bypass. The government would procure land and transfer it to the BRO.The BRO said the road construction work would start as soon as the acquisition process was completed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-road-blocked-again-315453
24-09-2021||---||Rains claim 432 lives in Himachal Pradesh, highest in five years||Shimla, September 23Rain-related incidents have claimed 432 lives during the current monsoon season while 12 persons are still missing. The monsoon had arrived in the state on June 13, about 12 days in advance and is slated to withdraw in the first week of October.The death toll is the highest in the past five years, said special secretary Disaster management Sudesh Kumar Mokta. As many as 54 persons died in landslides, 11 in flashfloods and cloudbursts, nine of electricution, 37 drowned, 55 died after falling from cliffs, roofs or buildings while one person was killed in lightning. As many as 215 persons were killed in accidents and 60 persons were killed in other incidents.The monsoon withdrew on September 30 in 2020 and on October 12 in 2019, the longest delay since 1982. In 2018, the monsoon withdrew on October 1, while it withdrew on September 30 in 2017, on October 5 in 2016, September 29 in 2015 and on October 5 in 2014.As many as 123 roads (55 in Shimla, 33 in Sirmaur, 12 in Mandi, six each in Kangra and Kullu, five in Hamirpur, four in Bilaspur and two in Solan) are blocked.A shooting stone hit a vehicle near Shoghi on the Shimla-Kalka National Highway this evening, seriously injuring two occupants of a car. The injured have been admitted to the IGMC, Shimla. The road is open for one-way traffic.The Powari-Kaza National Highway was blocked ahead of Powri in Kinnaur district after stones fell on it from the hilltop.Vehicular traffic came to a halt as a large stretch of the Rahighat-Kyartu road in Theog sub division of Shimla district was washed away due to heavy rain. A large number of vehicles, including apple-laden trucks, were stranded on the road. The Kotkhai- Chol road and several link roads were blocked due to landslides, triggered by intermittent heavy rains.Moderate to heavy rains lashed several parts of the state. Solan received 83 mm of rain, followed by Naina Devi 76 mm, Jhandutta 60 mm, Shimla 50.6 mm, Palampur, Chopal and Kufri 49 mm each, Una 43 mm, Sangrah 40 mm, Jubbarhatti 38 mm, Rohru 37 mm, Baghi 36.5 mm, Rajgarh 36 mm, Renuka 35 mm, Pachhad and Nalagarh 34 mm each, Kandaghat 32 mm, Kasauli 31 mm, Sundernagar 28 mm, Arki and Bilaspur 26 mm each, Bilaspur 25 mm, Kahu 23 mm, Ghumarwin 22 mm and Nahan 21 mm.The local MeT office has predicted a wet spell in the state till September 27. There was no notable change in the minimum temperatures and Keylong recorded a low of 9.1°C. The maximum temperatures increased by 3 to 4 degrees and Dharamsala recorded a high of 26.6°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rains-claim-432-lives-in-himachal-pradesh-highest-in-five-years-315452
24-09-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||No relief in sight for building norm violators in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 23The government’s plan to provide relief to the owners of unauthorised structures, especially in the Shimla Planning Area, has suffered a major setback with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) reiterating its resolve not to make any relaxation in the construction norms or allow compounding of violations.The government has time and again been assuring the owners of the buildings, raised in violation of the norms, that it will seek relief from the court. The government is keen that the restriction of two floors and an attic limit within the Shimla Planning Area must be relaxed.Question mark on lift, secretariatNGT orders put a question mark on the proposed installation of the lift, remodelling of the roof at Ellerslie, the secretariat, besides construction of parking and new buildings.The highest number of unauthorised structures exist in the Shimla area. The court has also declined to allow any new construction in the green and core areas of the city. The owners too have been pressuring the government to seek relief from the court.“The concept of compounding cannot be permitted to be used and to destroy natural resources, environment and ecology. There will be no regularisation of the unauthorised constructions withinthe core and green areas,” the court has observed, eliminating any possibility in relaxation.The Shimla Development Plan, which has been in the process of formulation for the past over one decade, is yet to see light of the day. Despite the repeated court directives, the draft plan is yet to take a formative shape. The state capital is still growing on the basis of the 1979 Interim Development Plan.There is a complete ban on new construction in 17 green belts that had been carved out in December 2000 to act as lungs of the town. The government’s efforts to get partial relaxation in the belt too have not succeeded. In case of green and core areas, only reconstruction or alteration is allowed under the strict supervision of the Implementation Committee, constituted on the directions of the NGT.In light of the latest NGT order, the possibility of the court taking a lenient view or even giving some relaxation seems bleak. A question mark has been put on the proposed installation of the lift, remodelling of the roof at Ellerslie, the Secretariat, besides construction of parking and new buildings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-relief-in-sight-for-building-norm-violators-in-shimla-315451
24-09-2021||Subhash Rajta||Good apple crop in Himachal, but farmers fear losses||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 23Even as the apple production is likely to be higher this time than the past couple of seasons, apple growers in Himachal are not upbeat. The reason: Quality deterioration due to untimely snowfall, hailstorms and a dry spell, besides a sluggish market.“As per our record, 2.1 crore apple boxes have hit the market,” said Gyan Singh Verma, Deputy Director, Horticulture Department. “Our production forecast this season is 3.22 crore boxes. With around one crore more boxes expected from Shimla and Kinnaur districts, we will end up close to our production forecast,” Verma said. Taking into account the sales made to the HPMC, HIMFED under the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) and to CA stores, the total production in the state is expected to reach around 3.75 crore boxes.“Around 42,000 tonne apple has been procured by the HPMC and Himfed under the MIS,” Verma added.Even as the Horticulture Department expects the crop to go beyond 3.5 crore boxes, growers feel it’s not a bumper crop. “Considering the fact that the state produced over 5 crore boxes of apple in 2010, the production of 3-4 crore boxes can only be termed as average,” said Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruit, Vegetable and Flowers Growers Association.“The growers will suffer a collective loss of over Rs 1,000 crore this time. Around Rs 300-crore loss was estimated by the Horticulture Department due to untimely snow and storms at the flowering stage. Earnings have taken a further hit as the quality and size of the fruit was also affected due to hailstorms and a dry spell,” Chauhan said.As per department’s record, growers have sold more fruit outside the APMC mandis this time. “Of the 2.1 crore boxes sold so far, only 97 lakh were sold at the APMC mandis. The remaining were either sent directly to the mandis outside the state or sold outside the APMC mandis,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/good-apple-crop-in-himachal-but-farmers-fear-losses-315367
