27-09-2021||---||Landslide reported near Shimla HC||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 27   A landslide triggered by an uprooted tree damaged a car parked near the Shimla High Court on Monday, officials said.The tree also blocked the road linking the high court and the industry office.Officials say that the roots of the adjoining tree have become weak, sparking fear of another landslide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-reported-near-shimla-hc-316912
27-09-2021||Dipender Manta||2 dead in road accident at Darcha on Manali-Leh highway||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 27As many as two persons were killed in a road accident at Darcha on Manali-Leh highway on Monday morning, when the truck they were travelling in went down the road.According to the police, two persons were travelling in the vehicle, when the accident happened.Both were found dead on the spot.The bodies are being taken to district hospital in Keylong to conduct postmortem. The victims are yet to be identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-dead-in-road-accident-at-darcha-on-manali-leh-highway-316861
27-09-2021||Many trucks ferrying apple often overload||Overloaded apple trucks a threat to commuters||Dusty roads make driving difficultDue to the ongoing construction work at Chambaghat in Solan, travelling has become a hassle as commuters have to face dust every time trucks and buses cross through the stretch. Water should be sprinkled on the road as fog and dust reduces visibility, making driving difficult. This could also lead to accidents. — Rohan, SolanWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overloaded-apple-trucks-a-threat-to-commuters-316840
27-09-2021||Subhash Rajta||Muck dumping poses threat to Shimla Giri water scheme||Shimla, September 26Muck dumping into the Giri river has become a cause for concern for Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL).The water procurement and distribution company for Shimla has been struggling to handle the increasing silt in the river over the past year and fears that the sludge will reduce the life and sustainability of the scheme.Rise in dumpingThere has been a massive increase in the dumping of muck into the river during the pandemic. Muck from several development projects such as the upcoming CA store at Parala fruit mandi and roads is being dumped into the river. SJPNL officialWater company Struggling to handle increasing silt“There has been a massive increase in the dumping of muck in the river during the pandemic,” said an SJPNL official, adding: “Muck from several development projects, such as the upcoming CA store at Parala fruit mandi, is being dumped into the river.”As a result of this illegal dumping, the Giri water scheme source witnesses high turbidity, sometimes as high as 6,000 nephelometric turbidity unit, every time it rains heavily. With such high turbidity, pumping drops down to 3-4 MLD from the normal 17-20 MLD, causing a severe shortage of water in the city.“It is one of the two key water schemes for the city. If the pumping drops down to such an extent, the shortage of water is unavoidable,” the official said.Apart from threatening to make the water source unsustainable, muck dumping is also affecting the quality of water, osing a threat to public health. “More silt and sludge means that we have to use more doses of chemicals to treat the water. More use of chemical is certainly not good for health, but the huge quantity of silt leaves us with no other option,” the official said.Besides, the additional treatment of water means extra expenditure. “We are installing tube settlers to ensure silt settles down as quickly as possible. The silt management has become an added feature of the scheme and entails an extra expenditure,” the official said.The SJPNL has written to the Shimla Deputy Commissioner and Theog SDM to check the blatant dumping into the river.“All stakeholders, the Forest Department, PWD, Electricity Department and district administration, need to come together and make a water safety plan to save the scheme,” the SJPNL official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/muck-dumping-poses-threat-to-shimla-giri-water-scheme-316669
27-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Manav Bharti University pharma students refused registration||Tribune News ServiceSolan,September 26The Pharmacy Council of Himachal Pradesh has refused to register pharmacy students of Manav Bharti University (MBU) which is functioning under a government administrator after its management was found involved allegedly in a multi-crore fake degree scam unearthed last year.Ball in govt’s courtRegistration to students has been denied as per the state government directions. The issue should be represented before the government and if their plea is allowed, it will register them. Gopal Krishan Sharma, Prez, Pharmacy Council Mgmt facing trialA case under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against the MBU management in February 2020 for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy for the sale of fake degrees by its managementThe council’s denial has left the students, who are pursuing a two-year diploma as well as a 4-year bachelor’s degree in pharmacy, in limbo.Since practical training in the registered institutes is a mandatory part of their course, denial to register the students is giving them anxious moments.A case under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against the MBU management in February 2020 for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy for the sale of fake degrees by its management.The case was under trial and the government has appointed an administrator to run the university. This was specially done to ensure regular study in the presence of adequate faculty.The Pharmacy Council of HP had reportedly refused the registration of some students in the past too, but they were registered later.Rajiv Kumar, university’s administrator, said, “A representation has been made before the Secretary, education, to intervene and help the students to get themselves registered with the council for their training in various institutes.”He confirmed that the students had been denied registration and this had aggravated their hardships and they would fail to get jobs.Gopal Krishan Sharma, president, Pharmacy Council of HP, said the registration to the students had been denied as per the state government directions. He added that the issue should be represented by the university administration before the government and if their plea was allowed, they would register them.When asked about some ineligible students having been registered in the past by the council too, he said if a representation would be made before him, it would be withdrawn. Several students had sought migration to other universities last year after its management was booked in the fake degree scam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manav-bharti-university-pharma-students-refused-registration-316670
27-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Palampur: CSIR marks 80th foundation day||Palampur, September 26The CSIR-Himalayan Institute of Bio-resource Technology, Palampur, celebrated the 80th foundation day of the the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) today.The CSIR has an effective network of 37 national laboratories across India. Presently, the council has about 12,500 scientific, technical and administrative personnel.Chief guest Prof RK Khandal, fellow at Royal Society of Chemistry, London, and president (business development) of India Glycols Limited, Noida, delivered a lecture on ‘Changing industrial trends: increasing demand for renewable chemicals’.He threw light on clean energy, eco-friendly technology and making new and renewable chemicals using waste materials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-csir-marks-80th-foundation-day-316671
27-09-2021||---||Leh to Manali on cycle in 34:54 hrs||Mandi, September 26Lieutenant Colonel Sripada Sriram from the Strategic Strikers Division of One Corps has established a Guinness Book of World Record for the ‘Fastest Solo Cycling – (Men)’ from Leh to Manali. He completed the 472-km distance in 34:54 hours.A defence spokesman said Lt Col Sriram started cycling for his mission from Leh at 4 am on Saturday.The route involved crossing of five major passes in tough weather conditions.Akash, Rajbir win ‘Road to Himalaya’ raceAkash Sherpa and Rajbir Singh (1 hour 50 minutes) stood first in the Elite Men’s and Under-19 categories, respectively, while Kunal Negi completed the 38-km “Road to Himalaya race, Shimla Chapter, in 1 hour 53 minutes.As many as 38 out of the total 48 riders completed the cycle race with an average elevation gain of 765 metre. The route was Mashobara-Seepur-Ghodna-Dak Bangla-Bekhulti-Camp Daak Bangla.The top three riders of the event would get free entry into the prestigious 9th MTB Shimla, said Mohit Sood, President and Founder of Himalayan Adventure Sports and Tourism Promotion Association (HASTPA).“We are committed to search for and nurture the best MTB talent in the country as we have the best natural terrain for the sport,” Sood added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leh-to-manali-on-cycle-in-3454-hrs-316672
27-09-2021||Hamiprur||Sluggish road work irks Sujanpur residents||People of Sujanpur in the district have expressed concern over the slow pace of road construction work.  The work to upgrade the Thana-Patlandar Riah and Chalokhar-Ree-Banal roads, linking interior roads of the subdivision, was started in May 2020 and was to be completed by June this year.  But only 20 per cent of the work had been completed. The roads were to be upgraded under the PMGSY. Both roads cater to a population of over one lakh people of 70 villages. Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Patlandar village, says the company has scratched the 10 km stretch about nine months ago, causing inconvenience to people. Vinay Sharma, a resident of  Ree village, says if the company is unable to execute the work, the department should reinvite the tender for the work. Vijay Chaudhary, Superintendent Engineer of the PWD, says that the company wants more time to complete the work. He adds that a 10 per cent penalty has been imposed on the company for delaying the work. If it still fails to complete the work by December, the department will again invite the tender. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sluggish-road-work-irks-sujanpur-residents-316673
27-09-2021||---||Machines to collect garbage fee in Shimla||Shimla, September 26The Shimla Municipal Corporation will soon introduce smart garbage bill collection machines.“We have around Rs 10 crore to recover as garbage fee. With the introduction of these machines, we hope to recover the outstanding amount shortly. Besides, the payment of garbage fee will become quite hassle-free for consumers through these machines,” said MC Joint Commissioner Ajit Bhardwaj. Hassle-free paymentHope to recover Rs10 croreWe have around Rs10 crore to recover as garbage fee. With the introduction of these machines, we hope to recover the outstanding amount shortly. Besides, the payment of garbage fee will become quite hassle-free for consumers through these machines. — Ajit Bhardwaj, MC Joint CommissionerThe MC has collaborated with Axis Bank to procure these machines. “We have already received 20 machines and the remaining 16 will arrive shortly,” said Bhardwaj.Bhardwaj said Saheb Society supervisors would visit households with these machines to collect the fee. “These machines will be kept in the ward office where people could go and pay their bills. Apart from paying the fee, the consumers can also generate their bills through these machines,” said the Joint Commissioner.Bhardwaj said the introduction of these smart machines would be a great help to the people who can’t come to the MC office or pay their bill through online methods. “The facility will be in addition to the existing mode of payments like online methods, Lok Mitr Kendras and over the counters,” said Bhardwaj.A couple of months back, the MC received garbage bills from just around 15,000 households out of the over 60,000 households. As a result, the outstanding amount has risen to over Rs 10 crore, leaving the MC in a tight spot for generating revenue for salaries and expenses of Saheb workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/machines-to-collect-garbage-fee-in-shimla-316674
27-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Weavers’ service centre in Kullu to be upgraded: Union Minister||Kullu, September 26Union Minister of Commerce & Industry and Textiles Piyush Goyal, accompanied by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur, witnessed an exhibition of handloom and handicraft under the ‘Seva and Samarpan’ campaign on the occasion of the golden jubilee of the statehood at Dhalpur here today. He interacted with local weavers and artisans and listened to their suggestions.Committee set up for marketingThere is a lot of potential in promoting handloom by reforming designing and packaging, standardising quality and modernising marketing techniques. A committee has been formed to use marketing techniques for competing in the international market.— Piyush Goyal, Union MinisterDuring his address at Atal Sadan, the Union Minister said Delhi’s extension of the Weavers Service Centre in Kullu would be upgraded to a full-fledged centre and a design resource centre would be opened in Kullu within 12 months. He appreciated the efforts of people in preserving and promoting handloom and handicraft in the past 50 years.He said there was a lot of potential in promoting handloom by reforming designing and packaging, standardising quality and modernising marketing techniques. He said subsidies and incentives would not be beneficial in the long run. A committee had been formed to find marketing techniques for competing in the international market. He said trademark, patent and GI tags would strengthen their earning. He distributed woodcraft, handloom, embroidery machines and certificates to local artisans. A documentary on handloom and handicraft was also shown.The Chief Minister said the role of handloom and handicraft was important in Kullu, especially in rural areas. Earlier, these activities were carried out only for personal use but now it had become a big commercial sector. He said the cottage industry would be promoted with the use of technology, latest designs and proper marketing. To facilitate an online sales platform for weavers, an MoU had been signed with Flipkart and the department was also doing online sales of products. The CM thanked the Union Minister for fulfilling the demand of weaver service and design resource centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/weavers-service-centre-in-kullu-to-be-upgraded-union-minister-316675
27-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu: CPM passes 8 resolutions||Kullu, September 26The 17th state-level conference of Communist Party Marxist (CPM) was organised at the Mahadevi Teerath in Ramshilla, 4 km from here, today. A strategy was prepared for the next three years. It was decided that the boycott of the Central Government’s new education policy and labour laws would continue. Onkar Shad was elected state secretary and a seven-member state secretary board and 30-member state committee was also formed.Eight resolutions were passed in the conference in which it was decided to oppose changes in labour laws and new education policy, protest against unemployment, privatisation and monetisation, and raise voice on issues of women, problems and demands of Dalits, issues of agriculture, horticulture, and animal husbandry. Resolutions were also passed to implement the Land Acquisition Act, 2013, and demand 4-fold compensation for the affected persons.Theog MLA Rakesh Singha, a member of the state secretary’s board, said the manner in which the government had started selling the country to private players would shatter the economy and benefit only a few.He said the rights of workers had been attacked by changes in the labour laws and those in agricultural laws were brought to grab the land of farmers. The public was suffering from inflation and unemployment. At this time, the party needed to stand firmly with the people. He called upon the party members to go among the people and mobilise support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-cpm-passes-8-resolutions-316676
27-09-2021||Solan||Weapon seized, 1 booked||The Manpura police on Saturday evening recovered a country-made pistol and three bullets from a security sleuth, Bharat Bhushan, who is deployed in a private company.The weapon was kept in a plastic bag and hidden in a bed box at his rented room at Manpura village in Baddi.A case under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act was registered against him as he could not produce any licence for the weapon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/weapon-seized-1-booked-316677
27-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||RBI slaps Rs 15 lakh fine on Baghat bank||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 26The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has imposed a penalty of Rs 15 lakh on the Baghat Urban Co-operative Bank Limited, Solan, for violation of rules pertaining to classification of Non-Performing Assets (NPA).The financial situation of the bank, as on March 31, 2019, as per its assessment report, exposed non-adherence to the RBI rules and violations of the guidelines. This includes non-ID of NPAs, incorrect classifications of resources or assets, insufficient arrangements made because of the incorrect classification of assets and non-adherence to exposure standards for housing real estate and commercial real estate.The bank was also issued a show-cause notice to explain why a monetary penalty should not be imposed for violation of the RBI directions. Its reply was, however, found unsatisfactory following which a fine was imposed on August 25 by the RBI.This is the second time in 12 years that the bank has faced a penalty for failing to adhere to the RBI norms. Earlier, the bank was fined Rs 5 lakh in August 2009 for violating the RBI guidelines on non-SLR transactions, a bank official stated.The working of the bank has come under the radar ever since a slew of financial irregularities had come to the fore in May this year. A nominated committee was constituted to probe these allegations, following which the managing director (MD), assistant MD and a manager were placed under suspension on September 10. Their suspension was, however, revoked merely within five days by an administrator who had been appointed to look after the bank in September.Strangely, the chairman of the nominated committee was removed on September 10 after issuance of suspension orders of the three officials.A sense of insecurity has crept in among the shareholders after the recent happenings at the bank.Allaying their fears, bank’s chairman Pawan Gupta, however, said, “The money of all our shareholders is secure and there is nothing to worry. If certain norms have failed to be adhered to while dispensing loans, those guilty should be taken to task to ensure that the bank’s credibility remains intact among the depositors who are the backbone of this institution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rbi-slaps-rs-15-lakh-fine-on-baghat-bank-316678
27-09-2021||---||Start talks or face stir: Balh farmers to Himachal Govt||Mandi, September 26The Balh Bachao Sangharsh Samiti has threatened to intensify its protest against the state government decision to construct an airport in the Balh valley of Mandi district. The body has given November 9 as the deadline to the government to initiate a dialogue with farmers of the valley or face agitation. The affected people of Balh will also gherao the residence of the area MLA Inder Singh Gandhi on November 10, if their demand is not heeded.Joginder Walia, chairperson of the samiti, said, “Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is moving ahead with the construction of the airport in the valley without the consent of farmers, whose land will be acquired for the project. In the past three years, the Chief Minister has not given us time to have a dialogue over this issue to know about the views of the locals. Despite repeated requests, he has ignored our demand.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/start-talks-or-face-stir-balh-farmers-to-himachal-govt-316679
27-09-2021||Mandi||3 die of Covid in Mandi||Three Covid patients died at Nerchowk medical college in Mandi today. They were Kala Devi, 82, Geeta Devi, 81, and Chanchla Kumari, 58, all of Mandi. Chief Medical Officer Devender Sharma said the patients had been undergoing medical treatment at the hospital for the past few days. As many as 112 Covid cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-die-of-covid-in-mandi-316680
27-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Will raise Asha workers issue with Centre: Health Minister Rajiv Saizal||Nurpur, September 26Health Minister Rajiv Saizal today assured Asha workers that the government would explore the possibilities of giving honorarium to them on the Uttarakhand pattern after examining the policy.The minister was presiding over the closing ceremony of a two-day state-level sammelan of the Bharitya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) affiliated Asha Workers’ Association at Fatehpur in Kangra district.As many as 500 workers from eight districts of the state participated in the sammelan.Addressing the sammelan, Saizal said Asha workers had played a pivotal role in the fight against Covid. Lauding their services, he asserted that the state government was serious towards the cause of the workers and had recently enhanced Rs 750 of its share of their monthly honorarium.Saizal assured the workers that he would raise their issue of handsome honorarium with the Centre.The minister asserted that the state government was committed to providing quality health services to the people of the state and it had filled 1,300 posts of medical officers besides thousands of posts of other categories in the Health Department in the past three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/will-raise-asha-workers-issue-with-centre-health-minister-rajiv-saizal-316681
27-09-2021||vinder Sood||Palampur: 10 yrs on, hearing and speech impaired villager awaits pucca house||Palampur, September 26Aman Kumar (53), a hearing and speech impaired resident of Gummer village of Kangra district, has been moving from pillar to post for the past 10 years to get a house sanctioned under the Central housing scheme, but has failed to move the authorities.Aman’s wife Veena Devi and son Ayush Kumar, have also the same disability.After travelling for about one-and-a-half hours from Palampur, the reporter reached the village near Jwalamukhi where the family resides in a small mud house. The family is living in fear that the roof of the house could come down any time due to heavy rain.Anik, another son of Aman, has told The Tribune that his father, mother and brother can neither speak, nor listen. They have no source of income except disability pension of Rs 1,500 per month. Anik is also unemployed. If they get a house under the scheme, it will be the biggest favour for them.He has said the family is also eligible for financial assistance from the government. They approached the panchayat and local authorities, but in vain. However, their names have been included in the BPL list by the panchayat and get subsidised ration.Shimla Devi, panchayat pardhan, Gummer, said she was well-versed with the miserable condition of the family and making efforts to get them a house sanctioned under the scheme. Aman’s name had been forwarded to the government for the allotment of house and she hoped he would get it soon.A senior officer of the HP State Rural Development Department said because of some land dispute, money for constructing a house could not be sanctioned to him. Aman had been asked by the Block Development Officer concerned to get the title of the land cleared. The panchayat pradhan had also been requested to collaborate with the local revenue authorities and settle their dispute.Aman said he had requested the local revenue authorities and panchayat to help him in settling the land dispute as he was unable to approach the officials concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-10-yrs-on-hearing-and-speech-impaired-villager-awaits-pucca-house-316682
27-09-2021||Dipender Manta||No trade, cultural activities during Dasehra in Kullu||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 26The business community is disappointed because the Dasehra Committee is in no mood to allow business and cultural activities at the historical Dhalpur ground in Kullu during the weeklong celebrations. The festival would start on October 15 and culminate on October 21.Govind Singh Thakur, Education Minister and Chairperson of Kullu Dasehra Committee, said that the business fair and cultural programmes would not be organised this year.Every year, temporary stalls were set up at the Dhalpur ground to allow business activities during the Dasehra festival. Apart from this, cultural programmes were organised to entertain the audience. The festival plays a crucial role in promoting tourism in Kullu-Manali because a large number of foreign and domestic tourists visit the region to enjoy the festivities.Also, the festival provides earning opportunities to local self-help groups of mahila mandals, weavers, craftsmen, businessmen, artistes and folk dancers. Mahila mandals set up stalls of local cuisines to serve the visitors, craftsmen display their products for sale while artistes and folk dancers entertain the audience for which they get paid.In absence of business activities and cultural programmes, these people would be directly affected.Tilka Thakur, who runs a business in the handloom sector, said, “The state government should allow business activities during the fair. We are looking at this festival as an opportunity to earn livelihood because after Covid-19 outbreak, the handloom industry has suffered a lot,” she maintained.Budhi Prakash Thakur, a hotelier in Manali, said “Dasehra festival plays a crucial role in attracting tourists in large numbers. The confluence of hundreds of deities is a major attraction. Apart from this, business fair and cultural programmes are key activities of the festival, which should be organised after following Covid protocols.”Kullu Sadar MLA Sunder Singh Thakur said the livelihood of hundreds of people was dependent on the festival. So, the government should think over this issue and allow the business and cultural activities for locals to earn their livelihood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-trade-cultural-activities-during-dasehra-in-kullu-316683
27-09-2021||Kullu||Kullu pvt hospitals to cover health scheme||Now, patients will get Him Care and Ayushman Bharat card facility in private hospitals of Kullu. All diseases covered in these two schemes will also be treated by private hospitals. A seminar of the Continuing Medical Education (CME) to give information about Him Care and Ayushman Bharat card scheme was organised here today.Dr Viking Bhanoo from Bhanoo Hospital informed the managements of private hospital and doctors about the schemes covered by the government under these two cards. He said the Him Care card had been started by the state government for the convenience of patients and the Union Government was providing the Ayushman Bharat card. He said now, patients could also go to private hospitals and get treatment done free of cost and the entire cost of their treatment will be borne by the government.Kullu CMO Sushil Chander Sharma said thousands of people had got free health benefits through the Ayushman Bharat card. He said more than Rs 10 crore had been spent on the treatment of over 15,000 patients under Him Care scheme in the district. He urged people to visit the nearest Lok Mitra Kendra to take advantage of these schemes and make their Him Care and Ayushman Bharat cards. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-pvt-hospitals-to-cover-health-scheme-316684
27-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Cong to counter BJP’s Panna Pramukhs||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 26With just one year left for the Assembly elections, the Congress is trying to reactivate its booth-level workers to counter the BJP in Kangra.Committees To be formed this monthThe party recently had a meeting of its block-level workers in Dharamsala which was attended by senior leaders, including district president Ajay Mahajan, former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma and HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania. It was decided to form booth-level committees comprising five members at each polling booth.The Congress is trying to counter the BJP strategy of forming Panna Pramukhs. The BJP has formed teams of three persons for each page of voter list, who are called Panna Pramukhs. They approach people on the voter list and convey the policies and programmes of the party.The model was even appreciated by national president of the BJP JP Nadda and he proposed to implement it across the country. The BJP is giving the credit of its victory to Panna Pramukhs.Ajay Mahajan, while talking to The Tribune, said the party in-charge for Himachal Rajiv Shukla had directed them to strengthen the booth-level workers. Committees will be formed with an aim to bring the party to power in 2022.Pathania said there were 1,619 polling booths in Kangra district. Each committee would convey the party message to the locals in their areas. The work for the formation of committees had been started and it would be completed this month, he said.Former Rajya Sabha member and senior leader Viplove Thakur, who also heads the disciplinary committee of the HPCC, said senior leaders would have to listen to the workers. They could complain to her if the senior leaders ignored them.The Congress has faced stunning defeats in Kangra district in the 2017 elections in which it lost 12 of the 15 segments and in the 2019 parliamentary bypoll, Kishan Kapoor won with a record margin of about 4.72 lakh votes. Now, it wants to reverse its fortune in Kangra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-to-counter-bjps-panna-pramukhs-316685
27-09-2021||Shimla||Woman alleges sexual assault||A woman hailing from Rampur of Shimla district has lodged a complaint with the police, alleging that she was sexually assaulted. The victim stated that she came in contact with a man on Facebook and they became friends. The accused, Rajbant, met her at a local fair on September 2, and abducted her. He then sexually assaulted her, along with his brother and brother-in-law and threatened her with dire consequences if she disclosed the incident to anyone. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-alleges-sexual-assault-316686
27-09-2021||imla||Two cars damaged in Shimla landslide||Two vehicles were damaged in a landslide at Brahma Kumari Ashram near the passport office at Panthaghati on the outskirts of Shimla this morning. No casualty was reported. The Shimla-Panthaghati road is now open to traffic.The death toll in rain-related incidents during the ongoing season since June 13 has increased to 435. Seven roads, including five in Mandi and two in Kullu district, are closed.Monsoon remained weak in the past 24 hours and light rain was witnessed at a few places. Jubbal received 12 mm of rain, followed by Dharamsala 8 mm, Shahpur 5 mm, Khadrala 3 mm and Solan and Baghi 1 mm each.The local Met office has predicted a wet spell in the state till September 30.There was no notable change in the minimum and maximum temperatures. Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district was the coldest at night at 8.1 degree C while Una was the hottest during the day at 34.9 degree C. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-cars-damaged-in-shimla-landslide-316687
27-09-2021||---||Boulder blocks Solan highway||Solan, September 26Vehicular traffic on the Parwanoo-Dharampur section of National Highway (NH)-5 was hit after a boulder fell near the railway overbridge at Sanwara this evening.Machines on the jobThere is no obstruction to the movement of traffic as one-way traffic was through on the highway. Machines are stationed at several key places and little time is lost in clearing such landslides. — Balwinder Singh, Project manager, GR InfraprojectTraffic was diverted through the single lane facing the valley, slowing down the vehicular movement. Vehicles lined up on both sides of the spot and were able to cross in turns.Being a weekend, there was a huge flow of traffic on the highway.Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta said, “The traffic movement has been channelled through a single lane near the railway overbridge after a massive boulder and debris fell on the highway around 6 pm this evening.”GR Infraproject, the company engaged in four-laning of the highway, rushed in their staff and machinery to clear the blockage. Project manager Balwinder Singh said, “Labour has been rushed in with earth excavation and other machinery to clear it. It was expected to restore the traffic by late evening as work was underway in full swing.”He added that there was no obstruction to the movement of traffic as one-way traffic was through on the highway. Machines were stationed at several key places and little time was lost in clearing such landslides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/boulder-blocks-solan-highway-316688
27-09-2021||Notwithstanding tall claims of the successive regimes about jobs||PhD students among 18K applicants for 42 posts of peon, gardener, cook in Himachal secretariat||Piyush strikes chord with publicEnjoying the image of a performing minister with good administrative skills, Union Minister Piyush Goyal was seen exhibiting his equally affable public dealing skills during a function in the state capital. “If you have any complaint against the Chief Minister, please feel free to tell me. I will speak to him,” he said, while putting at ease a woman from a village in CM Jai Ram Thakur’s constituency of Seraj. It’s a different matter that the women was all praise for her MLA and CM.Coop bank in controversyA cooperative bank has been in the news for all wrong reasons this week. About Rs 22 lakh was withdrawn from the Una branch of the bank and deposited back by an employee. Also, many took to social media regarding the bad loans extended by the Una branch to a Manali hotel. Earlier, it was in the news for cash deposited by a relative of powerful ruling party politician in violation of the RBI guidelines. The management of the bank has, however, been maintaining a silence over the issues.Hogging creditIn a bid to hog credit, an officer, after assuming charge in Solan district, decided to re-invent ongoing schemes. The endeavour, it seems, was aimed at grabbing the media headlines. In one such attempt, a scheme functional, since 2019, which was shortlisted for a national award for e-Governance in the Department of Administrative Reforms, was also launched afresh. The staff are in the dilemma, who can neither oppose, nor wholeheartedly support such exhibitionism.Contributed by Pratibha Chauhan, Lalit Mohan and Ambika Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/phd-students-among-18k-applicants-for-42-posts-of-peon-gardener-cook-in-himachal-secretariat-316737
27-09-2021||Human Hope Foundation||Workshop on bookmark making||Talk on national securityLt Gen Raj Shukla, PVSM, YSM, SM, ADC, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ARTRAC, addressed students, research scholars and members of the faculty of the Department of Defence and National Security, Panjab University, Chandigarh. In an interaction spanning over two hours, he discussed key postulates pertaining to country's national security. ARTRAC, under the stewardship of Lt Gen Raj Shukla, in the past one and half years, has undertaken major steps to reach out to various government and private universities, institutes and academia pan India to share and gain knowledge.SFI to participate in Bharat BandhThe SFI will participate in the Bharat Bandh call given by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha for September 27. Stressing that it would raise students' issues on the occasion, the SFI said there was a shortage of teaching staff and other basic facilities in many colleges and that was affecting the quality of education. The party also said it would highlight how the government had turned PTAs into a tool to exploit, and how the government was shifting its on responsibilities on to PTAs.SJVN holds Kavi sammelanThe SJVN organised Akhil Bhartiya Kavi Sammelan 2021 during the Hindi Pakhwada in Shimla as part of the Government of India's initiative to celebrate 75 years of Independence and the subsequent journey of the nation in social, economic and cultural fields. SJVN chairman Nand Lal Sharma said the company reiterated its commitment to bring cultural and literary heritage of the nation to the masses by organising various programmes under this initiative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workshop-on-bookmark-making-316738
27-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||Apple supply to Punjab slumps as Himachal private firms procure crops||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26The procurement of apples by private firms in Himachal Pradesh has affected supply in the local markets here.Traders say there is a slump of around 20-30 per cent as compared to last year. This has caused a hike in the prices of the apples. Arhtiyas selling apples in the wholesale market say there is a hike of Rs 20-30.Ravi Shankar Gupta, a trader at the Maqsudan fruit mandi, said: “Apples from HP start arriving in the local mandis in August. Last year, by this time, around 40-50 Jeeps containing 20-25 quintal apples had arrived, but this season, just 7-10 Jeeps have reached. Subsequently, the prices have increased by almost 20 per cent. In the wholesale market this year, the 2X quality apples are being sold at Rs 30-35/kg, 3X at Rs 40-55/kg, 4X at Rs 60-70/kg and 5X at Rs 80-100/kg. On the contrary, last year, the prices were between Rs 20-30/kg, Rs 35-50/kg, Rs 55-60/kg and Rs 70-80/kg, respectively.”Kuldeep Raj (50), another fruit dealer, said owing to the drop in supply, traders were selling the fruit kept in the cold stores here.The local apple traders are now waiting for the arrival of apples from Jammu and Kashmir. Amar Singh Dogra (60), a Himachal-based apple farmer and dealer, confirmed the slump in the export of the apples to Punjab. “While the production doubled this year, the quantity of apples of large size, which are usually sold in Punjab, remained lower than the last year. Consequently, private firms procured fine quality apples before they could be transported to other states,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apple-supply-to-punjab-slumps-as-himachal-private-firms-procure-crops-316566
27-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||69% seats in Himachal Pradesh private universities had no takers||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 26About 69 per cent of the seats sanctioned for admission in 402 courses run by private universities in HP remained unfilled in the 2020-21 session, the highest in engineering.Only 8,604 of the 27,837 seats could be filled last year amid Covid, said Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPERC) Chairman Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd). The craze for engineering courses was diminishing nationwide and Himachal was no exception, he said.Most in engineering“The unfilled seats indicate the reluctance of students to take admission in private universities. Though the pandemic is also to be blamed, students seem to be preferring to study in universities outside the state,” he said.Some parents were averse to shell out more money for education in private universities when classes had to be conducted online. Moreover, the fake degree scam of Manav Bharti University, Solan, and the failure of some private universities to recruit eligible faculty had made students apprehensive, said an education expert.The number of seats would be reduced if private universities failed to fill them and in case the trend continued for three years, the courses would be disapproved, maintained Kaushik.Meanwhile, a tender of Rs 1 crore has been awarded to ITI Limited (Chandigarh) for an online management system to ensure real-time information exchange between the HPPERC and private universities. The system would keep the regulator updated about infrastructure, admissions, faculty, courses offered, student strength and financial status of institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/69-seats-in-himachal-pradesh-private-universities-had-no-takers-316575
