28-09-2021||Shimla||209 new Covid cases, no death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 209 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally 218,523. However, there was no death due to the virus.The highest 49 cases were recorded in Hamirpur, followed by 39 in Kangra, 36 in Mandi, 24 in Solan, 20 in Bilaspur, 14 in Shimla, 13 in Kinnaur, five in Kullu and three each in Una, Sirmaur and Chamba, and seven in Bilaspur. The active cases declined to 1,730. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/209-new-covid-cases-no-death-in-himachal-pradesh-317139
28-09-2021||A portion of The Ridge has sunk and cracks keep appearing at other spots too. It is very surprising that the MC and other authorities concerned are not showing any urgency to repair The Ridge properly. It is a prime area of the city||Take up Shimla Ridge repair on priority||Dangerous spotThere’s a point on the Kufri-Dhalli stretch, where almost every year a truck or two carrying apples turns turtle. There seems to be some problem with the incline of the road at this particular spot. The accidents have been taking place for a couple of years now but no initiative has been taken to fix the problem yet. — Brij Verma, SanjauliIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/take-up-shimla-ridge-repair-on-priority-317138
28-09-2021||Chamba||Jr hockey championship in Chamba||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jr-hockey-championship-in-chamba-317137
28-09-2021||A five-day training workshop to enhance the productivity of fruits was organised for Subject Matter Specialists and Horticulture Development Officers by the Directorate of Extension Education||Training in enhancing fruit production at Nauni varsity||NSS Day observedThe National Service Scheme (NSS) unit of Wazir Ram Singh Government College, Dehri, in Nurpur, observed NSS Day. Principal Sanjay Pathania encouraged volunteers to execute their duties sincerely and to review their work on a regular basis. Volunteers Aastha Sharma, Sneh Rana, Anisha, and Bharti highlighted important facts about the NSS while describing its history during the event. Volunteer Aryan administered the NSS oath to all volunteers.Start bus service from Darla: ABVPThe ABVP unit of the Dhami College has submitted a memorandum to HRTC regional manager to start to and fro Darla-16 Mile bus service to facilitate the travel of students. Due to a massive landslide at Dhandal, the bus services had been disrupted and the students were facing a lot of problem in reaching their colleges, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/training-in-enhancing-fruit-production-at-nauni-varsity-317136
28-09-2021||Una||3 from Una shortlisted for PM’s session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually interact with countrymen on October 2 with a focus on sanitation and Jal Jeevan Mission. The Una administration has shortlisted three public representatives to participate in the interaction.In a press note issued here today on behalf of DC Raghav Sharma, the session will start from 10 am to 12 noon. The names of three panchayat representatives from Tabba, Lower Dehlan and Lower Kotla Kalan panchayats have been shortlisted and these will be sent to the PMO.Raghav said the three panchayats have performed well in the field of sanitation. They ensured open defecation-free panchayat, besides proper management of solid and liquid waste from households and piped water connections in every house. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-from-una-shortlisted-for-pms-session-317135
28-09-2021||---||Two killed in truck mishap at Darcha||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 27Two persons were killed in a road accident at Darcha on the Manali-Leh highway in Lahaul Spiti district today when the truck (HP 28B-6069) they were travelling in skidded off the road. The deceased were identified as driver Kanshi Ram and helper Abhishek Chaudhary, both natives of Mandi district.According to the police, two persons were travelling in the vehicle when the accident happened. Both were found dead on the spot. The bodies have been taken to the district hospital in Keylong for the post-mortem after which the bodies will be handed over to the families of the deceased.Confirming the report, SP Lahaul Spiti Manav Verma said a case had been registered and investigation is underway to ascertain the cause of the accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-killed-in-truck-mishap-at-darcha-317134
28-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Una: Cycle rally to spread awareness on social issues, unity||Una, September 27To commemorate the 75th year of Independence, a cycle rally organised by the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) was flagged off from the Una municipal park to Delhi by Una DC Raghav Sharma on Monday morning.The team, led by SSB Commanding Officer Anil Nehra, started from the Centralised Training Centre of the SSB at Sapri in Kangra district and had reached Una late last evening where they had a night halt. Before embarking on their further journey, the team paid tributes at the War Memorial situated in the municipal park.Anil Nehra said 10 cycle rallies are being organized by the SSB from different parts of the country, all of which will simultaneously reach Rajghat on October 2 to pay tributes to Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi.He said the objective of the cycle rallies was to spread the message of national unity besides creating public awareness on social issues like sanitation, ‘beti bachao-beti padhao’ and Fit India Movement, besides others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-cycle-rally-to-spread-awareness-on-social-issues-unity-317133
28-09-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Kickboxing champ from Bhuntar village in need of monetary help to fulfil dream||Kullu, September 27Parav Pathania of Katuage village in Bhuntar subdivision of the district has been selected to represent the country at a WAKO kickboxing championship to be held in Italy.He has won a number of medals in various championships across the nation and now has been selected to participate in the international arena. However, the financial condition of his family does not allow them to dole out about Rs 2.5 lakh, required to travel to Italy.Parav belongs to a middle-class family and his father is a farmer and mother a helper in the panchayat. He has a younger sister studying in Class XII and the family has no other means of earning a livlihood. He was fond of the sport since childhood and started participating in competitions from Class IV.Parav has brought many laurels to the region and now wants to win a gold medal for the country. However, with limited financial resources, his path looks difficult as there is no assistance from the government.His family approached a welfare organisation, Kar Sewa Dal, for financial assistance to pursue Parav’s dream. Kullu Kar Sewa Dal president Mandeep Singh Dang said it was a matter of pride that a boy of the district would represent the country in an international competition. The organisation has provided him some financial assistance and appealed to its members to come forward to help the budding champion. Parav had appealed to all sports lovers, welfare organisations and elite persons to help him.The Ministry of Sports had recently proposed to recognise the WAKO India Kickboxing Federation as a National Sports Federation (NSF). World Association of Kickboxing Organisations (WAKO) has been provisionally recognised as a member of the International Olympic Committee on November 30, 2020.Started participating in events in Class IV||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kickboxing-champ-from-bhuntar-village-in-need-of-monetary-help-to-fulfil-dream-317132
28-09-2021||---||Car damaged in Shimla landslide||Shimla, September 27A car was damaged following a landslide, triggered by an uprooted tree, near the Directorate of Industries building below the High Court here today. However, no casualty was reported.The death toll during the monsoon has risen to 441 while 12 persons are missing. The total loss to property is assessed at around Rs 1,115 crore.The Met office has predicted rain and thunderstorms at isolated places in mid and lower hills and thunderstorms, rain and snow at a few places in higher hills from September 28 to October 1.Light rain occurred at isolated places as the monsoon remained weak in Himachal. Dharamsala received 8 mm rain, followed by Shahpur 5 mm, Kangra 4 mm and Narkanda 1.5 mm.The state received 679.6 mm rain from June 1 to September 27 against the normal rainfall of 761 mm, a deficit of 11 per cent. Lahaul and Spiti district had the highest deficit of 69 per cent, followed by Chamba 44 per cent. Kullu, Mandi and Shimla districts received 40 per cent, 10 per cent and 7 per cent excess rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/car-damaged-in-shimla-landslide-317131
28-09-2021||Dipender Manta||2 trekkers die at Lahaul and Spiti glacier, 14 stranded||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 27Two trekkers died while 14 others were stranded at Khemenger Glacier in Pin Valley in the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti.According to the police, a team comprising six trekkers from Arete Mountaineering Club, Kolkata, along with one guide and 11 porters crossed the Parahio Valley to reach Khemenger Glacier in the Spiti region. Two trekkers, identified as Bhaskardeb Mukhopadhyay (61) and Sandeep Kumar Thakurata (38), died due to extreme weather conditions.The incident came to light when two members of the trekking group reached Kaza on Monday after a gap of two days to seek help from the administration.Neeraj Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, said, “A team comprising Army, ITBP personnel and doctors has been sent to rescue those stranded. Due to long distance, it will take almost three days to reach the glacier.”The trekking expedition was scheduled from September 11 to October 7. The group had taken permission from the Indian Mountaineering Federation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-trekkers-die-at-lahaul-and-spiti-glacier-14-stranded-317039
28-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Nurpur's Virender Singh Pathania is Additional Director General, Indian Coast Guard||Nurpur, September 27Virender Singh Pathania from Ladori village in Nurpur has been appointed as the Additional Director General (ADG) at the Indian Coast Guard headquarters in Delhi.The Defence Ministry has issued the order on Friday and he will join on September 30. At present, he is serving as ADG, Eastern Seaboard, Visakhapatnam.Pathania has served the organisation on various posts during the past three-and-a-half decades. He also held the charge of Deputy Director General, Policy and Plans, at the headquarters.He holds a master degree in Defence and Strategic Studies from the University of Madras. Pathania has also undergone specialisation training in search and rescue and port operations from the US Coast.The flag officer is also a recipient of the President’s Tatrakshak Medal for his distinguished service in the Indian Coast Guard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpurs-virender-singh-pathania-is-additional-director-general-indian-coast-guard-317130
28-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Chargesheet panel to expose graft in Himachal Pradesh: Congress||Hamirpur, September 27The chargesheet committee of the Congress will expose corruption in Himachal Pradesh during the BJP regime. Rajesh Dharmani, chairman of the committee, said this here.He said the state government had evolved a formula to appoint people through back doors and was ignoring merit. The proposed selection of 8,000 workers for the Education Department should be done by making a selection policy. Leaving 4,000 appointments on the mercy of the Chief Minister would be a mockery of the selection process. The practice would encourage corruption and back-door entry.Dharmani alleged that the Jal Shakti Department was also reeling under such practices as class III and IV employees were selected on the pick and choose basis. The practices were adopted to benefit those close to BJP leaders, he alleged. Also, the selection of outsiders for the posts of JE in various departments would add to the woes of the youth struggling for jobs. The Congress would protest against such a move.He said the state was reeling under a poor law and order situation. The chairman said the NDA government at the Centre had ignored the state and no major project had been announced in the past four years while during the UPA regime, major projects were started, including IIM-Una, NIT-Hamirpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chargesheet-panel-to-expose-graft-in-himachal-pradesh-congress-317129
28-09-2021||Shimla||BJP plans rath yatras in all 68 segments of Himachal Pradesh||The BJP will take out rath yatras in all 68 constituencies to mark the Golden Jubilee of statehood. A Sampark Abhiyan (Mass Contact programme) would be launched to reach out to people and make them aware of the achievements of the governments at the Centre and the state. The rath yatras are scheduled in mid November.The decision was taken at the meeting of state office-bearers of the party which was also attended by the BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, party in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-incharge Sanjay Tandon.The party will also organise Panna Committee Sammelan and Punch Parmeshwar Sammelan to further strengthen the party, said state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap. He said the state BJP has done well and response to Ashirvad Yatra was overwhelming while the tour programme of Union minister Piyush Goel was also a big success.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-plans-rath-yatras-in-all-68-segments-of-himachal-pradesh-317128
28-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||Himachal Pradesh High Court notice to Chief Secy, PCB on water contamination||Shimla, September 27The HP High Court today expressed concern over the issue of contamination of water of wells and bore-wells in surrounding areas of Majra village in Nalagarh due to chemical waste of Shiwalik Solid Waste Management Plant. It issued notices to the Chief Secretary, Member Secretary, State Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board, and the Deputy Commissioner of Solan.The court passed theorders on a petition taken up suo moto by the court as a Public Interest Litigation on a letter written to the Chief Justice by Joginder Singh of Majra village, Nalagarh in Solan district. The court sought replies from the state authorities within two weeks.The petitioner has alleged that Shiwalik Solid Waste Management plant was set-up in Mazra village, 15 years ago after obtaining an NOC from the panchayat by misleading it that an environment project was going to the set up there. But, later, when Shiwalik Solid Waste Management Plant was built the villagers came to know that hazardous chemical solid toxic waste of the different factories of Himachal Pradesh was to be brought to this solid waste plant and the responsibility for treating this solid waste was entrusted to the plant.It was alleged in the petition that for the past 15 years the solid waste is being dumped in the ground by the aforesaid plant by covering it with soil, without proper treatment. The water of natural sources like wells and bore-wells of Mazra panchayat and the surrounding villages has become poisonous due to seepage of chemically contaminated water of this plant into the ground.It was alleged that villagers had made several complaints to Pollution Control Board as well as various other higher authorities but till date no action has been taken against the solid waste company. He has alleged that due to this poisonous water, their cattle have died and even the villagers have fallen victim to many serious diseases.Cattle die, villagers falling ill in NalagarhIt was alleged in the petition that the Shiwalik Solid Waste Management Plant was dumping solid waste in the ground for the past 15 years without proper treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-high-court-notice-to-chief-secy-pcb-on-water-contamination-317126
28-09-2021||Shimla||Raise doctors’ strength to 5,000, says Himachal Medical Officers Association||The Himachal Medical Officers Association (HMOA) has urged the state government to increase the cadre strength of doctors from 2,400 to at least 5,000 and fill all vacant administrative posts. “The strength of 2,400 doctors is insufficient. It needs to be increased to at least 5,000 to provide better health services and accommodate doctors coming out of our medical colleges,” said HMOA secretary Pushpender Verma. “Also, there are many administrative posts lying vacant, including around 30 posts of Block Medical Officer. All administrative posts should be filled through the Departmental Promotional Committee, not on any other criteria,” said Verma. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/raise-doctors-strength-to-5-000-says-himachal-medical-officers-association-317125
28-09-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM reviews preparations for Kullu Dasehra festival||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur presided over meeting of state level Kullu Dasehra Committee here today to ensure that all preparations are in place for the festival in a time-bound manner. A detailed discussion on various issues related to organisation of the international Kullu Dasehra Utsav from October 15 to October 21 was held.The Chief Minister issued direction to ensure proper security arrangements, uninterrupted electricity supply and adherence to Covid-19 guidelines during the festival. “Fairs and festivals represent our rich cultural heritage and the state government is committed to their conservation,” he remarked.“Kullu Dasehra is not only known in Himachal but globally and is a reflection of our religious belief and cultural values”, he added.Education, Language and Art Culture Minister Govind Singh Thakur gave details of the meetings held with the district level committee and district Kardar Sangh. He also gave various suggestion related to successful organisation of the festival.It was decided in the meeting that all deities would be invited for the Dasehra festival. All religious ceremonies would be organised traditionally but the cultural and commercial activities would not be held.It was also decided in the meeting that Language, Art and Culture Department would provide an additional amount of Rs 10 lakh to district administration Kullu for organising the festival.MLA Surender Shourie, HPMC vice chairman Ram Singh, former MP Maheshwar Singh, general secretary Kardar Sangh Narayan Chauhan, Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh and Additional Chief Secretary LAC RD Dhiman were present in the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-reviews-preparations-for-kullu-dasehra-festival-317124
28-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||World Tourism Day: One-min video out to woo tourists in Himachal Pradesh, package announced||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 27The state government launched a one-minute video, giving a glimpse of the natural beauty, unexplored destinations and the rich culture and heritage of Himachal Pradesh, to mark World Tourism Day today.The idea was to create awareness about the scenic areas in the state, eco-tourism, national parks, flora and fauna, besides promoting outdoor adventure activities like paragliding and handloom and handicraft, said Amit Kashyap, director of Tourism and Civil Aviation-cum-Managing Director of Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC).With over 2,000 village deities, there is immense scope for pilgrim tourism and the HPTDC, which has the best properties in the state, has started special packages for tourists. At present, the HPTDC is running 53 hotels, 15 cafeterias and way side amenities, he stated.“As the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, has become an international tourist destination, we have started special tours (Manali – Atal Tunnel, Rohtang – Sissu- Jispa – Keylong) for tourists. Contact HPTDC and your travel, accommodation, food would be our responsibility,” Kashyap said.Modernisation of properties to meet today’s demands, introducing Himachali Thali with four local dishes at HPTDC destinations and promoting prime accommodations as wedding destinations were some of the steps taken to attract tourists.Addressing the employees at a hotel today, Kashyap said with the best properties and capability to perform better, the corporation should be in profit by the next World Tourism Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/world-tourism-day-one-min-video-out-to-woo-tourists-in-himachal-pradesh-package-announced-317122
28-09-2021||---||Himachal schools reopen with 48% attendance in Class X, XII||Shimla, September 27About 48 per cent students of Classes X and XII attended schools in the state today. The state government had decided to open schools for Classes IX to XII. To ensure social distancing, it was decided that the students of Classes X and XII would attend schools on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays while the students of Classes IX and XI would come to schools on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays.As many as 64,178 of the total 134,182 students (47.82 per cent) of Classes X and XII attended government schools. The highest attendance of 60.99 per cent was registered in Kullu, followed by 57.06 per cent in Kangra, 56.70 per cent in Hamirpur, 55.61 per cent in Sirmaur, 55.56 per cent in Bilaspur, 50 per cent in Una, 47.74 per cent in Lahaul and Spiti, 42.35 per cent in Chamba, 41.35 per cent in Kinnaur, 41 per cent in Solan, 38.16 per cent in Shimla and 36.46 per cent in Mandi.Earlier when the schools were opened on August 2, the attendance was 43 per cent, which increased this time implying that the parents and the students were keen to attend schools, said sources in the Education Department.“The emphasis has been on vaccinating teachers and non-teaching employees in schools to ensure the safety of students. While 98.75 per cent of the total 46,744 teachers have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, 34.13 per cent have received both doses till day,” said Amarjeet Sharma, Director Higher Education. Around 98.45 per cent of 15,900 non-teaching employees had received the first dose and 36.63 per cent had got both doses, he added.“I was fed up sitting at home. Reopening of schools is necessary to get back to the normal routine. Meeting friends, and interacting with teachers in person are better than online studies any day,” said Aman, a Class X student.The schools have prepared micro plans and all precautions, including proper sanitisation of classrooms, thermal scanning, staggering of students coming and leaving schools, alternative sitting arrangements and adherence to appropriate Covid behaviour, are being ensured. The students are asked not to share books and stationery and avoid physical contact with each other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-schools-reopen-with-48-attendance-in-class-x-xii-317121
28-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Bharat Bandh: Industrial production hit in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 27At least 25 per cent less production took place in the state’s industrial hub of the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) area today as around 50 per cent of the workforce did not turn up from Haryana and Punjab in view of the Bharat Bandh, announced by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM).Industrial workers commutes from places like Panchkula, Chandigarh and villages in Kalka, Pinjore, Ropar, etc. Since no inter- state buses or other commercial vehicles could ply, production and dispatch of goods was adversely hit.According to an estimate, about 50,000 industrial workers commute from the neighbouring states to this industrial belt on a daily basis.The dispatch of industrial goods was also hit as the Nalagarh Truck Operators Union could not send its vehicles to other states. “Trucks returning from various destinations were held up and on an average, movement of about 1,000 vehicles was affected,” Vidya Rattan, union’s president, said.The impact of the bandh was more pronounced in bigger units, having more workforce. Even senior managers could not attend office today.Sanjay Khurana, president of BBN Industries Association, said, “Bigger units in the textile and automobile sector suffered as much as 25 per cent loss of productivity today as senior and middle-wrung officials could not reach their workplace from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana.”Khurana rued that it was unfair of the farmer unions to hold the industry to ransom as Covid had already crippled their productivity since the last year-and-a-half. He urged the government to amicably resolve the issue so that there were no further disruptions to production.Surinder Kumar, human resource manager of a kitchen appliances manufacturing unit at Baddi, said such unforeseen closures did not augur well for the industry, which was trying to revive and prepare itself for the upcoming festive season. Manufacturing lines also saw a scant workforce turned up for work, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bharat-bandh-industrial-production-hit-in-baddi-barotiwala-nalagarh-317119
28-09-2021||Tribune Repoters||Sanyukt Kisan Manch threatens Delhi-like agitation in Himachal||Shimla, September 27The Sanyukt Kisan Manch held protest rallies in apple belts to reiterate its demands such as the introduction of the Kashmir-like Market Intervention Scheme and strict implementation of the APMC Act. The Himachal Kisan Sabha, CITU and other organisations also held protests in the state on the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three farm laws and the changes in the labour laws.“Marches were taken out in several places in upper Shimla, starting from Theog to Rohru. At various places, beopar mandals kept shops shut for two hours to show solidarity with the farmers,” said Harish Chauhan, kisan manch convener. At a few places, transport services were also stalled.“Apple prices both in APMC mandis and private stores have gone up after growers came on one platform to fight for their rights,” said Chauhan. The kisan manch would continue to fight until the government accepts its demands. “If the government continues to ignore our demands, the agitation can take the shape of the one going on on the outskirts of Delhi,” manch leader Sanjay Chauhan said.The leaders also alleged that the Chief Minister and ministers were visiting mandis but were reluctant to talk to farmers.“The Central Government should withdraw the farm laws and grant the MSP on fruits, vegetables and cereals, as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan commission,” said kisan sabha president Kuldeep Tanwar, leading a protest in Shimla.Vijender Mehra, CITU president, said labourers from all districts would join farmers in Delhi, if the government did not accept their demands.Hamirpur: The three farm laws enacted by the Central Government are against farmers and must be withdrawn, said Kashmir Singh Thakur, national secretary of CITU.Solan: The bandh had little impact in Solan and Sirmaur as shops and business establishments remained open and private buses plied on internal routes.The movement of inter-state buses was, however, hit. HRTC buses to Delhi and Chandigarh plied only till Parwanoo, said an official.DSP, Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta said people were advised not to travel beyond Parwanoo. Those who ventured out were guided to return from Timber Trail resorts. Transporters had also been advised not to send trucks carrying apples.The Paonta Sahib police had set up nakas at major inter-state barriers. Vehicles were checked at Behral, Gobindghat, Meenus and Haripur Khol barriers. The bus stand wore a deserted look at Paonta Sahib.There was a scanty flow of tourists to Kasauli as vehicles from other states did not enter the state at Parwanoo.FIR against leaders for blocking road||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sanyukt-kisan-manch-threatens-delhi-like-agitation-in-himachal-317118
28-09-2021||Mandi||Two trekkers die at Khemenger Glacier in Lahaul Spiti||Two trekkers have died while 14 others are stranded at Khemenger Glacier in tribal district Lahaul Spiti.According to the police, a team from the Areat Mountaineering Club, Kolkata, crossed the parahio call coming down to Khemenger Glacier in Spiti region.Due to tough terrain in the region, two trekkers died.DC, Lahaul Spiti, Neeraj Kumar said, “Today we received information that two trekkers died at the glacier, while 14 people are stranded in the area. Efforts were made to rescue the stranded people with the help of helicopter service in day time today but could not succeed.”“Now a team comprising of Army and ITBP along with doctors has been sent to the spot to lead rescue operation,” said DC.The deceased victims were identified as Bhaskar Dev and Sandeep Kumar, both natives of Kolkata.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-trekkers-die-at-khemenger-glacier-in-lahaul-spiti-316924
