30-09-2021||---||Multi-storey building collapses in Shimla; no loss of life||Bhanu P LohumiTribune News ServiceShimla, September 30In a major mishap, a multi-storied building collapsed at Ghaura Chowki near here on Thursday while two more buildings located down below were also completely damaged and another building is endangered.Cracks had appeared in the building a few days back and it crumbled like a house of cards this evening. However, no loss of life was reported as the building was vacated this afternoon.The district administration had issued notice to evacuate the building two weeks back and the efforts to salvage the building failed as the foundation had reportedly weakened due to seepage of water from buildings located above.The foundation of the building was weak and eight stories were constructed on it. Moreover the sewerage of adjoining buildings was also seeping in the foundation of the collapsed building, said neighbours.“All eight families were evacuated this afternoon and are being rehabilitated and as such there was no loss of human life, another building has been endangered,” said Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi, who was on the spot.Panic gripped the people residing in the vicinity as a large number of huge buildings have come up in the fragile hill popularly known as “Kachhi Ghati”.“We were hearing crackling sounds since last night and the residents started moving out and the building was totally vacated by today afternoon,” said Abhishek, who lives in the adjoining building, adding that the building was tilting since afternoon.The police, administration and fire brigade was already on the spot when the mishap occurred and Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who is also the local MLA, also visited the spot.The administration is ascertaining whether the building was legal with a building plan approved from Municipal Corporation and necessary action would be taken after the records are perused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/multi-storey-building-collapses-in-shimla-no-loss-of-life-318316
30-09-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Solution to stray dog menace a must||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Solution to stray dog menace a mustStray dogs have been posing a threat to commuters on the Mall Road for a long time now. Recently, the way of an ambulance was also obstructed by the canines. Such instances could be avoided in the future if the Municipal Corporation swings into action. — Shweta, ShimlaSustainable development need of the hourThe frequency of landslides during monsoons has increased during the past few years and it is high time that the state government understands the true meaning of sustainable development. Construction activities in the name of projects, highways, widening of roads etc should be undertaken only when necessary, as it is taking a toll on our environment as well as human lives. — Gurvinder, Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solution-to-stray-dog-menace-a-must-317998
30-09-2021||DAV Centenary Public School||Investiture ceremony at DAV- Mandi||Workshop on plant health mgmtWorkshop on ‘Efficient plant health management for boosting farmers’ income’ was organised by Shoolini University, Solan. Chancellor PK Khosla stressed the use of latest techniques to make food pesticide free and increase its availability. Dr Celia Chalam, Head Division of Plant Quarantine, ICAR-NBPGR, emphasised the need of bio-security against transboundary pests and diseases to prevent external threat to sustainable agriculture.Orissa Law varsity wins contestThe Centre for ADR and Professional Skills of Himachal Pradesh National Law University (HPNLU), Shimla, in association with the Indian Institute of Arbitration and Mediation (IIAM), New Delhi, and Nani Palkhivala Arbitration Centre (NPAC), Chennai, organised its maiden National Mediation Competition online recently. National Law University, Orissa, emerged the winners as the client-counsel pair and Government Law College, Mumbai, won the best mediator award. Over 52 judges gave valuable feedback to the participating teams and guided them with the required skills for mediation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/investiture-ceremony-at-dav-mandi-317999
30-09-2021||Kullu||Anti-domestic violence workshop in Kullu||A one-day workshop was organised on the Domestic Violence Act, 2005, by the Women and Child Development Department, under the aegis of National Commission for Women and Himachal Pradesh State Commission for Women, at Dev Sadan here on Monday. The programme was presided over by Manjri Negi, a member of the State Commission for Women, and Child Development Project officers and supervisors. Negi inaugurated the programme by lighting a lamp. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anti-domestic-violence-workshop-in-kullu-318000
30-09-2021||Nurpur||Now Congress flays govt for nod to trade fair in Nurpur||After the local business community, the Kangra district Congress has come out in opposition of the state government for granting permission to a month-long trade fair at the Chogan ground in Nurpur from October 5. Ajay Mahajan, president of the district unit, said here today that organising a trade fair on the ground owned by the state Youth Services and Sports Department was incomprehensible as the Covid threat was still not over.He alleged that the government was risking the lives of area residents and also playing with the interests of the local trading community, which was already in financial distress due to the pandemic. He also questioned local MLA and Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports Rakesh Pathania as to what was the compulsion to allow rent-free usage of his department’s property to private players. “Ironically, the state government had not allowed any trade activity at the state-level Janmashtami Festival in Nurpur last month and also declined the same during the week-long Kullu Dasehra celebrations, commencing on October 15. Eyebrows were raised after permission for organising the trade fair was accorded by the administration,” he quipped. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-congress-flays-govt-for-nod-to-trade-fair-in-nurpur-318001
30-09-2021||---||Paonta Sahib police arrest kingpin of drug supply||Solan, September 29The Paonta Sahib police arrested a youth, Atul, who was wanted in several cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act registered against him in the area, from Devinagar last evening. He was remanded in police custody by a local court today.Deputy Superintendent of Police, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur, said, “Atul is the kingpin of a narcotic drug supply racket in the region. He was wanted in several cases, in which his associates had been arrested. This included a case in which 7.35 gm of smack was seized at Kafota and another case in which 9.6 gm of the same drug was recovered during a raid at Devinagar in recently.”He has been absconding since June and was arrested on Tuesday after months of sustained efforts. He was also arrested earlier in an NDPS case in 2018 and has remained under judicial custody for 2.5 years.He had been securing contraband from various places in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and was among the main suppliers in the Paonta Sahib region.During an earlier raid at his house in Devinagar, the police had failed to arrest him. He had escaped to Uttarakhand. A six-member team had been constituted to nab him and the probe was being supervised by the DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-sahib-police-arrest-kingpin-of-drug-supply-318002
30-09-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Denied permission to sell paddy in Punjab, Himachal farmers seek local procurement centre||Nurpur, September 29Hundreds of farmers of the Mand area in Indora subdivision of Kangra district are in distress after they were declined procurement of their paddy crop at the Food Corporation of India (FCI) centres in the neighbouring Punjab. As a result, the demand for a permanent FCI procurement centre in the area has gained momentum.APMC TO MAKE EFFORTS TO REDRESS ISSUEThe APMC will try its best to set up a procurement centre in Mand before the next harvesting season after interacting with local farmers about the most suitable location.. — Raj Kumar Bhardwaj, Secy, APMCSources said paddy is produced on around 2,500 hectares in the Mand area, known for wheat, maize and paddy, besides sugarcane crop. The FCI, for the first time, had started procuring wheat at two centres in Kangra district — Thakurdwara and Fatehpur. The farmers had been selling their wheat produce at these centres until June 15 on the maximum support price (MSP). Farmers of Mand area, which borders Punjab, earlier sold their paddy crop at FCI centres in Mukerian of Hoshiarpur district. But this year, the Punjab Government had declined to procure crops of farmers of other states.Raj Kumar Bhardwaj, secretary, Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Kangra, said a distressing situation arose after the Punjab Government declined the procurement. He said the APMC would try its best to set up a procurement centre in Mand before the next harvesting season after interacting with local farmers about the most suitable location. The Agriculture Department is constructing a grain market at Milwan in Indora subdivision, the foundation stone of which was laid earlier this year, he said.Suresh Pathania, president of the Kangra Kisan Union, has sought a permanent solution to the problem by setting up makeshift procurement centres at Fatehpur and Indora for the time being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/denied-permission-to-sell-paddy-in-punjab-himachal-farmers-seek-local-procurement-centre-318003
30-09-2021||---||Lahaul farmers trained in ‘heeng’ cultivation||Mandi, September 29To strengthen the economy of farmers in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti, the CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT), Palampur, is encouraging them to cultivate ‘heeng’. As many as 186 farmers have been trained so far.FIRST dist in country to begin sowingTo improve the livelihood of farmers and utilise the land, the CSIR-IHBT is making an endeavour to introduce heeng, which is suitable for cultivation in cold desert conditions. Lahaul and Spiti is the first district in India to start 'heeng' cultivation— Sanjay Kumar, Director, CSIR-IHBTSanjay Kumar, director, CSIR-IHBT, says, “The institute has the Centre for High Altitude Biology, Ribling at Lahaul, where farmers grow potato and peas on mainly barren land. To improve the livelihood of farmers and utilise the land, the institute is making an endeavour to introduce ‘heeng’, which is suitable for cultivation in cold desert conditions”.He says that Lahaul and Spiti is the first district in India to begin ‘heeng’ cultivation. “The institute introduced heeng seeds from Iran and Afghanistan through the ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (ICAR-NBPGR), New Delhi, in 2018,” he adds.“Germination is a constraint in Ferula heeng due to seed dormancy. A series of experiments were conducted in the laboratory using different temperature treatments to standardise seed germination. Growth hormones and seed germination of 60-70 per cent was achieved for raising planting material,” he says.The institute conducted experiments under the vigil of the ICAR-NBPGR, at the Centre for High Altitude Biology, Ribling, at an altitude of 11,500 ft in Lahaul and Spiti, says the director.Seedlings were planted at Kwaring village in Lahaul and Spiti on October 15, 2020. Till now, 12,800 plants have been distributed to the farmers of the district with the help of the Agriculture Department covering about 1.5 hectares in Keylong, Belling, Sasura Gompa, Madgram, Salgran, Gondhla, Triloknath, Chheling and Kaza.The director says, “India imports about 1,540 tonnes of raw ‘heeng’ annually from Afghanistan, Iran and Uzbekistan for around ? 942 crore per year. In order to make India self-sufficient cold desert areas such as Lahaul and Spiti, Ladakh, parts of Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh are suitable for the cultivation of heeng”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-farmers-trained-in-heeng-cultivation-318004
30-09-2021||---||Bank’s customer care dept ‘dupes’ Nalagarh youth||Solan, September 29A Nalagarh resident was duped of Rs 32,625 by the customer care department of a private bank, where he had called to enquire about returning a loan.“A case under Section 420 of the IPC for cheating was registered last evening after we got a complaint from a villager, Bhagirath. Further probe is underway,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police, Baddi, Navdeep Singh.The police said Bhagirath, hailing from a village in Nalagarh, had called the customer care number of a private bank on August 13 to seek information about returning a loan.He was told by the customer care executive that he would get him to talk to the loan department’s RM following which he received a call from another number. He was directed to click on the “Any Desk” link of the bank’s portal but as soon as he clicked on that link, a sum of Rs 32,125 was debited from his account. He was also directed to deposit Rs 500 in an account.Later, he realised that he had been cheated by the bank’s customer care.Bhagirath stated that despite visiting the bank multiple times the same day, his grievance was not settled. His online complaint was closed within seven days without settling his grievance. Alleging that the customer care of the said bank had cheated him, he lodged an FIR with the police last evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/banks-customer-care-dept-dupes-nalagarh-youth-318005
30-09-2021||Hamirpur||Postal ticket on freedom fighter Devi Das Gulzar released||The Postal Department released a ticket on freedom fighter Devi Das Gulzar at Nadaun near here today. Sandeep Dharmani, assistant superintendent of post, while handing over the ticket to the kin of the freedom fighter, said it was released to acknowledge and honour Gulzar’s contribution to the freedom struggle of the country. The plate of ticket was received by Gulzar’s son Nishpaksh Bharti.Dharmani said the department was releasing the ticket to celebrate Amrit Mahotsav. Gulzar was the first person of the district to get this rare honour.Gulzar was born on April 30, 1929, at Nadaun. His mother died when he was just one year old. He moved to Lahore at an early age with his father Dasondi Ram and started participating in revolutionary activities in 1945, while he was still a student of Class VIII. He met Asif Ali, Munshi Ahmaddeen and Raj Chadda there.His first attack was on the car of a governor when he was in Class IX. Gulzar was arrested, along with 12 other revolutionaries, when he went to receive Jai Prakash Narayan at the Lahore railway station. He continued his studies and served as a teacher in government schools after the independence struggle. He also wrote fiction and poetry in Urdu and Persian. He died on January 26, 2011. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/postal-ticket-on-freedom-fighter-devi-das-gulzar-released-318006
30-09-2021||---||Himachal Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar honours kin of martyrs in Shimla||Shimla, September 29Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar today called upon the people of the state to actively participate in the campaign against drug abuse, as it would be the main contribution to the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. He was addressing a Samman Samorah organised by the Samman and Salaam Foundation at Peterhoff here on Tuesday evening.The Governor felicitated the family members of the martyrs, who had made the supreme sacrifice for the country. He also honoured officers who had shown exceptional devotion and dedication to duty and public service during the Covid pandemic.He said, “If we know the source of drugs, we should stand and raise our voice against it. Future generations are becoming victims of drugs and they should be saved”.Arlekar said that Himachal is known as Dev Bhoomi and there was need to present a good example in society, for which such programmes should be organised.The Governor honoured Veer Naris. “It is really heartening to note that people, who are not government functionaries, also take pride in recognising the ultimate sacrifice of the heroes of Himachal Pradesh,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-rajendra-vishwanath-arlekar-honours-kin-of-martyrs-in-shimla-318007
30-09-2021||Dipender Manta||Eco-friendly mud huts near Prashar lake in Mandi an attraction||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 29Mud huts near Prashar lake in Mandi district are getting popular among tourists. There are tourists who prefer to spend holidays at scenic spots with pristine hills in the background and in peaceful environment rather than going to busy and congested tourist spots and residing in hotels.Organic food servedThe idea behind the mud huts is to promote eco-friendly tourism. Mud huts are nature-friendly where tourists prefer to stay. These huts remain cool in the summer and warm in the winter. During their stay, tourists are served organic food. Karan Thakur, Owner of mud hutsA local youth of the Darang area has set up these mud huts near the Prashar lake for tourism purpose. Karan Thakur, owner of the mud huts, says, “The idea behind the mud huts is to promote eco-friendly tourism. Mud huts are nature friendly preferred by tourists for stay. These huts remain cool in summer and warm in winter. During their stay, tourists are served organic food”.“After puja was performed on September 19 to open these huts, enquiries for booking are gradually increasing. The Prashar lake is a famous tourist place visited by a large number of foreign and domestic tourists round the year,” he says.He says that these mud huts have all basic facilities and comfort, making the stay of tourists in the lap of nature enjoyable.The Prashar lake, 48 km from Mandi, is located at a height of 2,730 m. With deep blue waters, the lake is a sacred spot. Sage Prashar is believed to have meditated here. There is a floating island in the lake which moves in different directions. Besides, a three-storied pagoda-like temple dedicated to Sage Prashar is situated in the vicinity of the lake. Its religious importance and the panoramic view of nature it offers that makes it a tourist spot worth visiting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eco-friendly-mud-huts-near-prashar-lake-in-mandi-an-attraction-318008
30-09-2021||Lalit Mohan||Panel under SDM to investigate illegal felling of deodars in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 29Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal has constituted a committee under the Dharamsala SDM to look into the complaints of illegal felling of deodar trees and damage caused to them in the Upper Dharamsala area, including McLeodganj, Bhagsu and Dharamkot.Sources said that environmental activist Gazala Abdullah and a local resident had filed a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner alleging that some building and hotel owners had damaged and illegally felled green deodars in Upper Dharamsala.On the complaint, Jindal constituted a committee comprising officers of Dharamsala such as the SDM, Divisional Forest Officer, Joint Commissioner and Tree Officer of Dharamsala MC, Executive Engineer, PWD; Assistant Town and Country Planning Department officer and the Tehsildar to probe into the allegations. The committee has been directed to associate with complainants and inspect every spot mentioned in the complaint.The order states that the committee shall clearly indicate its findings, action taken in the matter till now and the further course of action required on the part of every department if allegations mentioned in the complaint are found to be true. The Deputy Commissioner also directed the officials concerned to submit the action taken report in the matter to his office within one month.It is for the first time that the district administration has taken clear and precise action on complaints regarding damage caused to the green cover in Upper Dharamsala by private individuals.During the lockdown when the district administration had allowed constructions, many people razed hillocks in an unscientific manner to construct buildings. Haphazard levelling of hills threatened many green deodars on the road to the Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts (TIPA). In a few cases, the Dharamsala DFO and the Dharamsala MC issued notices to the violators. However, the notices could not deter the violators from levelling hills in an unscientific manner.During the previous Congress government, the Himachal High Court had taken suo motu notice of a private complaint and treated it as a PIL against illegal felling of green deodars in McLeodganj. About 150 hotels in McLeodganj lost their power connections following the court orders and many deodars that were trapped in buildings were freed. The local MC had also filed cases against some hoteliers for illegally felling green trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panel-under-sdm-to-investigate-illegal-felling-of-deodars-in-dharamsala-318009
30-09-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||2,057 govt schools run by single teacher in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 29Even as the Himachal Pradesh Government makes tall claims of having made rapid strides in education, the situation on the ground tells a contrasting story with 2,057 primary and middle schools being run by a single teacher.Besides, 722 primary and middle schools have only one classroom. As per the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) report for 2020-21, at least 6,479 primary and 378 middle schools have just two teachers each, while 1,573 primary and 746 middle schools are being run by three teachers each.Further, 2,807 primary and 249 middle schools are functioning from two rooms and 4,041 primary and 1,136 middle schools from three rooms each.The total strength of teachers in 15,323 government schools is 67,249 (40,758 male and 26,491 female) and the average teacher-pupil ratio is 12.83 at the primary level, 11.32 at middle, 11.60 at secondary and 10.96 at the senior secondary level, which is far better than the national average. But irrational deployment of staff and indiscriminate opening of schools has created an anomalous situation.The student-classroom ratio at primary, middle, secondary and senior secondary levels is 9, 14, 24 and 21 respectively, and the overall average is 13. The ratio is only four in Lahaul and Spiti, eight in Kinnaur and 10 in Shimla district. The same is 17 in Solan, 16 Una, 15 Kullu and Sirmaur, 14 Chamba and 13 Bilaspur and Kangra districts.Infra skewed too||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-057-govt-schools-run-by-single-teacher-in-himachal-318010
30-09-2021||Shimla||Helpline number launched for disabled voters for Himachal byelections||The Election Department has launched a helpline number, 1950, for disabled voters for the byelections on October 30.Visually impaired voters will vote through Braille signage on the EVM. Disabled voters and senior citizens will be provided transportation facility from home to the polling booth and back. They could seek help on the helpline number. They also have an option of postal ballot, said State Coordinator for Accessible Election Ajai Srivastava and State Nodal Officer of Election Department Neeraj Sharma today.Visually impaired voters will be given voter slips and voter guide in braille and a braille signage has also been made available on EVMs.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/helpline-number-launched-for-disabled-voters-for-himachal-byelections-318011
30-09-2021||---||Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur pays obeisance at Mandi temple||Mandi, September 29Ahead of the byelections in the state, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, along with his wife, visited the Shikari Mata temple in Mandi district. He was also accompanied by a few close associates.The byelections to three Assembly seats and one Lok Sabha seat has been scheduled for October 30.To win all four seats in byelections will be a challenging task for the BJP as the Congress is trying to corner it over inflation, and rising unemployment.To win the Mandi seat will be a litmus test for the CM, if the Congress fields a strong candidate. Speculation is rife that Pratibha Singh, wife of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, is the main contender for the Congress ticket. She was elected twice as MP from Mandi. However, in 2014, she lost the election to BJP candidate Ramswaroop Sharma.Sources said that the BJP would allocate ticket to the candidates with the start of the Navratris.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-pays-obeisance-at-mandi-temple-318012
30-09-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 205 new cases, three deaths in Himachal||As many as 205 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 218,898. Besides, three persons died of the virus—two in Mandi and one in Kangra.The highest number of 51 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 45 in Hamirpur, 39 in Shimla, 27 in Bilaspur, 16 in Una, 15 in Mandi, five in Solan, four in Kullu, two in Chamba and one in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 1,793.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-205-new-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-318013
30-09-2021||---||25 nursing students test Covid +ve, college made containment zone||Solan, September 29The Solan SDM today declared a private nursing college at Nagali village near Oachghat as a micro containment zone after 25 girl students tested positive for Covid-19.SDM Ajay Yadav said that initially two girls had tested positive but the number increased to 25 during their contact tracing. More contact tracing was done today and the results would be known tomorrow. The ground and first floors of the girls’ hostel were sealed and a micro containment zone was created. About 200 girl students are residing in the college hostel.Meanwhile, an RT-PCR test negative report has been made compulsory for those joining the hostel now. Adequate police personnel have been deputed outside the containment zone to prohibit the movement of people. Chief Medical Officer Dr Rajan Uppal said that health teams would scan persons suffering from flu-like symptoms to contain the spread of Covid-19. Those suffering from such symptoms would be tested and isolated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/25-nursing-students-test-covid-ve-college-made-containment-zone-318014
30-09-2021||Tribune Reporters||Flying squads to check violations: Mandi Deputy Commissioner||Mandi/Kullu, September 29Mandi District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhary said flying squads and permanent surveillance teams had been constituted to check the violation of guidelines of the Election Commission during the Mandi Lok Sabha seat byelection.The DC urged all vehicle owners of the district to not use their vehicles for campaigning in favour of any candidate without a permit during the Model Code of Conduct. He said under the Representation of the People Act, 1951, using posters, loudspeakers and other materials on vehicles without permission is a punishable offence.Octogenarians and persons with disabilities (PWD) will have the option to exercise their right to franchise through postal ballot paper in the upcoming Mandi parliamentary byelection, said Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg. He added that the process had been started to provide the option of postal ballots to persons over 80 years and PWD electors.He said that for outdoor rallies during campaigning, a maximum of 500 persons or 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue would be permitted as per the guidelines of the Election Commission.He added that in case of star campaigners, the maximum of 1,000 persons would be allowed in outdoor venue. In indoor venues a maximum of 200 persons or 50 per cent of the capacity, whichever is lesser, would be allowed for rallies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/flying-squads-to-check-violations-mandi-deputy-commissioner-318015
30-09-2021||Shimla||Ensure poll code not violated in Himachal: Congress||The Congress has urged to the Election Commission of India (ECI) to ensure that there is no violation of the model code of conduct. The party fears that the BJP can misuse the government machinery in the byelections.“It is the duty of the ECI to ensure that there is no fear among the voters, employees and the officers as only then free and fair elections can be conducted,” said HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore, who has shot off a letter to the ECI.Rathore said he was already receiving complaints from the areas where the bypolls are to be held that people associated with the BJP were pressuring and luring people for votes. “I urge the ECI to order the immediate removal of all government hoardings, bearing pictures and messages of the Chief Minister and ministers. Also, there should be a total ban on official tours of ministers in the eight districts where the model code of conduct is in force,” he said.“The ruling BJP is desperate to win the bypoll to the Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly seats to be held on October 30. It can misuse the official machinery and resources to woo the voters,” he alleged.The Congress chief said it is the responsibility of the ECI to ensure free and fair elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-poll-code-not-violated-in-himachal-congress-318016
30-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Poll announcement catches parties off guard||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 29The sudden announcement of the byelections for Arki Assembly seat in Solan district has taken both BJP and Congress by surprise.The Arki seat had fallen vacant after the death of six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh in July.The BJP did not even get time to notify Chief Minister’s announcement made during his August 13 visit to Arki where opening of a Block Development Office at Darlaghat was among the key announcements.The BJP leaders convened a meeting of Solan mandal to chalk out its poll strategy where Purshottam Guleria, in-charge Shimla Lok Sabha, exhorted the leaders to work in unison to ensure the party’s victory in the bypoll. He said meetings of other four BJP mandals would be convened soon to entrust duties.The ticket aspirants of the BJP and the Congress have become active to refresh their claim for ticket. The Arki Kalyan Manch, which had staked claim for ticket for their candidate a few months ago, is also expected to raise the pitch.The Congress which has not organised any poll-related meeting in the district. The byelection will be held in the midst of the festive season with nine-day Navratri and Dasehra falling in October.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poll-announcement-catches-parties-off-guard-318017
30-09-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Stakes high for both BJP, Congress in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 29With almost a year left for the next Assembly elections in the state, winning the Mandi Lok Sabha and three assembly bypolls is equally imperative for both the ruling BJP and the Congress.The stakes are high for the BJP for Mandi Lok Sabha election as the party won the seat by a record margin by its sitting MP Ram Swaroop whose death resulted in the seat falling vacant. Mandi also happens to be the home turf of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. Hence, the outcome of the Mandi bypoll will be a direct reflection on his leadership.Of the three Assembly segments going to the bypolls — two, Arki in Solan and Fatehpur in Kangra — had been won by the Congress and Jubbal Kotkhai won by the BJP in the 2017 Assembly polls. As such, the ruling BJP would want to not just retain the seat held by it but wrest the other two seats from the Congress.While the Congress is engaged in a tussle for one-upmanship within the state leadership, the BJP is already in election mode. Thakur has already made several announcements with an eye on the bypolls. As such the Congress faces an uphill task of standing up to the might of the BJP. The Congress is starved of funds and resources.The Congress will bank heavily on the sympathy factor and seek support in the name of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, who was a sitting legislator from Arki constituency in Solan district. His wife and former MP Pratibha Singh is a contender for the party ticket for Mandi seat.History in Himachal shows that on most occasions the bypolls are won by the ruling party. A lot will depend on the ticket allocation by the two political players who are banking on the sympathy vote in Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stakes-high-for-both-bjp-congress-in-mandi-318018
30-09-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Congress to finalise candidates on October 2, BJP a day later for Mandi Lok Sabha seat||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 29Both the BJP and the Congress are likely to finalise their candidates for the by-polls to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and the three assembly segments at their respective State Election Committee (SEC) meetings. While the BJP meeting is scheduled for October 3, the Congress is slated to hold the meeting a day earlier on October 2.Though the final call on ticket allocation will be taken by the party high commands the respective State Election Committees (SEC) of the two parties will forward the panel of names to the high command. A final decision on the candidates is likely to be taken only after October 7, the first Navratra as the last date of nomination is October 8. Both the parties will wait and watch so that the other declares its candidates first, especially in Mandi.The BJP SEC meeting will shortlist the probable candidates with the parliamentary board taking the final call. The list of contenders for ticket from Mandi Lok Sabha seat is lengthy with names of Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh, former MP Maheshwar Singh, chairman of Sainik Welfare Board Brig (retd) Kushal Thakur, BJP state spokesperson Ajay Rana and former media in-charge Praveen Sharma doing the rounds.The Congress SEC meeting will be held in the presence of AICC Secretary Sanjay Dutt. “It is after holding consultations at the State Election Committee meeting with all the senior leaders that the names of contenders will be forwarded to the party high command for final decision,” said Rathore.The frontrunners for the party ticket for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat are Pratibha Singh, former MP and wife of Virbhadra Singh. She met senior party leaders at Delhi earlier this week to stake claim for the ticket. She has earlier represented Mandi parliamentary seat twice in 2004 and 2013. She defeated Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in 2013.The other contender is Ashraya Sharma, grandson of former Telecommunication Minister Sukh Ram, who had contested the parliamentary election from Mandi in 2019. None of the other senior leaders like former Congress president Kaul Singh Thakur are keen to contest.As far as the tickets for the Assembly seats are concerned, the Congress seems to have more or less made up its mind with the names of Rohit Thakur (Jubbal-Kotkhai), Bhawani Singh Pathania (Fatehpur) and Sanjay Awasthy (Arki) emerging as front runners.The BJP is still in a dilemma over candidates for assembly bypolls. Though Chetan Bragta is almost certain to get the ticket from Jubbal Kotkhai, the situation in Fatehpur is uncertain as the contenders includes former MP Kripal Parmar and Baldev Thakur. In Arki too the BJP is facing rebellion with former MLA Govind Ram staking claim besides Rattan Pal also being in the fray.Ticket aspirants for Mandi LS byelection||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-to-finalise-candidates-on-october-2-bjp-a-day-later-for-mandi-lok-sabha-seat-317988
