02-02-2021||New Delhi||9,357 people get jabs in Delhi; vaccine days increased||Coronavirus vaccine jabs will to be given six days a week in Delhi from now on instead of the earlier four days, officials said on Tuesday.A total of 9,357 people were administered vaccine against the coronavirus in Delhi on Tuesday. Seventeen cases of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) were reported during the day and around 51 per cent of the targeted beneficiaries were inoculated, they said.Four cases of AEFI each were reported from South Delhi and West Delhi districts. Vaccines were administered at 183 centres, up from 106 on Monday. Each centre has a target of 100 vaccinations per day, a Delhi government official said.Coronavirus vaccination in Delhi is held on four days a week, barring Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Now, it will be conducted four times a week, an official said.Under the nationwide coronavirus vaccination programme, health workers are being administered the shots first. The priority group who will receive the vaccine include health workers, frontline workers, people above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidities.Earlier in the day, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said frontline workers would start getting COVID-19 vaccine jabs this week.Nearly six lakh frontline workers, including government school teachers, civic employees, police personnel, community health workers, are expected to be administered the vaccine. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/9-357-people-get-jabs-in-delhi-vaccine-days-increased-206977
02-02-2021||New Delhi||Delhi-Haryana’s most wanted gangster finally falls in police net||The Special Cell of Delhi police has arrested Delhi and Haryana’s most wanted gangster 36-year-old Ashok Pradhan alias Shoki, a resident of Nilothi village in Jhajjhar district of Haryana, who was wanted in seven cases including four cases of murder and robbery.He was carrying a reward of Rs 5,00,000 on his head in Haryana and Rs 25,000 in Delhi and was on the run since 2014 after jumping parole, police said on Tuesday.His close aide Arun, from Matindu village in Haryana, who was wanted in three criminal cases including two cases of murder and one case of attempt to murder and was carrying a reward of Rs 1,00,000 on his head in Haryana has also been arrested.A Maruti car, being driven by the accused and stolen from Rohtak, has also been recovered along with two sophisticated firearms. Both were arrested from Millennium Park, Outer Ring Road.Ashok Pradhan has an ongoing rivalry with Neeraj Bawana (in jail) and his gang. In this feud, over a dozen persons have been killed in the last 10 years.“Ashok Pradhan’s current obsession was eliminating Neeraj Bawana and his associate Naveen Bali, both of whom are presently in jail, on one of their upcoming court appearances. Since after implementation of the COVID-19 protocols, physical appearances of undertrial prisoners have been stopped, the accused were waiting for its resumption which has just begun.The timely apprehension of these dreaded criminals has scuttled their plans and saved many lives,” said Manishi Chandra, DCP Special Cell.Ashok Pradhan joined neutralised gangsters Neetu Daboda and Kismat in 2001. He marked his arrival on the big crime stage with the murder of a village head in Bahadurgarh, Haryana, closely followed by the murder of a doctor in Bahadurgarh city.Both these murders were executed on the orders of Neetu Daboda and were contract killings. Thereafter he went on a crime spree with Neetu Daboda, Kismat and others and was named in a number of criminal cases including contract killings, murders and kidnapping for ransom.In 2004, while he was behind bars, his brother was murdered by his rival Rajeev, a resident of Ashoda in Haryana. After obtaining bail, Ashok Pradhan eliminated Rajeev and many of his associates one by one. He was again arrested, tried and sentenced for life.In 2009, he got out on parole. After the neutralisation of his mentor Neetu Daboda by the Special Cell in 2013, he took over the reigns of Neetu’s gang and transformed it into the infamous ‘Pradhan gang’.In 2016, he murdered Krishan, a resident of Barahi village of Haryana, who had murdered his second mentor Kismat.After obtaining bail again he went off the police radar and owing to his continued criminal activities a reward of Rs 5,00,000 was  put on his head in Haryana and of Rs 25,000 in Delhi.In the last four months of the previous year, he had masterminded the murder of Neeraj Bawana’s gang member Shakti in October 2020. He also plotted the murder of Rohit, an associate of gangster Kala Jhathedi, in Katewra village in Bawana, Delhi in December 2020. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-haryanas-most-wanted-gangster-finally-falls-in-police-net-206933
02-02-2021||New Delhi||Latest sero survey shows 56.13 pc people in Delhi have antibodies against COVID-19: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday that 56.13 per cent of those covered under the latest serological survey in January have developed antibodies against COVID-19.   The minister also said that Delhi was moving towards herd immunity, "but only experts will be able to give a clear picture".        The fifth sero survey, the largest in the country so far, was conducted from January 15 to January 23, he said.      At 62.18 per cent, Southwest Delhi district reported the maximum seroprevalence, while North Delhi recorded the lowest at 49.09 per cent, Jain said."A new, better technology was used during the survey. Samples were collected from every ward. In all, 28,000 samples were taken," a senior official said.        The minister said the number of cases, fatalities and hospital admissions have declined significantly, but insisted that people continue to use masks for a few more months and maintain "COVID-19-appropriate behaviour". PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/latest-sero-survey-shows-56-13-pc-people-in-delhi-have-antibodies-against-covid-19-satyendar-jain-206918
02-02-2021||New Delhi||Security beefed up at Delhi borders; traffic congestions on key roads in city||Security has been stepped up with the deployment of extra personnel and strengthening of barricades near farmers’ protest sites at Delhi's borders, leading to traffic congestions on many key roads in the national capital.Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the closure of borders and suggested alternative roads for travel.Workers under the watch of police personnel on Monday were seen hooking iron rods between two rows of cement barriers on a flank of the main highway at the Singhu border to further restrict the movement of protesters agitating against the Centre's new farm laws at the site.Another portion of the highway at the Delhi-Haryana border is practically blocked now as a makeshift cement wall has come up there.Security has also been tightened at the Delhi-Ghazipur border, where protesting farmers are also camping for over two months."Ghazipur border is closed. Traffic diverted from NH 24, NH 9, Road no 56, 57 A, Kondli, Paper market, Telco T point, EDM Mall, Akshardham & Nizammudin Khatta. Traffic is heavy on Vikas marg, IP extention, NH 24. Pl(ease) commute from other borders," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.According to the police, Delhi-Ghazipur border remains closed for traffic due to the farmers' protests. The commuters are suggested to take alternative routes via Anad Vihar, Chilla, DND, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders, it added."Singhu, Saboli, Piau Maniyari borders are closed. Auchandi, Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school & Palla toll tax borders are open. Pl(ease) take alternative route(s)," the traffic said in another tweet.The police said traffic was diverted from NH-44 and suggested commuters to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH 44.On Monday, Delhi Police Commissioner SN Srivastava and other senior police officers visited Ghazipur border to take stock of the security arrangements.Security arrangements continue to be strengthened at the Delhi-UP border site, which is galvanising farmers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, days after an emotional appeal by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait.Drones have also been deployed to monitor the protesters.Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi's borders for weeks, seeking a repeal of the three agriculture laws.They claim that the new laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system. But the Centre says the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/security-beefed-up-at-delhi-borders-traffic-congestions-on-key-roads-in-city-206881
02-02-2021||New Delhi||Internet at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur borders suspended for 2 more days||The Ministry of Home Affairs has extended the suspension of internet services at the farmer protest sites in Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders till Tuesday night, officials have said on Monday.Apart from the three border points, where farmers have been protesting since November against the Centre’s three new farm laws, internet services will remain suspended in their adjoining areas too. The suspension is effective from 11 pm of January 31 to 11 pm of February 2.The decision has been taken to ‘maintain public safety and averting public emergency’ under Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017, a Home ministry official said.On January 26, when largescale violence was reported during the farmers’ tractor rally, Internet services were temporary suspended in some parts of Delhi.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/internet-at-singhu-tikri-ghazipur-borders-suspended-for-2-more-days-206351
