20-02-2021||New Delhi||17-year-old girl bludgeoned to death in Delhi||A 25-year-old man allegedly bludgeoned his friend to death after paying a visit to her house in Delhi’s Begampur area in Rohini district.The suspect identified as Laik is on the run after the incident.Police said the 17-year-old girl was allegedly bludgeoned to death with a hammer by Laik after he visited her house on Friday evening. The victim’s kin had gone to fetch some grocery items from the market at the time of the incident. Later, Laik bolted the door from outside before fleeing the spot.According to the police, they received a call from the hospital after the girl’s parents rushed their daughter to a nearby hospital where she was declared brought dead on arrival.“Both the suspect and the victim’s families were neighbours in Bawana. One year back the girl’s family had shifted to Begampur. However, the suspect in the case kept visiting the family. We have constituted several teams to arrest Laik,” said P.K. Mishra, DCP Rohini.A murder case has been registered and further investigation is on, police added. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/17-year-old-girl-bludgeoned-to-death-in-delhi-215206
20-02-2021||New Delhi||Youth Congress holds protest in Delhi, seeks Petroleum Minister’s resignation over fuel price hike||Activists of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) staged a protest at the Shastri Bhawan here on Saturday against rising petrol and diesel prices and demanded the resignation of Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan.IYC media incharge Rahul Rao said several members of the Congress’ youth wing, including its president Srinivas BV and other leaders, were detained and taken to various police stations.“The BJP leaders who used to protest over prices of petrol and diesel have kept mum now. The prices of petrol have touched Rs 100 per litre in many parts of the country and the Modi government is doing nothing to provide relief to the people,” Srinivas said.The Petroleum Minister should step down if he could not keep the prices of petrol and diesel in check, he said.In a release, Srinivas said the people of the country had “chosen PM Narendra Modi on the promise of good day, now he has broken the trust of the people”. “Against the anti-people attitude of the Modi government, the Youth Congress is agitating across the country and raising the voice of the common man,” he said.IYC members raised slogans such as “Abki Baar Petrol 100 Ke Paar” and “Modi Hai Toh Mehngayi Hai”, obliquely targeting BJP’s poll slogans. The protesters were stopped by police while they were heading towards Petroleum Ministry at Shastri Bhawan on RP Road.Some of the protesters were detained when they tried to get past the police barricade. The IYC president and other leaders were taken to Mandir Marg police station, Rao said.“On one side there is an all-round inflation and on the other there is a spate of diesel-petrol-gas prices. Petrol has crossed Rs 100 and diesel has crossed Rs 90 in many parts of the country,” the IYC release said.Petrol price on Friday crossed the Rs 90-per-litre mark in the national capital, and that of diesel reached Rs 80.60 after rates were increased for the 11th consecutive day in a row. Petrol price has already surged past the Rs 100-mark in some places in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, which levy the highest VAT on the fuel. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/youth-congress-holds-protest-in-delhi-seeks-petroleum-ministers-resignation-over-fuel-price-hike-215170
20-02-2021||New Delhi||Media coverage prejudicial in Disha Ravi case: Delhi High Court||Advocating a balance between right to privacy, freedom of speech and sovereignty and integrity of India, the Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Delhi Police to abide by their affidavit that they won’t leak personal information about activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested from Bengaluru in the toolkit case last week.Acting on Ravi’s petition seeking to restrain the Delhi Police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her, a Bench of Justice Pratibha M Singh said certain media coverage of the investigation indicated “sensationalism and prejudicial reporting” of the case.“The media shall ensure that telecasts are from verified and authentic sources. Channel editors to ensure proper editorial control so that investigation is not hampered,” Justice Singh said, posting the matter for further hearing in March.The HC also asked the 22-year-old climate activist to ensure that people connected to her didn’t indulge in unnecessary or scandalising messages and the parties didn’t go on a maligning course during the investigation. On behalf of Ravi, senior advocate Akhil Sibal wanted the court to order certain TV channels to take down reports having reference to the “so-called WhatsApp conversations” from their online platforms and restrain them from disseminating any information of the probe which was not part of public record.However, the court refused to order removal of any such content at this stage with regard to the probe into the FIR against Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing farmers’ protest. “There is no doubt that regulation of content has been a very contested issue across the world and India is no exception to it,” the HC noted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/media-coverage-prejudicial-in-disha-ravi-case-delhi-high-court-214985
