01-12-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 620 points to end at 57,684||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 620 points on Wednesday, boosted by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Maruti and SBI amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index ended 619.92 points or 1.09 per cent higher at 57,684.79. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 183.70 points or 1.08 per cent to close at 17,166.90. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 6 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, SBI, Maruti, Tech Mahindra and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, UltraTech Cement, Sun Pharma, Bharti Airtel and Titan were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe too were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, India's manufacturing sector activities gained further strength in November, and witnessed the strongest increase in production and sales since February on improving market conditions, a monthly survey said on Wednesday. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), increased from 55.9 in October to 57.6 in November, signalling the strongest improvement in the health of the sector in ten months. According to SBI research report Ecowrap, the country's gross domestic product (GDP) is likely to grow more than 9.5 per cent in fiscal 2021-22. International oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 3.96 per cent to USD 71.97 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 5,445.25 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
01-12-2021||Business||Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal to receive USD 1 million annual salary||Parag Agrawal, who has recently been named as the CEO of microblogging platform Twitter, will receive an annual salary of USD 1 million along with other perks and bonuses. The India-born executive - who succeeds Jack Dorsey in this role - served as Twitter's Chief Technology Officer since 2017, and has been responsible for the company's technical strategy. He joined the company in 2011 as a software engineer, leading efforts on scaling Twitter Ads systems, as well as reaccelerating audience growth by improving Home timeline relevance. "...Agrawal will receive an annual salary of USD 1,000,000 and will continue to be a participant in the company's executive bonus plan with a new target bonus of 150 per cent of his annual base salary. Under the terms of the Offer Letter, in December 2021, the Board will grant to Mr Agrawal restricted stock units (RSUs) with a grant date face value of USD 12,500,000," a regulatory filing by Twitter to the US SEC, said. The filing added that the RSUs will vest in 16 equal quarterly increments (each being 6.25 per cent of the grant) starting February 1, 2022, subject in each case to Agrawal remaining an employee of Twitter through the applicable vesting date. In April 2022, the Board will grant Agrawal performance-based RSUs (PRSUs) with a grant date face value of USD 12.5 million. The performance goals for those PRSUs will be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board on or before the grant date. Agrawal, 37, holds a bachelor's degree from IIT Bombay and a PhD in computer science from Stanford University. According to previous filings, Dorsey had earned USD 1.40 in 2019 - flat from the year before - as the co-founder believes in "Twitter's long-term value creation potential". On November 29, Dorsey had announced that he is stepping down from his position, and named Agrawal as his successor. Dorsey will remain on the Board until his term expires in 2022. Agrawal has joined the growing list of India-born CEOs of tech companies that includes names like Sundar Pichai (Google), Satya Nadella (Microsoft), Arvind Krishna (IBM), Shantanu Narayen (Adobe CEO) and Rangarajan Raghuram (VMware). The US-based microblogging platform counts India among its major markets with an estimated 1.75 crore users.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
01-12-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 500 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Tata Steel and Reliance Industries amid positive cues from Asian markets. The 30-share index was trading 515.05 points or 0.90 per cent higher at 57,579.92 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 185.15 points or 1.09 per cent to 17,168.35. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 3.21 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, HDFC, Tata Steel, SBI, Asian Paints and NTPC. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's and PowerGrid were among the losers. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE index settled 195.71 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 57,064.87. Similarly, the NSE Nifty declined 70.75 points or 0.41 per cent to close below the 17,000-mark at 16,983.20. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US ended with losses in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 3.91 per cent to USD 70.57 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 5,445.25 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
01-12-2021||Business||Trai seeks views on spectrum pricing||The telecom regu-lator has tossed a sack full of questions at telecom companies and other stakeholders relating to the looming 5G spectrum auction in a discussion paper floated on Tuesday. The real curve ball in the 204-page document’s stack of 74 questions is how spectrum in the various spectrum bands should be priced and whether the valuation methodology used until now needs to be altered with the possible adoption of international benchmarks in the so-called millimeter band — 24.25 to 28.5 GHz meant for 5G services — which will be put up for auction for the first time. The millimeter band has an edge in terms of signal-bearing capacity and data transmission speeds. But the downside is that data can “travel only small distances and are subject to rapid attenuation,” says the Trai paper. The discussion paper has been floated to elicit stakeholder views so that the regulator can frame its recommendations on a variety of issues like reserve price, band plan, block size, quantum of spectrum to be auctioned and associated conditions for the auction of spectrum in 10 distinct bands. Trai asked the stakeholders to submit their comments by December 28. The discussion paper has put all the valuation methodologies on the table and asked the telcos to pick the one they find most suitable and set forth the reason for picking it. The options include: the price determined at the March 2021 auction with some indexation for the time gap between the two sales, valuation methodologies used in earlier auctions, or a completely new valuation slate based on the changing usage dynamics of the spectrum bands. Price discovery through the auction route has been fraught with bad outcomes – with the result that no spectrum was sold in the 700 Mhz and the 2300 Mhz bands in the March auction. The situation has got even more complicated because the government now intends to lease out spectrum for 30 years instead of 20 earlier; and it plans to scrap the spectrum usage charge which has been a sore issue with the telecom companies. The government intends to hold spectrum auctions every year, normally in the last quarter, which begs the question whether the regulator should conduct an annual valuation exercise – an issue on which it has sought views. Other queries related to the block sizes for spectrum auctions, the justification for a cap on spectrum holding and continuation of rollout obligations for rural coverage in certain spectrum bands, spectrum leasing and radio wave farm out for private captive networks, and upfront payment and moratorium terms for future auctions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
01-12-2021||Business||Debate on digital destinies||The digital transformation journey of organisations have taken the fast track after the Covid pandemic. As the world emerges from the clutches of the pandemic, the 20th edition of Infocom, the flagship B2B conference of ABP Group, will deliberate on how organisations need to adapt a mindset of accelerating their digital transformation. While the economic scenario continues to bring new challenges with fresh waves of the Covid outbreak, businesses which have been only reactive to the pandemic could miss out on rebuilding for profitability, if they do not strategise to capitalise on the opportunities. In this context, the four-day virtual event starting Wednesday and themed around “Accelerating Digital” will provide a platform where industry stalwarts and leaders can talk about various strategies that organisations are adapting to accelerate their digital transformation. Infocom is one of the largest congregations of technology professionals, corporate leaders, academics, visionaries and policy makers. The virtual conference will aim to unite the world in the pursuit of digital transformation in every field of business and all aspects of life. Speakers will talk about success stories, new hurdles, opportunities and lessons that can be learnt to prepare for the challenging times in the future. The event will bring together over 1,000 delegates from large corporates, IT, MSMEs and government; and over 60 speakers from business and government will participate in the event. There will be leaders from India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and other SAARC countries. The focus areas of the conference include strategy and leadership, technology and digital future, healthcare, education, entrepreneurship, unicorns and startups, media and entertainment, gaming, opportunities in SAARC countries along with panel discussion from chief information security officers on cyber security priorities. The Department of IT and Electronics of Bengal government and Webel are partnering Infocom 2021 as the host state. Airtel Business, Dell Technologies, Intel, NTT Ltd. in India, Accenture, STPI, JIS University, Young Tech Olympiad, CrowdStrike, Pinnacle Infotech Solutions, Powergrid Corporation of India, AAJ Global Foundation School, SAARC Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Nasscom, CIOKlub, TiE Calcutta chapter and IEEE ComSoc Calcutta chapter are among the co-hosts, sponsors and partners for the event. The event can be watched live on the YouTube channel – Infocom Connect here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
01-12-2021||Business||CIL plans Rs 19650 crore investment in rail||State-run Coal India Ltd (CIL) plans to invest Rs 19,650 crore by FY2023-24 to increase coal transportation capacity by 330 million tonnes (mt) by constructing rail links and setting up joint ventures. Coal India is funding the construction of three railway lines in its Central Coalfields and Mahanadi Coalfields at an estimated capital of Rs 7,944 crore that will result in an additional 170million tonnes(mt)  coal transportation capacity. The company also has four railway joint ventures with Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Odisha at a capital outlay of Rs 11,656 crore that can help the movement of 160mt of coal. Coal India holds 64 per cent in these joint ventures while the remaining 36 per cent is made up by rail PSUs and respective states. Central Coalfields (CCL), Mahanadi Coalfields (MCL) and South Eastern Coalfields (SECL) are expected to contribute around 69 per cent of Coal India’s overall output by 2024-25 and it is in these subsidiaries that the miner is going for improved evacuation infrastructure. CIL officials said that some progress has been made on the projects. For instance the doubling of Tori-Shivpur line at CCL is already done and a third line is being set up that would enhance the evacuation capacity to 100mt from 32mt. Construction work is also in progress to double the Jharsuguda-Barpali-Sardega line at MCL. Coupled with the first mile connectivity projects, the railway projects would enhance MCL’s transportation capacity by an additional 65mt. At present, Coal India’s rail transportation from its own sidings account for 56 per cent of its total supplies. Total offtake from the Coal India subsidiaries in 2020-21 was 573.8mt. “It is important to have a robust coal transport mechanism in place to cope with increased volumes of production in the ensuing years. We are laying the groundwork for it,” said a Coal India official. Earlier this month, coal minister Pralhad Joshi directed coal PSUs to set a revised target to attain one billion tonne production by the end of 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
01-12-2021||Business||Shriram Group sets up board as part of succession plan||Financial services conglomerate Shriram Group on Tuesday announced a succession plan that entails the formation of a board of management to oversee promoters interest. The promotership of the group has been transferred to Shriram Ownership Trust (SOT) which  holds around 29.7 per cent in holding company Shriram Capital Ltd. R. Thyagarajan, the founder of the group, said the board of management appointed by SOT has four key personnel: D.V. Ravi, managing director, Shriram Capital and R. Duruvasan, whole-time director, Shriram Capital. The other two members are Umesh Revankar — non-executive director, Shriram Capital and vice-chairman and MD, Shriram Transport Finance Company — and Jasmit Singh Gujral, non-executive director, Shriram Capital & executive vice-chairman Shriram General Insurance Company. With the new leadership in place, Thyagarajan will mentor the board of management. The Shriram group has assets under management of over Rs 2 lakh crore. Its listed entities Shriram Transport Finance posted revenues of Rs 17,420.45 crore in 2020-21, while Shriram City Union Finance clocked revenues of Rs 5,779 crore during the year. “In my various interactions, I have reiterated that one individual cannot manage a large group like ours. It requires a set of individuals to drive the group’s vision and strategy. In line with my conviction, a leadership  team that will oversee the SOT’s interest, as the promoter of the Shriram Group, has been constituted,”  Thyagarajan said. He said investors have been apprehensive of the succession planning in the group. They wanted greater clarity on the operation of the trust. “Internally, we have been clear that the promoters stake in the Shriram Group, will be owned by its current and future leaders. SOT is a private discretionary Trust, which will provide an opportunity for the current and future leadership of the group to be beneficiaries of the Trust,” Thyagarajan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
01-12-2021||Business||Yes Bank-Essel Group dispute: SC shocked over UP police interference||The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed shock over the manner in which UP police sought to interfere in a corporate dispute involving Yes Bank and Essel Group saying it would set a “dangerous” precedent and lead to “lawlessness” if cops and criminal proceedings are sought to be initiated to settle scores in civil disputes. The apex court stayed the criminal proceedings in the FIR lodged by Essel Group against the Yes Bank saying it cannot allow the police sitting in Gautam Buddha Nagar in Uttar Pradesh to freeze voting rights of shareholders of a company. The bench also stayed the operation of two notices issued by Gautam Buddha Nagar police to the stock exchange and the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) asking it to not allow any transfer of shares of Essel group held by the bank. “Using police to restrain public companies is short circuiting the judicial process which is dangerous. This will allow a lawless state of affairs. We can’t allow such a power to police,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud heading a three-judge bench observed while staying the Gautam Buddha Nagar Police order restraining the bank from transferring or exercising its shareholder rights. “Police officers have done something which even company law tribunal has not done. We cannot allow this. It is like taking police and restraining someone to exercise voting rights,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
01-12-2021||Business||RBI appoints committee to advise Reliance Capital administrator||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday  moved quickly towards the process of finding a resolution for Reliance Capital Ltd (RCL) whose board was superseded on Monday. The regulator appointed a committee to advise the administrator of the non-bank lender. The RBI is shortly expected to move the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to initiate the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) against RCL. In October, the RBI had filed an application with the Calcutta bench of the NCLT within four days of superseding the board of Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance. In a statement, the central bank said that it has set up a three-member advisory panel to assist the administrator - Nageswara Rao Y, the former executive director at Bank of Maharashtra. The committee includes Sanjeev Nautiyal, the former deputy managing director of the State Bank of India and Srinivasan Varadarajan, ex deputy managing director of Axis Bank. The third member is Praveen P Kadle, the former managing director and CEO, Tata Capital Ltd. After the RBI had superseded the board of RCL, the company had said that it will fully co-operate with the administrator for the expeditious resolution of its debt. Meanwhile, Anil Ambani has reportedly resigned from Reliance General Insurance as the non-executive director. Shares of RCL were locked in at the lower circuit of Rs 18.10 — a drop of almost 5 per cent over its last close. It is feared that public shareholders who hold more than 97 per cent of RCL will be the worst hit. Of these, while retail shareholders hold around 57.53 per cent, high net worth individuals with more than Rs 2 lakh of shares have 27.42 per cent. The rest is spread among insurance companies (that includes LIC with 2.98 per cent), foreign portfolio investors and Ramakrishna Reddy Chinta among others. The focus has now turned to whether RCL will be sold as a single entity, including the holding of its subsidiaries, or whether some of its key businesses will be sold separately. A question mark also hangs over the separate resolution plans of two of its other arms — Reliance Commercial Finance and Reliance Home Finance — which have been delayed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
01-12-2021||Business||Cryptocurrency bill to be placed in winter session||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said the government is working out a new bill on cryptocurrency which will be placed in the ongoing session of Parliament after approval of the Union Cabinet. The ongoing winter session is scheduled to end on December 23. Replying to a series of questions in the Rajya Sabha, she said the new Bill takes into account the rapidly changing dimensions in virtual currency space, and incorporate features of the earlier bill that could not be taken up. The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, has been included in the Lok Sabha Bulletin-Part II for the introduction in the ongoing winter session. The bill seeks to create a facilitative framework for the creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Bulletin said. It also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India. However, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses. “Yes, last time (monsoon session) there was a bill but subsequently because there were other dimensions... That bill has been reworked. And in a way the bill which is coming now is a new bill. But, never mind, the work done on that bill has all been taken on board here,” the minister said. Sitharaman said the government had “genuine intent” to bring the bill even during the last session. “Now, we are coming up with a new bill. So, it’s not as if, the last time we just put it there, we did not want to come up with one. So, leading to a suspicion that this time also we are putting a bill, we may not come up with one. No, let’s be clear on that the earlier attempt was definitely to come up with a bill which the house can consider,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
01-12-2021||Business||GDP in second quarter tops pre-Covid level||The Covid-battered Indian economy has sputtered back to life. Real GDP in the second quarter (July-September) was estimated at Rs 35.73 lakh crore, reflecting a growth of 8.4 per cent over the same quarter last year when it was measured at Rs 32.96 lakh crore. More importantly, the economy has nudged above the pre-Covid level. Real GDP was a very marginal 0.33 per cent higher than the Rs 35.61 lakh crore in the second quarter of 2019-20. “The absolute real GDP value has exceeded the pre-pandemic levels of Q2 FY20 by 0.33 per cent,” said Sumar Chowdhury, chief analytical officer at Acuite Rating & Research. The macro-economic numbers is still a game of smoke and mirrors, largely because comparisons with the year-ago quarterly periods, when the economy had contracted, can still statistical illusions of recovery. In the first quarter of the previous fiscal, the economy had contracted sharply by 24.4 per cent because of severe lockdown restrictions. The contraction spilled over into the second quarter too when it shrank by 7.4 per cent. The Modi government started crowing about the recovery in the first quarter of this year when real GDP growth rose by 20.1 per cent. But the first quarter comparison masked a reality: in terms of absolute figure, the first quarter GDP estimate of Rs 32.38 lakh crore was still 9.2 per cent short of the Rs 35.66 lakh crore recorded in the pre-Covid first quarter of April-June 2019. It is that 9 per cent shortfall from the pre-Covid normal that has now been overcome. Economists said the impetus to growth with the reopening of the economy after the second wave seemed to have faded with high frequency numbers indicating supply shortages and low vaccination coverage. D.K. Srivastava, chief policy advisor, EY India, said “the second quarter real GDP growth signals the feasibility of the economy showing an annual growth of close to 9.5 per cent for 2021-22. This would however require continued fiscal support and a broad-based recovery encompassing the manufacturing sector as well as the services sector”. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said “while the Indian economy has come off the record decline of last year, it is yet to surpass pre-pandemic levels in a meaningful manner. Even if the pace of recovery is sustained in the next two quarters, India’s GDP for the year is expected to be only marginally higher than that in 2019-20 by around 2 per cent.” “While the second quarter absolute level of real GDP reverted mildly above the pre-Covid level of the second quarter of 2019-20, the disaggregated data for the second quarter is far from convincing, with considerable lags in private and government consumption expenditure,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA said. Meanwhile a periodic labour force survey by the NSO showed urban unemployment at 9.3 per cent in the January to March quarter of the fiscal.The unemployment rate has been falling sequentially since the first quarter of 2019-20. Core and deficit show The output from eight core sectors grew 7.5 per cent in October, against 0.5 per cent contraction in the year-ago month, government data released showed. Data showed that the central government’s fiscal deficit at end-October worked out to be 36.3 per cent of the annual budget target for 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
