02-12-2021||Business||Sensex soars 777 points to close above 58,400||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 777 points on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and TCS despite largely negative cues from global peers. Rising for the second consecutive session, the 30-share index ended 776.50 points or 1.35 per cent higher at 58,461.29. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 234.75 points or 1.37 per cent to 17,401.65. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, climbing nearly 4 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank were the losers. "Irrespective of the weak sentiments in the international markets, domestic indices continued to rise due to gains in IT, financials and metal stocks amid strong domestic macroeconomic data," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. The Union government's fiscal deficit of 36.3 per cent of budget estimates in October, is better owing to improved revenue collection, he noted. On the global front, Fed Chair's remarks stating a possibility of a faster end to the bond-buying programme and interest rate hike along with the first confirmed case of the Omicron variant in the US, triggered a fresh global sell-off. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude rose 2.41 per cent to USD 70.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
02-12-2021||Business||Finding Ideal Customers, and the Privacy Downsides of Profiling||Knowing and understanding your customers is one of the most fundamental concepts in each successful business. The digital age we live in made companies set onto learning more about their customers’ needs and preferences by forming detailed profiles about them. Companies accomplish this through examining and gathering data from social content, third-party cookies, purchased demographics, and much more. However, parallel to this growing interest from companies, the demands for consumer data are growing too. For instance, businesses can track their phone’s whereabouts to display ads unique to certain locations. Let’s see what lies in the essence of customer profiling, the downsides, and why placing customer needs above your company’s needs is essential for making customers feel safe in the digital world. What is customer profiling? Customer profiling, often also referred to as “consumer profiling,” is a way companies gather data about the identity of their customers to define the audience they are targeting. It’s getting as close to your customers as you can so that you can properly reach them. Nowadays, customer profiling goes way beyond just demographics. However, though you may think at first that customer profiling is based just on thorough research, it’s much more than that. Proper profiling lies in acquiring a great insight into your customers’ needs. It is all about extracting valuable insights from the gathered data about your customers to know everything about the market they are surrounded by and how they make their purchases there. All leading brands collect data about their consumers, and many of them get in trouble for being too data hungry. Additionally, users themselves struggle to control their data. How does it work? These branded companies use the gathered data to reorganize the positioning of their brand, their marketing strategies, and the way they message consumers. Gathering such data can be completed in two ways. The first is buying e-commerce data, which can sometimes fail because the data you purchase can be inaccurate and outdated. The second option is scraping data from the web. The second option requires web scraping software you must keep up to date and is, naturally, a bit more expensive solution. But when you invest in a web scraper once, you’re in it for the long run. Indeed, customers may feel attacked when other parties try to collect their data, so you should inform your customers about digital privacy and internet security. These two safety measures often overlap, but basically, digital privacy protects the customers’ data from getting exposed accidentally. At the same time, internet security ensures that when their data must be exposed (as is the case here), those other parties carry it out in the safest possible way. The downsides of profiling your customers Each branded company uses digital analytics, marketing, and advertising solutions to track their customers and create data profiles about them. This type of data gathering shifted the ways branded companies understand the needs of their customers. But the creation of individual profiles is far from the most effective and fastest way to understand all the needs, intentions, and struggles of your customers. Brands shouldn’t focus on knowing who their customers are, rather on what they want and why. Therefore, the leading downside in gathering data information is breaching the safety net customers like to have. But thanks to the overall advancement of machine learning and web scraping, companies can focus on understanding just the “what” and “why.” The thin line Consumer profiling sounds harmless in theory. After all, companies reach the clients that are most likely to be interested in their products or services. However, many consumers would disagree with this. Having their online activities directly affect the ads they see makes users feel like they are constantly tracked. Additionally, it is generally illegal for businesses and law enforcement to profile users according to their race, ethnicity, or gender. However, there is news of how algorithms enforce certain racial or gender biases. Therefore, many digital users do not want to be profiled. Or, to the very least, they wish to keep some things private. Millions of users change their habits or the tools they turn to daily. For one, many consumers go for privacy-focused programs like a VPN app. The latter encrypts internet traffic and hides users’ IP address. As a result, online entities get to extract fewer details about their digital lives. Conclusion Hopefully, now you understand what customer profiling is about and what its main downsides can be. The key to successful brand marketing is placing your customers’ needs above yours and not just gathering data to target them with ads. You should focus on understanding their perceptions and advise them to stay safe in the digital world, where internet privacy plays the most significant role. Nobody likes their data to be misused and exposed, and neither will your customers. So, why not make them feel safe online?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
02-12-2021||Business||Uber, WhatsApp announce partnership to launch ride-booking via WhatsApp in India||Uber and WhatsApp announced a partnership on Thursday in India, allowing people to book an Uber ride via Uber's official WhatsApp chatbot. "The integration is a global-first for Uber and it will make booking an Uber ride as easy as sending a WhatsApp message," a joint statement said. Built on WhatsApp Business Platform, the partnership will expand access to Uber's mobility services in one of the company's largest international markets, it was stated. It is being rolled out on a pilot basis in the northern city of Lucknow first, and will be expanded to other Indian cities soon. Senior Director, Business Development, Uber APAC, Nandini Maheshwari, said: "We want to make it as easy as possible for all Indians to take an Uber trip, and to do that we need to meet them on platforms they are comfortable with. Our partnership with WhatsApp does just that, giving riders a new way to get a ride through a simple, familiar and trusted channel." Head of WhatsApp India, Abhijit Bose, said: "The Uber experience on WhatsApp is simple, familiar, and relatable for users and has the potential to accelerate adoption of Uber with a new category of riders in India." PTI RS SS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
02-12-2021||Business||Luxe global home decor on your fingertips courtesy Befarha homes ||Believing in creating spaces with a decluttered aesthetic, a neatly designed and decorated home is crafted by a variety of moods and correct playing with patterns, textures and colours. Driving this ultimate goal with design elements and materials, Befarha Homes aims to create comfort and warmth in any living space. Handcrafted in India, and started as an online home furnishings store in 2018, Befarha is an amalgamation of modernity reflected in eclectic furniture, lighting, ceramics and home decor accessories. With consistent efforts on crafting visuals with strong foundations, this home decor store has homed in on the natural characteristics of materials while adding subtle additions to turn them into timeless pieces for your homes. “If I have to define our style, I would say it’s pure, simplistic and rooted. Bringing L. A fresh designs to be handcrafted in India, we have nourished Befarha as a global brand”, said the founder Veenam Shankhdhar about her brainchild. A line of decor products ranging from gorgeous tables and benches to delicate vases and table lamps, it is truly a one-stop destination to curate your homes and offices. Working on a neutral aspect of colours, materials and patterns, it is a sophisticated store with a subtle comfort and old-world charm associated with each item. “Traditional styles, durable materials, and expressive colour palettes are evocative of authenticity and transformation - which we use in our range that exudes comfort and functionality. By incorporating plush dining and desk chairs, comfortable desks, homely houseplanters, and more, we set up your cosy spaces.” said a team member of Befarha. Introducing their new products such as petite planters for any corner alongside ceramic tableware and furniture, they are elevating their style and product quality which balances raw material with soft looks. With an aim of launching designing and executing pieces that would be great in look and versatile in use, from the big desks to small accessories, they have got you covered. Talking about the new additions to her collection, the founder said that “Creating crisp contours that embraces hard edges and gentle curves, we aim to introduce multipurpose decor essentials that create a statement look from the first impression” "Curating decor items that are simple, to-the-point and fit in well-articulated spaces, every product is a classic which works on the narrative of opulent designs that are unique with a fresh touch." the young entrepreneur added. Made in India with every product keeping in mind which would be perfect for residential projects, hospitality spaces, commercial spaces and professional offices, an uncluttered design alongside optimistic vision would be the best narrative to explain the brand’s aesthetic. Known for its contemporary style with a minimalist classic mix, this online store is excelling owing to its relatable line of products that are a must-have and long-lasting as an investment. Strong influences coming in from modern-day multipurpose uses and the urge to showcase creative skills, Befarha is expanding their reach in the field of home decor owing to a distinctive style and eccentric vision. Offering noteworthy visual interest, right from the design to the resulting product is a treat to behold in the form of their accessories. Launching new products in every category and growing their craft itself seamlessly online, Befarha Homes is all set to provide an elegant look, utility and functionality, all wrapped in luxe and attractive packaging combined in harmony which would adorn exquisite homes and spaces for all customers globally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
02-12-2021||Business||Introducing Copy Trading – A Tool for Hassle-Free Investments||The modern world dictates modern ways of earning a living. The majority of people go online or look towards the financial market as the main or extra source of income. While trading is becoming extremely popular, more and more individuals enter the niche without having at least a baseline understanding of how financial markets work. As a result, over 90% of all newbies lose their money during the first weeks or even days. Copy Trading is a new approach letting beginners generate profit without even knowing how to trade Forex or other instruments. The concept relies on the idea of autopilot copying trades of successful investors. As a user, you only need to create an account and choose the pro who will do all the job for you. How Copy Trading Works As an investor, you can use two different models provided by MTrading to utilize the copy trading technique: Elements of Copy Trading Just as any other investment technique, copy trading consists of several baseline components. The good news is that you won’t have to set up the strategy manually. As a rule, you just need to open a real account and select a top investor from the leadership board. A chosen trader will be automatically assigned to your account. Nothing to worry about, as your balance is safe. None of the system participants will have access to your capital or specific features. To make the most of the methodology, you’d rather learn some of its main components: The Bottom Line Copy Trading appears to be a simple and effective way to implement automated trading. It makes it possible for any person to invest in various markets and generate profits on autopilot despite the background or prior experience. At the same time, everyone should consider potential risks. What works great for one investor will make no sense for another. So, you need to evaluate a reward ratio potential and decide if it is worth trying. Following a more experienced trader is always a safer and more proven way to achieve good results in the long run.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
02-12-2021||Business||This Festive season-Pay A Visit To The Best Jeweler, Vipul Kothari In The Market||'Reliability' is the key to distinguishing a reputable businessman from the rest of the pack. Vipul Kothari, a Bikaner jeweller, has made a name for himself in the jewellery market with reliability, trust, enthusiasm, and extensive planning. He not only works hard but also ensures that his creations are of the highest possible quality. In this way, he maintains his clients' confidence, which is the most crucial component of any business. The quality and designs of Vipul Kothari’s jewellery pieces are at par with each other, so much so, that you wouldn’t want to think twice before making your Diwali purchases from him this year. From gold, silver coins and bars, to cocktail rings; from multi-layer necklaces to pendants; from uncut jewellery to rosy-gold Kundans, he offers you everything. His business ethic isn't just about making and selling goods, rather, he's constantly modifying it to keep up with the changing dynamics of the global jewellery market. How does he do that? Well, customers mean to him more than anything. They are the god -lie counterparts for any businessman in the country. As a result, he ensures that the desires of his customers are met in whatever gemstones he produces. While diamonds appear to be the favoured option, 'coloured gemstones' are becoming increasingly fashionable among both men and women these days. Jeweller Vipul Kothari lives up to these high standards and offers the finest in the industry to its customers. Entering the world of jewellery, his aim had never been to deter his competitors from making or selling their products. He, on the other hand, aids them anytime they want assistance or advice. He is the embodiment of selflessness and generosity. Only a few people think about being nice to everybody they meet, and Jeweler Vipul Kothari is undoubtedly one of them. Another reason he leaves an impression on everyone he meets, whether it's coworkers or customers, is because of this. Hailing from the city famous for ‘Kundan’ jewellery and ‘Uncut Diamond’ jewellery  itself, Vipul Kothari is truly dedicated to his heritage. From his current vantage point, he aspires to reach the pinnacle of international jewellery markets as well. He's slowly and surely amassing a network of connections from customers all across the world. For foreigners who are interested in Indian jewellery, but are ignorant of its origin and tradition, Vipul Kothari strives to help them with their questions while also educating them on the importance of jewellery in our lives. There is nothing that brings him more joy than seeing his clients happy. This demonstrates his humility and commitment to his work. Given the fact that he had a penchant for jewellery making since childhood, you can be assured of the fact that Vipul Kothari has a thorough understanding and knowledge of his business. He is the kind of person who is willing to take initiatives, is swift and accountable, along with being foresighted as well. Considering his determination, unique thinking, diligence, and humility, he is poised to make a worldwide impact and propel his business to the next level! You can connect with him on Instagram at @jainvipulkothari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
02-12-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 214 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 214 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and Maruti amid largely positive cues from Asian peers. The 30-share index was trading 214.43 points or 0.37 per cent higher at 57,899.22 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 53.95 points or 0.31 per cent to 17,220.85. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 2.38 per cent. HDFC, PowerGrid, Titan, Sun Pharma, Maruti, HCL Tech and Reliance Industries, were among the other gainers. On the other hand, L&T, ICICI Bank, Nestle India, Axis Bank and Tech Mahindra were among the losers. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE Sensex rallied 619.92 points or 1.09 per cent to close at 57,684.79. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 183.70 points or 1.08 per cent to 17,166.90. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in the US ended with losses in the overnight session. International oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.07 per cent to USD 69.61 per barrel. Meanwhile, India's merchandise exports rose 26.49 per cent year-on-year to USD 29.88 billion in November on better performance by key sectors, while the trade deficit hit a record high of USD 23.27 billion as imports of crude oil and gold spiked. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 2,765.84 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
02-12-2021||Business||GST collections rise up to Rs 1.31 lakh crore in November||Higher demand during the festival months and greater compliance pushed GST collections up to Rs 1.31 lakh crore in November, the second highest since its implementation more than four years ago. Revenues from central GST stood at Rs 23,978 crore for the month, state GST was Rs 31,127 crore and integrated GST Rs 66,815 crore. Cess collection was Rs 9,606 crore. Revenues for November 2021 are 25 per cent higher than November 2020 and 27 per cent higher over November 2019. “These GST collections are somewhat lower than what we had expected, even as the year-on-year expansion is robust. We were hopeful that the GST collections in November would exceed the prevailing highest collections recorded in April 2021, given the all-time high generation of e-way bills during October,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra, said. She said GST collections may dip in December as daily average e-way bill generation in the first three weeks of November reflect a deceleration. Deloitte India partner M.S. Mani said: “A significant increase in the GST surveillance activities in recent times would have also contributed to the increased collections even as economic growth played a part.” Vivek Jalan, partner, Tax Connect Advisory Services, said the spurt in collection is mainly a result of DGARM, which is the Data Analytics wing of the GST Council. “Changes in the GST machinery provisions such as blocking of GSTR-1 and waybills when even one GST return is not filed within time have ensured greater compliance.” Jalan said the increase in rates on items such as solar panels, textiles, footwear has paved the way for higher collections in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business||Kotak bid to revive McNally Sayaji fails||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has dismissed a petition filed by Kotak Mahindra Bank along with a director of debt-ridden McNally Sayaji Engineering Ltd (MSEL) to set aside insolvency proceedings against the manufacturer of mineral processing equipment. A two-member NCLAT bench upheld the orders of the Calcutta bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which had on February 11, 2021, admitted a plea by ICICI Bank and directed to initiate insolvency proceedings against MSEL. The NCLT order was challenged by Kotak Mahindra Bank and a director of the suspended board of MSEL before the NCLAT. Kotak Mahindra Bank had contended that besides it, four other banks — ICICI Bank, DBS, IDBI and SBI — had advanced loans to MSEL and NCLT had failed to appreciate that more than 50 per cent members of the lenders’ consortium had opposed initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) as they were considering restructuring of loan outside the IBC. Restructuring of loans is more beneficial to the creditors as they will not have to take a haircut, Kotak Mahindra Bank had said in the plea. In the eventuality of a resolution plan being implemented or a liquidation process being initiated, financial creditors, including Kotak Mahindra Bank, will have to take a haircut, it added. Moreover, the appellant contended that the case was not maintainable as it was filed after the permissible period of three years after the default. However, ICICI Bank opposed both the petitions. It said the account of MSEL was classified as a non-performing asset on March 31, 2019 and the loan recall notice was issued on January 3, 2020 — thus the application was filed within three years from the date of acknowledgement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business||Hybrid work model here to stay||The Covid pandemic induced hybrid work model is likely to persist even as employees are keen to return to office. Speaking at the inaugural session of Infocom 2021, the flagship B2B event of ABP Group, Bhaskar Ghosh, chief strategy officer, Accenture said the pandemic has led to the creation of a location independent job model which is set to expand across businesses. “Whether it is a start-up or an established company, digital services are at the forefront. Remote services and hybrid work model is here to stay,” Ghosh said. A joint study of Nasscom and Indeed has revealed that around 72 per cent of the organisations are looking at 50 per cent of their workforce returning to office by January. Organisations with a workforce of 1,000 or more are likely to adopt a hybrid model . Ghosh said the hybrid model will find its place among different businesses and professions. “It is not only for the IT services. I feel it will expand to various different professional services. This will create a new paradigm of opportunities.” He said industry and government has to accept the  hybrid model. “Covid has democratised the job opportunities across all states in India. I live in Bangalore. Just two weeks back I learnt that my bank relationship manager lives in Calcutta. She has been supporting me for two years and I have never realised that earlier. So that is the new normal. Industry and government needs to embrace this location independent pan India job model,” he said. “Currently workforce engagement is one of the hot topics, especially while dealing with both remote and in-office work. Employers are looking into new ways of creating a productive environment and this is where digital technology can play an important role. Businesses need to invest in the right technologies and solutions to enable the workforce to connect and collaborate from anywhere and ensure business connectivity in this hybrid age,” said Kamal Arora, senior director, sales-government, Dell Tech. Omkar Rai, director-general of STPI, said the pandemic has led to an unprecedented growth of technology start-ups in India with 26 joining the unicorn list in 2021. “Because of Covid-19 and lockdown and the kind of circumstances that were created, it led to accelerated digitisation of processes, not only in government but also in private,” he said. Siddharth Sharma, CEO - Bengal and Odisha, Bharti Airtel Limited, said the telecom major was supporting the digital acceleration having just concluded 5G pilots in parts of Calcutta . “Bengal has always been a priority state for us and we have been aggressively investing not only in expanding the network but also creating infrastructure for enterprise services,” said Sharma. Dhruba Mukherjee, CEO, ABP Pvt Ltd said that this year’s Infocom theme of ‘‘Accelerating Digital’’ is relevant and meaningful because it is being experienced by everyone in transition from a pre-Covid to a post-Covid world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business||Sumitomo Mitsui purchases 74.9 per cent stake in Fullerton India||Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group (SMFG) on Wednesday said it has completed the purchase of a 74.9 per cent stake in Fullerton India Credit Company (Fullerton India) from Fullerton Financial Holdings (FFH). Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed. Fullerton India now  becomes a consolidated subsidiary of SMFG. The board of Fullerton India will be reconstituted to include Nobuyuki Kawabata, Rajeev Veeravalli Kannan, Hong Ping Yeo, Anindo Mukherjee, Shantanu Mitra, Shirish Moreshwar Apte, Milan Robert Shuster and Sudha Pillai, a statement from SMFG said. Fullerton India’s management team will continue to operate under the leadership of Mitra, managing director and CEO of Fullerton India. “The acquisition gives SMFG access to a pan-India footprint across 25 states, 600 towns and over 58,000 villages through 698 branches,” the statement said. In July, Japan’s second largest lender had announced the acquisition of the stake in Fullerton India. Though the consideration was not disclosed then as well, it was estimated at $2 billion. An NBFC, Fullerton India provides personal loans, business loans and loans against property.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business|| Chip shortage impacted car sales during festive season||Chip shortage impacted car sales in the country during the festive season with Maruti Suzuki reporting a total sales of 139,184 units in November 2021, down 9.2 per cent year-on-year. The auto maker had reported sales at 153,223 units a year ago. Total domestic passenger vehicle sales were at 109,726 units against 135,775 units a year ago, while total domestic car sales were at 117,791 units against 144,219 units a year ago. Hyundai Motor India on Wednesday reported a 21 per cent decline in total sales to 46,910 units in November. The company had sold 59,200 units in the same month last year, HMIL said in a statement. The sales in November have been affected on account of the ongoing semiconductor shortage situation. The auto maker will continue to make all efforts to mitigate the situation, it added. Tata Motors said its total sales increased by 25 per cent to 62,192 units in November compared with the same month last year. The company had dispatched 49,650 units in November 2020. The auto maker posted a 21 per cent increase in its domestic wholesales at 58,073 units compared with 47,859 units in the year-ago period. Toyota registered a 53 per cent sales growth last month, selling 13,003 units compared with 8,508 units in November 2020. Nissan sold 2,651 units in India last month to achieve a 161 per cent sales growth compared with November 2020. Mahindra & Mahindra reported a 6 per cent decline in total sales at 40,102 units in November. The company had sold 42,731 units a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business||LIC asks policyholders to update PAN to participate in IPO process||The Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), in the run up to its initial public offering, has asked its policyholders to update their PAN so that they can participate in the proposed public offer. Under the proposed plan, up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders. “In order to participate in any such public offering, policyholders will need to ensure that their PAN details are updated in the Corporation’s records. Further subscribing to any public offering in India is only possible if you have a valid demat account,” LIC said in a public notice. It also said that LIC has been running advertisements calling upon policyholders to update their Permanent Account Number (PAN) as it is important from a Know-Your-Customer (KYC) perspective for participation in the proposed public offering, as and when it takes place, subject to regulatory clearance. If a policyholder does not hold a valid demat account, he or she should consider opening it at their own cost, LIC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business||India’s manufacturing activity zooms to 10-month high of 57.6 ||India’s manufacturing activity zoomed to a 10-month high of 57.6 in November. However, a spike in inflation along with a new variant of the coronavirus could spoil the party. “Increasing from 55.9 in October to 57.6 in November, the seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) signalled the strongest improvement in the health of the sector for 10 months,” the private survey report said. The manufacturing sector continued its strong expansion in November as sales accelerated and production saw the fastest upturn in nine months, IHS Markit India said. Companies scaled up input buying, which led to the second-quickest accumulation in stocks of purchases since data collection started nearly 17 years ago, it said. Hiring activity also saw an improvement after three successive months of downturn. However, there was little change in the purchase price inflation from October’s high due to supply-demand mismatches and increased transportation costs. Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit, said the Indian manufacturing industry continued to expand in November, with growth gathering pace and forward-looking indices generally pointing to further improvements in the months to come. The fact that firms purchased additional inputs at a stronger rate amid efforts to restock indicates that the production volumes will likely expand further in the near term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business|| Delhi government cuts VAT on petrol||The Delhi government on Wednesday cut the VAT on petrol, bringing down the price of the fuel in the city by about Rs 8 per litre. At a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, it was decided that the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol will be reduced from the present 30 per cent to 19.4 per cent, leading to a cut of around Rs 8 per litre. The price of petrol after the VAT cut will go down from the current Rs 103 per litre to Rs 95 per litre. While the Delhi government has slashed VAT on petrol, no such decision has been taken for 16.75 per cent VAT on diesel. A litre of diesel costs Rs 86.67 in the national capital. The price of petrol in Delhi was higher compared with the NCR cities in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, where the state governments had announced a VAT cut following the cut in excise duty on fuel prices by the Centre. Meanwhile, fuel prices remained unchanged for the 27th consecutive day on December 1 after the Centre cut the excise duty to bring down retail rates from record highs. The Centre had on the eve of Diwali announced an excise duty cut on fuels, which resulted in a sharp decrease in petrol and diesel prices across the country. The government had cut the price of petrol by Rs 5 and that of diesel by Rs 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business||Scheduled international flights will not commence from December 15||Scheduled international flights will not commence from December 15 because of fears over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. The clampdown by the Indian government comes less than a week after the announcement of the resumption of international flights from the middle of this month. “In  view of the evolving global scenario with the emergence of new variants of concern, the situation is being watched closely in consultation with all stakeholders and an appropriate decision indicating the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services will be notified in due course,” the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said. India suspended international flights from March 23, 2020. The ban was periodically extended every month till  November 30 before the government on  November 26 announced its plans to resume the scheduled international flight services. Prior to 26 November, international flights operated between India and other countries under bilateral air bubble agreements. The country has air bubble agreements with as many as 30 countries — from Afghanistan and Bangladesh to Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Singapore, the UAE, UK and US. International flights will continue under air bubble agreements till further notification, a senior DGCA official said on the condition of anonymity. Prashant Pitti — co-founder, EaseMyTrip, said “the first and second waves had a devastating impact on the travel industry, and we will continue to operate following the norms presented by the government to safeguard everyone against another wave of Covid.” “We need to be vigilant and careful, but we should not be overreacting and avoid creating panic in the market. We are hopeful to see normalcy in international travel as soon as the situation is safer,” he said. In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia had said the decision to resume the flights from December 15 was taken after recognising the increased vaccination coverage across the globe, changing nature of the pandemic and considering the health protocols, which have been put in place for international arrivals. “However, in view of the evolving global scenario with the emergence of new variants of concern, the situation is being closely monitored and reviewed in consultation with other ministries, with regard to taking any further decision on the issue,” Scindia said. International airports across the country have made preparations to implement the stricter Covid-19 guidelines, to be effective from midnight for international passengers amid rising concerns of infections caused by the new Covid-19 variant Omicron.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business|| Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell wary of inflation||US central bankers in December will discuss whether to end their bond purchases (taper) a few months earlier than had been anticipated, Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell said on Tuesday, pointing to a strong economy, stalled workforce growth and high inflation that is expected to last into mid-2022. Powell twinned his remarks, whose hawkish tone took some analysts by surprise, with an observation that the risk from an emergent variant of Covid-19 will be better understood by the Fed’s December 14-15 policy meeting . “Since the last meeting, we’ve seen basically elevated inflation pressures, we’ve seen very strong labour market data without any improvement in labour supply, we’ve seen strong spending data too,” the Fed chief told members of a US Senate panel. High inflation, now running at more than twice the Fed’s flexible target of 2 per cent annually but which the central bank has for months characterised as “transitory”, is only expected to ease in the second half of 2022, Powell said. Given how long it has lasted, Powell said: “I think it’s probably a good time to retire that word.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
02-12-2021||Business||Sensex spurts 620 points, Nifty reclaims 17000-mark||The benchmark Sensex spurted 620 points and the Nifty reclaimed the 17000-mark as investors bought beaten down stocks amid expectations of robust growth, while keeping at arm’s length fears over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. The 30-share gauge opened in the green at 57365.85 and hit an intra-day peak of 57846.45, before settling higher by 619.92 points, or 1.09 per cent, at 57684.79. The NSE Nifty surged 183.70 points or 1.08 per cent to 17166.90. Banking & finance stocks were the flavour of the day with IndusInd Bank being the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 5.73 per cent. It was followed by Axis Bank, SBI, Tech Mahindra, Maruti Suzuki and Reliance Industries, which gained up to 3.46 per cent. A bunch of domestic data on the economy lifted sentiment. GDP clocked 8.4 per cent growth in Q2, while GST collections in November were the second highest for any month. Investors also digested hawkish statements from the US Federal Reserve with chair Jerome Powell saying that it could end the tapering early. “Though the Fed chair’s comment on speeding up the pace of the bond-buying taper plan kept investors cautious along with the concerns of Omicron, the global markets recovered sharply today,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. However, some of the experts are advising caution as news of the new Covid variant is only unfolding. While some states such as Maharashtra have already tightened travel rules, the apprehension is that if the number of cases increase, economic activity could again be affected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
