03-12-2021||Business||Break Your Savings Or Take A Loan For Your Operation?||It is a dilemma that is giving you sleepless nights: you wish to undergo an operation but are left with two choices. You can either break your savings, or borrow a quick loan to fund the procedure. Leading loan apps in India offer emergency medical loans in the quickest time and with minimal documentation. Which one should you choose? This article outlines the merits of each and helps you decide. Keep your savings intact as long as you can The savings habit is one of the most important ones to inculcate. It teaches focus, discipline and structure for your personal finances. Staying the course is often difficult, especially when you are faced with sudden emergencies, or wish to indulge yourself or a loved one with an expensive purchase. But staying the course also reaps a rich harvest for you – over time, you accumulate a large fund of money that can help you realise a big dream, or keep you in good stead in the retirement years. It cannot be disputed that saving a large sum of money – enough to pay for a significant dream or fund a medical emergency – takes several months and even years. It requires patience and dedication, and you cannot be tempted to spend it for short term needs. Breaking the savings fund takes a few minutes, but creating the fund takes years. Are you certain you want to break into your savings for a short-term need, however urgent? If you take a personal loan… A personal loan is a sum of money approved against your income, credit score, repayment history and age. It does not require any physical security or collateral for approval. The lending institution such as a reputed lending app offers the personal or quick loan within a few hours of you applying for it on the app. The loan amount is disbursed to your account and you can use it to fund a medical operation, or buy something expensive, or for any other suitable purpose. The personal loan is a better funding solution for short term needs, since it has a shorter tenure, less paperwork, easy repayment options and the ability to build good credit for you. Leading loan apps sanction immediate loans online by way of medical emergency loans, education loans, wedding loans, and so on. Some scenarios to consider: - If you were to use your own savings to fund the medical procedure, instead of borrowing a quick loan, you would not be in debt at all. Besides, you wouldn’t need to wait to schedule the procedure. However, you would lose all or part of your savings in the process and have to start all over again to rebuild it. - Using a personal loan as a medical emergency loan would satisfy the requirement without hampering your savings. It could be repaid in a series of easy EMIs and you would be debt-free in a few months. - The personal loan would help build credit if you have a low credit score. If the amount is sufficiently large, you can use the loan to pay for the emergency procedure, medicines, doctor consultation fees, post-operative nursing, post-operative therapy, ambulance costs, diagnostic tests, etc. But do note that the personal loan carries a higher rate of interest than secured loans like home loans and car loans. It is best to take the loan only if the interest is on the lower side among comparable lending apps in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
03-12-2021||Business||Astrology and Spirituality a Milestone to Success Shivam Angurala||In this day and age of running after materialistic needs, one should adapt spirituality as a way of life. For that there are a multiple sources out there but having someone to guide you helps a lot in dealing with those aspects. Astro Shivam helps you in not only having a look at your future by birth charts and reading palms etc but also transforming lives with Astrology and Spirituality. Shivam Angurala can help you heal your problems with Vedic Astrology and he has been helping others since he was in his young age. Till now Shivam has had many followers and people have praised him much for his advice and the whole hearted experience with his help. Throughout history and by various other archaeological sources Astrology has been considered as an intellectual ritual that has helped people deal in numerable hitches and difficulties. Astrology gives indications about many a such important indication about significant occurrences that may or will happen in your life at a certain given point in life and with that help you can further dilute your actions as per convenience. Shivam has made a clear connection with his spiritual self and also made peace with his soul that has made his life more mature which one should experience it once in his / her life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Sensex crashes 765 points as Omicron enters India||Domestic markets lurched lower on Friday after India reported its first case of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, prompting investors to dial back risk exposure.  The Centre on Thursday said two cases of Omicron have been detected in Karnataka. Both the patients are men, aged 66 and 46 years, with mild symptoms. Severe symptoms have not been noted, an official said.  The government has asked people not to panic and follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. It also said while there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work against Omicron, some of the mutations reported may decrease the efficacy of the jabs.  Snapping its two-session rally, the 30-share BSE Sensex nosedived 764.83 points or 1.31 per cent to end at 57,696.46.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 204.95 points or 1.18 per cent to 17,196.70.  PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 4.03 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, Bharti Airtel, Tech Mahindra and Maruti.  Only four index components finished in the green -- L&T, IndusInd Bank, Tata Steel and UltraTech Cement, rising up to 0.72 per cent.  "Following a positive opening, benchmark indices gave up all gains led by losses in heavyweights in anticipation of the RBI meet next week. Meanwhile, investors were also cautious after India reported Omicron cases," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services.  "However, global equities traded with slight gains recovering from yesterday's broad based sell-off led by fears on new COVID variant and Fed chair's comment on the bond-buying program.  "RBI's monetary policy meeting will be a key market driver as investors await MPC's policy decision which is broadly expected to hold an accommodative stance considering the uncertainty surrounding the new variant," he added.  During the week, the Sensex rose 589.31 points or 1.03 per cent, while the Nifty advanced 170.25 points or 0.99 per cent.  "Markets remained cautious during the week with marginal gains. The focus seems to be shifting from premium Indian equities to relatively cheaper markets.  "In addition to this, the cautiousness was heightened by the unenthusiastic response towards India's largest IPO (One97 Communications) ... and a resurgence of COVID concerns across Europe," said Shrikant Chouhan, Head of Equity Research (Retail), Kotak Securities.  The result season was mostly divided with companies showing strong signs of demand growth but at the same time, high raw material and input cost adding pressure on margins, he noted.  Sectorally, BSE energy, FMCG, bankex, finance and healthcare indices fell up to 2.30 per cent on Friday, while capital goods, industrials and basic materials ended with gains.  Broader BSE midcap index ended flat, while the smallcap gauge settled on a positive note.  Global equities rebounded from the Omicron-triggered sell-off, even as Chinese ride hailing giant Didi announcing its delisting in New York ratcheted up fears of fresh US-China tensions.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Hong Kong was in the red.  Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 2.38 per cent to USD 71.32 per barrel.  The rupee slipped 14 paise to close at 75.16 (provisional) against the US dollar, tracking the massive sell-off in domestic equities.  Continuing their selling spree, foreign institutional investors offloaded shares worth a net Rs 909.71 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 260 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 262 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, ICICI Bank and HDFC amid mixed cues from Asian markets.  The 30-share index was trading 262.86 points or 0.45 per cent higher at 58,724.15 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 68.45 points or 0.39 per cent to 17,470.10.  Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 1.86 per cent, followed by L&T, Axis Bank, NTPC, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, M&M and HDFC.  On the other hand, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto and Asian Paints were among the losers.  In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark soared 776.50 points or 1.35 per cent to finish at 58,461.29. On similar lines, the NSE Nifty surged 234.75 points or 1.37 per cent to 17,401.65.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red.  Stock exchanges in the US ended with significant gains in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.82 per cent to USD 70.24 per barrel.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 909.71 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Gita Gopinath to take on new role at IMF as First Deputy Managing Director||Indian-American Gita Gopinath, the chief economist of International Monetary Fund, is being promoted as IMF's First Deputy Managing Director, the fund announced Thursday. She would replace Geoffrey Okamoto who plans to leave the Fund early next year. Gopinath, who was scheduled to return to her academic position at Harvard University in January 2022, has served as the IMF's chief economist for three years. "Both Geoffrey and Gita are tremendous colleagues I am sad to see Geoffrey go but, at the same time, I am delighted that Gita has decided to stay and accept the new responsibility of being our FDMD," said Kristalina Georgieva, IMF's Managing Director. Georgieva said Gopinath's contribution to the Fund's work has already been exceptional, especially her "intellectual leadership in helping the global economy and the Fund to navigate the twists and turns of the worst economic crisis of our lives." She also said Gopinath the first female chief economist in IMF history has garnered respect and admiration across member countries and the institution with a proven track record in leading analytically rigorous work on a broad range of issues. Under Gopinath's leadership, the IMF's Research Department had gone from strength to strength, particularly highlighting its contributions in multilateral surveillance via the World Economic Outlook, a new analytical approach to help countries respond to international capital flows (the integrated policy framework), and Gopinath's recent work on a pandemic plan to end the COVID-19 crisis by setting targets to vaccinate the world at feasible cost, said the IMF's Managing Director. "As the pandemic continues its grip on us, the work of the Fund has never been more critical and international cooperation never more important. I am very thankful to Kristalina and the Board for this opportunity, and so look forward to collaborating closely with all the incredibly brilliant and committed colleagues at the Fund, working with whom has been an absolute privilege," Gopinath said. Georgieva noted that given the increasingly complex policy choices and difficult trade-offs facing the IMF's 190 member countries exacerbated by the pandemic some realignment in the roles and responsibilities of the Fund's senior management team is being undertaken. "In particular, the FDMD will take the lead on surveillance and related policies, oversee research and flagship publications and help foster the highest quality standards for IMF publications," she said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Swiggy to invest $700 million in grocery delivery service Instamart||Food delivery platform Swiggy on Thursday said it will invest $700 million (about Rs 5,250 crore) in its express grocery delivery service Instamart. Swiggy Instamart —launched in Gurgaon and Bangalore last year — is now available across 18 cities and handles over one million orders per week. In the last few months, Swiggy Instamart has onboarded more than one seller-run dark store every day, a statement said. A dark store is a large retail facility that resembles a conventional supermarket or other store but is not open to the public, housing goods used to fulfil orders placed online. By January 2022, it will make deliveries in 15 minutes by having the network of dark stores very close to the majority of its customers, it added. While traditional e-commerce deliveries take a day or longer, quick commerce (or q-commerce) enables customers to get small quantities of goods to customers in a shorter period of time. Instamart competes with quick commerce (q-commerce) services offered by players such as Zomato-backed Grofers and Dunzo. Last month, Ola had also started piloting a quick delivery service for items such as groceries in Bangalore. In November, Grofers had said its dark store network was at over 200 stores, and that it is adding new stores at an aggressive pace. The company is looking at making these deliveries in under 10 minutes. According to a RedSeer report, the quick commerce sector in India is expected to grow to $5 billion by 2025 from the current $0.3 billion because of a shift in consumer behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Reliance Capital taken to NCLT for bankruptcy proceedings||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said it has filed an application with the National Company Tribunal Ltd (NCLT) to initiate bankruptcy proceedings against Reliance Capital Ltd (RCL), just three days after it superseded the board of the Anil Ambani NBFC for defaulting on payments to creditors amid serious governance concerns. The apex bank had showed similar swiftness in dealing with the case of two Srei group companies which were referred to the Calcutta bench of the NCLT four days after it replaced the boards of the two companies. In a statement, the RBI said it has filed an application for the initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process against Reliance Capital under Section 227 read with clause (zk) of sub-section (2) of Section 239 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. The Section 227 and the clause (zk) of IBC Code 2019 must also be read with Rules 5 and 6 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Insolvency and Liquidation Proceedings of Financial Service Providers and Application to Adjudication Authority) Rules, 2019 or the FSP Insolvency Rules at the Mumbai Bench of the NCLT. On the basis of Rule 5 (b) (i) of the FSP Insolvency Rules, an interim moratorium will commence on and from the date of filing of the application till its admission or rejection. However, the adjudicating authority can  declare a moratorium for prohibiting actions like the institution of suits or continuation of pending suits or proceedings against the corporate debtor, including the execution of any judgement, decree or order in any court of law, tribunal, arbitration panel or other authority. It can also declare moratorium on transferring, encumbering, alienating or disposing of by the corporate debtor any of its assets or any legal right or beneficial interest and any action to foreclose, recover or enforce any security interest created by the debtor with regard to its property. A day after it had superseded the RCL board, the RBI appointed a committee to advise the administrator of the non-bank lender. The three-member advisory panel nominated to assist the administrator — Nageswara Rao Y —  included Sanjeev Nautiyal, the former deputy managing director (DMD) of the SBI, Srinivasan Varadarajan, ex-DMD, Axis Bank and Praveen P. Kadle, the former managing director & CEO, Tata Capital Ltd. Meanwhile, the shares of RCL were locked in at the lower circuit as investors looked to exit the counter. At the BSE, the share ended lower by five per cent at Rs 16.35. The non-bank lender has said that it will fully co-operate with the administrator for the expeditious resolution of its debt. RCL said the complexity of litigation initiated by certain secured and unsecured lenders, resulting in the pendency of over 10 cases in various fora, including the Supreme Court, Mumbai High Court,  Delhi High Court and debt recovery tribunals, effectively stalled the resolution of its debt, despite its best efforts for the past over two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Jet in talks with Boeing and Airbus to purchase 100 narrowbody planes||Jet Airways’ new owners — the Jalan-Kalrock combine — are reportedly in talks with Boeing Co and Airbus SE to purchase at least 100 narrowbody aircraft in an order that could be worth $12 billion. The airline is targeting to resume operations from the first quarter of 2022 and needs to replace its existing depleted fleet of just 11 aircraft. The winning bidder for Jet had said they would start with domestic flights and then fly overseas by the last quarter of the year. The airline was grounded in April 2019 and went into insolvency as it could not repay its rising debt. In October last year, the committee of creditors approved a resolution plan submitted by the Jalan-Kalrock consortium. Subsequently in June this year, the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) gave its approval to the plan. A Bloomberg report quoting Ankit Jalan, a representative for the consortium, said the group would invest around Rs 1,500 crore through equity and debt in the airline over the next six months. It added the airline is now left with a fleet of 11 planes that include Boeing 777 and 737s and Airbus A330, which need to be sold and replaced with more fuel efficient aircraft. Jalan-Kalrok’s move comes just days after Rakesh Jhunjhunwala’s airline Akasa Air placed an order for 72 Boeing 737 Max planes, valued at nearly $9 billion. Shares of Jet were in demand  and they ended with gains of 4.98 per cent at Rs 86.50 on the BSE. The scrip has gained more than 23 per cent in the last one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed Star Health IPO scrapes through||The initial public offering (IPO) of Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed Star Health and Allied Insurance Company scraped through after the company whittled down the number of shares in the offer-for-sale category to make up for the poor response among other investors. Data available with the stock exchanges on Thursday showed the issue was subscribed only 79 per cent. Investors applied for 3.5 crore shares against 4.4 crore shares on offer, with the shortfall of around 93 lakh shares made good by trimming the offer for sale (OFS) portion. Though rules governing IPOs say the minimum subscription should be 90 per cent, analysts said one key condition is that the QIB quota must be fully subscribed which was met in the case of this issue. This is not the first time an issuer company is reducing the size of its IPO. ICICI Securities had done so in 2018 after the issue did not garner full subscription. In Star Health, the reduction in the OFS part will mean the offering will collect Rs 839 crore less than earlier estimates. The Star Health IPO came in the price band of Rs 870-900 per share. The quotas for retail and the qualified institutional investors were fully subscribed but not high net worth individuals (HNIs) who are placed in the non-institutional category. The portion for HNIs was subscribed just 19 per cent with offer for 22.7 lakh shares against a quota of 1.19 crore shares. The IPO also received a poor response from the employees with subscription of 10 per cent of their allotment. The IPO comprised a fresh issue of up to Rs 2,000 crore and OFS of up to 5.8 crore shares, including 3 crore from Safecrop Investments India and up to 137,816 by Konark Trust. MMPL Trust will sell up to 9,518 shares. The other sellers are Apis Growth 6 Ltd, Mio IV Star, University of Notre Dame Du Lac, Mio Star, ROC Capital Pty Ltd, Venkatasamy Jagannathan, Sai Satish and Berjis Minoo Desai. This is the first time in this calendar year where a major IPO — Star Health’s Rs 7,249-crore initial offer was the second largest after Paytm’s Rs 18,300 crore  — has received a poor response largely due to a high valuation. “Considering the September 30, 2021 adjusted book value per share (BVPS) of Rs 90.35 on post-issue basis, the company is going to list at a price to book of 9.96 with a market cap of Rs 51,796.1 crore, while its peers namely ICICI Lombard and New India Assurance Limited are trading at a price to book of 8.25 and 0.71, respectively,’’ a note from Marwadi Shares and Finance had said. The brokerage had assigned an avoid rating while pointing out that it is expensive compared with its peers. The lukewarm response has brought back the debate on the pricing of IPOs, particularly after the poor listing of One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm. Observers said retail investors have to exercise caution and do their homework before investing in new offerings. In Star Health, retail investors had subscribed to 87.1 lakh shares against 79.4 lakh shares on offer —  resulting in the portion being subscribed 1.10 times. While the Star Health IPO had opened for subscription on November 30, it was only subscribed 20 per cent on Wednesday. There were reports that PB Fintech, which owns the Policybazaar brand, had subscribed to the issue  under the QIB category which also helped in this portion getting fully subscribed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Naukri founder offers tips||From running a frugal business in the early years of a startup to placing judicious bets while investing, Sanjeev Bikhchandani, founder and executive vice- chairman, Info Edge India Ltd, on Thursday offered some tips to budding entrepreneurs and investors at Infocom 2021, the flagship B2B event of ABP Group. Stock market listed Info Edge has a market capitalisation of over Rs 75,000 crore and operates online classifieds services such as Naukri, 99acres, Jeevavansathi and Shiksha. The company has also backed online food delivery startup Zomato and insurance aggregator Policybazaar parent — PB Fintech. In conversation with Aparup Sengupta, executive chairman and global CEO, Startek, Bikhchandani said there was an element of sacrifice by the startup founders at the early stage. “If you are frugal and operating at a low cost, while delivering value to customers, chances are you will at least break even. At the beginning survival is success,” he said, adding that hard work and a sense of customer insights play a crucial role in the success of startups. “Successful businesses are built on deep customer insights. When I was working on Horlicks (at HMM which is now GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare India), I used to observe that when the office copy of Business India would come in, everybody would read it from the back because there were 35-40 pages of appointment ads. From there I understood that job information is something that people are interested in,” he said in the context of the start of Naukri. Bikhchandani, who won the Padma Shri in 2020, said that for investors, certain startup sectors such as fintech, artificial intelligence, machine learning and cryptocurrency are gaining importance but there should not be any preconceived notions for investment. “We look at the quality of the team, the commitments and the capabilities. But we also look at early signs of natural traction and how powerful is the value proposition and how the founder came up with the idea,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Bengal government keen on policy to encourage unicorns||The Bengal government is keen on a policy to encourage innovation and facilitate the creation of unicorns — start-ups with a valuation of more than $1 billion — from the eastern part of India. According to data from Venture Intelligence, Bangalore is the city with most unicorns — 35 of the 77 in the country — across sectors such as fintech, edtech, gaming, logistics, e-commerce and mobility among others. But the eastern part of the country is relatively less successful in the matter of unicorns. Bengal industry and IT minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday, while addressing a session at Infocom 2021, the flagship B2B event of ABP Group, said the emergence of several unicorns in the last 12 months has prompted the state to explore policy support to create a strong start-up ecosystem in Bengal. “A section of the IT sector is focussed on valuation rather than revenue. The emergence of so many unicorns in India over the last 12 months supports the interest. Bengal needs to become a hub for unicorns and that will create a thriving (startup) ecosystem. The state is actively considering a policy to encourage innovation and new initiatives in IT and ITES,” said Chatterjee. The state government has already set up many IT parks and notified a policy to encourage data centers with fiscal incentives in the form of the waiver of electricity duty, stamp duty and registration. Chatterjee said 18 IT parks are now operating in the state, including in cities beyond Calcutta such as Kalyani, Asansol, Durgapur, Siliguri and Malda. Another four parks are expected to be commercially operational soon, while five are in the development stage at places such as Salt Lake Sector V, Durgapur, Belur, Darjeeling and Kalimpong. The state has also set up electronic and hardware parks at Sonarpur and Kalyani. “The centre of gravity of IT is shifting eastwards and Calcutta can be the epicentre with its plug and play infrastructure, diverse talent pool, optimised cost and good social infrastructure,” said Chatterjee. The minister said that the IT sector contributes to around 10 per cent of the state’s GDP and employs close to 2 lakh professionals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
03-12-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to increase vehicle prices from January||Maruti Suzuki India on Thursday said it will increase vehicle prices from January next year to offset the rise in input cost. The price increase would vary from model to model, the auto major said, without sharing the details. This is the fourth price hike that the car maker has announced in the last one year. “Over the past year, the cost of the company’s vehicles continue to be adversely impacted because of an increase in various input costs. Therefore, it has become imperative for the company to pass on some impact of the above additional costs to customers through a price hike,” MSI said in a regulatory filing. The price rise has been planned for January 2022, and the increase shall vary for different models, it added. The auto major has already hiked the vehicle prices three times this year — by 1.4 per cent in January, 1.6 per cent in April and 1.9 per cent in September, taking the total quantum to 4.9 per cent. Merc price protection Mercedes Benz India will increase prices of some of its models from January 2. The price hike will be up to 2 per cent. Models such as the A-Class, the GLA Class, S-Class and the E-Class will be costlier as will some CBUs. The German luxury brand is offering price protection to its customers who have already booked their cars and are awaiting delivery that might stretch to 2022 and also those who will book their cars till December this year. The company has been introducing new generation models and adding new technologies and specific product enhancements to its existing models. “To offset the costs of such feature enhancements amid rising input costs, Mercedes Benz will upwardly revise the ex-showroom price of only select models,” said a company spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
03-12-2021||Business||Uber and WhatsApp announce partnership||Uber and WhatsApp on Thursday announced a partnership that will allow people in the country to book a ride via WhatsApp — a global-first initiative by the ride-hailing platform. With this integration, riders will no longer need to download or use the Uber app. Everything — from user registration, booking a ride and getting a trip receipt — will be managed within the WhatsApp chat interface, a statement said. The integration is a global-first for Uber, and it will make booking a ride as easy as sending a WhatsApp message, it added. It is being rolled out on a pilot basis in the northern part of Lucknow first and will be expanded to other Indian cities soon. “We want to make it as easy as possible for all Indians to take an Uber trip, and to do that we need to meet them on platforms they are comfortable with. Our partnership with WhatsApp does just that, giving riders a new way to get a ride through a simple, familiar and trusted channel,” Uber APAC senior director (Business Development) Nandini Maheshwari said. Built on WhatsApp Business Platform, the partnership will expand access to Uber’s mobility services in its largest international markets. Ola plans IPO Indian ride-hailing company Ola plans to go public in the first half of 2022, chief executive officer Bhavish Aggarwal said on Thursday, undeterred by the recent volatility and lacklustre listing of some start-ups in the country. Ola, backed by Japan’s SoftBank Group, is also gearing up to create something of a “super app” with plans to broaden its services beyond mobility to include personal finance and micro insurance, Aggarwal told the Reuters Next conference. “We are not a company that takes a short-term view on anything. Short-term, there might be volatilities in the market but that has never informed our decisions,” said Aggarwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
03-12-2021||Business||Opec+ to stick to existing policy of monthly oil output increases||Opec and its allies agreed on Thursday to stick to their existing policy of monthly oil output increases despite fears that a US release from crude reserves and the new Omicron coronavirus variant would lead to a fresh oil price rout. Benchmark Brent crude fell more than $1 after the deal was reported, before recovering some ground to trade around$70 a barrel. It is now well below October's three-year highs above $86 but still more than 30 per cent up on the start of 2021. The United States has repeatedly pushed OPEC+ to accelerate output hikes as U.S. gasoline prices soared and President Joe Biden's approval ratings slid. Faced with rebuffals, Washington said last week it and other consumers would release reserves. Fearing another supply glut, sources said the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Russia and allies, known as Opec+, considered a range of options in talks on Thursday, including pausing their January hike of 400,000 barrels per day (bpd) or increasing output by less than the monthly plan. But any such move would have put Opec+, which includes Saudi Arabia and other US allies in the Gulf, on a collision course with Washington. Instead, the group rolled over its existing deal to increase output in January by 400,000 bpd. “Politics triumphs over economics. Consumer countries mounted enough pressure,” said veteran Opec observer Gary Ross. “But weaker prices now will only mean stronger later,” he said Ahead of the talks, US deputy energy secretary David Turk indicated there might be flexibility in the US release of reserves, telling Reuters on Wednesday that Biden’s administration could adjust the timing if oil prices dropped substantially.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
