04-12-2021||Business||DoT to return bank guarantees to Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel||The department of telecom (DoT) has started to return bank guarantees worth Rs 20,000 crore to Vodafone Idea and the Bharti group. The process will be completed by December 31. Bharti Airtel will get back Rs 8,000 crore while Vodafone Idea will get back Rs 12,000 crore in bank guarantees. Analysts said this is expected to improve the financial health of debt-ridden Vodafone Idea as its non-fund exposure to banks will reduce and banks, which were earlier not interested to furnish fresh bank guarantees to the loss-making telco due to its precarious financial position, may now extend fresh bank guarantees to the entity. This windfall for the telcos came after the government cut bank guarantee requirements against statutory dues such as licensee fees by 80 per cent in its latest relief package. Airtel has received about Rs 4,000 crore over the last few days and Vi has received about Rs 2,500 crore, sources said. Under the new rule, the telecom firms are required to provide a performance bank guarantee of up to Rs 44 crore for each service for the licence. The old rule had mandated Rs 220 crore as performance bank guarantee. Similarly, for a financial bank guarantee, telecom operators now need to provide a maximum Rs 8.8 crore per circle against the Rs 44 crore earlier. The decision came in favour of telcos as it reduces their cash requirement while unblocking the cash they keep with lenders to furnish bank guarantees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
04-12-2021||Business||Caveat on valuations||A change in the investment outlook of venture capitalists over the next decade following the Covid outbreak has helped the valuation of Indian startups with 40 companies breaching the $1 billion mark in 2021. While India has lowered the gap with the US and China in terms of the average time taken to become a unicorn, chasing valuations may not always be a prudent strategy according to officials of Indian unicorns, who participated in a session at Infocom 2021, the flagship B2B event of the ABP group. “Post Covid, there is a fundamental shift in how venture capitalists are looking at the next decade,” said Gajendra Jangid, co-founder and CMO, Cars24. “Valuation will come of its own. Once you start chasing valuation, you will go off track,” he said. “The next 3-5 years is really going to be good for anybody to kickstart their business,” said Vipul Parekh, -founder, CFO and CMO, Bigbasket, a Tata Enterprise. Arjun Mohan, CEO India of Upgrad, said: “The game changer will be the new education policy. India will be one of those few countries which is now allowed to give formal education online.” “Today we have almost 800 million internet users and this is creating a conducive environment for startups to experiment and drive new ideas,” said Avinash Deepak, senior vice president, vertical head - IT/ITES & Startups, Airtel Business. “With advanced connectivity coming in, data will be the most important thing for the future,” said Ganesh Lakshminarayanan, CEO — enterprise business, Airtel Business. NTT expansion NTT is looking to invest $2 billion over 4 years in scaling up data centre infrastructure in India, said Sharad Sanghi, CEO, NTT Ltd in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
04-12-2021||Business||Hero MotoCorp inaugurates flagship dealership in Argentina||Hero MotoCorp has expanded its operations and has inaugurated a flagship dealership in Argentina. The company has tied up with Gilera Motors, one of the leading companies in the motor vehicle sector in Argentina and Latin America. Gilera Motors Argentina will make new investments to expand all business operations for Hero MotoCorp’s products. This is expected to generate nearly 500 new jobs in the region. Gilera Motors Argentina has also expanded its plant in Carlos Spegazzini Province of Buenos Aires to completely renovate its infrastructure and adapt the latest automotive technologies that are incorporated in Hero MotoCorp products. Hero MotoCorp and Gilera Motors Argentina also inaugurated a flagship dealership in Buenos Aires on Friday, where customers can experience Hero MotoCorp’s products and services. The partners have an aggressive expansion plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
04-12-2021||Business||Gita Gopinath named IMF deputy chief||Gita Gopinath, the IMF’s Indian-American chief economist, has been promoted as its first deputy managing director, recognising her exceptional intellectual leadership in helping the global economy and the Fund to navigate the “twists and turns” of the “worst economic crisis of our lives”. Gopinath would replace Geoffrey Okamoto who plans to leave the International Monetary Fund early next year, Kristalina Georgieva, IMF’s managing director announced on Thursday. Gopinath, who was scheduled to return to her academic position at Harvard University in January 2022, has decided to stay, she said. Gopinath, 49, has served as the first female chief economist of the Washington-based global lender for three years. “Both Geoffrey and Gita are tremendous colleagues — I am sad to see Geoffrey go but, at the same time, I am delighted that Gita has decided to stay and accept the new responsibility of being our First Deputy Managing Director (FDMD),” said Georgieva. She also said Gopinath has garnered respect and admiration across member countries and the institution with a proven track record in leading analytically rigorous work on a broad range of issues. “Especially given that the pandemic has led to an increase in the scale and scope of the macroeconomic challenges facing our member countries, I believe that Gita — universally recognised as one of the world’s leading macroeconomists — has precisely the expertise that we need for the FDMD role at this point. Indeed, her particular skill set — combined with her years of experience at the fund as chief economist — make her uniquely well qualified. She is the right person at the right time,” Georgieva said. Under Gopinath’s leadership, the IMF’s Research Department had gone from “strength to strength”, she added. “I am honoured and humbled to become the IMF’s next FDMD,” Gopinath said on her new appointment. Gopinath noted that over the past three years she had the opportunity to experience first-hand and be a part of the hugely important work done by the IMF at the intersection of rigorous economic analysis and public policy. “It has been so gratifying to see the positive impact of our work on economies and on the lives of so many people worldwide. As the pandemic continues its grip on us, the work of the Fund has never been more critical and international cooperation never more important,” she said, and thanked Georgieva and the IMF Board for giving her the opportunity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
04-12-2021||Business||Tega Industries draws massive response to initial public offering ||Calcutta-based Tega Industries drew a massive response to its initial public offering (IPO) with the share float being subscribed over 219 times. Of this, the portion reserved for qualified institutional buyers (QIB) was subscribed over 215 times —the highest seen in a decade. The mining equipment and mineral benefications firm had fixed a price band of Rs 443-453 per share for the offering which closed for subscription on Friday. The IPO was entirely an offer for sale (OFS) of up to 1,36,69,478 shares by the selling shareholders. Several brokerages had advised investors to subscribe to the issue citing its strong market position and high entry barriers. While the IPO was fully subscribed on the opening day itself, the company had also raised Rs 186 crore from anchor investors. The strong response to its IPO comes only a day after Star Health’s IPO garnered an overall subscription of 79 per cent. With the Tega Industries IPO currently seeing a grey market premium (GMP) of Rs 410 (according to IPO Watch), investors getting allotment can expect good listing gains. As of 5pm on Friday, against 95,68,636 shares on offer, the IPO received bids for 2,09,58,69,600 thus showing a subscription of 219.04 times. Of this, the portion reserved for QIBs saw bids for 58,90,17,198 shares compared to 27,33,896 shares reserved, a subscription ratio of over 215 times. There was huge response among non-institutional investors with this segment witnessing subscription of 666 times. This is because against 20,50,422 shares meant for this category, bids were received for 1,36,59,78,966 shares. The retail portion saw subscription 29 times as they bid for 14,08,73,436 shares against 47,84,318 shares reserved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
04-12-2021||Business||Global rules required  for cryptos: Nirmala Sitharaman||The proliferation of crypto currencies such as the Bitcoin is a manifestation of rapid technological changes that know no borders, necessitating a co-ordinated global effort as regulators are only playing “catching-up” with such technologies, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said here on Friday. Sitharaman said there was no one point formula for regulating such ever-evolving technology. Her comments, at at a global financial technology event, come against the backdrop of the government preparing to come out with legislation to regulate cryptocurrencies. “Even as we are thinking about at a national level, there should simultaneously be a global mechanism through which we are constantly monitoring the movement of technology, so that whether it is your cryptocurrency,whether it is tech-driven payment system, data privacy, whether it is ensuring that data is used ethically...when you are looking at data as one of the revenue generating options, to regulate it will have to be a collective effort,” the FM said. She said technology respects no physical borders and has the power to sweep through borders. “It means that global action is the only way with which you can regulate effectively.” Replying to a question on how regulation keeps pace with technology, the finance minister said since these are evolving areas, there is no clear pointed answer. “ So as long the executive and legislature are only catching up, you will never be on top of it. And with technology, I am not sure they (regulators) can ever be on top of this kind of situation, because it is ever changing and ever evolving,” Sitharaman said. Mukesh backs bills Reliance Industries chairman and MD Mukesh Ambani backed the proposed data privacy and cryptocurrency bills, saying India is putting in place the most forward-looking policies and regulations. Ambani,said nations have the right to build and protect their strategic digital infrastructure. Stating that data is the ‘new oil’, he said every citizen’s right to privacy has to be safeguarded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
04-12-2021||Business||Services sector activity expands to ten-year high||Services sector activity expanded at its second fastest pace in more than a decade during November, driven by a sustained rise in new work orders and improvement in market conditions, a monthly survey said. The India Services Business Activity Index, compiled by IHS Markit, stood at 58.1 in November compared with 58.4 in October. For the fourth straight month, the services sector witnessed an expansion in output. In Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion while a score below 50 denotes contraction. The November figure points to the second-fastest rise in output since July 2011. “The recovery of the Indian service sector was extended to November, with a robust improvement in sales enabling the second-fastest rise in business activity in nearly ten-and-a-half years,” Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate Director at IHS Markit, said. Although companies forecast higher business activity volumes over the course of the coming year, the expansion is expected to be restricted by price pressures. Amid reports of higher fuel, labour, material, retail and transportation costs, average input prices among Indian services companies rose further in November. The Composite PMI Output Index – which measures combined services and manufacturing output – rose from 58.7 in October to 59.2 in November, signalling the strongest upturn since January 2012. “Looking at the manufacturing and service sectors combined, the results are even more encouraging and bode well for economic performance in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021/22 so far,” Lima said. With production growth quickening considerably in November, private sector output expanded at the fastest pace since January 2012,” Lima said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
04-12-2021||Business||Omicron pulls Sensex down by 765 points||The coronavirus came back to spook investors with the detection of two cases of the Omicron variant in the country that led to the benchmark Sensex crashing almost 765 points on Friday. The markets were mostly buoyant for the better part of this week as investors took heart from the 8.4 per cent growth in India’s real GDP in the second quarter, a surge in GST collections during November and a benign fiscal deficit during the April-October period. The players ignored headwinds such as a faster end to the bond buying programme by the US Federal Reserve. The mood soured on Friday as India reported two cases of the Omicron variant, stoking fears of fresh restrictions by states. Reflecting the wary sentiment, the 30-share Sensex opened in the green at 58555.58 and hit the day’s high of 58757.09. However, investors used the opportunity to offload their positions resulting in the gauge settling at 57696.46, a drop of 764.83 points or 1.31 per cent. Similarly, the broader Nifty fell 204.95 points or 1.18 per cent to end at 17196.70. Heavyweights such as Reliance Industries, the HDFC twins, Bharti Airtel and Kotak Mahindra Bank saw losses of up to 3.05 per cent. Only four stocks in the Sensex pack ended in the green with the shares of Larsen & Toubro leading the list of gainers with a rise of 0.72 per cent. Analysts said the markets would continue to be on the edge as they await more data on the new variant. The key event next week is the three-day meeting of the monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI from Monday. The panel is widely expected to hold rates, maintain its accommodative stance and continue mopping excess liquidity from the system. However, the spotlight will be on the  guidance provided by the apex bank. “Concerns over the new Omicron variant, rising global inflation and the Fed’s recent remarks on early tapering continued to drive volatility in the markets on Friday,” Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said. “The much-awaited decision of the MPC will be on whether they would wait for another session and evaluate the impact of Omicron to decide on a reverse repo rate hike,’’ he said. One of the major factors that has contributed to the volatility in recent times is the selling by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs).  Provisional data showed they were net sellers of Rs 3,356 crore in Friday's trade. They have sold stocks worth Rs 19,495 crore in October and November. However, at the same time, retail investors and domestic institutional investors have continued to maintain their faith in stocks, thereby preventing a major correction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
04-12-2021||Business||Centre opens up purse-strings for pro-poor programmes ||The Centre on Friday opened up the purse-strings for pro-poor programmes such as the rural job scheme but the allocation stills falls short of the revised estimates of the last fiscal even as the supplementary demand for grants of Rs 3.73 lakh crore threatens to increase the fiscal deficit for the fiscal. In the demand for extra funds for this fiscal, the Modi government said it wanted to spend Rs 22,039 crore extra on the rural job scheme, taking the total expenditure under the programme to Rs 95,039 crore, but still way below the allocation of Rs 111,500 crore made under the scheme according to the revised estimates for 2020-21. Besides, the supplementary demand for grants may  increase the fiscal deficit, because the government may fall short of divestment targets for the fiscal, according to Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar. Minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhary on Friday tabled the second batch of supplementary demands for grants in the Lok Sabha envisaging a net cash outgo of over Rs 2.99 lakh crore and Rs 74,517 crore extra expenditure to be matched by savings by different ministries. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman later tabled the supplementary demands for grants for 2021-22 in the Rajya Sabha. The extra spending would include Rs 58,430 crore by way of additional fertiliser subsidy, Rs 53,123 crore towards payment of pending export incentives and Rs 22,039 crore to the rural development ministry for the transfer to the National Rural Employment Guarantee Fund and Rs 62,000 crore for infusion into the company that holds the residual assets and liabilities of Air India after its privatisation. The civil aviation ministry will get Rs 62,057 crore for equity infusion in Air India Assets Holding Company (AIAHL) to repay past government guaranteed borrowing and past dues and liabilities of Air India. Under the supplementary demands for grants, an additional Rs 2,628 crore would be given towards loans and advances to Air India for the recoup of advances from Contingency Fund of India. Besides, the department of food and public distribution would be given an additional Rs 49,805 crore for meeting expenditure towards various schemes of food storage and warehousing. About Rs 2,400 crore would be given to the department of commerce for meeting expenditure towards subsidies under the “Interest Equalisation Scheme”, and investment under the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) scheme. The 2021-22 Budget had projected the government's total expenditure at Rs 34.8 lakh crore. But this is expected to overshoot considering the two batches of supplementary demands for grants presented by the government so far. The government in August received Parliament approval for net additional spending of Rs 23,675 crore in the first batch of supplementary demands for grants. Interestingly, about a sum of Rs 10 lakh crore goes to the states, which reduces in the central portion of the expenditure budget to only Rs 24 lakh crore, which would now increase by another Rs 3 lakh crore. “As hopes of a substantial portion of the ambitious FY2022 disinvestment target being realised fade, and we move closer to eventual rate hikes from the monetary policy committee of the RBI, G-sec yields are likely to witness an inevitable hardening,” Nayar said. The defence ministry would get Rs 5,000 crore under the second supplementary demands, while the home ministry will get Rs 4,000 crore. The 2021-22 Budget had projected the government’s total expenditure at Rs 34.83 lakh crore. But this is expected to overshoot considering the two batches of supplementary demands for grants presented by the government so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
