05-12-2021||Business||Over 3 crore income tax returns filed for FY21 so far: Finance Ministry||The finance ministry on Sunday said over three crore income tax returns have been filed for the financial year 2020-21 so far and advised taxpayers who are yet to file their return to do so at the earliest.  The number of ITRs filed per day is over four lakh and increasing everyday as the extended due date of December 31 is approaching, an official statement said.  The department has been issuing reminders to taxpayers through e-mails, SMS and media campaigns encouraging taxpayers to file their income tax returns without further delay.  All taxpayers who are yet to file their income tax returns for the assessment year 2021-22 are requested to file their returns at the earliest to avoid the last-minute rush, it said.  "The income tax department strongly urges all taxpayers to view their Form 26AS and Annual Information Statement (AIS) through the e-filing portal to verify the accuracy of the TDS and tax payments and avail of pre-filling of ITRs," it said.  It is important for taxpayers to cross check the data in the AIS statement with their bank passbook, interest certificate, Form 16 and capital gains statement from brokerages in case of purchase and sale of equity/ mutual funds, etc, it said.  "Income tax return (ITR) filing has increased to 3.03 crore ITRs for AY 2021-22. 58.98 per cent of these are ITR1 (1.78 crore), 8 per cent is ITR2 (24.42 lakh), 8.7 per cent is ITR3 (26.58 lakh), 23.12 per cent are ITR4 (70.07 lakh), ITR5 (2.14 lakh), ITR6 (0.91 lakh) and ITR7 (0.15 lakh).  "Over 52 per cent of these ITRs are filed using the online ITR form on the portal and the balance are uploaded using the ITR created from the offline software utilities," it said.  The process of e-verification through Aadhaar OTP and other methods is important for the income tax department to commence processing of the ITR and to issue refunds if any.  It is encouraging to note that 2.69 crore returns have been e-verified, out of which more than 2.28 crore are through Aadhaar-based OTP, it said.  "In November, 48 per cent of the verified ITRs 1, 2 and 4 have been processed on the same day. Of the verified ITRs more than 2.11 crore ITRs have been processed and over 82.80 lakh refunds for AY 2021-22 have been issued," it said.  Taxpayers are urged to ensure that the bank account selected for credit of refund must have their PAN number linked at the bank to avoid refund failures, it added.  "Overall 8.33 lakh DSCs have been registered. In the simplified process of digital signature certificate (DSC) registration, any individual has to register his DSC only once and can use it across any entity where the individual is a partner, director, etc, without having to re-register again against each entity or role," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
05-12-2021||Business||Will support Zambian govt in green energy transition goals: Vedanta||Vedanta, a global natural resources company, has said it supports the Zambian government in its green energy transition goals. The company is encouraged by the steps already taken by the government, including appointment of the green economy and environment minister, and is aligned to further initiatives that have been presented, it said in a statement. Demand for power in the country has been increasing over the last few years but generation capacity remains stagnant. This is causing instability in the more rural populations, including the local communities around the Konkola Copper Mines (KCM). Vedanta is committed to aid the government in its vision, including supporting new industry initiatives as well as providing energy security for KCM and its surrounding population. While Vedanta was the operator of KCM, one of its primary undertakings was to replace the old smelter with one that is significantly cleaner and more efficient. The current smelter is the cleanest in the country, it added. In its wider operations, Vedanta is planning to be a leader in ESG within the global natural resources sector, having already committed $5 billion over the next 10 years to accelerate the transition to net zero, it said. “We are pleased to see the positive progress that has been made thus far by the Zambian government in its aim to improve the country's power capacity through the use of green energy. “Vedanta look forward to working closely with the newly appointed Green Economy and Environment Minister to further progress this initiative and transition Zambia into more sustainable sources of energy, encompassing its already present capabilities for hydro power,” said Sunil Duggal, Group CEO and Chief Safety Officer, Vedanta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
05-12-2021||Business||Bitcoin tumbles in crypto crash||Bitcoin went for a free fall on Saturday as a combination of profit-taking and macro-economic concerns triggered nearly a billion dollars worth of selling across cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin was 12.7 per cent down at 11.15pm at $48,008.20. It fell as low as $41,967.5 during the session. The broad selloff in cryptocurrencies also saw ether, the coin linked to the ethereum blockchain network, plunge more than 10 per cent during the day. It was at $4,021.17 at 11.15pm. Based on cryptocurrency data platform Coingecko, the market capitalisation of the 11,392 coins it tracks dropped nearly 15 per cent to $2.34 trillion at one point during the day. That value had briefly crossed $3 trillion last month, when bitcoin hit a record $69,000. The plunge follows a volatile week for financial markets. Global equities and benchmark US bond yields tumbled on Friday after data showed US job growth slowed in November and the Omicron variant of the coronavirus kept investors on edge. Justin d’Anethan, Hong Kong-based head of exchange sales at cryptocurrency exchange EQONEX, said he had been watching the increase in leverage ratios across the cryptocurrency markets as well as how large holders had been moving their coins from wallets to exchanges. The latter is usually a sign of intent to sell. “Whales in the crypto space seem to have transferred coins to trading venue, taken advantage of a bullish bias and leverage from retail traders, to then push prices down,” he said. The selloff also comes ahead of testimony by executives from eight major cryptocurrency firms, including Coinbase Global CFO Alesia Haas and FTX Trading CEO Sam Bankman-Fried, before the US House Financial Services Committee on December 8. The hearing marks the first time major players in the crypto markets will testify before US lawmakers, as policymakers grapple with the implications of cryptocurrencies and how to best regulate them. Last week, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rejected a second spot-bitcoin exchange-traded fund proposal from WisdomTree.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
05-12-2021||Business||Lot of unhealthy speculation on crypto taking place: Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said a lot of speculation was taking place on cryptocurrencies. Her comments come against the backdrop of the government preparing to come out with a legislation to regulate cryptocurrencies. The finance minister said there is certainly a well consulted bill which is coming in Parliament after the Cabinet nod. “There is a lot of speculation...that’s not healthy at all,” she said in a reply to a question if she thinks that a lot of unregulated speculation is taking place on crypto. The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021 has been included in the Lok Sabha Bulletin-Part II for the introduction in the Winter Session. The bill seeks to create a facilitative framework for the creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the RBI, the Bulletin said. It also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India. However, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
05-12-2021||Business||Mahindra Holidays & Resorts aims growth with expansion plan in resort network||With leisure travel back in vogue, Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Ltd (MHRIL) is eyeing a promising road ahead over the next few months. It has laid out aggressive growth plans that include an expansion in the resort network and a surge in the member base. The Mahindra group firm had recently reported a strong performance for the quarter ended September 30, 2021, with its resort income exceeding the pre-pandemic (quarter ended September 30, 2019) levels. Moreover, the standalone net profit grew by 20 per cent to Rs 40.6 crore, which was the highest ever second-quarter profit. “The Indian operations delivered the best performance in terms of profit during the quarter. Moreover, the occupancy at our resorts recovered to 73 per cent, which is equal to pre-pandemic levels. Our cash position also improved to Rs 1,041 crore. “We also saw a rebound in member additions that crossed the numbers reported in the September 2019 quarter. Therefore, we are definitely better than the pre-pandemic levels when we see parameters like member additions, resort occupancy, resort income, total income and the profits,’’ Kavinder Singh, managing director and chief executive officer of MHRIL, said. Speaking to The Telegraph before the current Omicron scare hit the world, Singh said that MHRIL is now looking to increase the room inventory to over 5,500 by 2024-25. As on September 30, 2021, the company had 78 resorts across India and overseas, while its subsidiary Holiday Club Resorts Oy, Finland, a vacation ownership company in Europe, had 33 timeshare destinations and nine spa resorts in Finland, Sweden, and Spain. Its total room inventory across the 78 resorts stood at 4,233 and they reported operational occupancy of 73 per cent during the second quarter of this fiscal. Singh disclosed that the company will not only expand the current capacity but will also take the greenfield route. For instance, it is setting up a new resort at Ganpatipule in Maharashtra and is expanding at locations like Kandaghat in Himachal Pradesh, Ashtamudi in Kerala apart from Puducherry and Goa. While the company added 3,943 members during the July-September quarter against 2,681 in the year-ago period, it currently has a cumulative member base of 258,000. He added that given its expansion plans, other strengths like offering an unmatched experience to the customer, the huge potential for vacation ownership in India, and a rise in discretionary spending, the company could see its member base quadrupling over the next few years. Currently, Wyndham Destinations is the largest vacation ownership company in the world and it has a member base of well over 9,00,000. Sounding optimistic about the company’s performance in the second half of this fiscal, Singh pointed out that one of the major trends that are being seen now is that people want to drive and that travellers have also begun to spend more on food & beverages. “People want to create a family vacation, create a bubble with friends or extended family. They also want to do outdoor activities. All of these stacks are well in our favour since 80 per cent of our resorts are in drivable destinations. Therefore, barring a third wave, our performance in the third quarter (which is a seasonally strong quarter for the industry) will be better and we see a further improvement in occupancy over the second quarter. As regards the fourth quarter, we are in a wait-and-watch mode. However, we are well prepared to handle any rise in leisure travel," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
05-12-2021||Business||Starlink to apply for India permit by January 2022||Starlink, the satellite internet division of billionaire Elon Musk’s rocket company SpaceX, will apply early next year for a commercial licence in India to provide broadband and other services, its country head has said. “We hope to have applied for a commercial licence on or before January 31, 2022 (unless we hit some major roadblock),” Sanjay Bhargava, Starlink country director, India at SpaceX, said in a LinkedIn post. If the company can roll out its services by April, it aims to have 200,000 Starlink devices in India by December 2022, it said in a presentation posted by Bhargava. The company has previously said it expects 80 per cent of these devices to be in rural areas. Starlink is one of a growing number of companies launching small satellites as part of a low-Earth orbit network to provide low-latency broadband internet services around the world, with a particular focus on remote areas that terrestrial internet infrastructure struggles to reach. Its competitors include Amazon.com’s Kuiper and OneWeb which is co-owned by the British government and India’s Bharti Enterprises. While Starlink has already received over 5,000 pre-orders for its devices in India, it has not begun any services. Even so, the Indian government, last week, advised people against subscribing to Starlink as it does not have a license to operate in the country. It also warned the company about taking bookings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
