06-12-2021||Business||Sensex nosedives 949 points on Omicron scare||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 949 points on Monday as concerns over the spread of the Omicron variant in the country triggered a sell-off across sectors. According to market experts, Indian shares fell as the country recorded more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus over the weekend. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 949.32 points or 1.65 per cent lower at 56,747.14. Similarly, the NSE Nifty slumped 284.45 points or 1.65 per cent to 16,912.25. All Sensex components ended in the red. IndusInd Bank was the top loser, shedding nearly 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bharti Airtel, TCS, HCL Tech and Tech Mahindra. "Indices started the day weak and selling intensified during afternoon trade with almost all sectoral indices ending in the red," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. As the Street awaits the RBI stance on interest rates, the Nifty sold off below 17,000-level as bears held the upper hand on a day which saw no recovery, he said, adding that FII selling continued with no respite despite accumulation seen on Monday in high-quality financials by domestic investors. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with losses, while Seoul was positive. Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 2.23 per cent to USD 71.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
06-12-2021||Business||India's airlines incurred loss of Rs 19,564 crore in 2020-21||The airlines and airports in India incurred an estimated loss of Rs 19,564 crore and Rs 5,116 crore, respectively, in 2020-21 due to severe disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh said on Monday. Due to the outbreak of COVID-19, scheduled domestic flights were suspended in India from March 25, 2020 to May 24, 2020. "The aviation sector in India has been affected due to severe disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic," the minister said in his written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. "The estimated losses incurred by airlines and airports in India in the financial year 2020-21 is approximately Rs19,564 crore and Rs 5,116 crore respectively," he mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
06-12-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 300 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid concerns over the spread of the Omicron variant in the country and weak cues from global markets. The 30-share index was trading 311.11 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 57,385.35 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 81.70 points or 0.48 per cent to 17,115. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Maruti, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, Infosys and NTPC. On the other hand, Tata Steel, L&T, HUL, HDFC and UltraTech Cement were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark ended 764.83 points or 1.31 per cent lower at 57,696.46, and Nifty tanked 204.95 points or 1.18 per cent to 17,196.70. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 3,356.17 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. This week, the market direction is likely to be determined by two factors: one, news regarding the spread of the Omicron variant of the virus and two, the outcome of the monetary policy review on Friday, said VK Vijayakumar, the Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The latter is unlikely to be market-moving since MPC is likely to continue with the accommodative stance and status quo on policy rates. The market-moving factor will be the news regarding Omicron, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.99 per cent to USD 71.27 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
06-12-2021||Business||Gaming eyes $7bn pie in five years||The gaming industry in India is expected to grow around five fold over the next five years. At a panel discussion on the future of gaming  at Infocom 2021, the flagship event of ABP Group, industry officials said the growth would be driven by better monetisation opportunity, growth of smartphone and Internet accessibility and a variety of content and format. A study by RedSeer estimates the gaming industry in India at $1.8 billion in 2019-20 with 51 per cent of the revenue coming from RMG (real money games) such as poker and rummy with the share of in-app purchases estimated at around 27 per cent. There were about 400 million gamers in India in 2020 of which around 80 million were paid gamers. The study projects the share of paid gamers to rise to 235 million by 2025 which is expected to take the industry revenue to around $7 billion by 2025-26. The rise of e-sports and the entry of OTT players such as Netflix will further increase interest in the field. Globally, the industry is estimated at over $200 billion according to Raghav Anand, segment leader, digital media — Africa, India, Middle East, Ernst & Young LLP. “The gaming industry in India is about $2 billion. This number can grow 5x over the next 4-5 years,” said Paavan Nanda, CEO and co-founder, WinZo. He said the monetisation of games had always been a challenge in the country but the situation is improving with the spread of UPI. “People are interested in paying for their content. That has led companies to innovate and invest behind marketing and getting better titles,” said Nanda. Namratha Swamy, general manager India, Mobile Premier League, said about a decade back gaming was more about individuals having access to a high-end computer or a console which has changed with  smartphones and high speed internet. “Mobile gaming accounts for more than 50 per cent growth and in India around 90 per cent of overall gaming is happening on mobile today. The access to smartphones, data availability, arrival of 4G and with 5G expected in the future has made gaming accessible to all,” she said. “The boundaries of age are definitely fading and users, even 45 plus and 60 plus, are becoming a significant part of the gaming audience. The variety of content and format has attracted a wider group of people to get involved in gaming,” she said. “Mobile today has been able to generate much bigger business than console and this is something that developers have to be conscious of where the potential lies,” said Nitin Goel, country manager - Indian subcontinent, Gameloft. The industry, however, is in favour of a uniform regulatory framework. “Not having a clear singular regulatory framework sort of leads to diverse interpretation across the country. In the US where there is tremendous growth there is a lot of clarity on what is in and what is out,” said Swamy, adding that clear regulations could attract more investors and make gaming more mainstream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
06-12-2021||Business||Electric two and three-wheelers with battery swaps||Start-ups in the ride-sharing and electric vehicle charging businesses are now offering electric two-wheeler and three-wheelers with innovative options such as battery swaps. Following cab aggregator Ola, which is now making e-scooters, Bounce, a Bangalore based start-up operating in the dockless scooter sharing platform, has unveiled its electric scooter called Bounce Infinity E1. The start-up is offering its customers the option of buying the scooter without the battery and subscribe to its swappable battery service. Start-up Magenta, a charge point operator, has deployed 100 electric cargo vehicles under its electric vehicle enabled transport (EVET) plan, a last-mile delivery platform in Bangalore. The Bounce Infinity E1 scooter with battery and charger is priced Rs 68,999 (Delhi ex showroom). The price for scooters with battery-as-service is Rs 45,099 (Delhi ex showroom). The user will have to pay additional subscription for using battery as a service option. Customers pay for battery swaps, whenever they swap an empty battery with a fully charged one from Bounce’s swapping network. “This pushes the running costs of the scooter down by 40 per cent compared with  conventional scooters. The Bounce Infinity E1 will also be offered with the battery, which can be removed from the scooter and charged by customers at their home or office or wherever convenient,” said Vivekananda Hallekere, CEO and co-founder, Bounce. Magenta, which has been developing charging solutions under its “ChargeGrid” brand, launched its e-Mobility platform under the “EVET” brand. Under EVET, Magenta is operating over 110 electric cargo transport services using the electric mobility platform. With this flag off, Magenta EVET is formally rolling out FaaS (Fleet as a Service), enabling fleet owners, fleet operators, and driver entrepreneurs to plan, book, and pay for bundled single stop EV services including fleet, charging and parking services. This will be rolled out in Bangalore, where Magenta went live with more than 150 charging points last month. Revolt Motors, which sells RV400, the flagship electric motorcycle, is expanding its retail presence by entering the Eastern India market. The company opened its first store in Calcutta and 16th retail store across the country. With the growing demand for EV’s in the state, the West Bengal government has introduced various initiatives to accelerate the process of EV adoption and is targeting 10 lakh vehicle registrations to be EVs by 2025. In addition, the government has set up a dedicated EV cell and confirmed no road tax and registration fees on electric wheelers. “Calcutta being a key market in India has a huge demand for premium and performance-based EV vehicles and the RV400 is the perfect fit to meet their requirement,” said a company spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
06-12-2021||Business||American Airlines to get approvals IndiGo codeshare agreement||American Airlines is in the process of getting requisite approvals from the US government for its codeshare agreement with IndiGo airlines and the partnership is likely to be implemented by March 2022, a senior official of the Texas-based carrier has stated. American Airlines and IndiGo had in September announced that they have entered into a codeshare agreement which allows the former to sell seats — on its distribution system — of the Indian carrier’s flights operating on 29 routes. The Texas-based carrier resumed its New York-Delhi flight on November 12 after a gap of 10 years. American Airlines’ managing director (sales) Tom Lattig has told PTI in an interview that the carrier’s Seattle-Bangalore flight would start flying from March 25 next year instead of January 4 as announced before. “We have not seen much corporate travel recovery yet. We know that route (Seattle-Bangalore) in particular will depend heavily on corporate traffic and we have made the decision to push back the date,” he said. The airline has more than 2,000 agreements in place in the US with various companies, he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
06-12-2021||Business||LIC improves asset quality for financial year ended March 2021||Ahead of its proposed initial public offering (IPO), insurance behemoth LIC has improved its asset quality for the financial year ended March 2021. The non-performing assets  as of March 31, 2021, are Rs 35,129.89 crore out of a total portfolio of Rs 4.5 lakh crore, according to the latest annual report of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC). The sub-standard assets are Rs 254.37 crore whereas the doubtful assets are Rs 20,369.17 crore and loss assets are Rs 14,506.35 crore. An amount of Rs 34,934.97 crore is provided as per IRDAI guidelines in the books of accounts towards non-performing assets, it said. The percentage of gross NPA is 7.78 per cent while the net NPA is 0.05 per cent at the end of March 2021. This is lower than gross NPA of 8.17 per cent (as a percentage of its debt portfolio) and net NPA of 0.79 per cent in the previous year. In absolute terms, the NPA was Rs 36,694.20 crore out of a total debt of Rs 4.4 lakh crore in 2019-20. Stress threshold for banks is different from that for insurers. LIC usually makes full provisions for all NPA in the debt book.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
06-12-2021||Business||Abhijit Banerjee warns of growing  distress in economy||People in India are in “extreme pain” and the economy is still below the 2019 levels, with “small aspirations” of people becoming even smaller now, Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Banerjee has said. He was virtually addressing students of the Ahmedabad University in Gujarat on Saturday night from the US during the varsity’s 11th annual convocation, which was also held online. The economist was sharing his observations from a recent visit to Bengal. “You (students) are in a place where you can give back. Society needs it. We are in a time of extreme pain in India,” he said. “I just spent some time in rural West Bengal and stories you hear about, you know, all the aspirations that have been a little bit dashed are very real...small aspirations which became smaller now,” Banerjee said. “I think we are in a moment of great pain. The economy is still well below as against what it was in 2019. We don’t know how much below, but it is substantially below. And I am not blaming anybody, I am just saying,” said the economist, who won the Nobel Prize along with Esther Duflo and Michael Kremer in 2019. He also urged the students not to succumb to pressure from family or society in choosing their career paths but to have the courage to do what they want to do in life. Banerjee also informed the audience that he had spent 10 days in Tihar jail during his student days at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi. “When I was about to leave the JNU and go to Harvard, I was in a student demonstration and then I was taken to Tihar jail, and kept there for 10 days. When I came out, a lot of elders told me that I have ruined my career, and Harvard or the US will never let you in. They thought I should be regretful,” he said. To make his point about choosing careers, Banerjee pointed out that two of India’s great filmmakers - Satyajit Ray and Shyam Benegal - were economics graduates but chose to walk a different path.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
06-12-2021||Business||Bata India Ltd to pivot future retail expansion on franchise mode||Footwear major Bata India Ltd plans to pivot its future retail expansion on the franchise mode, banking on the organisation’s brand equity built over nearly a century of presence in this country. The company expects “80-90 per cent” of store additions to come from franchises, deepening its presence in the hinterland of the country and covering most of the second- and third-tier towns. “Rural areas are urbanising very fast, more importantly their aspirations are dramatically going up. They are getting exposed to digital mediums, disposable incomes are going up and therefore their aspiration for brands like Bata and products like Bata is going up in addition to the fact that the equity of Bata is already there. So there is a huge headroom and opportunity. We see almost 80-90 per cent of our new store additions in the next 2-3 years coming from franchises,” Gunjan Shah, chief executive officer of Bata India, said. The company, which still keeps its registered office in Calcutta, had over the years depended on company- owned and company-operated showrooms to reach customers. Only 220 of the 1,576 retail stores were on the franchise mode, according to the latest annual report. However, a franchise route not only cuts down the company’s investment to a large extent but also helps in rapid penetration deeper into the semi-urban areas and the rural hinterland. “The Bata brand cuts across the length and breadth of the country – whether it’s north-south or east-west. Or the eastern-most part. If that is the equity, there is potential for expansion and therefore franchise thereof is also significant. We are right now present in 400-450 towns,” Shah said, while virtually participating in a seminar organised by the Retailers’ Association of India in Calcutta. While the physical expansion of retail outlets has gained traction with the easing of the pandemic condition, the shoemaker has beefed up its digital presence over the last-one-and-half years. Some of the initiatives taken during that period have picked up steam and continue to gain traction even though the curbs have eased and customers have stepped out of their homes. One of them, Shah explained, is the result of common inventory management. If a customer does not find the right pair of footwear at a particular store, the salesperson can find out online if the same is in stock at any other outlet close by. If available, the customer can place the order and the product would be home delivered at a later date. “This is a complex inventory exercise at our end. But the customer need not face any of the complexity. He/she should have a seamless experience,” Shah explained. The easing of the pandemic has brought back customers to the stores. “In the last few months, especially since the festive season started, we are seeing even the metros and malls coming back. And I think that’s also to do with the confidence of the consumers and vaccination and the way their confidence is coming back and so hopefully both the engines will keep firing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
06-12-2021||Business||India and UEA to start final round of negotiations for free trade deal||India and the UEA will on Monday start their final round of negotiations for a proposed free trade deal, with the biggest challenge being third-country imports being routed into India through the Gulf nation. An official team from the UAE will visit New Delhi for four days beginning Monday for the third round of India-UAE Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA), and negotiations would be concluded at the end of the round, a senior commerce ministry official said. The officials said they were closely monitoring the trade items from the UAE  as India needed to protect its domestic industry. While FTA would provide market access to Indian products, it should not result in the dumping of products from other countries, especially China, by taking advantage of the treaty. The commerce ministry officials said to prevent any misuse of the FTA benefits and curb potential illegal inflows of Chinese goods through a key transit hub such as Dubai, India will insist on strict rules of origin. It may either stipulate a 35 per cent value addition in the UAE for all products to be eligible for duty concession under the FTA or impose similar conditions on select products where it sees the maximum scope for abuse, they added. They pointed out that the UAE has zero duty or very low duties on a majority of items, and therefore, it is easier for the Gulf country to be part of free trade agreements. About 87 per cent of the products  the UAE imports are currently taxed at 5 per cent, while 11 per cent attract zero duty. The rest see higher duty incidence or are in the prohibited or special lists of goods, officials said. Among the  items from India, the UAE slaps a 5 per cent duty on textiles and  garments and jewellery, while certain steel products are taxed at 10 per cent. Market access in services, including mutual recognition agreements, would also be crucial, the officials said. Trade economist Biswajit Dhar of JNU said “the country should be cautious of treaty shopping as any nation eager to tap the vast Indian market would keenly look at the UAE. The negotiators should learn lessons from Asean FTA, which was used by China and others to garner benefits to their advantage.” “FTA with the UAE should not be looked at from the prism of trade alone, as it has significant strategic and geo-political implications which the country would benefit with the improved trade and investment pact,” Dhar said. India’s major exports to the UAE include petroleum products, precious metals, stones, gems and jewellery, textiles and garments, food items, engineering goods and chemicals. FTA is expected to raise bilateral merchandise trade to $100billion in five years following the signing of the pact from about $43 billion in 2020-21. It also aims to more than double services trade to $15 billion .during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
06-12-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India unlikely to tinker with key rates||The Reserve Bank of India is unlikely to tinker with its key rates at the meeting of the rate setting panel this week as the Omicron virus has opened up  uncertainties on multi-fronts that may force it to delay its liquidity normalisation measures. The monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBi is meeting from Monday to Wednesday. If it maintains the status quo, MPC will keep the policy rate intact for the ninth consecutive time. While the policy repo rate  — interest that banks pay to raise short-term liquidity from the RBI — now stands at four per cent, the reverse repo, which is the interest banks get to park funds with RBI, is 3.35 per cent. The policy corridor between these two rates has widened to 65 basis points last year from the normal levels of 25 basis points. In its first major sign of policy normalisation post pandemic, the RBI stopped liquidity infusion through the secondary market G-Sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP) and came up with variable rate reverse repo auction (VRRR) to mop up surplus liquidity. The total absorption under VRRR has increased to Rs 6.95 lakh crore on November 30 from Rs 5.44 lakh crore on October 7 . Many economists had forecast an increase in the reverse repo rate at the December meeting as the central bank takes measured steps towards normalising the accommodative monetary policy. However, the detection of the Omicron variant has changed their outlook. With its full impact only evolving amid fears the variant may even escape vaccine immunity, observers feel the RBI may want more time gauge its effect. “There was growing expectations that in the December MPC meeting, the RBI would hike the reverse repo rate to narrow the corridor between repo and reverse repo rate. However, the new Covid variant Omicron has again pushed the global and Indian economy in a state of uncertainty and nervousness,” Rajani Sinha, chief economist and national director — Research, Knight Frank India, said. “There is also added uncertainty of any knee-jerk reaction of Indian and global financial markets to Fed’s monetary policy indication/action. In such a scenario, RBI in its upcoming meeting is likely to keep the rates on hold,’’ he said. Sinha said on the growth front, while most economic indicators have surpassed pre-Covid levels, there is still a lot of slack in the economy. Therefore the RBI may decide to wait and watch till the next MPC meeting in February 2022. The uncertainties surrounding the Omicron virus have been compounded by the global threat of high inflation which is likely to see central banks  considering interest rate hikes in the near future. Economists remain divided as to how inflation would pan out in India: some say it will stay within the target band of 4-6 per cent while others have forecast upward pressures because of rising commodity prices. The research wing of  the SBI  said that talks of a reverse repo rate hike in the MPC meeting may be premature. “We maintain our call for a reverse repo rate hike in February with the December meeting remaining a close call. We expect the RBI to continue on its path of normalisation with the reverse repo rate hike in February policy and repo rate hike in mid-2022-23,” it said. The report said the RBI has been able to narrow the rate corridor as short-term rates have risen because of the VRRR auction, without the noise of rate hikes and ensuing market cacophony. Against this background, delaying normalisation measures is prudent in the current situation which would also give time for economic recovery to strengthen further. On inflation, the SBI report said that increase in tariffs by telecom companies is likely to have some positive impact. It has forecast retail inflation to come at 6.3 per cent in the fourth quarter of this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
