07-12-2021||Business||Oncohiv.com: A Generic Drugs Marketplace for Affordable Healthcare Products||In recent years, the use of generic drugs has increased significantly throughout the globe. India is considered to be s country with one of the highest per capita out-of-pocket expenditures which is why generic drugs and OTC healthcare products are cost-effective options as they can be used for other health issues as well. Oncohiv is a mass distributor of generic drugs and OTC healthcare items which were established in 2011 to cater to the growing needs for generic drugs in India. According to an amendment to the code of conduct for doctors in October 2016, the Medical Council of India has recommended that every physician should prescribe drugs with generic names legibly and he or she shall ensure that there is a rational prescription that promotes the use of generic drugs. In fact, generic medicines are typically 30%–80% cheaper than originator equivalents. Therefore, we cannot really ignore the key role these generic medicines play to support the public healthcare sector in a developing country like India. On this backdrop, Oncohiv provides its customers with high-quality and reliable healthcare products so that every individual could lead a healthy and happy life. Oncohiv takes special care in offering the best value in generic drug and OTC brands. The drugs and medications distributed by the company must undergo rigorous quality control in every segment of the production and supply chain to make it to the hands of their customers. The majority of the medications available on their platform require a prescription from a licensed physician. They ask for a copy of the prescription faxed or scanned to their company before processing any order on the prescription drug. At Oncohiv, they work with top-end pharmaceutical experts so that their customers do not have to worry about the outcomes of their products. In fact, the products and brands offered by Oncohiv are manufactured in the World Health Organization (WHO) approved facilities which speak about the safety of their medicines. Oncohiv offers a wide variety of anti-cancer medications treating a myriad range of cancers and related health hazards including blood cancer, brain cancer, breast cancer, liver cancer, leukaemia, low platelet count, hepatic encephalopathy, prostate cancer, skin cancer, psoriasis and thyroid cancer. They are also certified distributors of medicines used in the treatments of ailments like Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Hodgkin's Disease and HIV/ AIDS. In the wake of the latest coronavirus outbreak, they have listed generic drugs used in Covid19 treatment like Iverheal 12, Iverheal 3, Iverheal 6, Hetquenil 200mg and Iverwon 12mg among many others to help people easily get hold of these emergency medicines. Oncohiv also deals in life-saving drugs like Flacigo, Hydroxychloroquine, Ivermectin and Doxycycline along with other antibiotic medicines. While the Government of India is continuously making efforts to ensure uniform quality across all the generics, Oncohiv is a generics marketplace that prioritizes adhering to strict regulatory measures to match the international standards. A Quality Audit Team regularly works in monitoring all drugs and orders to ensure the best services and experiences for all of their consumers. They minutely follow guidelines to secure the safety and privacy of the customers. One of the main reasons for the lack of confidence in generic drugs among doctors has been the absence of stringent regulatory requirements for the quantity of the drug in its generic version and oncohiv strives to eliminate that issue with their compliance in generic drug manufacturing and testing generic products. Their motto is WE CARE ABOUT YOUR SATISFACTION and they never fail to stick to that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
07-12-2021||Business||Sensex soars 887 points on global market rebound||Recovering from a two-session carnage, equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 887 points on Tuesday, led by gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Infosys amid a positive trend in global markets. According to experts, global equity markets are slightly relieved after studies pertaining to the Omicron strain of COVID-19 suggest that even though it is fast spreading, it is largely milder than the Delta variant. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 886.51 points or 1.56 per cent higher at 57,633.65. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rallied 264.45 points or 1.56 per cent to 17,176.70. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing nearly 4 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, SBI and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Asian Paints was the sole laggard. "Markets rebounded sharply after two days of the selloff on account of positive global cues. Investors are following the buy-on dip strategy and thus accumulating quality stocks at a cheaper price," said Arijit Malakar, Head Research (Retail) of Ashika Stock Broking. Further, he said studies pertaining to the Omicron strain of COVID-19 have shown that it is largely milder than the Delta variant and that provides some relief to global equity markets. Additionally, RBI is expected to keep the interest rates steady when the MPC will announce the outcome of its meeting on December 8, Malakar added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 2.26 per cent to USD 74.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
07-12-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 400 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 444.17 points or 0.78 per cent higher at 57,191.31 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 131.60 points or 0.78 per cent to 17,043.85. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, Maruti, IndusInd Bank and SBI. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Bharti Airtel and HCL Tech were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark ended 949.32 points or 1.65 per cent lower at 56,747.14, and Nifty slumped 284.45 points or 1.65 per cent to 16,912.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 3,361.28 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US too ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.62 per cent to USD 73.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
07-12-2021||Business||Captive power plants request govt to normalise coal supply||Captive power producers have demanded normalisation of coal supplies as the shortages of the fuel have been alleviated considerably. The captive producers have made a representation to the Union coal and power ministry seeking government intervention to normalise coal supply amid improving stocks with state-owned utilities and independent power  players. The Indian Captive Power Producers Association which has representations from aluminum, zinc, steel, cement, chemicals, paper, textile and tyres among other industries have said the captive power plants are only getting coal to the extent of 40-50 per cent of their actual requirement. Out of the total 78,000mw installed capacity at captive power units, around 70 per cent depend on coal with requirement of around 200 million tonnes annually. The captive power producers were caught out when the government directed Coal India and others to divert their supplies to power producing companies on a priority basis amid dwindling coal stocks at the generating units. The association in its respective letters to the union coal and power secretaries has said that the stocks at power producers have improved to around 9 days at present from a low of 2-3 days in September and October. With November to March — the post monsoon months — being a high production period for Coal India, the government should intervene and allocate full monthly linkage rake quantities to power plants. The association has pointed that depleting stocks at state-owned power companies have become a recurring phenomenon with similar instances in 2014, 2017 and 2021. “During each 3-4 year’s cycle, captive power producers have to suffer heavily for one or two years because their linkage coal rakes are diverted to other power producers for stock building,” the association said in its letters. The association said during this period, Coal India stops or reduces spot and forward auctions and to compound the woes, coal rake availability gets curtailed at ports affecting imports. The association said around $30 billion have been invested in setting up captive power units No shortage Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on Monday said that there is no shortage of coal in the thermal power plants, and stocks have reached 17.29 million tonnes (mt) as of November 29, which is sufficient for 9 days. Coal India has been directed to step up their production to 1 billion tonnes by 2023-24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
07-12-2021||Business||Vedant Fashions aims to double retail space||Vedant Fashions — the owner of wedding wear brands Manyavar and Mohey — plans to double its retail space over three to four years despite a sharp drop in revenues in the last fiscal because of the pandemic-related disruptions. The Calcutta-based company, which has filed papers with Sebi for an IPO, is enthused by the brisk sales in the ongoing wedding seasons after restrictions were eased nationwide with accelerated vaccination. Vedant has about 1.1 million square foot of retail space and it has the ambition to take it to 2 million sq ft, Arif Raza, chief (retail business development & projects) of Vedant Fashions, said. The company usually opens 100+ stores in a year even though it could not maintain the run rate last year. “In the last one year, we have opened 65 stores. But every normal year, we intend to open 100-plus stores. Next year’s budget is also 100-plus stores,” Raza added. According to the offer document filed with Sebi, the company had 537 exclusive brand outlets (including 55 shop-in-shops and 12 international stores) as on June 30, 2021. Vedant’s retail presence is spread across 207 cities and towns in India and eight overseas. A majority of the outlets of Vedant, promoted by Ravi Modi and family, are owned by franchisees and they contributed 87.79 per cent of the company’s sales for the three months ended June 30. The future expansion of Vedant will also bank on the franchisees. It intends to go deeper into the heartland, tapping towns with a population of just 2 lakh. About 60 per cent of the retail space are outside tier 1 cities as of now. Raza argued that there was no dearth of demand coming from the smaller towns. “Those who would not spend Rs 1,000 for a shirt are willing to spend Rs 10,000-15,000 for a sherwani. People save for it, they don’t buy from monthly income. Because of the nature of the business and the pull of the brand, we can sustain in smaller towns as well,” he explained, adding that sales during this wedding season are equally good, if not better, than in 2019. The company, however, had borne the brunt of the pandemic as there were severe restrictions on weddings and physical stores were closed. Revenue from operations dropped 38 per cent to Rs 564.8 crore in 2020-21 and profit dipped by 44 per cent to Rs 132.9 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
07-12-2021||Business||Tata Motors to increase prices of commercial vehicles from January||Tata Motors on Monday said it would raise the prices of its commercial vehicles  by around 2.5 per cent from January 1. The hike will cut across all segments — medium and heavy commercial vehicles (M&HCV), intermediary and light commercial vehicle (I&LCV), small commercial vehicle (SCV) and bus. The company cited an increase in the prices of commodities such as steel, aluminium and other precious metals in addition to higher costs of other raw materials as the reason for the price hike in commercial vehicles . While the company is absorbing a significant portion of the increased costs at various levels of manufacturing, the steep rise in overall input costs makes it imperative to pass on some  of the burden to consumers. Earlier this month, Maruti Suzuki had announced that it will increase prices in January because of an increase in various input costs. The company said the price hike shall vary for different models. Honda and Renault are also looking to increase vehicle prices from January next year to offset the impact of rising input costs. Luxury car maker Mercedes Benz has announced a price hike of up to 2 per cent across select models from next year. Audi said its price increase effective January 1 will be up to 3 per cent across its entire model range. Tata Motors’ total sales increased by 25 per cent in November compared with the same month last year. The auto maker posted a 21 per cent increase in its domestic wholesales at 58,073 units compared with 47,859 units in the year-ago period. The auto major said its passenger vehicle sales in the domestic market stood at 29,778 units in November, as compared to 21,641 units in the same month last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
07-12-2021||Business||NPS generated good returns for subscribers: PFRDA Chairman||PFRDA chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay on Monday said pension product NPS has generated good returns for the subscribers over the last 12 years, and one must start early to reap the benefits of the product, which is very flexible in nature. “Over a period of 12 years, the returns under equity schemes are more than 12 per cent, and in government securities, it was close to 9.9 per cent, and in corporate bonds, despite some credit events that we have seen, we have seen a CAGR of more than 9.59 per cent. Fortunately, our pension fund assets were, to a great extent, protected from post-credit events. “We are sitting on a total corpus of about Rs 6.85 lakh crore. The returns have been quite good,” Bandyopadhyay said while speaking at CII Insurance & Pensions Summit on ‘Indian Insurance Sector — Riding the Wave of Change’. NPS gives a lot of flexibility, but the only thing is that a person has to start early, said the chairman of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA). “There is flexibility in the sense that just for keeping an account running, you have to pay only Rs 1,000. There is no fixed contribution, and you can contribute up to whatever level, obviously under the PMLA ( Prevention of Money Laundering Act rules) and supported by all your known sources of income,” he said. A lot more needs to be done to make India a pensioned society, and maybe the insurance sector regulator Irdai, PFRDA and industry body CII can come together to create a forum to raise awareness about pensions in the country, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
07-12-2021||Business||InterGlobe Aviation to convene EGM on Dec 30 to amend Articles of Association||InterGlobe Aviation, the parent of the country’s largest airline IndiGo, will convene a shareholders’ meeting on December 30 to amend the company’s Articles of Association (AoA) following a joint request from its promoters. The promoters — Rahul Bhatia and Rakesh Gangwal — together with their related entities and individuals own a 77.4 per cent stake in InterGlobe Aviation. In a regulatory filing on Monday, the company said it will convene an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on December 30 to amend the AoA to remove restrictions on the transfer of shares by the promoters. The development comes against the backdrop of differences between the promoters that came into the public domain in July 2019. In September this year, the London Court of International Arbitration gave the final arbitration award in the matter related to the spat. The decision to call for the EGM on December 30 follows a joint requisition, dated November 25, received from IGE Pvt Ltd and Bhatia — collectively the IGE Group — and Rakesh Gangwal, The Chinkerpoo Family Trust and Shobha Gangwal. The latter are collectively the RG Group. The trustees of the trust are Shobha Gangwal and J P Morgan Trust Company of Delaware. The requisition was for “removing the Transfer Restriction Articles from the Articles of Association of the company”. The articles that are sought to be removed pertain to transfer of equity shares, acquisition of shares and other provisions on shares. Last year, shareholders of the company had rejected a similar proposal for amending the AoA that was brought by Gangwal. Differences between the promoters came to light more than two years ago in July 2019 when Gangwal flagged corporate governance issues at the company and the allegations were rejected by Bhatia’s IGE Group. On September 24, InterGlobe Aviation informed the stock exchanges that the London Court of International Arbitration has given the final arbitration award and no directions have been issued to the company. However, details about the award were not disclosed. The arbitration proceedings were initiated by the IGE Group and Bhatia against the RG Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
07-12-2021||Business||MapMyIndia geotags tax payers in government project||C.E. Info Systems Limited, which operates under the MapmyIndia brand and in the international market under the Mappls brand, on Monday said it is working on projects with the Central Board of Direct Taxes and GSTN in mapping direct and indirect tax sources in the country. The company is going for its maiden public offer of 1 crore equity shares at a price band of Rs 1,000-1,033 per share on December 9. It constitutes an offer for sale from existing individual shareholder Rashmi Verma and investors Qualcomm Asia Pacific and Zenrin Co. Ltd. “In both cases, the government wants to geotag or geocode where exactly all the taxpayers are so that they can geospatially analyse where the concentration of tax collection is and from where the tax is not coming,” said Rohan Verma, whole-time director and CEO, MapmyIndia. “Because we have crores of addresses exactly geotagged and we have the platform to take in unstructured addresses and convert that into exact locations and the APIs and geospatial data analytics platforms, enterprises including the Government of India can do this which they could not do before,” Verma said while announcing the IPO. From faceless assessment to auto filled annual information statements, the government has been leveraging technology to increase tax collection and curb evasion. C.E. Info Systems in a statement on Monday said that around 50 per cent of the offer has been reserved for qualified institutional buyers, 15 per cent for non-institutional buyers and 35 per cent for retail individual bidders. Of the QIB portion, 60 per cent is expected for allocation to anchor investors. The offer will run from December 9 to December 13. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are reportedly among the institutional buyers keen on the public offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
07-12-2021||Business||NCLT admits RBI's plea for insolvency proceedings against Reliance Capital||The Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Monday admitted a petition moved by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to initiate insolvency proceedings against Anil Ambani’s Reliance Capital Ltd (RCL). The bench comprising Pradeep Narhari Deshmukh and Kapal Kumar Vohra also confirmed the appointment of Y. Nageswar Rao as the administrator of the non-bank lender which is registered as a core investment company. Last week, the central bank had filed an application with the tribunal for the initiation of insolvency proceedings. At the hearing on Monday, the Mumbai bench of the NCLT reserved its order and later it admitted the RBI application. The administrator will now move to take the next steps that include looking after the affairs of the company, accepting claims from various creditors which will be followed by the committee of creditors submitting a resolution plan. Under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, the resolution should be completed within a maximum period of 330 days after it is initiated. Appearing for the RBI, senior counsel Ravi Kadam said that private sector lender Yes Bank had subscribed to non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of Rs 987 crore issued by RCL on October 30, 2017. However, with RCL defaulting on these instruments, other events got triggered. Reliance Capital had earlier said that it will fully co-operate with the administrator for the expeditious resolution of its debt, a stand that was reiterated by its counsel on Monday. “The Company looks forward to expeditious resolution of its debt and continuation as a well capitalised going concern through the IBC process, in the overall interests of all its stakeholders, including lenders, customers, employees and shareholder,” a company release said. On November 29, the banking regulator had superseded the board of Reliance Capital. The RBI said that this was done because of the defaults by RCL in meeting various payment obligations to its creditors and serious governance concerns which its board has not been able to address effectively. This is the third Anil Ambani group firm after Reliance Communications and Reliance Naval and Engineering undergoing insolvency proceedings. A day later, the RBI appointed a committee to advise the administrator. The three-member advisory panel  included Sanjeev Nautiyal, the former deputy managing director of SBI, Srinivasan Varadarajan, ex-DMD, Axis Bank and Praveen P Kadle, the former managing director & CEO, of Tata Capital Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
07-12-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 949 points as Omicron spreads in India||The benchmark Sensex plummeted over 949 points to more than a three-month low of 56747.14 as nervousness reigned among investors following reports of more Omicron cases in the country and a crucial meeting of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on interest rates that started on Monday. Investors had initially ignored the impact of the Omicron virus strain but resorted to selling as more cases of the virus popped up across the country with the latest count at 21. Fears grew over the highly transmissible variety leading to a possible third wave thereby denting the recovery seen in recent times. Though India has seen an upswing in 19 out of the 22 high-frequency indicators, economists remain cautious, pointing to rising inflation and other global headwinds which could threaten the nascent recovery. The 30-share Sensex began the day in the green at 57778.01 but came under pressure as investors sold IT, banking, consumer and automobile shares. The index fell below the 57000-mark to hit the day’s low of 56687.62 and thereafter ended at 56747.14, plunging 949.32 points or 1.65 per cent. Similarly, the broader Nifty cracked 284.45 points or 1.65 per cent to end below the 17000-level at 16912.25. All the Sensex stocks ended in the red with IndusInd Bank leading the list of losers. Shares of the private sector lender fell 3.75 per cent. It was followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bharti Airtel, HCL Technologies, TCS, Tech Mahindra and Infosys which ended lower by up to 3.43 per cent. The broader market was also fragile with both the BSE mid-cap and small-cap indices falling 1.35 per cent each. Among the sectoral indices, the BSE Tech was the biggest loser cracking 2.44 per cent. The investors were also on alert over the possibility of Chinese property developer Evergrande defaulting on its debt. While the Hang Seng index fell 1.76 per cent, the Nikkei 225 ended lower 0.36 per cent and Shanghai Composite 0.50 per cent. Analysts said the weakness was also on account of uncertainties on what the monetary policy committee of the RBI will do to tackle the new virus threat and manage inflation concerns. Markets have factored in a status quo on rates but their attention got rivetted to the central bank’s comments on rising inflation  that could lead to an interest rate hike sometime next calendar year. Further, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have continued to press sales, offloading as much as Rs 11,200 crore in December over and above sales of Rs 19,500 crore in the preceding two months. The enthusiasm of domestic institutions and retail investors is also flagging, putting pressure on equity prices. “We expect market volatility to remain high until there is clarity on the impact of the new virus. Also, FII selling has been pretty strong adding to the overall market weakness,’’ Siddhartha Khemka, head - retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services said. Omicron also had its impact on the rupee which crashed 33 paise to hit its lowest level in eight weeks. The domestic currency ended a shade away from 75.50 per dollar at 75.45 to the greenback. The Indian currency opened weak at 75.22 and fell to 75.45 at the end, the lowest closing  since October 12. Dealers say the rupee could remain under pressure till fears of the new variant persist amid FPI outflows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
