08-12-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 1,016 points to close at 58,649||Extending its winning run to the second session, equity benchmark Sensex skyrocketed 1,016 points on Wednesday, boosted by RBI's accommodative stance as well as easing concerns over the Omicron variant. Bulls were enthused by a positive sentiment in global markets amid reports that the new coronavirus strain is unlikely to be more severe than the Delta variant, removing market concern regarding its economic impact. The 30-share BSE Sensex zoomed 1,016.03 points or 1.76 per cent to finish at 58,649.68. Similarly, the NSE Nifty rallied 293.05 points or 1.71 per cent to 17,469.75. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Maruti, SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Sun Pharma and Asian Paints. On the other hand, Kotak Bank and PowerGrid were the laggards. "Positive global cues, coupled with the continuation of an accommodative policy stance of the RBI by holding rates fired up the bulls even as the central bank decided to enhance the variable reverse repo rate auctions to rebalance liquidity," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. The bullish undertone was reflected in the sectoral indices and advance-declines as the market breadth was healthy with small and midcaps too participating in the rally, he noted. After the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) maintained status quo on the interest rate and decided to continue with its accommodative stance, most of the rate sensitive stocks ended in the green. The RBI's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) decided to leave repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent for the ninth time in a row as well as continue with its accommodative stance. Further, RBI retained its growth projection at 9.5 per cent for the current fiscal. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were, however, largely negative in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude inched up 0.60 per cent to USD 75.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||Nimbus: the platform of choice for financial success||Decentralized Finance, DeFi, has exploded into the financial scene. DeFi offers the chance to change the financial industry in its entirety and it is because of this that many people and institutions see this concept as the next game changer in a never stagnant market. Nimbus is an Ethereum and Binance Smart Chain based platform that uses the key concepts of DeFi as the cornerstone of its existence. While the Crypto market has seen its ups and downs, Nimbus is determined to prove to users that it is a valuable and secure platform that users can join in order to participate in the DeFi world. DeFi is the vector that people who seek complete financial independence can use to accomplish their goals. DeFi solutions remove large entities like banks from the equation and allow for direct peer-to-peer contact. Third parties are thus rendered unnecessary and their taking a cut of transaction value through unwanted fees is removed.  “We are now for the first time as a society starting to move away from the absolute need for an institution of any kind as part of a transaction,” said Nimbus CEO Alex Lemberg. Unlike traditional banking institutions, Nimbus operates fully on Smart Contracts, meaning every transaction is secured by a specific if/when combination that only releases assets when these conditions have been met. Transparent by design, both parties are able to see what is required to release said assets while also being able to personally ensure all potential loopholes are recognized and eliminated. Smart Contracts are the first layer of Nimbus’ security and the platform is determined to ensure that every transaction whether its peer to peer, business to business, or business to individual is secure and transparent. The strict nature of these contracts means that no assets will be released until the required steps have been taken, which ties both parties to the agreement before any value is exchanged. To protect against malicious intruders like hackers Nimbus has created a multipronged strategy to protect its platform and users. Already offering a bug bounty for white hat hackers, Nimbus encourages users to probe the software for weaknesses and then report them. There is no test like field testing, and Nimbus takes this philosophy to heart while seeking other methods of security strengthening. Additionally, the platform is further protected by its blockchain nature. There are no physical assets to be stolen or physical currencies to throw into a bag. There isn’t even a single digital location that could be hacked and drained away. The decentralized nature of the platform means that no one location has every piece of the puzzle. Users have a secure and strong platform to utilize, and the multitude of options available ensure diversity in gaining value. Whether a user stakes their tokens in liquidity pools to garnet value or through using other dApps to spread their assets around. Nimbus is constantly developing new services and this guarantees that the platform stays at the forefront of innovation in the DeFi market. To this end, Nimbus is even working on creating DeFi solutions and tokens that work with such religious and cultural laws as Shariah, where financial growth must conform to religious laws and beliefs. One of the most important things that a new user can expect is an environment that allows them to explore at their own pace. Seeing the customer experience as well as a secure platform as the most important parts of succeeding, Nimbus has committed itself to create an intuitive and stress-free platform. The growing DeFi market is perfect for an individual to leverage for their own advantage. Nimbus seeks to become the first choice in the industry for people looking to start their DeFi journey. Innovation, security, and intuitive design are at the core of Nimbus and with this platform, any user can take their first steps towards financial independence and success.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||RBI keeps repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent 9th time in a row||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent and decided to continue with its accommodative stance in the backdrop of concerns over the emergence of the new coronavirus variant Omicron. This is the ninth time in a row that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has maintained the status quo. RBI had last revised its policy repo rate or the short-term lending rate on May 22, 2020 in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting the interest rate to a historic low. MPC has decided to keep benchmark repurchase (repo) rate at 4 per cent, Das said while announcing the bi-monthly monetary policy review. Consequently, the reverse repo rate will continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. Das said MPC voted unanimously for keeping interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance as long as necessary to support growth and keep inflation within the target. RBI retained its growth projection at 9.5 per cent for the current fiscal despite concerns over Omicron. Das also said the headline inflation would peak in the fourth quarter of the current fiscal. The inflation projection has been retained at 5.3 per cent for the current financial year. Retail inflation rose to 4.48 per cent in October from 4.35 per cent in September, mainly due to higher fuel and edible oil prices. MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2026, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||Sensex zooms over 700 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 700 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank ahead of the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy outcome. According to experts, markets bulls are enthused by a positive sentiment in global markets after top US public health expert Dr Antony Fauci observed that the Omicron variant is unlikely to be more severe than the Delta variant, removing market concern regarding the economic impact of the new variant. The 30-share index was trading 729.05 points or 1.26 per cent higher at 58,362.70 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 202.15 points or 1.18 per cent to 17,378.85. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, Bharti Airtel, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, NTPC was the sole laggard. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark ended 886.51 points or 1.56 per cent higher at 57,633.65, and Nifty rallied 264.45 points or 1.56 per cent to 17,176.70. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 2,584.97 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. The Reserve Bank of India is scheduled to announce the outcome of its bi-monthly Monetary Policy Review at 1000 hours. The RBI's policy announcement is unlikely to be market-moving since the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is likely to retain the status quo on policy stance and rates, said VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. A 10 per cent correction from the peak in a raging bull market provides good buying opportunities, particularly when the global equity backdrop is 'risk-on.' This favourable setting continues with the strong rally in the US market yesterday, he stated. However, he noted that since FIIs continue to be in the sell mode, markets may come under selling pressure at higher levels. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Stock exchanges in the US too rallied in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.42 per cent to USD 75.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||Centre plans to amend Notaries Act; puts draft bill in public domain||The Centre on Tuesday came out with a draft Notaries (Amendment) Bill that seeks to limit the tenure of notaries to 15 years. At present, there is no such cap on tenures. The draft bill also proposes to digitise the whole notarisation process to prevent “misconduct” and safeguard the interests of the general public. The law and justice ministry said it wanted to limit the tenures to encourage young lawyers to enter the field. The proposed amendment empowers the state or the central government to suspend licences for alleged misconduct. Notarisation is mandatory for various judicial and non judicial process including the filing of affidavits before courts and authorities. Only a person with a minimum of 10 years legal practice or a person with special knowledge of law can become a notary. In terms of the existing provisions of the Notaries Act, 1952, the certificate of a notary can always be renewed. There are a fixed number of notaries who can operate in fixed areas, keeping in view the commercial importance and the requirement of that particular area. “It is felt that an opportunity needs to be given to young eligible legal practitioners who are aspiring to serve as Notary Public which may help them to build up their professional excellence.” In view of the above, it is proposed to restrict the overall term of notaries for a period up to 15 years — an initial term of five years and two renewal terms of five years each. However, the certificate of those who have sought renewal for the third term will be renewed if their licence expires before the passage of Notaries (Amendment) Act, 2021. According to the law ministry, it is felt that with the advent of digitisation, the records of Notary Public be also digitised and preserved in digital form in order to prevent misconduct in respect of notarisation and safeguard the interests of general public. This will help to avoid any fraud, deceit, tampering of records and back-dating of notarization. For the aforesaid purpose, provisions have also been proposed for digitisation and automation of notarial work. Under Section 10 of the Notaries Act, 1952, the authorities can remove the name of a Notary Publicif found guilty of  professional misconduct . However, there is no provision to suspend the certificate of practice  till the completion of inquiry. Consequently, in some cases, despite complaint of prima facie gross misconduct, the notary continues to practice during the pendency of inquiry proceedings. It is therefore proposed to add provisions in the Notaries Act, 1952 empowering the authorities to suspend a Notary Public against whom a complaint has been received or otherwise, for professional misconduct for such period as deemed appropriate for the conduct of inquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||Samsung Electronics to merge mobile and consumer electronics divisions||Samsung Electronics will merge its mobile and consumer electronics divisions, the firm said on Tuesday, naming new co-chief executives in the biggest reshuffle since 2017 to simplify its structure and focus on the logic chip business. Two co-chief executives, instead of three, will lead the South Korean firm as it pivots on the two business pillars of chips and consumer devices, including smartphones, to help lead the next phase of growth and boost competitiveness. Samsung, whose Galaxy flagship brand helped it become the world’s biggest smartphone maker by volume, is seeking to revive slowing mobile growth, whose profit contribution shrank to 21 per cent last quarter from nearly 70 per cent at its peak in the early 2010s. Instead, its component business, led by chips, has become the most profitable, helped by a boom in data storage and a recent shortage of global semiconductor supplies. The business generated nearly three-quarters of Samsung’s 15.8 trillion won ($13.4 billion) operating profit last quarter. Samsung said Han Jong-hee, the head of visual display business, will become a co-CEO, leading the newly merged division spanning mobile and consumer electronics as well as continuing to lead the television business. Han has risen through the ranks in Samsung’s visual display business, without experience in mobile. Kyung Kye-hyun, chief executive of component affiliate Samsung Electro-Mechanics and a former head of the flash memory chip and technology team, was named co-CEO to lead the chip and components division. Other high-profile promotions included naming as vice chairman Chung Hyun-ho, the head of a “task force” that analysts said co-ordinates decision-making in Samsung Electronics and affiliates, and which media have said works closely with Lee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||GOAT eyes $1 billion revenue in next 3-4 years||Tiger Global and Flipkart Venture-backed GOAT Brand Labs Pte has set an ambitious target to earn as much as a billion dollars in revenue over the next 3-4 years by bulking up with a bouquet of 100 brands. The start-up, founded by fashion industry veteran Rishi Vasudev, has already signed up 11 brands under its fold and it is in discussions to tie up with another 25 odd brands which are active in the D2C (direct to consumer) space. On Tuesday, it announced a partnership with hosiery major Dollar Industries of Calcutta, following the acquisition of 50 per cent stake in Pepe Jeans Innerfashion Pvt Ltd from Pepe Jeans Europe B.V. “We acquire brands typically in the 10-30 crore range and then see how we can grow them into Rs 100 crore. Our domain knowledge of online marketplace, capabilities in digital marketing and brand building will be a key aid in the scale up,” Vasudev said. The six-month old start up, which received $36 million from investors, have signed up 11 brands so far but disclosed identities of six of them. They include kids wear brand Frangipani, ethnic wear brand Abhisthi, apart from Pepe Singapore-based GOAT looks at brands which are Rs 10-12 crore but unable to scale up. The company usually picks up a 50 per cent stake or more in the company and works with the founders, Vasudev explained. For inner wear, GOAT would work only with Dollar and through the JV. “We chose the JV partner looking at Vasudev only. We will add more brands into the company,” Vinod Kumar Gupta, managing director of Dollar, said. Suresh Nambiar, who heads the JV, said the turnover of the company is Rs 40 crore. Limited to men’s range so far, kids and women’s inner wear would be launched progressively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||Srei creditors may go forward with joint insolvency proceeding||Financial creditors of Srei group non bank finance companies — Srei Infrastructure Finance (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL) — could go forward with a joint insolvency proposal with the majority of the creditors on board with the idea. At the second meeting of the committee of creditors of SEFL on November 29, the RBI appointed administrator had appraised the committee of creditors about the current status of the insolvency resolution process, the composition of the committee of creditors based on claims received and deliberated on the resolution strategy that included group resolution. Corporate insolvency resolution process has been initiated in the two companies separately and two cases have been admitted at the Calcutta bench of the National  Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) after the Reserve Bank superseded the board of the two companies on October 4. A consolidated insolvency proceeding or group insolvency, if accepted by the NCLT, may garner more interest among potential bidders than individual companies. It will also allow the discovery of the true value of assets stacked in different companies. According to sources, 90 per cent of the lenders have agreed to the proposal of a joint resolution. According  to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, any decision of the committee of creditors except otherwise provided in the code requires a minimum of 51 per cent of voting shares of financial creditors. There are 40 financial creditors of SEFL whose claims worth Rs 31,867.75 crore have been admitted following a public announcement made on October 11. In 2019, the then existing board of directors of the two NBFCs had approved the transfer of lending business, interest earning business and lease business of SIFL as a going concern through a slump sale to SEFL in exchange of fully paid up equity shares and SEFL became a wholly owned subsidiary of SIFL. Several lenders and credit rating agencies had expressed concern over the transfer as the nature of advances of the two companies were structurally different. RBI, before making its move to supersede the boards and appoint former CGM of Bank of Baroda - Rajneesh Sharma - as the administrator, had conducted a special audit of SIFL and SEFL and had advised to reassess and re-evaluate the relationship with certain entities. Adherence to prudential norms, including income recognition, asset classification and provisioning, corporate governance and related party transactions were among the concerns with the lenders. According to resolution professionals, NCLT courts however are wary of allowing group insolvency. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India had constituted a working group to evaluate group insolvency and a framework has been recommended to facilitate insolvency resolution and liquidation of companies in a group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||Sensex surges 887 points amid global rebound as Omicron fears wane||Stocks staged a smart recovery on reports that the Omicron strain may not be as dangerous as the other variants. Reflecting the relief rally, the benchmark Sensex surged by almost 887 points while the broader Nifty gained 264.45 points to close above the 17000 mark at 17176.70. Shares had come under intense pressure in recent sessions over fears that the new Covid-19 variant, which is said to be more transmissible, could adversely affect the global economic recovery. It came on top of other challenges such as continued selling by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) because of expensive valuations, and rising inflation in many of the global economies leading to apprehensions that central banks like the US Federal Reserve may raise interest rates sooner than expected. Back home, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will announce its monetary policy on Wednesday. Though the central bank is expected to retain its accommodative stance and go for a status-quo on the policy for the ninth consecutive time, some economists are not ruling out the possibility of a small hike in the reverse repo that could ultimately lead to an increase in the policy repo rate sometime in 2022. The global sentiment was also supportive for a rally on Tuesday with almost all of the key indices across Asia and Europe trading in the green. This saw the Sensex opening in the positive zone at 57125.98, following which it hit an intra-day high of 57905.63. The index later ended at 57633.65 — a gain of 886.51 points or 1.56 per cent. Barring Asian Paints all the stocks in the Sensex pack ended higher. Tata Steel led the list as it rose by 3.63 per cent. It was followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Titan and Bajaj Finance which gained up to 3.60 per cent. There was good news in the broader markets also  with the BSE mid-cap and small-cap indices inching up by 1.29 per cent and 1.14 per cent, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||IOC renews deal to buy up to 2 million tonnes of oil from Rosneft||Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the nation's largest oil firm, has renewed a deal to buy up to 2 million tonnes of crude oil in 2022 from Russia’s Rosneft, the Russian oil producer said. IOC had in February 2020 signed a deal with Rosneft Oil Company to import up to 2 million tonnes of oil via the port of Novorossiysk. In 2021, the deal envisaged supply of up to 1.7 million tonnes of crude oil but IOC bought just on parcel or shipload as the cost of transporting the oil made it uneconomical when compared to alternatives. For 2022, the deal is for the supply of up to 2 million tonnes of oil from the Black Sea port of Novorossiysk. India has tied up supplies from Russia to the US in a bid to diversify its oil import basket, cutting reliance on West Asia to meet its oil needs. “Rosneft and IOC signed a contract for the supply of up to 2 million tonnes of oil to India through the port of Novorossiysk by the end of 2022,” the Russian firm said on its website. The signing took place during the visit of Russian President Vladimir Putin to India, during which he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and held bilateral talks in an expanded format. The leaders of the two countries, the statement said, attach great importance to the development of all-around trade, economic and investment cooperation. Energy is one of the key areas of interaction between the companies of the two countries. “The signing of a new contract for the supply of oil confirms the strategic nature of the long-term partnership between Rosneft and Indian Oil,” said Igor Sechin, chief executive officer of Rosneft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
08-12-2021||Business||Monetary policy: Reserve Bank of India mulls liquidity-soaking device ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) may add another tool to its liquidity normalisation measures in the form of an uncollateralised standing deposit facility (SDF) when it announces the monetary policy on Wednesday. Though the RBI is expected to maintain status quo on rates, it is projected to continue mopping surplus cash now at over Rs 8.50 lakh crore. A section of economists feel SDF could be back on RBI’s table as it continues to suck out surplus liquidity, Under this facility, banks with excess cash balances can park money with the RBI without collateralised bonds. The investment may, however, yield a return lower than the current reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent. Banks who are short of funds can now raise money from the RBI against the collateral of government securities — the mechanism of repo —  while they can park surplus cash with the RBI through the reverse repo route. The RBI had toyed with SDF in 2020 when banks had become extremely risk-averse to lending. It was first proposed by the Urjit Patel monetary policy report in 2014 and  received government approval in 2018 through an amendment in the RBI Act. In a note on Tuesday, brokerage Emkay said the RBI “may have to explore new tools to manage durable liquidity/and idiosyncrasies amid collateral constraints under variable rate reverse repo (VRRRs)’’. The introduction of uncollateralised SDF could significantly enhance the central bank’s sterilisation capacity, it said. Emkay said the net durable liquidity surplus which was running at Rs 11.24 lakh crore as on November 19, has since shrunk to around Rs 8.5 lakh crore. But this is still far higher than the pre-Covid level of Rs 2 lakh crore. “The journey from current Rs 8.5 lakh crore plus system liquidity to a pre-Covid Rs 2 lakh crore will be a long-drawn one,” the Emkay note said in justification for the introduction of the SDF facility. While the RBI had earlier deployed 14-day VRRRs that yields a higher rate vis-à-vis the reverse repo in the October policy, it had increased the size and the duration of the instrument. According to Churchil Bhatt, EVP Debt Investments, Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company, the RBI will continue to normalise high banking system liquidity by adjusting the amount and tenor of existing VRRR operations. Bhatt added that the interest rate markets are expected to remain range bound around current levels in the absence of a policy surprise. Though many in the markets feel the central bank will not rock the boat with a reverse repo hike, there are a few who do not rule out such a possibility. Abheek Barua, chief economist, HDFC Bank said that the current RBI policy meeting comes against the backdrop of uncertainty around the Omicron virus on one hand and the US Fed continuing to sound hawkish and markets pricing in accelerated tightening globally on the other. “In our base case, we continue to see a high probability of a reverse repo rate hike by the RBI in December, especially in the light of increasing inflationary concerns and signs of growth picking up and some normalisation  since the October policy that has already been underway,’’ Barua said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
08-12-2021||Business||Reliance to invest $2 billion in a petrochem facility in UAE||Reliance and Saudi Aramco are forking out in separate directions within weeks of scrapping their proposed mega deal in Reliance’s oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business. Reliance on Tuesday said it would set up a $2 billion chemicals facility with Aramco rival, the Abu Dhabi oil giant ADNOC, while Saudi Aramco has agreed to sell a 49 per cent stake in its natural gas-pipeline business to a consortium led by Blackrock and Saudi-backed Hassana Investment Company for $15 million. Reliance and Saudi Aramco last month said they had shelved their plan of the Saudi giant picking up a 20 per cent stake in RIL’s O2C business over valuation differences amid the Mukesh Ambani company’s pronounced tilt towards renewable energy. RIL on Tuesday said it would set up the chemicals project with Abu Dhabi Chemicals Derivatives Company RSC Ltd. The project will come up at the TA’ZIZ Industrial Chemicals Zone in Ruwais, Abu Dhabi. In June, the Mukesh D Ambani led flagship had announced it was joining hands with the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) to jointly establish a chlor-alkali, ethylene dichloride and polyvinyl chloride production facility at TA’ZIZ. RIL did not disclose the investment in the project. Abu Dhabi Chemicals and Derivatives Company is a joint venture between ADNOC and ADQ. The Aramco-Blackrock deal is the Saudi giant’s latest move to monetise its energy infrastructure business. Earlier this year Aramco sold a 49 per cent stake in its oil pipelines to a consortium led by US-based EIG under a similar structure for $12.4 billion. As part of the latest transaction, a newly formed subsidiary, Aramco Gas Pipelines Co, will lease usage rights in the state energy firm’s gas pipelines network and lease them back to Aramco for a 20-year period, it said. RIL’s latest announcement shows it continues to remain bullish on the huge demand of commodities such as PVC in India and overseas. PVC has a wide range of applications across housing, infrastructure and consumer goods. On the other hand, chlor-alkali is used in water treatment and in the manufacture of textiles and metals. Ethylene dichloride is used to produce PVC. Reliance said in a statement the new joint venture will construct and operate an EDC and PVC production facility. “Representing the first production of these chemicals in the UAE, the project will enable the substitution of imports and the creation of new local value chains, while also meeting growing demand for these chemicals globally,’’ RIL said. According to Reliance, the project builds on ADNOC and its long-standing strategic partnership and is its first investment in the MENA (Middle East and North Africa) region).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
