09-12-2021||Business||Sensex ends 157 points higher to close at 58,807||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 157 points higher on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, ITC and L&T amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index ended 157.45 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 58,807.13. Similarly, the NSE Nifty rose 47.10 points or 0.27 per cent to 17,516.85. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 5 per cent, followed by L&T, Asian Paints, Reliance Industries, M&M, Bajaj Finance and Infosys. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, Titan, Nestle India, NTPC and PowerGrid were among the laggards. "Domestic indices surrendered to profit-booking in early session, but later gained ground owing to positive global sentiments, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Investors are keenly awaiting the US inflation data in order to gauge the Fed's decision on rolling back economic stimulus, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.63 per cent to USD 75.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
09-12-2021||Business||Sensex starts on choppy note||Equity benchmark Sensex opened on a choppy note on Thursday, as investors followed the risk-off mode. The 30-share index opened over 200 points higher, but soon turned negative and was trading 38.52 points or 0.07 per cent lower at 58,611.16 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty slipped 17.60 points or 0.10 per cent to 17,452.15. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma, L&T, Bajaj Finance, Infosys and HDFC. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, Tata Steel, NTPC, TCS and Titan were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark zoomed 1,016.03 points or 1.76 per cent to finish at 58,649.68, and Nifty rallied 293.05 points or 1.71 per cent to 17,469.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 579.27 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "Today being a weekly settlement day, the heightened market volatility of the last few days is likely to continue. Sustained FII selling had pushed the market to oversold territory, facilitating a sharp rebound when risk-on resumed globally," said VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Investors may take a wait and watch view now. Wait for the volatility to ebb and take a position based on emerging data, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in the US too ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.57 per cent to USD 76.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
09-12-2021||Business||Union minister asks telecom industry to scale up quality||Union telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has urged the telecom industry to improve the quality of service and sought recommendations on how to create a framework that enhances trust in the telecom sector. “The Indian telecom industry has rapidly scaled up over the last 7 years. From just about 6.5 lakh base stations to day we are close to 23 lakh base stations in the country. While spread of services has really increased, the quality of service is an issue,” Vaishnaw said at a Cellular Operators Association of India-organised event on Wednesday. Vaishnaw, who is also the IT and Railways minister, said that at present there are paramount concerns among all nations regarding the security of telecom networks. “People want the devices, equipment and network operating system to be from trusted sources. New geopolitical realities are facing all of us,” the minister said, while asking the industry to give suggestions on a good framework on trusted sources and equipment. Vaishnaw said that with rapid change in technology, the time frame of each generation of telecom protocol has shortened.  He also said that the virtualisation of technology has brought new opportunities as well as challenges. “So how do we bring solutions which allow us to shift over from legacy systems to new solutions which can bring better service from the people while avoiding disruption in service,” the minister said. Commenting on the telecom reforms initiated in September, Vaishnaw said, “The series of reforms has reduced the regulatory framework, simplified many things and brought some changes and people oriented procedural changes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
09-12-2021||Business||Telecom mired in costly litigation, Sunil Mittal voices concern||Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal has flagged off industry concerns over high litigation in the telecom sector and urged the government to have a simplified regulatory regime. “I would like to request the government that one area where they need to lower the temperature of the industry is really in the area of litigation. A lot of litigation still remains,” said Mittal at the inaugural session of the Cellular Operators of India- organised India Mobile Congress event on Wednesday. “We must have a regime which is simple in its regulatory touch and does not create more litigation going forward,” Mittal said in his address at the event.  He also rued that the sector duties remain high.  “Spectrum remains expensive. I would appeal to the government to continuously look at this for the benefit of our digital dream,” Mittal said. The Airtel chief also made a call for a more collaborative approach among operators. “There is so much duplication in the industry, whether it is in the area of towers or fibre. We need to start to talk to each other, do co-builds like the world is doing, share more tower infrastructure .” Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani said that affordability of mobile devices can further drive digital inclusion.  “Affordability has been a critical driver of phenomenally rapid expansion of the mobile subscriber base in India. India should move towards greater digital inclusion and not greater digital exclusion,” Ambani said at the COAI event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
09-12-2021||Business||Visa Inc launches crypto advisory service for banking clients||Visa Inc, the world’s largest payment processor, launched a global crypto advisory service for its banking clients and merchants on Wednesday, as the adoption of digital currencies gains steam. The move is aimed at financial institutions eager to attract or retain customers with crypto offerings, retailers looking to delve into non-fungible tokens (NFTs) or central banks exploring digital currencies, the company said. Visa’s services include educating institutions about cryptocurrencies, allowing clients to use the payment processor’s network for digital offerings and helping manage backend operations. A new global study by Visa showed nearly 40 per cent  of crypto owners surveyed said they would likely or very likely switch their primary bank to one that offers crypto-related products in the next 12 months. Visa is set to launch services this year that will allow buying, selling and custody of digital currency through its banking partners. There are also a number of Visa card programs that let users earn bitcoin on purchases and the network will also allow its client the use of USD Coin, a stablecoin cryptocurrency whose value is pegged directly to the US dollar, to settle transactions on its payment network. In March, the company told Reuters it had launched the pilot program with payment and crypto platform Crypto.com. However, for cryptocurrencies such as the Bitcoin to be used as a medium of exchange, price stability is needed, Visa’s chief financial officer, Vasant Prabhu, told Reuters. “If the price is going to fluctuate from $60,000 to $50,000 in a few hours, it's a very difficult thing for a merchant to accept (bitcoin) as a currency,”Prabhu said. “I don’t know if cryptocurrencies like bitcoin will ever be a medium of exchange. Stablecoins will,” he said, adding that Visa would facilitate such transactions when the time was right. BNY Mellon, BlackRock Inc and Mastercard Inc have also taken steps to make more use of cryptocurrencies for investment and payment purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
09-12-2021||Business||Supreme Court puts off  hearing of Future Group case till January 11||The Supreme Court on Wednesday adjourned to January 11 the hearing on the Future group plea against a Delhi High Court order declining stay on the emergency award  of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that bars the Rs 24,713 crore takeover of Future Retail by Reliance Retail. A bench comprising Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and justices A.S. Bopanna and Hima Kohli, which had earlier sought small written submissions from parties to the litigation in place of “truckload” of bulky documents, again expressed displeasure on Wednesday over the written notes submitted by Future Group. On November 23, the bench was irked over the “truckload” of bulky documents filed by parties in the case and had asked whether the purpose was just to drag on or “harass the judges” and sought a common small compilation of documents. It had asked counsels for the parties to file a small volume of documents so that the matter can be disposed of, and fixed the case for hearing on December 8.  The bench said though on November 23 the court had adjourned the matter to ensure that the two parties submit their short written submissions instead of voluminous documents, the short note submitted by FRL was poorly drafted which could not be understood by the judges. “We don’t understand anything from the notes. We can’t make out what is written,” the CJI told senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for FRL. The court said even Amazon had submitted its written submission late at 10 pm on Tuesday thus making it difficult for  the judges to go through the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
09-12-2021||Business||Jio, Mahindra group ink pact to explore EV, low carbon solutions||A joint venture of Reliance Industries and BP of the UK on Wednesday said it has signed an agreement with the Mahindra group to explore EV and low-carbon solutions, including battery swapping technology options, for electric three-wheelers. Besides exploring creation of EV products and services, the non-binding MoU signed by Reliance BP Mobility Limited (RBML) and Mahindra Group would look for identifying synergies in low-carbon and conventional fuels, the company said in a statement. “The MoU also covers evaluating charging solutions by Jio-bp for Mahindra vehicles including electric three and four wheelers, quadricycles and e-SCV (small commercial vehicles - sub 4 ton),” it said. This would include captive fleets and last-mile mobility vehicles of Mahindra Group. The partnership aims to leverage the strengths of both companies in the areas of EV products and services. “Mahindra Group and its channel partner locations will be evaluated for setting up of Jio-bp Mobility Stations and EV charging and swapping points apart from utilising existing Jio-bp stations,” it said. Jio-bp recently launched its first mobility station in Maharashtra, offering multiple fuelling choices, including EV charging infrastructure. Additionally, business models like Mobility as a Service and Battery as a Service  will be explored wherein Jio-bp could provide charging solutions to vehicles made by Mahindra Group. The EV market in India is still in a nascent stage and through this MoU, various possibilities and orientation of database, operations support systems, software, pilot and commercial-scale business model and types of charging and swapping facilities are proposed to be explored and implemented subject to techno-economic feasibility and necessary approvals. The partnership aims at accelerating EV adoption in India with high-performance and swappable batteries. “The solutions would afford great convenience to customers who can ideally bring in a depleted battery to their nearest swapping station and within minutes move on with fully charged batteries by paying a nominal fee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
09-12-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 1016 points as RBI maintains accommodative stance||Stocks surged on Wednesday as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) went in for a status-quo in key rates and maintained its accommodative stance. The sharp rally saw the benchmark Sensex rising over 1016 points even as investor wealth climbed Rs 3.96  lakh crore. While the gains were led by financials, auto and real estate stocks, market circles said that investor attention will now shift towards upcoming macro-economic data such as retail inflation and industrial production. Though the sentiment has improved on expectations that the Omricon variant may not significantly derail the global economic growth, experts caution that markets could remain volatile in the coming days. The dovishness in the RBI statements came as a positive surprise, leading to an upmove in interest rate sensitive counters. The 30-share Sensex, which began the day in green at 58158.56, hit an intra-day high of 58702.65 — a gain of 1069 points. It later settled at 58649.68, thus showing a rise of 1016.03 points. In two days, the index has jumped over 1900 points. Similarly, the Nifty ended at 17469.75 — higher by 293.05 points. Shares of Bajaj Finance gained the most in the Sensex stocks as it shot up by 3.67 per cent to Rs 7,363.45.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
09-12-2021||Business||Reserve Bank relaxes rules on investments in overseas branches||The RBI on Wednesday relaxed the rules on bank investment in overseas branches or subsidiaries. The apex bank also decided to float a discussion paper to review the prudential norms on their investment. Banks incorporated in India seek the prior approval of the RBI to infuse capital in their overseas branches and subsidiaries as well as for the retention and repatriation or the transfer of profits from these centres. “On a review, and with a view to provide operational flexibility to banks, it has been decided that banks meeting the regulatory capital requirements may, with the approval of their boards, infuse capital in their overseas branches and subsidiaries, retain profits in these centres, and repatriate/transfer profits therefrom, without prior approval of RBI, subject to post facto reporting,’’ the RBI said in its statement on development and regulatory policies. In a separate circular, the banking regulator said that while considering such proposals, the lenders will have to analyse all relevant aspects including the business plans, home and host country regulatory requirements and performance parameters of their overseas centres. Moreover, they will have to  ensure compliance with all applicable home and host country laws and regulations. Banks now have to maintain a minimum capital to risk weighted assets ratio of 9 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
09-12-2021||Business||RBI steps in to keep an eye on digital payments||The Reserve Bank of India will  come out with a discussion paper on the reasonableness of charges on transactions through the digital mode. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said there have been some concerns on the charges incurred by customers for digital payments through credit cards, debit cards, prepaid payment instruments (cards and wallets) and unified payments interface (UPI). Entities involved in providing digital payment services incur costs, which are generally recovered from the merchant or customer. While there are advantages and disadvantages of customers bearing these charges, they should be reasonable and should not become a deterrent in the adoption of digital payments, he added. To take a comprehensive view of the issues involved, he said it is proposed to issue a discussion paper, which will cover all aspects related to charges involved in various channels of digital payments. The paper will also seek feedback on convenience fee and surcharging. UPI benefits The Reserve Bank of India has raised the transaction limit under unified payments interface (UPI) for investing in initial public offering (IPOs) and government securities through the Retail Direct Scheme to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 2 lakh. Observers said this move would not impact retail investors as they can only invest up to Rs 2 lakh. High net-worth individuals may benefit as they can invest up to Rs 5 lakh. Das said the central bank will soon announce details of taking the UPI application to the 44 crore feature phone users in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
09-12-2021||Business||RBI decides to play it safe on rates||A dovish Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday kept its key rates unchanged and retained its accommodative stance as growth revival remained an “overarching’’ priority amid uncertainty over the Omicron variant. The central bank also did not come up with a clear-cut guidance on policy normalisation even as it announced minor steps to suck out excess liquidity from the system. At the end of a three-day meeting, the six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) went along expected lines and unanimously voted to keep the policy repo rate unchanged at four per cent. Five MPC members were in favour of maintaining the accommodative stance barring Jayant Varma who had also dissented from the others in the previous meeting. In another relief to the markets, the MPC did not tinker with the reverse repo rate — the interest at which banks park surplus cash with the RBI —  which remains at 3.35 per cent. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said though activity in the various segments of the economy has surpassed the pre-pandemic levels, it was lagging behind in certain key segments such as private investment,  consumption and a few other sectors that are critical to the growth of the economy. He added the domestic economy is facing global headwinds such as volatility in crude oil prices . “Given the slack in the economy and the ongoing catching-up of activity, especially of private consumption, which is still below its pre-pandemic levels, continued policy support is warranted for a durable and broad-based recovery. Against this backdrop, the MPC decided to retain the prevailing repo rate at four per cent and continue with the accommodative stance,’’ he said . While the RBI maintained the real GDP growth projection at 9.5 per cent for 2021-22, its forecast on inflation was lower than market expectations. It is expected headline inflation will peak in the fourth quarter of 2021-22 and soften thereafter. The dovish forecast on inflation runs contrary to the challenges on this front  faced by developed economies such as the US. Das said it was unfair to compare inflation in India with advanced economies. The central bank is mindful and cognizant of the requirement to maintain price and financial stability. “As an inflation targeting central bank which also has various other responsibilities, RBI looks at whole lot of other things.. the RBI is in sync with how the evolving growth inflation dynamics are playing out,’’ he said. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra said  while a subtle shift has been brought in with the comment that price stability remains the cardinal principle of monetary policy, the overarching tone of Das’s statement is less hawkish than what they had anticipated. “The comment on managing a durable, strong, as well as inclusive recovery, underscores concerns of a K-shaped trend underpinning the traction in economic growth.” “With the MPC remarking that the ongoing domestic recovery needs sustained policy support to make it more broad-based, we now foresee a slightly lower likelihood of our base case assessment that the stance will be changed to neutral in the February 2022 policy review,’’ she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
