10-12-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally lower after choppy session||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower on Friday, led by losses in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and Kotak Bank amid negative global cues. The 30-share BSE Sensex declined 20.46 points or 0.03 per cent to end at 58,786.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 5.55 points or 0.03 per cent to 17,511.30. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by HDFC, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Asian Paints, SBI, M&M, TCS and Bajaj Finserv were among the gainers. Domestic equities gave positive returns this week amid easing concerns pertaining to the potential severity of the Omicron variant of COVID-19, said Shrikant Chouhan, Head of Equity Research (Retail), Kotak Securities. Sensex and Nifty gave positive returns of around 1.7 per cent this week. BSE Midcap and BSE Smallcap index outperformed the larger indices with gains ranging between 2-3 per cent this week. The majority of the sectoral indices saw positive returns. "Markets in the immediate term will keenly watch out for the actions on asset tapering and key policy rates in the upcoming US Federal Reserve meet," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.39 per cent to USD 74.71 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
10-12-2021||Business||Byju's appoints Rachna Bahadur as Senior Vice President to lead global expansion plans||Edtech major Byju's on Friday said it has appointed former Bain & Company Partner Rachna Bahadur as the Senior Vice President to lead its global expansion plans. In this role, Bahadur will lead the overall planning, strategy, and roadmap for Byju's expansion in new and existing markets, a statement said. In addition to designing Byju's next growth phase, creating new partnerships, reinforcing sales, and solidifying the company's market positioning across the globe, she will also be responsible for strengthening the footprint of Byju's recent acquisition of Epic in the US market, it added. In July, Byju's had acquired US-based digital reading platform Epic for USD 500 million (around Rs 3,729.8 crore), and had announced an additional USD 1 billion (about Rs 7,459.7 crore) investment over the next three years in the North American market to expand its operations there. Bahadur's appointment is a step towards strengthening Byju's leadership across verticals as the company aims to further build world-class products, teams, and partnerships, the company noted. As we continue to evolve and diversify our business across the globe, we are focusing on bringing the best talent in the industry to further drive our mission of creating a community of lifelong learners. Rachna is a leader with a proven track record," Byju's Chief People Officer Pravin Prakash said. Her extensive knowledge, depth of experience, and core background in consumer product practice will prove a key asset to Byju's and she will play a vital role in charting a high impact and high growth network for the company, he added. Bahadur - who has over 15 years of experience - previously served as a Partner at Bain & Company where she was a leader in the consumer product practice. She also co-led the 'Women @ Bain' India chapter which aims at creating an inclusive and gender non-conforming (GNC) environment for women. I look forward to working with the team to further build on the foundation and growth potential in the business. From building new partnerships to expanding existing ones, I look forward to crafting new strategies to take BYJU'S into its next phase of growth, Bahadur said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
10-12-2021||Business||Sensex sheds over 150 points in early trade, Nifty slips below 17,500||Equity benchmark Sensex declined by more than 150 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and TCS amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share index declined by 186.36 points or 0.32 per cent to 58,620.77 in opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty slipped 46.65 points or 0.27 per cent to 17,470.20. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Reliance Industries, Titan and HCL Tech. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma, M&M, IndusInd Bank, Tata Steel and Maruti were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark ended 157.45 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 58,807.13, and Nifty rose 47.10 points or 0.27 per cent to 17,516.85. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 1,585.55 crore on Thursday, according to the exchange data. "Nifty at 17,500 is trading at around 20 times 1- year forward earnings, which is 40 per cent higher than the long-average. "Since valuations continue to be high even after the correction, FIIs are likely to continue selling. This will cap the upside to the market in the short run," said V.K. Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the U.S. too ended in the red in overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.05% to $74.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
10-12-2021||Business||Supply curbs on non-power consumers eased||Non-power consumers have booked 31.65 lakh tonnes in Coal India’s e-auction for them in November, which is 91 per cent of the offered quantity and much higher than the 6 lakh tonnes booked a year ago. The strong response needs to be seen in the context of the public sector miner temporarily curtailing supply to the non-power players in October, while giving priority to the power companies. The miner’s decision had affected consumers in aluminium, cement, paper and other sectors. Coal India has offered 81.22 million tonnes (mt) during April-November 2021 to the non-power sector against 79.69mt in the same period last year, clocking 2 per cent growth, even after meeting an unprecedented demand from the power sector. Officials said the miner was carrying close to 32mt stock and with production poised to grow in the fourth quarter, the miner will be ready to meet the needs of captive power producers. Stock levels to the power plants are also improving: from 7.24mt on October 8 to 18.84mt on December 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
10-12-2021||Business||Coal bidding belies ban fears ||The Centre is optimistic of receiving a good response to the latest round of coal block auctions even as the Modi government has set a net zero carbon emission target by 2070 under COP26 protocol. Union coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain said they were upbeat on the outcome of the 13th tranche of the auction, for which the last date of the sale of tender documents was Thursday. “We are living in 2021 and 2070 is almost 50 years away. This gives a lot of comfort and I am already noticing it. The previous round of commercial coal block auctions did not elicit the kind of response the first round did,” Jain said at a Bengal Chamber of Commerce organised-event on Thursday. “I am happy to say that the current round for which the application sale closes Thursday, we have already received two or more bids for 18 mines,” the coal secretary said. A total of 88 coal mines have been selected in the present round, including six blocks from Bengal. Of the 88, 40 are new mines and 48 are mines unsold in the earlier rounds. The total geological reserve is about 55 billion tonnes, of which 57 are fully explored and 31 partially explored. Jain said that some of the mines are legacy mines that were rejected by the bidders. “In the future rounds when we add more explored mines, the response will be better,” he said. He said the government is working on a road map to achieve net zero carbon emission. This will give a greater clarity on how the 2070 target will affect various sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
10-12-2021||Business||Footwear retailer Metro Brands plans to add 260 stores||Multibrand footwear retailer Metro Brands is planning to add 260  stores by 2024-25. With brands such as Metro, Mochi, DaVinchi and third party brands such as Crocs and Fitflop, the company at present operates 598 stores across 136 cities. The company plans to use part of the proceeds from its Rs 1,367-crore public issue to fund the expansion. The public offer opens Friday at a price band of Rs 485-500 per share and includes a fresh issue and an offer for sale. “We primarily operate in a company owned and company operated model. We are spread across metro cities, tier 1, tier 2, tier 3 cites and have an even distribution between malls and high street locations. We also have stores in key airports,” said Nissan Joseph, CEO, Metro Brands. Of the 598 stores, only seven are franchise stores.  “All the 260 new stores will be company owned and be spread across four brands — Metro, Mochi, Walkway and Crocs,” said Joseph. Metro Brand’s managing director Farah Malik Bhanji said the company operates in an asset light model. “We are largely dependent on third party manufacturing. We have over 250 suppliers including karigars to come up with the best range,” she said. For 2020-21, the company’s total income was Rs 878.53 crore with a restated profit of Rs 64.62 crore. “Our gross margin was rock steady at 54.9 per cent even in a Covid impacted year,” said CFO Kaushal Parekh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
10-12-2021||Business||Shrachi arm plans a foray into renewable sectors||BTL EPC Ltd, the engineering firm from Shrachi Group, is planning a foray into the renewable sector as it faces the pressure to diversify from its coal handling business amid a global movement to phase down the use of the fossil fuel. The company has already executed the engineering and installation of a small solar power plant at Panagarh and  is looking out for more opportunities. “Solar is the future. We will diversify into this segment,” Ravi Todi, managing director of BTL EPC, said. Renewable energy is part of a concerted effort by the company to build capabilities in other areas. BTL earns nearly all its revenue from material handling works at power plants or mines. It recently executed a transmission project in Chhattisgarh and is bidding for more. As part of the diversification strategy, the company is also exploring buyout opportunities. While BTL is predominantly an EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) company, it wants to expand to the product segment. A product company typically gets paid after delivering the material. In contrast, EPC firms usually have to wait longer, especially if the client is a PSU or a government department, for payment, which  poses cash flow challenges. “We are in dialogue with a potential target. It manufactures products for material handling,” Todi said. On Thursday, BTL also announced bagging a Rs 317cr  contract from NTPC for coal handling. The company’s order book now stands at Rs 1,400 crore. It completed the last fiscal with a revenue of Rs 300 crore, up by 20 per cent from the previous year despite the pandemic. Todi said it is targeting Rs 500 crore revenue in 2022-23 even though BTL would be happy to maintain last fiscal’s revenue in this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
10-12-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea shares jumps 15 per cent, hit a 52-week high||Shares of Vodafone Idea on Thursday jumped 15 per cent and hit a 52-week high on a report that the company has raised funds to pay its bond holders. The company has to pay around Rs 6,000 crore to its bond holders from December 13 to February 14, 2022. Though there was no official confirmation from the company, investors lapped up the stock. On the BSE, the share opened at Rs 14.64 and hit an intra-day peak of Rs 16.70 — a 52-week high. It then settled at Rs 16.43 — a gain of 14.98 per cent over the last close. More than 28.50 crore shares were transacted on the exchange, which was higher than the two-week average number of 17.54 crore. Over the past three months, the share has climbed by around 96 per cent with a sharp gain coming after the Centre announced major reforms in the telecom sector. Recently, the company also raised pre-paid tariffs by 20-25 per cent. A report in the Business Standard on Thursday said that bond holders of Vodafone Idea will receive their interest on the due date of December 13 as the company has raised funds for this purpose. Ola plan Ola is in talks to raise over $1 billion in funding through a mix of equity and debt over the next few months as the ride-hailing platform prepares to hit the IPO route next year, according to sources. The company has recently raised over Rs 1,049 crore (about $139 million) from Edelweiss and others at a valuation of over $7 billion. Ola is in discussions to raise a pre-IPO round of over $1 billion at a valuation of $7.5 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
10-12-2021||Business||Biocon, Mylan weigh biosimilar arm merger options||Biocon is reportedly in talks with global pharmaceuticals giant Mylan to merge their biosimilar businesses. The biosimilar business of the company is operated by subsidiary Biocon Biologics. A Moneycontrol report said Biocon would hold a majority stake in the merged entity, and the duo would look at an initial public offering (IPO) for their joint business at a valuation of over $10 billion. A biosimilar is almost identical to a biologic drug, which is extracted from plants, animal cells and micro-organisms. Biocon Biologics earned Rs 743 crore from the biosimilar business in the second quarter of the fiscal which is 40 per cent of Biocon’s revenues for the period at Rs 1,840 crore. In the first half of the fiscal, revenues of the biologics arm rose 10 per cent to Rs 1,501 crore over the same period last year as the company made inroads both in the developed and in the emerging markets, with margins at 42 per cent. Spokespersons for Biocon and Viatris Inc, which was formed after the merger of Mylan and Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, said they would not comment on market speculation. DRL pact Singapore-based Prestige BioPharma and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories on Thursday announced a binding agreement for the supply and commercialisation of the former’s proposed Trastuzumab biosimilar in select countries in Latin America and Southeast Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
10-12-2021||Business|| Economists question Reserve Bank of India’s inflation claims ||Economists have questioned the RBI’s projection that inflation will glide down to 4 per cent levels by the end of the next fiscal. They said the upward pressure on prices is likely to persist at least in the near-term on higher input costs amid supply chain bottlenecks. The RBI on Wednesday surprised observers when it retained its retail inflation forecast at 5.3 per cent for 2021-22 Reserve Bank deputy-governor Michael Patra had said inflation could come between 4 per cent and 4.3 per cent by the end of next fiscal — in the median range of its 2-6 per cent target. Patra said core inflation — the non-food, non-fuel print — will fall from a high of 5.8 per cent in October because of the duty cuts on petrol and diesel, with partial impact seen in November and a bigger impact in December, while the full impact will last a full year. Besides, the supply chain bottleneck is easing with reduced congestion at ports and the greater availability of containers. However, economists remain sceptical. Abheek Barua, chief economist at HDFC Bank, said the pressures of higher input and fuel costs are likely to stay. “We do not see the inflation trajectory to be as benign and expect inflation prints to surprise on the upside and average at 5.6 per cent for 2021-22, driven by elevated input and fuel costs and as the base effect wanes off.” He also pointed to the possibility of prolonged elevated core inflation feeding into household expectations and becoming more entrenched in the system. Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India, also feels that core inflation could play spoilsport. “We believe inflation management could pose a challenge to the RBI as cost-push pressures from high industrial raw material prices, transportation costs, and global logistics and supply chain bottlenecks continue to impinge on core inflation,’’ Ghosh  said in a note. A Reuters poll of 29 economists reveals that they expect retail inflation in November to accelerate towards the upper bound of the RBI’s target range of 2-6 per cent as fruit and vegetable prices rose. The poll forecast inflation at 5.10 per cent, which is within the band, but higher than the 4.48 per cent in October. The forecasts ranged between 4.5 per cent and 5.32 per cent. Inflation data is due on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
10-12-2021||Business||Government extends  overseas flight ban till January 31||India has decided to extend its suspension of scheduled international flights till January 31, the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) announced on Thursday.  Amid rising concerns over the coronavirus variant Omicron, the aviation regulator had decided on December 1 not to resume scheduled international flights from December 15, less than a week after announcing that it would restart the services. The DGCA issued a circular on Thursday that said, “The competent authority has decided to extend the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger services to and from India till 2359 hours of January 31, 2022.” This suspension won’t apply to international all cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the DGCA, it added.  “International scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case to case basis,” the regulator added.  In another tweet, it clarified that all international flights under the existing bubble agreements shall continue to operate till January 31. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, because of the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July 2020.  India has formed air bubble pacts with 32 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories.  On the domestic front, air passenger traffic rose marginally in the week ended November 27 amid a revival in travel sentiment during the festival season. Domestic air passenger traffic has seen significant growth since June, with the easing of lockdown restrictions following a steady decline in fresh Covid-19 cases, giving more people to confidence to undertake travel. Singapore breather Earlier on Thursday, the government has removed Singapore from its list of “at-risk” nations and travellers arriving from there won’t need to take additional measures on arrival, including post-arrival testing for Covid-19 especially the new Omicron variant. Passengers arriving from “at no risk” countries can enjoy quarantine-free travel within India and will need to self-monitor their health for 14 days.  In addition, a random sample of 2 per cent of passengers travelling from Singapore will need to undergo RT-PCR testing on arrival at Indian airports, Singapore Airlines said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
