11-12-2021||Business||Passenger vehicle sales decline 19 per cent in November||Passenger vehicle sales in the country declined 19 per cent in November as the shortage of semiconductors continued to impact vehicle production and subsequent deliveries to dealers, auto industry body SIAM said on Friday. Passenger vehicle sales in November were at a seven-year low at 2.15 lakh units, down 19 per cent from 2.64 lakh units in November 2020. Similarly, two-wheeler sales were at an 11-year low at 10.5 lakh units, down 34 per cent from 16 lakh units in the year-ago period. Motorcycle dispatches dropped to 6.9 lakh units in November compared with 10.2 lakh units in the same month last year. Scooter dispatches stood at 3.06 lakh units last month against 5.02 lakh units in the same period last year. Total three-wheeler sales were at a 19-year low of 22,471 units, down 7 per cent from 24,071 units in November 2020. Total automobile sales across categories dropped to 12.88 lakh units last month  against 18.89 lakh units in the year-ago period. “Industry continues to face headwinds due to global semiconductor shortage. In the festive season, industry was hoping to make up for the lost ground, but the sales in the month of November 2021 were the lowest in seven years for passenger vehicles, the lowest in 11 years for two-wheelers and the lowest in 19 years for three-wheelers,” Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers director-general Rajesh Menon said in a statement. Amidst the rising threat of Omicron, the new Covid variant, industry is proactively ensuring employee safety and monitoring any supply chain hiccups, he added. In November, Maruti Suzuki India’s dispatches declined to 1,09,726 units compared with 1,35,775 units in November 2020. Similarly, Hyundai Motor India saw its dispatches dip to 37,001 units last month, as against 48,800 units in the year-ago period. Meanwhile, Tata Motors on Friday said it will hike prices of its entire passenger vehicle range from January to offset the impact of rising input costs. Similarly, luxury motorcycle brand Ducati said it will also hike prices across its product range from next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
11-12-2021||Business||Audi starts local manufacturing of Q7 SUV at Aurangabad plant||Audi has started the local manufacturing of its Q7 SUV at its Aurangabad plant as it gears up for a January launch. The company is expecting high double-digit growth in this year and 2022 banking on the new Q7 and the recent launch of its bestseller Q5 and the A4 models. “We have launched a number of new products already this year and Q7 next year would be the next big seller. In the first nine months of the year, we have seen sales grow around 123 per cent compared with the same period of last year,” a company official said. In the same period, the rest of the luxury car market has grown 41 per cent. Sales had fallen when the company drove out from BSIV to the BSVI regime. The car maker expects its business to stay robust in India over the next few years as it looks to expand its sales network and roll out new products, including electric vehicles, officials said. The company, which has shifted its entire product range in the country to petrol and electric lines since April last year, will only sell electric vehicles globally from 2033. The official said the company plans t double the number of showrooms to 14 from 7 and have around 30 dealerships in the country. The new Q7 measures measures 5063 mm in length, 1970 mm in width and 1741 mm in height. It gets 2995 mm in wheelbase and 865 litre storage capacity which can be expanded to 2050 litre by folding rear seats. It also features rear side airbags, updated tyre pressure monitoring system and adaptive cruise control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
11-12-2021||Business||Google India extends deadline for Play store billing system||Google India is extending the deadline for developers to integrate with its Play Store’s billing system to October 31, 2022 from the earlier deadline of March 31, 2022. The development comes amid the changing recurring digital payments landscape following guidelines from the RBI. In-app purchases through Google Play’s billing system are subject to a service fee which was initially pegged at 30 per cent. This led to several Indian startups voicing their concern over the tech giant’s move of enforcing a steep billing system that could eat into a major chunk of the developer’s revenue. With digital subscriptions on a rise, customer acquisition and retention is a major focus area for any business which requires spending. Following discussions with developers in several subscription based online businesses, Google has subsequently on October 21 cut the service fees for all subscriptions from 30 per cent to 15 per cent and fees for Play Store Media Experience program focussed at video, audio and book developers to 10 per cent. “We recognise the unique needs of the developer ecosystem in India and remain committed to partnering with developers in India on their growth journey. “In October 2020, we had announced March 31, 2022 as the timeline for developers in India to integrate with Play’s billing system. We are extending this to October 31, 2022 to provide developers in India the required product support for recurring payments through convenient user payment systems, including UPI and wallets, and also provide them more time in light of the changes in India’s recurring digital payments guidelines,” a Google spokesperson said on Friday. In August 2019, RBI had issued a framework for processing of e-mandates on recurring online transactions. Initially applicable on cards and wallets, it was subsequently extended to Unified Payments Interface (UPI) transactions. The regulator further in a September circular had stated that with effect from January 1, 2022 no entity in the card transaction/payment chain other than card issuers and networks can store card data and any stored data has to be purged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
11-12-2021||Business||DoT moves NCLAT to revoke resolution plan for Videocon Group||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has moved the insolvency appellate tribunal NCLAT against the NCLT order approving the consolidated resolution plan for 13 companies of Videocon Group, including Videocon Telecommunications. The DoT, in its petition, has requested the appellate tribunal to set aside the order passed by the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on June 8, 2021 allowing the Rs 2,962-crore takeover bid by Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies. The DoT has submitted before the NCLAT that defaulting telecomcompanies cannot be permitted to wriggle out of their liability by the triggering of the corporate insolvency resolution process. A three-member bench of the NCLAT said the appellate tribunal has already stayed the NCLT order on July 19, 2021 by granting a “status quo ante” to be maintained and the resolution professional will continue to manage the affairs of Videocon Industries according to the provisions of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code. “In view of the submissions made by the Appellant/Applicant (DoT) and the impugned order on stay on near similar grounds, there is no need to further go into details,” said NCLAT. The NCLAT has directed to list DoT’s appeal for hearing on January 11, 2022. “The Respondents are directed to file ‘Reply-affidavit' within the next two weeks and rejoinder, if any, may be filed within a week thereafter,” the NCLAT order passed on December 8, 2021 said. The respondents in the matter include Videocon Industries and Videocon Telecommunications. Videocon Telecommunications had secured the dues with as many as 131 bank guarantees from SBI in favour of the DoT to the tune for Rs 881.92 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
11-12-2021||Business||Steel giants flag green goal pitfalls||The capital cost of setting up new steel plants and shutting down the old ones to meet carbon neutral goals could be a “major barrier to change”, JSW Steel chairman Sajjan Jindal said while batting for government support to make the green transition. Noting that switching to clean hydrogen appears to be the most likely immediate solution to reach net zero, Jindal called for taking up collective responsibility for developing sustainable solutions. “…while the prices of renewable electricity and green hydrogen are falling fast, the capital costs of setting up new plants — and shuttering old ones — I foresee will be a major barrier to change,” Jindal said at a webinar organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry. India has, for the first time, made a concrete pledge to achieve net zero carbon emission by 2070. While the target is still some years away, competitive pressure could be building up in the near future, forcing steelmakers to reduce carbon footprint. China has already cracked the whip on its domestic steelmakers, setting tall targets to achieve by 2025. Apart from carbon emission, it is also targeted to reduce nitrous and sulfur oxides to cut pollution. Soma Mondal, chairman of SAIL, who also participated in the seminar, said headline commitment to net zero by 2070 provides sufficient time to the industry for a planned reduction of its carbon footprint. The effort will be driven not least by the commitment to COP26 goals but to adjust to the need to remain globally competitive when developed regions of the world impose carbon penalties on the imported product such as the proposed carbon tax by the EU, Mondal argued. Technology challenge While the target has been set, the steel makers globally are yet to deploy commercially viable large scale steelmaking processes by using hydrogen as a reductant to make steel from iron ore instead of coking coal. The production of hydrogen also needs to be from a green energy source instead of traditional ones to actually reduce carbon footprint. While the steel industry accounts for 0.7 per cent of the world’s economic output, the industry also contributes 7 per cent towards global emissions. “This needs to change and needs to change fast!” Jindal acknowledged. Curtailing carbon emissions will require major upgrades at the steel mills and the initiative will have to be taken at the industry as well as policy level, he argued. The transformative effort will center around using carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS) with the existing fossil fuel-based iron making (BF-BOF), substituting hydrogen for carbon as a reductant and using renewable electrical energy, Jindal argued. “With the deployment of the best available technologies, low-carbon steelmaking would become competitive with respect to conventional methods. While the transition period may involve high initial capital costs, as well as operational expense costs, proactive government support through well-designed policy will ensure that the industry is not discouraged from making this transition,” Jindal pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
11-12-2021||Business||Reliance Industries raises stake in HFCL to 5 per cent||Reliance Industries has raised its stake in HFCL (formerly Himachal Futuristic Communications Ltd) — the country’s largest integrated telecom network provider —to 5 per cent by investing Rs 138 crore in shares that the company offered through the qualified institutional placement (QIP) route. The company offered over 8.72 crore shares to 21 institutional buyers at a price of Rs 68.75 per share, raising Rs 600 crore through the issue. Reliance Ventures acquired just over 2 crore shares or 23 per cent of the QIP shares on offer. Quant Mutual Fund, BNP Paribas, Elm Park Fund and Societe Generale are the other investors. RIL earlier held a 3.76 per cent stake in the company through its subsidiary, Reliance Strategic Business Ventures. HFCL’s fund raising committee met on Friday and approved the issue and allotment of 8,72,72,727 shares to the QIPs. HFCL will use the proceeds to expand its optical fibre capacity, meet capital expenditure requirements for defence facilities that it manages, pay back debt, upgrade R&D facilities and cover its long-term working capital requirements. The QIP issue had opened on December 6 and closed on December 9, it added. The stock fell 6 per cent to Rs 86.80 on the Bombay Stock Exchange at the end of a volatile trading session after opening strong at Rs 92.20 and climbing to a high of Rs 93.70. The stock has yielded a 1-year return of 300 per cent from a year-ago level of Rs 21.85, against a sectoral average of 27.3 per cent and a Sensex return of 27.91 per cent. HFCL, which recorded revenues of Rs 4,423 crore in the year ended March 31, set up a new R&D centre in Bangalore last year to develop next generation 5G compatible products and system integration services. It is also looking to develop anti-drone technologies and hopes to create a new platform for revenue growth by producing innovative products like electronic fuses and electro-optics devices for the defence sector. The electronic fuse is a device used in ammunition to initiate an explosive function and to detonate or release the missile or bomb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
11-12-2021||Business||RBI permits LIC to double stake in IndusInd Bank||The Reserve Bank of India has permitted Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) to double its stake in IndusInd Bank. The country’s largest insurer has been given a year’s time to raise its stake in the private sector lender from 4.95 per cent to 9.9 per cent, IndusInd Bank said in a stock market filing on Friday. LIC has a very large portfolio of investments in the banking sector which it has been built up over the years. It holds a 49.24 per cent stake in IDBI Bank where it is listed as a promoter. It also has an 8.19 per cent in Axis Bank, holding the largest chunk of the 11.64 per cent promoter stake. The life insurer has been a big investor of policy holder funds and has built up a formidable stake in banks including State Bank of India, the country’s largest bank, where it has an 8.34 per cent stake. It also holds 7.59 per cent in ICICI Bank and 2.68 per cent in HDFC Bank. Last month, the banking regulator had permitted the life insurer to raise its holding in Kotak Mahindra Bank to 9.9 per cent. The latest announcements from Kotak Mahindra Bank and IndusInd Bank have come after the RBI relaxed ownership rules in private banks late last month. The founders are allowed to raise their stake to 26 per cent from 15 per cent at present. The detailed operational guidelines are yet to be issued. The RBI had said that the 26 per cent ceiling would be uniform across all types of promoters. It gave promoters the permission to reduce their stake below 26 per cent after a five-year lock-in period. Last month, the RBI accepted 21 of the recommendations put forth by an internal working group but ducked a decision on a controversial recommendation to allow corporate houses into banking. The Narendra Modi government is expected to move amendments to the Banking Regulation Act in the upcoming winter session. Reports indicate that the legislation is ready and awaiting cabinet approval, which may come next week. Experts anticipate that the new bill will allow the government to prune its holding in public sector banks to 26 per cent. But it is not known if it is considering any proposal to allow business houses to set up banks. The IndusInd stock fell by 0.23 per cent on the BSE to close at Rs 944.15 at the end of a torrid day of trading.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
11-12-2021||Business||Industry posts 3.2 per cent growth in October||The festival month of October failed to lift industrial growth upwards which remained subdued on account of supply side issues and a waning base effect. The manufacturing sector, which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), grew just two per cent in October, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Friday. The mining sector output rose 11.4 per cent in October, while power generation increased 3.1 per cent. Industrial growth was stable but tepid in October, with the festive season boost being negated by the supply side issues afflicting the automobile sector, as well as a higher base, Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra, said. The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, contracted 1.1 per cent in October 2021.It had witnessed a growth of 3.2 per cent in the year-ago period. Consumer durables manufacturing contracted 6.1 per cent in October against a growth of 18.1 per cent  a year ago. Consumer non-durable goods production grew 0.5 per cent in October against a 7.3 cent rise a year-ago . The factory output recorded double-digit growth in the four months from May to August this year. Then it slipped to 3.3 per cent in September this year and further to 3.2 per cent, mainly due to waning low base effect. In October 2021, IIP stood at 133.7 points compared with 129.6 points in the same month last year. The index stood at 124 points in October 2019, as per the NSO data. Devendra Pant, chief economist at India Ratings & Research, said the IIP growth has been very fragile and even festive demand was not able to uplift it in October. During April-October , IIP grew 20 per cent against a 17.3 per cent contraction in the same period last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
11-12-2021||Business||Inflation in US surges to 40-year high at 6.8 per cent in November||Inflation in the US surged to a 40-year high at 6.8 per cent in November, putting immediate pressure on the Federal Reserve to roll back its pandemic-era stimulus when its policy makers meet next week. Economists expect the Fed policy makers to end its $120 billion treasury bond and mortgage-backed security purchases sooner. This would put it in a position to start raising rates, which the US central bank has held near zero since the outbreak of the pandemic. Fed officials have already announced plans to slow those purchases by $15 billion a month which would have the program ending midway through 2022. An accelerated rollback of the Fed’s bond purchases could trigger fund outflows from emerging markets such as India and spark severe turmoil in its stock and currency markets. It would also exacerbate pressure on the Reserve Bank of India which has been pinning its hopes on a benign inflation environment to justify its decision to hold interest rates in an effort to re-ignite economic growth. Rupee falls 18 paise The US inflation data release had kept Indian markets on the edge on Friday, with the rupee dropping 18 paise to an over 16-month low of 75.78 (provisional) on higher dollar outflows. Stock market investors across the world had remained on the sidelines on Friday in anticipation of the US inflation data. US stock indexes rose on Friday after the data showed the inflation figure largely in line with estimates last month. Analysts, however, said, it won’t deter the Federal Reserve from speeding up the taper process. The big inflation number from the US included a strong increase in food prices, which rose 6.1 per cent from a year earlier, according to the US Consumer Price Index report. The 0.7 increase in November came on the heels of several months of strong gains: The food index climbed 0.9 per cent in October and September. Rent of shelter also rose 0.5 per cent last month, reflecting a tight housing market that is feeding into inflation. The surge in rent costs has stemmed from strong demand for owned homes and as people have searched for extra space but found that houses were in short supply. Inflation has continued to surge as supply chain disruptions, strong demand for goods and rising wages have pushed prices higher, complicating US President Jo Biden’s agenda and depressing his approval ratings. Americans have felt the increase in prices, which has dented their finances and forced them to cut back in other ways. Consumers have grown more wary of the surge in costs, expressing less optimism about their personal finances and the overall growth of the economy, according to a recent University of Michigan survey. Alan Detmeister, a senior economist at UBS who used to be chief of the wages and prices division at the Fed Board in Washington, said that rents would continue to move up strongly in the near term. But real-time trackers like (US) Apartment List have showed some softening in recent readings, which could be a good sign that those pressures will cool off toward the middle of 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
