12-12-2021||Business||Govt unlikely to announce capital infusion for PSU banks in Budget 2022-23||The government is unlikely to announce capital infusion for public sector banks (PSBs) in the upcoming Budget, as their financial health has improved on the back of reduction in bad loans, sources said. To augment their resources, banks would be encouraged to raise funds from the market and also by selling their non-core assets, they added. During the current financial year, the government has earmarked Rs 20,000 crore for the recapitalisation of PSBs. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is expected to present the fourth budget of the Modi 2.0 government on February 1. It is to be noted that the net profit of PSBs surged to Rs 14,012 crore in the first quarter, which further rose to Rs 17,132 crore in the second quarter ended September 2021. The combined profit of the first half of the current fiscal is close to the total profit earned in the entire previous financial year. During the last financial year, PSBs raised capital funds to the tune of Rs 58,697 crore, the highest amount mobilised in a fiscal. Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) of PSBs increased to 14.3 per cent at the end of June, 2021 while the provision coverage ratio of public sector banks rose to an 8-year high of 84 per cent. In some of the non-performing assets, banks have done provisions up to 100 per cent, sources said, adding that recovery from those accounts will straightaway form part of the bottomline. Banks have been asked to focus on the recovery process as this would further boost their financial health. Meanwhile, banks are also working to expand their balance sheet under the credit outreach programme started October 16, 2021. Various reforms undertaken by the government including recognition, resolution and recapitalisation resulted in progressive decline in non-performing assets (NPAs) and subsequent rise in profit. NPAs of PSBs declined from Rs 7,39,541 crore as on March 31, 2019, to Rs 6,78,317 crore as on March 31, 2020 and further to Rs 6,16,616 crore as on March 31, 2021 (provisional data). Provision Coverage Ratio (PCR) at the same time increased sequentially to a high of 84 per cent. As a result, PSBs in aggregate recorded a profit of Rs 31,816 crore, highest in five years, despite 7.3 per cent contraction in economy in 2020-21 due to COVID-19 pandemic. The primary reason for PSBs to post Rs 57,832-crore turnaround in last financial year, from a loss of Rs 26,015 crore in 2019-20 to a combined profit of Rs 31,816 crore was the end of their legacy bad loan problem. At the same time, comprehensive steps were taken to control and to boost recovery in NPAs, which enabled PSBs to recover Rs 5,01,479 crore over the last six financial years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
12-12-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank: Ashu Suyash joins as independent director ||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Saturday announced the appointment of Ashu Suyash as an independent director on its board. Her appointment is for a period of five years, effective January 24, subject to the approval of its shareholders. Suyash was the managing director and CEO of Crisil. Prior to joining the rating agency, she was the CEO of L&T Investment Management Ltd and L&T Capital Markets. She started her career with Citibank India and during her more than 15-year tenure, held several key positions across Citibank’s corporate and investment banking divisions and its non-banking subsidiaries. She is an independent director on the board of Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL), a member of the governing board of the National Institute of Securities Markets and serves on the advisory committee on corporate insolvency and liquidation of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI). “We are delighted to welcome Suyash to the bank’s board of directors,” said Prakash Apte, non-executive independent chairman on the bank’s board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
12-12-2021||Business||WhatsApp, Meta looking to fill up vacancies in India||Meta (formerly Facebook) and WhatsApp are scouting for candidates for the roles of nodal contact and grievance officer as well as chief compliance officer — positions that have been mandated under India’s IT rules for large social media companies. These positions are being advertised on LinkedIn, and have been posted over the course of the past few days. The new IT rules, which came into effect in May this year, mandate that significant social media intermediaries (those with other 50 lakh users) appoint a grievance officer, nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel are required to be resident in India. WhatsApp had earlier named Paresh B Lal as its grievance officer for India on its website, while Facebook had named Spoorthi Priya as its grievance officer for India on its website. However, while Facebook’s page names Priya as the grievance officer, WhatsApp’s website shows Varun Lamba as the grievance officer. When contacted, Meta and WhatsApp said, “We reserve the right to seek new candidates as needed because the officers are critical roles and include the recruitment of uniquely qualified personnel to lead these responsibilities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
12-12-2021||Business||Automobile: Europe looks to Asia||Europe’s automotive sector has become too reliant on Asia and other regions for vital components such as semiconductors and battery cells, Bosch’s outgoing chairman told a German newspaper. Automotive chips and battery cells have become the two most important components in the age of electric and autonomous vehicles, forcing European car makers to rely on Asian suppliers as local industry has been slow to build capacity close by. “Yes, we have become too dependent on other regions, and a change of course is needed,” Bosch’s supervisory board chairman Franz Fehrenbach, who steps down at the end of the year, told Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. “However, this is not the fault of politics, but is related to cost optimisation in the supply chain,” he said. “The car industry is slowly asking itself how raw material supply will look like, particularly for battery cells.” Deal with VW Volkswagen’s software unit Cariad and automotive supplier Bosch are nearing an agreement to cooperate on automotive software, Handelsblatt reported, citing company sources. Volkswagen plans to invest a triple-digit million euro amount as part of the deal, the paper added. Volkswagen has bundled all its software efforts into Cariad, hoping it can challenge Tesla and Alphabet in a field in which it has not traditionally been active.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
12-12-2021||Business||Vedanta: Shareholders get second interim dividend||Vedanta on Saturday rewarded shareholders with its second interim dividend for this fiscal. The Anil Agarwal-led firm approved a pay-out of Rs 13.50 per share, amounting to Rs 5,019 crore. In a regulatory filing on Saturday, Vedanta said the record date for the purpose of payment of dividend is December 18 and that it will be paid within stipulated timelines as prescribed under law. The good news to its shareholders comes just days after the board of directors of its arm Hindustan Zinc announced an interim dividend of Rs 18 per share, amounting to Rs 7,605.57 crore. Vedanta holds around 64.92 per cent in Hindustan Zinc. It was in September that the board of Vedanta had approved the first interim dividend for this fiscal of Rs 18.50 per share, amounting to Rs 6,877 crore. Shares of Vedanta ended at Rs 349.75 on the BSE on Friday — a gain of around 0.36 per cent over the last close. Its shares have risen by almost 143 per cent in a year. Vedanta was in the news recently after it announced plans to restructure its businesses. The move may see the de-merger and listing of its aluminium, iron & steel and oil and gas businesses. These businesses had a combined turnover of around Rs 18,000 crore in the quarter ended September 30, 2021 of the total revenues of Rs 30,048 crore. The cash and cash equivalents during the period stood at Rs 30,650 crore. The company had said that considering the scale, nature, and potential opportunities for various business verticals, it should undertake a comprehensive review of the corporate structure and consider a full range of options and alternatives, including demerger, spin-off, strategic partnerships. It had disclosed that the main intention behind the latest exercise was to simplify and streamline the corporate structure, unlock value for all stakeholders and create businesses which are positioned better to capitalise on their distinct market positions and deliver long-term growth and enable strategic partnerships. In this regard, the company constituted a committee of directors to evaluate and recommend options and alternative. The board also appointed various advisers to assist it in evaluating the options. If the de-merger plans work out, Vedanta Ltd may then become a holding company. First interim dividend: Rs 18.50 per share, amounting to Rs 6,877 crore. Announced in Sept Second interim dividend: Rs 13.50 per share, amounting to Rs 5,019 crore. Record date: December 18||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
12-12-2021||Business||Economy: India among nations to bounce back amid pandemic||India will be among only a few economies in the world to rebound strongly from Covid-19 induced economic contraction of 2020-21, a finance ministry report said while contending that the Omicron variant’s impact will be less severe because of rapid vaccination. Real GDP in the second quarter of FY2021-22 has grown by 8.4 per cent year on year, recovering more than 100 per cent of the pre-pandemic output in the corresponding quarter of FY2019-20, said the monthly Economic Review prepared by the finance ministry. “India is among the few countries that have recorded four consecutive quarters of growth amid Covid-19 (Q3, Q4 of FY21 and Q1, Q2 of FY22) reflecting the resilience of the Indian economy. The recovery was driven by a revival in services, full-recovery in manufacturing and sustained growth in agriculture sectors,” it said. The recovery suggests kick-starting of the investment cycle, supported by surging vaccination coverage and efficient economic management activating the macro and micro drivers of growth, the report said. India’s economic recovery is expected to gain further strength in the remaining quarters of the financial year, as evident from 19 among 22 High Frequency Indicators (HFIs) in September, October and November of 2021 crossing their pre-pandemic levels in the corresponding months of 2019, it said. “Yet, Omicron, a new variant of Covid-19 may pose a fresh risk to the ongoing global recovery. However, preliminary evidence suggests that the Omicron variant is expected to be less severe and more so with increasing pace of vaccination in India,” the finance ministry said. Observing that the Covid-19 pandemic has led to considerable human and economic costs setting countries back on their developmental goals, the latest review said, the year 2021 is thus a “catch-up” year for the global economy, including India, trying to recover the pre-pandemic output level of 2019. India has not only caught up with its pre-pandemic output of Q2, but is also expected to do so for the full year, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
