13-12-2021||Business||Vedanta withdraws cases against govt to settle retro tax dispute||Billionaire Anil Agarwal's mining group Vedanta has withdrawn cases in the Delhi High Court as well as before an international arbitration tribunal to settle a Rs 20,495 crore retrospective tax dispute with the government. Post slapping of a Rs 10,247 crore tax demand on UK's Cairn Energy Plc for alleged capital gains made on a 2016 internal reorganisation of its India business, the Income Tax Department had sought Rs 20,495 crore in taxes from Cairn India for failing to deduct tax on capital gains made by its British parent. Cairn India subsequently merged with Vedanta Ltd. In a statement, Vedanta said it has used a recently enacted law to settle the tax dispute. As conditions for the same, it has withdrawn all legal challenges against the government and given an undertaking to forego all future rights pertaining to the tax demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
13-12-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 503 points to close at 58,283||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 503 points on Monday, weighed by losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and Bajaj Finance amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share index slumped 503.25 points or 0.86 per cent to settle at 58,283.42. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 143.05 points or 0.82 per cent to 17,368.25. Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Reliance Industries, M&M, Nestle India and SBI. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Tech Mahindra, PowerGrid and Maruti were among the gainers. The sharp rise in Omicron cases in the UK is a concern for global markets, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Meetings of the US Fed, ECB, Bank of England and Bank of Japan this week will give cues on the medium term trajectory of interest rates, bond yields and markets, he noted. In India, the relentless selling by FPIs (Rs 33,799 crore in November and Rs 17,644 crore up to December 10) has been the major headwind for the market, particularly for banking stocks, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.11 per cent to USD 75.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
13-12-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 350 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Axis Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index surged 375.30 points or 0.64 per cent to 59,161.97 in opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty rose 94.75 points or 0.54 per cent to 17,606.05. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, NTPC, Tata Steel, UltraTech Cement, Sun Pharma and Titan. On the other hand, Bajaj Finance and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark declined 20.46 points or 0.03 per cent to end at 58,786.67, and Nifty slipped 5.55 points or 0.03 per cent to 17,511.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 1,092.40 crore on Friday, according to the exchange data. "Despite the 39-year high CPI inflation print of 6.8 per cent in November, the US market rallied and the 10-year bond yield stabilised. This expected macro data didn't impact the market. "However, the message from the meetings of the US Fed, ECB, Bank of England and Bank of Japan, expected this week, will give clues about the medium-term trajectory of interest rates, bond yields and markets," said VK Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The sharp rise in Omicron cases in the UK is a concern, he noted. In India, the relentless selling by FPIs (Rs 33,799 crore in November and Rs 17,644 crore up to December 10) has been the major headwind for the market, particularly for banking stocks. But sustained FPI selling is not having any significant impact on the market other than putting a cap on the upside of the rally, he said. "The high earnings visibility of financials, IT and construction-related stocks is encouraging DII and retail buying in these segments," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.16 per cent to USD 76.02 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
13-12-2021||Business||Leo Burnett’s 0-3-6 survival guide pays off in long-term ||The Covid-19 outbreak did have a big impact on businesses. While growth in many sectors have now come back to levels prevailing in 2019, some not only navigated the pandemic successfully but are now well entrenched in their goal of preparing for the future. Leo Burnett is one such entity who is now well set to capture the opportunities not only from new age companies, but also from traditional firms. The Telegraph caught up with Dheeraj Sinha, CEO & Chief Strategy Officer, South Asia, Leo Burnett who is now involved in building it as an agency of the future. Excerpts. How did Leo Burnett cope with the pandemic? When we got in the pandemic, we didn’t have a compass, nobody knew how to navigate it. We invented a new thinking framework “0-3-6” and we called it the short-term thinking framework as we needed to survive in the short-term to be able to live the long-term. The 0-3-6 model was designed to focus on what are we going to do in 0 which is now, what are we going to do 3 months from now and what are will do 6 in months . The model  gave our people a purpose, it gave our clients a compass and this made sure that the pandemic was not as tough on our business as it probably could have been. Our revenues in 2020 were only 5 per cent less than 2019. There was an impact, but it was not that big. We were more profitable in 2020 than 2019 since costs were low, we did not have to let go of any workforce. We did not do any salary cuts. In fact, we have given all increments, we have honoured all increment cycles, we have given all bonuses. We won 20 new businesses during the pandemic through video. We drove hard but did manage to come out of the pandemic with little damage. Is the 0-3-6 framework still on? It is still on, it has now become our way of life. Earlier, all were seen in the longer horizon, businesses had to succeed in horizons of 5 years, 10 years time. In today’s day and age you live the now, if you look at the big platforms of today they weren’t what they are today when they started, they have pivoted through multiple short-cycles to become what they are today and that is the most fundamental difference on how businesses are being built in today’s times. So 0-3-6 is our thinking model, saying how does a brand succeed in 0, how does it succeed in near term which is a year’s time and how does it succeed in three years’ time. So 0-3-6 months can be years. Have your clients turned cautious after Omicron? It has not made any impact as yet. It is still wait-and-watch. The good thing for us is that the biggest quarter which is the IPL and the festive season is over and some of our clients have posted delta over 2019, so lot of our clients are growing 19-20 per cent over 2019. Fortunately, the Omicron scare came after the festive period. You mentioned about the festive season. How did Leo Burnett fare during the period? It was very good, because of a combination of few factors. One is the IPL got split into two, so you had the the IPL coinciding with the festival season, so lot of clients who did not get on to the IPL in the first round got into the IPL in the second round. The third big impact is that a lot of our clients are gearing up for IPOs and they want to amp up the marketing and customer acquisition in a big way. How was 2021 in terms of earnings, client additions. What is your outlook for 2022? In 2021 we got back to 2019 levels and a bit of growth. So we are growing over 2019 in 2021 which is a good news. We would have won about 32-38 new clients and projects versus 20 last year. We also hired about 150 new people. So all our metrics are looking good. As far as 2022 goes, the sense what we are getting is that we have to live with Corona in some way or the other, waves may come and go. The key in 2022 will be to build the line-up of talent and people. I don’t think there will be a threat on business and work, there will be greater threat on people, talent and therefore capacity, especially in businesses which are human or people oriented. The trick would be to chase talent and be ready for the opportunities and deliver them. What is the profile of these 32-38 new clients and projects that you added this year? Our entire positioning is that we call ourselves India’s No.1 new age agency and we work a lot with new age clients, those which are powered by the Internet economy. A large part of our acquisition has been in that space, but we also added also traditional clients. One thing about Leo Burnett that we often hear is mutant DNA. How successful has been the programme? About four years back we set a strategy of being a new age agency and as part of this, you have to work with clients that are new age, but to achieve that, you must have a new age talent-one that needs to be agile, solution oriented. Moreover, the solutions have to go beyond advertising, they have to be about the product, about platforms, about technology. Therefore what we have done very successfully in four years is that we have done mass scale training, and upskilling initiatives to give our current talent abilities in design thinking, abilities in behaviour economics, abilities in digital thinking. So if you have data skills, you have technological skills, you have digital skills, you have design thinking skills, you are part of Leo Burnett. What are the other initiatives that you have undertaken to build an agency for the future? We feel that our canvas is not advertising, its not just words, images and videos. Our canvas is solving problems. So about four years back, we helped Bajaj Auto build a bike called V (from scrap metal of India’s first aircraft carrier INS Vikrant). For a client like shaadi.com, we helped them build a platform called weddings from home during the pandemic. We helped them build a platform where you could arrange the whole marriage through a virtual set-up. So the whole idea is that the agency thinks on clients business problems and human problems and solves it by using creativity, data, technology and platforms. Thus there has been a huge focus on the kind of solutions that we are putting out in the market, which are not just advertising solutions. The second big initiative is in talent and what we have done is that we have moved towards an hour-glass structure, so we are focussing on hiring a lot of young people. We go to all the college campuses and we are hiring people from there. In order to ensure that the new age talent gets focus and their work and is not hidden between multiple hierarchies and layers, we have largely removed the middle layer. So there is a very thin middle layer and then there are leaders. We have moved to a hour-glass structure to give our young people more focus, more energy and also make sure that we are able to pay our talent extremely competitive if not better than the industry remuneration. Out of the total advertising pie, how much goes to digital currently? Digital is around 40 per cent now of expenditure and value. Also, what is happening now is that increasingly it is not sharply divided between digital and traditional. What we are now building at Leo Burnett is what we call the consumer journey..We map the journey of a person through the day which criss-crosses the digital world and real world and in this, the task is how to build a narrative of the brand through the journey of the person. A lot of our clients, we are taking them through this journey rather than saying that this is digital or mainline, it’s a combination of both and brands which are contextually located in each of these mediums is what makes a difference. In other words, spend on other mediums like OOH has not come down significantly? No it has not come down. Print is struggling a bit, but it is coming back. TV is also growing. In India the headroom is still very high, there is still growth for TV and there is room for growth for other traditional mediums. Further, India has always been an “and” country and not an “or” country. We assimilate change we do not throw away any change. So we will continue to do the traditional medium but continue to add new platforms as well. Has the ticket size per client gone up? There are lot of new projects, but the average ticket size is going down. Earlier a client would say they will run one campaign in a year, now the client is saying that it needs to run six campaigns in a year but the cost that you can incur in creation of one campaign is gone down. So the average ticket size has gone down but the number of activities have gone up. What are the kind of mandates that you are now getting? When it comes to new age clients, bulk of the brief is to create a category. For example, in the case of Spotify we are building the category of music streaming, so we are doing education, we are pushing the idea of a playlist and communicating how to create a playlist, how to use a playlist, how to use Spotify. With PhonePe we are pusing the idea of digital payments, mutual funds insurance or for car dekho how do you buy or sell old cars on digital platform. So bulk of work is where we are building new behaviour and we are shifting behaviour from offline to online, we are also building new categories which consumers are not used to as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
13-12-2021||Business||ONGC seeks minimum price of $ 3.5 to $4 for methane||India’s top oil and gas producer ONGC is seeking a minimum price of $3.5 to $4 for the natural gas it plans to produce from the coal seams in Jharkhand and a field in Tripura. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) has issued separate tenders seeking buyers of 0.02 million standard cubic meters per day of coal-bed methane (CBM) it plans to produce from the North Karanpura CBM block in Jharkhand and 0.1 mmscmd from Khubal field in Tripura. For the CBM gas, it asked buyers to quote a percentage equal to or higher than 8 per cent of Dated Brent Price, according to the tender document. “Floor price shall be the higher of the $4 per million British thermal unit or Domestic Gas Price notified by (government’s) PPAC for the period,” it said. The PPAC notified price for the six months beginning October 1 for gas from fields given to ONGC and Oil India Ltd on a nomination basis is $2.9 per mmBtu.  ONGC has been complaining that the government-notified gas price is way below cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
13-12-2021||Business||City-based food delivery startup Fooza looks beyond Calcutta||City-based food delivery startup – Fooza – is in discussion with angel investors following a change in its strategy and leadership. The company plans to raise around Rs 10 crore next year in a bid to scale up its business in Calcutta and move to Asansol, Durgapur, Howrah, and Burdwan. Fooza, which started on December 10, 2020, has onboarded around 450 restaurants and is serving more than 200 orders daily, with around 50 riders delivering food. “We have raised around Rs 2.5 crore and we are looking for another fundraise of around Rs 10 crore from angel investors,” said Kapil Lohia, co-founder, and CEO, Fooza. Lohia, who was earlier the chief technology officer, has taken over from Dibyendu Banerjea as the CEO. The company’s initial plan was to move to other metro cities but Lohia said that there is an opportunity to target underserved marke. “This space has a couple of huge players and we cannot be exactly like them. For us to succeed we have to find out some unique selling points and somehow differentiate ourselves. Since I have come in, we have reviewed what we have done well and whatnot. We have had some success in Calcutta where we have around 10,000 customers,” Lohia said. “We are hoping to secure funding by around January-February and then start spreading to the tier 2 locations from March onwards,” he said. The company estimates with a minimum of 1,000 orders per day and at an average order value of Rs 300, it can achieve break-even in Calcutta in around 16 months whereas tier 2 locations could take around 24 months. On the service side, Fooza plans to scale up the cash on the delivery model on larger order sizes and allow restaurants to take orders directly from customers via their website, apps, or phone, and the company will deliver food and collect payment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
13-12-2021||Business|| MG Motor starts exports from Gujarat manufacturing facility||MG Motor, India, started exports from its manufacturing facility at Halol, Gujarat. The company will begin with exporting its MG Hector to Nepal as what the company said was the first step towards its expansion plan for other South Asian countries. It is also looking to export in right-hand drive countries, including the UK and South Africa. The company is looking at making its India manufacturing facility an export hub. MG Motor began commercial production in India with MG Hector, which has sold 72,500 units in the country since its launch in June 2019. Speaking on the commencement of exports, Rajeev Chaba, president and managing director, MG Motor India, said, “MG Motor India is constantly progressing its operations, expanding the market reach. We are now geared up to expand its footprint across the other South Asian countries starting with Nepal. Hector has played a vital role in establishing our footprint in India and we are looking forward to driving interest in Nepal with the launch of the MG Hector.” The company, however, has a long waiting period for its cars in India owing to the chip shortage. Chaba said: “We expect the chip crisis to resolve in the coming six months.” Maruti Baleno Maruti Suzuki Baleno has reached the sales milestone of one million customers and is what the company states, “the country’s fastest-selling premium hatchback”. It was launched in 2015 through Maruti’s Nexa sales channel. Baleno achieved the initial one-lakh sales milepost by October 2016. Hyundai Hyundai Motor India Limited (HMIL) has invested Rs 4,000 crore in research and development of its upcoming electric vehicles (EV)s. The company will have SUVs, cross-over vehicles and sedans in its EV portfolio in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
13-12-2021||Business||Govt unlikely to announce capital infusion for public sector banks||The government is unlikely to announce capital infusion for public sector banks (PSBs) in the upcoming budget, as their financial health has improved on the back of reduction in bad loans, sources said. To augment their resources, banks would be encouraged to raise funds from the market and also by selling their non-core assets, they added. During the current financial year, the government has earmarked Rs 20,000 crore for the recapitalisation of PSBs.  Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is expected to present the fourth budget of the Narendra Modi 2.0 government on February 1. It is to be noted that the net profit of PSBs surged to Rs 14,012 crore in the first quarter, which further rose to Rs 17,132 crore in the second quarter ended September 2021. The combined profit of the first half of the current fiscal is close to the total profit earned in the entire previous financial year. During the last financial year, PSBs raised capital funds to the tune of Rs 58,697 crore, the highest amount mobilised in a fiscal. Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) of PSBs increased to 14.3 per cent at the end of June, 2021, while the provision coverage ratio of public sector banks rose to an 8-year high of 84 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
13-12-2021||Business||RBI governor asks depositors to be careful while chasing high returns||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Sunday cautioned depositors to be careful while chasing high returns as it comes with greater risk. Observing that depositors themselves also need to be very discerning, he said it is important to keep in mind that higher returns or higher interest rates are usually associated with higher risks. “So, just because a bank is offering higher interest, the depositors themselves should be very careful before putting in money while chasing such high returns because usually, our experience is that high returns or high interest rates are associated with higher risks,” he said. However, he said there are institutions that are offering higher interest and are still viable but depositors should always be very careful. Speaking at the “Depositors First” event here, Das said the RBI remains committed to ensuring that the banking system remains robust and resilient but it has to be a joint effort. “Every stakeholder whether it is the management of banks, whether it is the board of banks, whether it is the various committees of banks, the audit committee, the risk management committee, or any other regulatory authority that is associated, it has to be a joint responsibility for all of us,” he said. Das stressed that the payment of the deposit insurance amount should be seen as a measure of last resort. “The RBI has been adopting a proactive strategy to strengthen the regulatory guidelines to strengthen the supervisory methods and to look at things which will ensure that going forward the banks function in a very resilient manner.” Recalling his statement in the recent monetary policy statement, Das said: “I had said that the country has demonstrated working together during this entire pandemic and India’s moment has come where India can become a growth driver for the world economy.” It will be possible if all stakeholders in the banking system to work together, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
13-12-2021||Business||Calcutta HC lifts stay on Port deal with Adani||Adani Group’s entry to the Bengal’s maritime sector survived a legal scare after Calcutta High Court set aside a challenge mounted by a disqualified competitor. The tender process to award a berth at Haldia was held in abeyance by the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Calcutta, as per the directive of  the court, which had put an interim stay on the process, pending judgment. Last week, the court dismissed the legal challenge of Orissa Stevedores Ltd (OSL) and lifted the stay allowing the port to process the contract. SMP, Calcutta, will now approach the Union ministry of ports and shipping for final approval before awarding the contract. “We are sending necessary documents to the ministry for approval. The contract will be signed after we get the ministry’s nod,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of SMP, Calcutta, confirmed over the weekend. The Telegraph had reported on October 4 that Adani Group, India’s largest private sector port operator, was found to be the highest bidder for a Rs 300 crore contract to fully mechanise Berth no 2 at Haldia Dock Complex, marking the Gujarat-based company’s entry into Bengal’s maritime space. In November, this newspaper also reported that Adani appeared for a pre-bid meeting on the Bengal government-sponsored Tajpur port. Earlier this month, India’s second richest man and Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani flew down to Calcutta to meet Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to explore business opportunities in the state. Haldia and Tajpur featured in the discussion, sources later claimed. The court matter OSL had also participated in the Haldia tender but it was disqualified on the basis of an input from the Union home ministry. The OSL-led consortium was denied security clearance citing national security concerns, court documents show. The home ministry report submitted before the court mentions criminal cases against one of the largest shareholders of the OSL-led consortium. The said shareholder was required to be deported from Thailand to India to face criminal charges. The lead counsel for OSL informed that the shareholder is “enlarged on bail and is at liberty in India”. It was observed in the court that OSL holds a 38.16 per cent stake in a three-way consortium special purpose vehicle called Gopalpur Ports Ltd, which had bid for the Haldia tender. Counsel for OSL also argued that, “the petitioner is a juristic person separate from that of an individual shareholder. The pendency of the criminal proceedings against one shareholder, should not stand in the way of the petitioner competing in the said tender process”. He insisted that a mere assertion of threat to national security would not suffice. It must be backed by records, documents and figures. Port’s counter The counsel for Port countered that the criminal proceedings against a 38.16 per cent shareholder of one Indian partner would seriously affect the whole consortium. Relying upon a Supreme Court judgment, port counsel argued that it has been laid down that national security is a question of policy and not law. Courts should not normally intervene in matter concerning national security or the decision of the executive based on the same. The judgment Justice Rajasekhar Mantha concurred. “Indeed, a shareholder is a distinct personality from the company which is a juristic person. However, a 38.16 per cent shareholder can and should exercise a controlling interest in the petitioner. It may be too artificial to distinguish the said shareholder from the writ petitioner in the facts of this case. It would be clear if the corporate veil of the petitioner is lifted that the real person in control and management of the writ petition is the said particular shareholder having 38.16 per cent shares and hence a controlling interest,” the judgment read. It also added that the court could not brush aside the objection of the Centre. The judgment added: “The awardee would have to oversee a huge amount of cargo moving in and out of India. The withholding of clearance of the petition by the Union, in this regard, therefore, is not found without basis…The Tender process may go ahead excluding the petitioner from participation.” Orissa Stevedores Limited, however, is not sitting idle either. Lead counsel of the company indicated that it would move the division bench of HC challenging the order of the single bench this week. The port appears to be unfazed despite the fresh poser. “They have a right to move but we are going ahead. There is no legal fetter on us,” an official of SMP, Calcutta pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
