14-12-2021||Business||Air India transaction presents a 'win-win' situation, says Scindia||Emphasising that the Air India transaction is a "win-win situation" across the board, Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said taxpayers' money will now be more justifiably used for many more socially productive purposes rather than filling the deep losses of the airline. He also said the disinvestment will provide an opportunity for the airline to rise as a phoenix again. In October, Talace Pvt Ltd, part of the Tata group, emerged as the winning bidder for Air India with a bid worth Rs 18,000 crore. It will pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the airline's debt. "Shareholders agreement was signed in November. Today, we are in the process of closing all the conditions precedent and I am very confident at the turn of the New Year, you will have the transfer of Air India to its new owner...," he said. Scindia was speaking at a session on 'Building India into a Global Civil Aviation Powerhouse' of Partnership Summit 2021, organised by industry body CII in association with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). From a company perspective, Scindia said, here is the opportunity for Air India to rise as a phoenix again. "From a customer-centric point of view, you have got a new company that has come in, which already has a full-service airline and a budget airline and taking over Air India plus Air India Express. The four companies together have the capability of presenting themselves as a very unique proposition... A win-win situation across the board," he said. Noting that the government has gone through a very clear iterative process for the disinvestment, Scindia said Air India was pretty much driven into the ground due to many unfounded decisions that were taken earlier and added that he does not want to go back to history. The navratna company is laden with close to Rs 52,000 crore debt infusion, another Rs 54,000 crore of government guarantees that makes the total liabilities of Rs 1,04,000 crore, he pointed out. "Prior to that, an equity infusion of Rs 36,000 crore by the government and a current debt portfolio of as we speak of about Rs 62,000 crore. All in all, you are talking about Rs 2 lakh crore bill for the singular purpose of being able to run an airline. "I believe that if you look at it from every stakeholders' point of view, this has been a win-win transaction... taxpayers' money, which I think is more justifiably used for many more socially productive purposes rather than filling the deep losses of a state-run airline.," Scindia said. The minister also said that a supportive drone policy is in place that is based on trust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
14-12-2021||Business||Sensex drops 166 points on weak global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 166 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, ITC and Kotak Bank amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share index declined 166.33 points or 0.29 per cent to end at 58,117.09. Similarly, the Nifty fell 43.35 points or 0.25 per cent to 17,324.90. ITC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, Nestle India and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. The domestic market was impacted by negative sentiments from other Asian markets as traders showed concern about WHO statement on Omicron variant of COVID-19 coupled with Federal Reserve policy meeting week ahead, said Likhita Chepa, Senior Research Analyst, Capitalvia Global Research. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong ended with losses. Stock exchange in Europe were, however, trading on a positive note in mid-session deals Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.26 per cent to USD 74.20 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||Wholesale inflation rises to 14.23 per cent in November ||The wholesale price-based inflation surged to more than a decade high of 14.23 per cent in November, mainly due to hardening of prices of mineral oils, basic metals, crude petroleum and natural gas. WPI inflation has remained in double digits for eight consecutive months beginning April. Inflation in October this year was at 12.54 per cent, while in November 2020 it was at 2.29 per cent. "The high rate of inflation in November 2021, is primarily due to rise in prices of mineral oils, basic metals, crude petroleum & natural gas, chemicals and chemical products, food products etc as compared to the corresponding month of the previous year," the Commerce and Industry Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. Inflation in fuel and power basket was higher at 39.81 per cent in November, as against 37.18 per cent in October. The food index more than doubled to 6.70 per cent as compared to 3.06 per cent in the previous month. Crude petroleum inflation was at 91.74 per cent during the month under review, as against 80.57 per cent in October. However, manufactured items saw moderation at 11.92 per cent, from 12.04 per cent in October. Data released on Monday showed, retail inflation based on Consumer Price Index (Combined) rose to three months high of 4.91 per cent in November, from 4.48 per cent a month ago, as food prices inched up. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) based inflation, however, remained within the comfort zone of the Reserve Bank of India. The government has mandated the central bank to keep inflation at 4 per cent (+/- 2 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||Sensex slumps over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 350 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and HDFC twins amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share index slumped 356.6 points or 0.61 per cent to 57,926.82 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty fell 98.35 points or 0.57 per cent to 17,269.90. Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by HDFC, Kotak Bank, IndusInd Bank, M&M, Bajaj Auto and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Dr Reddy's, NTPC and ITC were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark slumped 503.25 points or 0.86 per cent to settle at 58,283.42, and Nifty fell 143.05 points or 0.82 per cent to 17,368.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 2,743.44 crore on Monday, according to the exchange data. Even though it is early days, the fast spread of the Omicron virus, particularly in the UK, has added to the risk-off in global markets, said VK Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "In this backdrop, the FIIs got another excuse to further press selling particularly in their large holdings such as HDFC twins and RIL, taking FII selling in December, so far, to around Rs 19,000 crore. The sharp decline in these heavy weights dragged the benchmark indices sharply," he said. The immediate trend in the market will be determined by how Omicron pans out and its impact on economic activity, he said, adding if it turns into a third wave in India, the markets would correct sharply. On the other hand, if this passes off like the Delta variant, the markets will rebound smartly. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with significant losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street too ended in the red in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.48 per cent to USD 74.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||SC seeks respose on petition by IFAT for gig workers' security||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the response of the Union government, Zomato and Swiggy besides cab operators Uber and Ola on a petition by the Indian Federation of Application Based Transport Workers (IFAT) seeking adequate social security measures. The petitioner alleged these workers in the gig economy are grossly exploited by their respective managements. A bench of Justice L. Nageswara Rao and Justice B.R.Gavai issued notices to the respondents and posted the matter for further hearing in January. The IFAT said  there existed an employer-employee relationship in these sectors yet the workers are denied their statutory benefits.  The IFAT sought recognition of these unorganised workers in the form of benefits available to other workmen in the organised sector. Senior advocate Indira Jaising appearing for the IFAT said those working for Uber are considered as workers globally. She cited a UK Supreme Court ruling that stated the contract entered into by Uber with the staff was only a “subterfuge” as the real relation is that of an employer and an employee. Jaising sought a declaration from the court that these workers should be treated as workmen in the classical sense to confer on them all statutory benefits available to workmen across the country. When the bench pointed out that the Social Security Code 2020 has a provision to extend the welfare benefits to the gig workers, Jaising said the government has not notified the code. Besides, sufficient welfare provisions exist in the Social Security Act, 2008, that have not been implemented. The Act among other things provides for a monthly pension of Rs 3,000 to each worker. The IFAT said that despite the Act, lakhs of workers employed in these sectors are being denied their statutory benefits and being exploited by the managements. In view of the pandemic, the petition also sought a transfer of Rs 1,175 per day to all application-based drivers and Rs 675 per day to all other workers till December 31, 2021. The petition filed by way of a PIL said the denial of social security to the workers such as  pension and health insurance is an affront to their fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. It also  violated Article 23 which prohibits trafficking in human beings and forced labour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||BPCL teams up with BARC to scale up alkaline electrolyser technology||Privatisation bound BPCL has collaborated with Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) to scale up alkaline electrolyser technology for green hydrogen production as part of the country’s effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At present, electrolyser plants are imported. India, the world’s third biggest greenhouse gas emitter, is aiming to reach net zero emissions by 2070 and wants to raise the share of renewables in its energy mix to 50 per cent by 2030 from 38 per cent at present. Refineries use large quantities of hydrogen for de-sulfurisation to make petrol, diesel and other chemicals. At present, this hydrogen is made using steam reforming of natural gas, but results in high CO2 emission. Therefore, refiners are setting up large-scale electrolysers to produce green hydrogen from water and thereby decarbonise hydrogen production. “Through collaboration with BARC, we intend to scale up indigenous alkaline electrolyser technology and look forward to commercialising it for large use, especially in Refineries,” BPCL’s chairman and managing director Arun Kumar Singh said. Bharat Petroleum has plans to expand its portfolio of renewable energy with solar, wind and biofuels. The company plans to achieve net zero emissions in another 20 years. Further, the company intends to meet power requirements for new projects in its refineries, primarily from renewable sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||Ultraviolette Automotive raises $15 million from TVS and Zoho||Ultraviolette Automotive, a Bangalore-based electric vehicle start-up, has raised $15 million in Series C funding from TVS Motor Company and Zoho Corporation. TVS Motor Company, which has been an early backer of Ultraviolette, led the investment in this round. The start-up, which is setting-up its manufacturing and assembling facility at Electronics City in Bangalore, will use the investment towards the production and commercial launch of its high-performance electric motorcycle, the F77, and will roll out the first batch of motorcycles in 2022. “EVs are a huge focus area for us and we have invested in this area for over a decade. TVS is committed to developing exciting and aspirational products and we have always believed that EV development has to be ground-up for us to make that quantum leap into the global EV revolution. Ultraviolette brings these values to life in a unique way in the F77,” Sudarshan Venu, joint managing director, TVS Motor Company, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||Smartworks to invest $25 million in tech subsidiary ||Shared office space provider Smartworks will invest $25 million in a tech subsidiary which plans to offer software solutions to enterprises looking to opt for a hybrid work model post pandemic. The company, founded by Calcutta-boy Neetish Sarda and Harsh Binani, has developed the software in-house to manage their own properties which offer shared office space to organisations. It has also announced the appointment of Anuj Nangpal as the chief executive officer to head this new venture Smartworks Technology Services. He will also serve as chief information officer, Smartworks and will oversee digital transformation for business growth. The new venture aims to launch a building operating platform and workspace management SaaS (software-as-a-service) product targeted at landlords and organisations globally, centered on new workplace management and experience models, it said. Smartworks is one of India’s largest provider of flexible workspaces, with a footprint of 5 million square foot across 32 locations in 9 cities (Delhi-NCR, Calcutta, Bangalore, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai and Pune) and caters to more than 400 organisations across Fortune 500 companies, large enterprises, SMEs and established unicorns/startups. Neetish Sarda, founder Smartworks, said: “We are excited to step into new business horizons and offer these SaaS platforms to organisations globally.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||Plea to review the steep tax rate on unexplained income, expenditure||Tax professionals have written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to review the steep tax rate of 60 per cent on unexplained income and expenditure and consider reverting to the pre-demonetisation level of 30 per cent. The rates were raised through an amendment to section 115BBE of Income Tax Act from assessment year 2017-18 following demonetisation. However, five years have passed since demonetisation and the rates under this section have been kept unchanged. Direct Tax Professionals’ Association (DTPA) in its pre-budget memorandum to the finance minister said if the income tax department continues to treat surrendered income as deemed income, it will be subject to tax at 60 per cent. With a surcharge and education cess, the effective aggregate rate under section 115BBE works out to 78 per cent. Further, if the assessing officer charges an additional penalty of 10 per cent under section 271AAC in case the income has not been disclosed while filing return, the overall tax burden on the assessee works out at 84 per cent. “It is prohibitive and needs urgent review. It is desirable that tax under section 115BBE should be at best 30 per cent or the maximum marginal rate. The rate was basically increased due to demonetisation. It should be brought back to pre assessment year 2017-18 level,” the association said in its representation. Narayan Jain, advocate and chairman of the representation committee of the DTPA, said that the high rate of tax was an unjust one and should be lowered to 30 per cent immediately. K.K. Jain, president of DTPA said that the provisions of taxing income on notional basis needed to be curtailed and only real income taxed. Among the other points raised by the DTPA in its memorandum is the increase in exemption limit of individual assessees to Rs 4 lakh. Further, under section 44ADA of Income Tax Act,  presumptive income scheme applies in case of professionals if income is within Rs 50 lakh. The association has urged the government to increase the limit to Rs 1 crore and the income should be presumed as 30 per cent of gross receipts instead of 50 per cent at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||Vedanta drops retro tax suits||Billionaire Anil Agarwal’s mining group Vedanta on Monday said it has withdrawn cases in the Delhi high court as well as before an international arbitration tribunal to settle a Rs 20,495 crore retrospective tax dispute with the government. After slapping a Rs 10,247- crore tax demand on UK’s Cairn Energy Plc for alleged capital gains made on a 2006 internal reorganisation prior to the listing of its India business, the Income Tax Department had sought Rs 20,495 crore in taxes (including penalty) from Cairn India for failing to deduct tax on capital gains made by its British parent. Cairn India was in 2011 bought by Agarwal’s group and subsequently, the firm was merged with Vedanta Ltd. In a statement, Vedanta said it has used the recently enacted law that scraps all demands levied using a 2012 retrospective tax legislation, to settle the dispute. As conditions for the same, it has withdrawn all legal challenges against the government and given an undertaking to forego all future rights pertaining to the tax demand. Cairn Energy, which has maintained that no tax under the prevalent regime was due on the 2006 reorganisation and won an international arbitration against the 2015 order seeking back taxes, is parallelly settling its dispute with the government. It is withdrawing cases to get a Rs 7,900 crore of refund of taxes collected from it using the retrospective tax law. Vedanta had challenged the demand for taxes at two forums — the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and Delhi High Court, while its parent Vedanta Resources challenged the move before a Singapore arbitration tribunal. While the Delhi high court continues to hear the matter, the arbitration tribunal had completed the hearing and is due to pass an order anytime now. “In view of the recent amendments to the Indian Income Tax Act, which nullifies the retrospective tax imposed by Finance Act, 2012, Vedanta and all its related group entities have taken steps to settle disputes arising from Order dated March 11, 2015, passed by the Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax, International Taxation, Circle-Gurgaon,” the firm said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||Shriram group announces much awaited restructuring of operations||The Shriram group on Monday announced the much awaited restructuring of its operations as it strives to become the No. 1 NBFC in the country with assets under management (AUM) of Rs 1.5 lakh crore. Under the reorganisation plan, Shriram Capital Ltd (SCL) will be merged with Shriram City Union Finance (SCUF). Unlisted SCL has been the holding company for the financial services and insurance entities of the group, while  listed SCUF is present in retail financing such as two-wheelers and also funds MSMEs. The merged SCL and SCUF will merge into Shriram Transport Finance Ltd (STFC), the commercial vehicle financier — and the resultant entity will be called Shriram Finance Ltd. Ahead of the merger of SCL and SCUF, the other businesses — life and general insurance that were part of Shriram Capital — will be demerged and held outside the listed entity. The restructuring process will see Shriram Housing Finance become a subsidiary of Shriram Finance. Shriram Finance will hold 85.02 per cent in the company. Shriram Finance will also have a stake of 44.56 per cent in Shriram Automall India which is in the business of the sale of pre-owned cars. Shareholders of SCUF will receive 1.55 shares of Shriram Transport for every share with them; the shareholders of SCL will get 0.09783305 shares of Shriram Transport for every share. The latest move comes just days after the group came up with a succession plan that will see the formation of a board of management to oversee promoters’ interest. As part of the process, the promotership of the group was transferred to Shriram Ownership Trust (SOT) which holds around 29.7 per cent in Shriram Capital Ltd. Apart from SOT, the other shareholders in Shriram Capital include the Shriwell Trust (13.2 per cent), the Sanlam group (26 per cent), the Piramal group (20 per cent) and TPG which has 9.4 per cent. While Shriram Capital holds 25.56 per cent in Shriram Transport Finance, it has a stake of 33.86 per cent in SCUF. Shares of SCUF rose almost 6 per cent or Rs 118.85 to Rs 2,143.60 on the BSE after surging around 11 per in intra-day trades following the announcement. The Shriram Transport stock witnessed selling pressure and it plummeted 6.17 per cent during the day. Though the counter recovered some ground, it ended in the red at Rs 1,476.25 — a drop of 1.76 per cent over the last close. The final merged entity would have over two crore customers and a distribution network of over 3,500. They would be serviced by over 50,000 employees. The Shriram group said the merger would help it bring together all lending products  under a single roof, creating a financial powerhouse which would end up being a market leader in all the product and consumer segments where they operate The final merged entity would have over two crore customers and a distribution network of over 3,500. They would be serviced by a team of over 50,000 employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
14-12-2021||Business||Telecom minister highlights 'public good' element in spectrum pricing||Telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Monday said the “public good” element in spectrum pricing is now widely recognised, leading to a changed thought process that seeks to strike a balance between maximising revenue and maximising services to the poor. Addressing the CII Partnership Summit 2021, Vaishnaw noted that consultation process on spectrum pricing is currently on, and urged the industry to participate in discussions and offer suggestions to Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) on the issue. “They (Trai) will come up with a final document, based on which government will take a decision. But the thought process is that we have to make it affordable. That’s very, very significant change in thinking and Covid made us realise the importance of telecom... everything went digital,” Vaishnaw said. The nation and the entire society has today recognised that there is a “public good” element in spectrum pricing, Vaishnaw said and recalled that earlier spectrum was seen as a resource which should maximise revenue. “Today there is a balance in thought process that between maximising revenue and providing maximising service to the poor ... there has to be a balance ... somewhere it should be struck. That balance is today in a consultation process in the country,” he said. Impact on Big Tech Listing out various challenges faced by nations across the world, the minister also drew attention to the impact of ‘Big Tech’ on democracies and societies. “...impact of big tech on our democracy, our society, safety, security of our children... It’s a major thing, the way Big Tech can change our thinking, Big Tech can affect our decision making, can change our behavioural aspects, can make a fundamental difference in any election. So it is a very major challenge that the entire humanity is facing today,” Vaishnaw said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
14-12-2021||Business||BSE Sensex crashes 503 points after early gains||The BSE Sensex crashed 503 points on Monday after early gains as investors appeared to be weighed down by the outcome of US Federal Reserve meet this week and India's retail inflation print that was released after trading hours. Sentiments were also deflated by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das’s comments on Sunday that depositors should not chase high returns. The benchmark Sensex opened on a good note at 59103.72 and hit an intra-day high of 59203.37. However, selling soon set in and the index fell to a day’s low of 58242.80, plummeting around 961 points from the peak in the session. The index later settled at 58283.42 — a fall of 503.25 points or 0.86 per cent. Similarly, the Nifty fell by 143.05 points at 17368.25. Market circles said that the two day meeting of the US central bank which begins on Tuesday impacted sentiment. At the end of the meeting, the Fed which is facing the challenge of inflation is expected to not only quicken its bond purchases but also signal interest rate hikes. Bajaj Finance led the list of losers in the Sensex pack falling 3.10 per cent. It was followed by Bajaj Finserv, Reliance Industries, Mahindra & Mahindra and others which cracked upto 2.28 per cent. Meanwhile, shares of Tega Industries made a stellar debut at the bourses. The company listed on the BSE at Rs 753 — a 66.23 per cent premium over its issue price of Rs 453.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
14-12-2021||Business||Retail inflation accelerates to three month high of 4.91 per cent||Retail inflation accelerated to a three month high of 4.91 per cent in November because of a sharp rise in fruits and vegetable prices but remained within the tolerance limit of the Reserve Bank of India. Core inflation, which strips out the effects of food and fuel, worryingly rose to 6.21 per cent — the highest in five months — compared with 6.17 per cent in October. Economists have warned of risks of an uptick in headline inflation over the coming months as companies pass on rising input costs to consumers amid economic recovery. Consumer Price Index (CPI) based retail inflation was 4.48 per cent in October 2021 and 6.93 per cent in November 2020. The RBI has been mandated by the government to keep retail inflation at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side. The data in November is within the central bank's target for the fifth consecutive month. Food inflation picked up to 1.87 per cent in November from 0.85 per cent a month ago with a rise in the prices of vegetables. Clothing and footwear inflation was 7.94 per cent in November from 7.39 per cent in October. Housing inflation was at 3.66 per cent in November compared with 3.54 percent in the preceding month. Fuel & light inflation came in at 13.35 per cent compared with 14.35 per cent seen in October. “CPI inflation jumped to three-months high mainly led by higher core-inflation of 6.08 per cent, a five-months high. Excise reliefs on petrol and diesel and a cut in VAT by most state governments have not provided much relief to retail inflation,’’ Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist, India Ratings & Research, said. “With input price pressures forcing producers to raise prices in many sectors, the November 2021 CPI inflation accelerated slightly faster than we had expected, shrugging off the favourable base effect and the cut in fuel taxes,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra, said. She said a moderation in CPI inflation for fuel and light, pan, tobacco and intoxicants, and miscellaneous items was outpaced by the rise in the inflation for food and beverages, housing, and clothing and footwear. “As long as CPI inflation remains within the target of 2-6 per cent, the MPC and RBI will prefer to prioritise growth and maintain policy support to impart durability and sustainability to the recovery.” Nayar said there isn’t enough evidence on the durability of the growth recovery to confirm that the stance will be changed to neutral in the February 2022 policy review “The consumer price inflation rose to a three-month high in November and upside risks to the outlook are mounting,” Shilan Shah, senior India Economist, Capital Economics, said. "While we still think the RBI won’t raise policy rates until the middle of next year, a sharp rise in food price inflation in particular may hasten the start of the tightening cycle,” Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
