15-12-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 329 points to close at 57,788||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 329 points on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, Bajaj Finance and HDFC amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share index slumped 329.06 points or 0.57 per cent to end 57,788.03. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 103.50 points or 0.60 per cent to 17,221.40. Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, PowerGrid, ITC and TCS. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Kotak Bank, M&M, Maruti and L&T were among the gainers. According to analysts, weak global cues and continued foreign fund outflow are weighing on market sentiment. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Tokyo and Seoul were positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.90 per cent to USD 73.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
15-12-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, TCS and HDFC amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share index slumped 212.65 points or 0.37 per cent to 57,904.44 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty fell 67.55 points or 0.39 per cent to 17,257.35. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Infosys, TCS, Bajaj Finance and HCL Tech. On the other hand, NTPC, Kotak Bank, PowerGrid, M&M and Axis Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark declined 166.33 points or 0.29 per cent to end at 58,117.09, and Nifty fell 43.35 points or 0.25 per cent to 17,324.90. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 763.18 crore on Tuesday, according to stock exchange data. The Omicron variant, now in 77 countries, is confirmed to be far more infectious than the now dominant Delta variant. But there is no clarity yet on how virulent Omicron would turn out, said VK Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "In the coming days markets are likely to be impacted more by the message from the US Fed. If the Fed turns more hawkish and indicates 2 rate hikes in 2022, that would be negative for the markets which had factored in one rate hike and faster tapering of the asset purchases. "But the Fed is unlikely to sound hawkish in the context of the uncertainty triggered by Omicron. Markets are likely to consolidate around 17,350 Nifty levels," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.95 per cent to USD 73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
15-12-2021||Business||Wholesale inflation surges to 30-year-high at 14.23 per cent||Wholesale inflation spiked to a 30-year high at 14.23 per cent in November — a level that hasn’t been seen since India embraced economic liberalisation in 1991. The surge was led by a vault in the prices of food, fuel and power, basic metals and chemical products. Inflation based on the wholesale price index (WPI) — a gauge that economists and policy makers watch closely — rose by 12.5 per cent in October and a revised estimate of 11.8 per cent for September. It was at a modest 2.29 per cent in the same month last year. The stratospheric leap in November indicates that inflation isn’t going to be as benign as the Reserve Bank of India policy makers tried to suggest in their statement issued after the December 8 meeting where they decided to hold interest rates in order to give the economy the chance to recover after 7.3 per cent contraction in GDP in the previous fiscal. It was the first contraction of the Indian economy since 1979-80 when it plunged to minus 5.2 per cent. On Monday, retail inflation rose to a three-month high of 4.91 per cent in November while, more worryingly, core inflation — which strips out the effects of food and fuel prices — climbed 6.21 per cent. Economists have cautioned that the rate of price rise is expected to remain in double digits for the next few months because of a floundering rupee, elevated crude oil prices and the omicron virus outbreak that threatens to disrupt global supply chains all over again. Inflation has raised its hydra head in several economies around the world and a number of central bankers, including those in the US and Europe, are meeting this week to consider the adoption of appropriate steps to tame prices. The stock and currency markets reacted with alarm to the latest inflation report with the Sensex tumbling 479.55 points at one stage before clawing back some of the losses to close at 58,117.09 on the Bombay Stock Exchange, down 166.33 points. The rupee also sank to an 18-month low against the US dollar to close at 75.88, a level not seen since June 22 last year. The WPI inflation data are put out by the commerce ministry while the retail inflation figures come from the National Statistical Office (NSO). There is a wide gap between the two figures because of the composition of the data set and the different methodologies used. But both gauges suggest that inflation isn’t going to be a transitory phenomenon — a point that US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell emphatically made last week. Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA, said November’s WPI figures came as a shock, reflecting an uptick in input costs for firms and the impact of the rupee depreciation. “WPI inflation at 14.23 per cent in November was the highest since 1991. The primary reason for this was food inflation, which surged to 6.7 per cent in November from 3.1 per cent in October,” said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist at CRISIL. WPI inflation for crude petroleum leapt 91.74 per cent. The effects of the moderation world crude prices may show up only in December. The WPI inflation has been in double-digits since the start of this fiscal and the pace has increased since September. Cost pressures are also becoming more broad-based as food inflation has started to rise in addition to the already-elevated non-food inflation. “The Consumer Price Index (CPI) data indicate that producers have been gradually passing through these cost pressures to consumers. This means that the pressure on core inflation will persist in the near future,” Joshi added. Nayar said: “We now forecast the WPI inflation to average 11.5-12.0 per cent in FY22, with the headline and core inflation expected to continue to print in double-digits over the next three months and one month, respectively.” “A double digit WPI inflation print and the persistent gap between retail and wholesale prices pose threats to price stability in the economy,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
15-12-2021||Business||Netflix reduces subscription charge for India users by almost 60%||Netflix has reduced the subscription charge for its users in India by as much as 60 per cent in a bid to ramp up its base amid intense competition and growth prospects of the content-streaming platform in the country. The global subscription streaming service provider has priced the entry level Mobile plan at Rs 149 per month — where the users can stream content on a smartphone or a tablet —against Rs 199 earlier. The Basic plan, which also allows streaming in computer and TV at standard definition, has been priced at Rs 199, which earlier cost Rs 499. The Rs 499 Standard plan was earlier priced at Rs 649 and the Premium plan is now priced at Rs 649 instead of Rs 799. Existing users will get a chance to upgrade following the change in subscription charges. Netflix’s monthly charge is still at a premium compared with Amazon Prime (Rs 179 per month to Rs 1,499 per year) and Disney+ Hotstar (Rs 499-1,499 per year). Tough competition The Asia-Pacific region, which includes India, has been the largest contributor to the membership growth of Netflix but the competition in the Indian market is intense. According to research by UK based Omdia, Disney+ Hotstar and Netflix accounted for 78 per cent of the total online video subscription market revenue in India estimated at $639 million in 2020. But there is a stark difference when it comes to market share. Disney+Hotstar had 26 million subscribers, Netflix had only 4.6 million in 2020 according to a study by Media Partners Asia. Amazon Prime Video had a base of 17 million. The main reason for Netflix’s lower base according to market observers has been the lack of regional language TV soaps and live sports on its platform despite the premium on subscription. TV soaps account for 36 per cent of the 205 billion minutes that users spent on OTT platforms while originals account for only 19 per cent according to a study by Red Seer in January 2021. Figuring out Wilmot Reed Hastings, co-founder, chairman, president and co-CEO of Netflix had informed market analysts in April 2021 at the quarterly earnings call that the global subscription streaming service is still figuring things out in India even as it has achieved success in Japan and South Korea. From testing 48 hours of free streaming and weekly plans to more regional contents, games and now a reduction in prices, Netflix’s primary aim is to shore up its user base in the country. While there are no official growth projections, Media Partners Asia has estimated the subscriber base of Netflix to grow to 6.1 million by 2021. A key growth driver will be regional content and Monika Shergill, vice president, content, Netflix India while announcing the new prices alluded to some of the titles which include Minnal Murali, Decoupled, Finding Anamika, Looop Lapeta among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
15-12-2021||Business||To unlock shareholder value, ITC may list non-tobacco businesses||Cigarette-to-hotels conglomerate ITC is open to the idea of unlocking shareholder value by listing its non-tobacco businesses like hotels, infotech and fast-moving consumer goods but will not be persuaded to rush into “anything for short-term” gains. Chairman and managing director Sanjiv Puri told an investors conference on Tuesday that the company remained wedded to its fundamental business strategy of creating sustained value creation over the long term. “Nothing is cast in stone,” Puri said at its first investor conference that was held to articulate the company’s views on a wide range of issues at a time when top executives of the company have been fretting over continued underperformance of the stock which has tended to lag its FMCG peers. ITC was at pains to try and explain that the company was looking to expand beyond cigarettes and into a new dawn of digital-ready businesses. While there has been a growing clamour to demerge the behemoth by business verticals, especially the profitable and fast growing non-tobacco FMCG, Puri suggested that such a decision should be taken in the context of business maturity and from the perspective of value creation. “From this point, we are certainly open to seeing what is right to create value for shareholders. And these are things we evaluate from time to time. But when we evaluate, we certainly look at the maturity of the business, the business context and fundamentally look at what is required for sustained value creation,” Puri told investors in response to questions on demerger of the non-tobacco FMCG business. He pointed out how the company had already articulated an ‘alternate structure’ for the hotels business in FY20 and said the management was committed to the idea. It was suggested that such a scenario could play out when the hospitality sector recovers from the Covid pandemic. Puri explained how ITC had leveraged institutional synergies to build the non-tobacco FMCG portfolio, comprising mainly food and personal care, at a lower cost. He said the paper and hotel businesses used to be separate but they were brought together for a purpose. Shareholders were informed that the company might look at listing ITC Infotech, a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC. “ITC Infotech is a 100 per cent subsidiary and listing is certainly a possibility and these are issues that we examine from time to time,” Puri said. The company management also said it would look at acquisitions both in the space of infotech and FMCG. Capex plan ITC will invest Rs 10,000 crore over the course of next three years in the areas of FMCG, paperboards and hotels. Abneesh Roy, executive director of institutional securities at Edelweiss Securities Ltd, noted that 35-45 per cent of the capital expenditure will go towards FMCG to improve capabilities. “The next big user would be paperboard, around 25 per cent, which is a capacity led growth,” Roy said in a note. Hotels would see around 10 per cent of the capex after which it would taper off as ITC intends to follow an asset light model.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
15-12-2021||Business||Aditya Birla group bags Reebok rights||The Aditya Birla group is taking over the operations of global sportswear brand Reebok in India under a licensing agreement with Authentic Brand Group (ABG). Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd (ABFRL) and ABG on Tuesday signed a long-term licensing agreement which grants ABFRL the exclusive rights to distribute and sell Reebok products through wholesale, e-commerce and Reebok branded retail stores in India and in other Asean countries. ABFRL disclosed in a regulatory filing that the transaction will involve an “expected consideration’’ of Rs 75-100 crore towards the purchase of inventory and other current assets and liabilities, subject to actual value at the time of closure. Reebok India posted a turnover of Rs 429 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020. Reebok was taken over by Adidas in 2005 as the German giant looked to prise open the US market from the clutches of Nike. Over the next decade-and-a-half, Reebok ceded ground in the sportswear segment and was staring at an uncertain future that led to Adidas selling Reebok to ABG in August for €2.1 billion. The India story In India, Adidas was No. 2 to Reebok at the time of the takeover, with the brands engaged in a battle for market share despite having a common owner. Reebok buckled under in India following a massive financial scam in 2012 — some estimates put it at more than Rs 800 crore — unearthed by Adidas. Since then, Reebok’s presence diminished in the country, while Adidas became the bigger player. Income from operations grew marginally from Rs 388 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 400 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 429 crore in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
15-12-2021||Business||NCLT cannot compel party to settle dispute under IBC: Supreme Court||In a significant verdict, the Supreme Court on Tuesday held that the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) cannot compel a party to settle a dispute under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) as it is empowered “only to verify whether a default has occurred or not”. The top court referred to the provisions of the IBC and said that the NCLT and its appellate body, NCLAT, had only two options available to either allow or reject the insolvency proceedings against the firm. A bench comprising Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and A.S. Bopanna set aside the verdicts of the NCLT and the NCLAT which had asked the company to try to settle the claims of homebuyers within a time frame and had dismissed the pleas for the initiation of insolvency proceedings against Bharath Hi Tech Builders. “We accordingly allow the appeal and set aside the impugned judgment and order dated 30 July 2020 of the NCLAT...and of the NCLT... The petition (of homebuyers) under Section 7 of the IBC is accordingly restored to the NCLT for disposal afresh,” the verdict said. “The IBC is a complete code in itself. The Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) and the Appellate Authority (NCLAT) are creatures of the statute. Their jurisdiction is statutorily conferred. The statute which confers jurisdiction also structures, channelises and circumscribes the ambit of such jurisdiction. Thus, while the Adjudicating Authority and the Appellate Authority can encourage settlements, they cannot direct them by acting as courts of equity,” Justice Chandrachud, writing the judgment for the bench, said. The 31-page verdict was critical of the decisions of the NCLT and the NCLAT saying that the panels are empowered only to verify whether a default has occurred or not. “Based upon its decision, the Adjudicating Authority must then either admit or reject an application respectively. These are the only two courses of action which are open to the Adjudicating Authority in accordance with Section 7(5). The Adjudicating Authority cannot compel a party to the proceedings before it to settle a dispute,” it said. Undoubtedly, settlements have to be encouraged because the ultimate purpose of the IBC is to facilitate the continuance and rehabilitation of a corporate debtor, as distinct from allowing it to go into liquidation, it said. The Adjudicating Authority and Appellate Authority (NCLAT), however, have proceeded to do in the present case is to abdicate their jurisdiction by directing the respondent to settle the remaining claims within three months, the apex court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
15-12-2021||Business||Chanel names Indian-origin Leena Nair as new global CEO ||French fashion house Chanel named Leena Nair, an executive from Unilever, as its new global CEO on Tuesday, picking a consumer goods veteran to run one of the world’s biggest luxury goods groups. Nair’s career at Unilever spanned 30 years, most recently as the chief of human resources and a member of the executive committee. A British national, born in India, Nair is a rare outsider at the helm of the tightly controlled family fashion house, known for its tweed suits, quilted handbags and No. 5 perfume. The 52-year-old follows US businesswoman Maureen Chiquet, who came from a fashion background and was CEO of Chanel for nine years until early 2016. French billionaire Alain Wertheimer, a 73-year-old who owns Chanel with his brother Gerard Wertheimer and had originally taken on the CEO job on a temporary basis, will move to the role of global executive chairman. Chanel was founded in 1910 by fashion legend Gabrielle “Coco” Chanel as a hat boutique on rue Cambon in Paris and grew to become a byword for French chic. The group said Nair, who at Unilever oversaw 150,000 people, would join at the end of January and be based in London. It added that the new appointments would ensure its “long-term success as a private company”. The recruitment of Nair, who rose through the ranks of Unilever having started out as a trainee on the factory floor, comes as the fashion industry is under pressure to show a more inclusive approach. Under her watch, Unilever achieved gender parity across global management, according to a Harper’s Bazaar profile published last month, which also highlighted her commitment to pay the living wage across the supply chain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
15-12-2021||Business|| Adani Green Energy agreement with Solar Energy Corporation of India||Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL) on Tuesday signed an agreement with Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) to supply 4.6gw  of green power. AGEL said this was the world’s largest green power purchase agreement (PPA) and it comes amid a high stakes battle running into billions of dollars between the Adani group and Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries Ltd. Both the conglomerates have announced massive plans in renewable energy. The Adani group will invest $20 billion (more than Rs 1.47 lakh crore) over the next 10 years across renewable energy generation, component manufacturing, transmission and distribution. Mukesh Ambani in June announced that RIL will invest Rs 75,000 crore in renewable energy over the next three years, a number which is only likely to go up in the future as the country’s richest industrialist firms up his plans in new energy. Though the Adanis have the early mover advantage, observers say Ambani may catch up given the Reliance group’s strong project execution skills. The AGEL-SECI agreement to supply 4.6gw is part of a manufacturing-linked solar tender of 8gw awarded to the Adani group firm by SECI in June 2020. A press statement from AGEL said so far it has signed power purchase agreement (PPAs) with SECI for a total generation capacity of close to 6gw. AGEL expects to close the agreement for the balance 2gw in the next two to three months. Shares of AGEL closed higher 3.60 per cent or Rs 49.90 on the news at Rs 1,436.10 on the BSE. At close, the company had a market cap of Rs 2.24,608.09 crore. Last week, Ventura Securities initiated coverage on the company with a buy call and a two-year target price of Rs 2810. It said that with India’s stated intent of procuring 450gw from renewable energy by 2030, Adani Green Energy is well placed to benefit from this mega-trend. GAIL hydrogen plans State-owned GAIL India Ltd plans to import India’s first and the largest to date electrolyser to produce green hydrogen within a year and may look to hire another ship to ferry LNG from the US, officials said Tuesday. GAIL chairman and managing director Manoj Jain said his company had launched a global tender to procure a 10-megawatt electrolyser capable of producing 4.5 tonnes per day of hydrogen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
15-12-2021||Business||RBI extends prompt corrective action framework to NBFCs||The Reserve Bank of India has extended its tough, prompt corrective action (PCA) framework to non-banking finance companies that fail to meet prudential performance thresholds. The PCA framework, which places restrictions on the scope of operations of a faltering entity until it is nursed back to health, kicks in whenever any commercial bank stumbles. In the case of NBFCs, it will apply to all deposit-taking non-banks and non-deposit taking NBFCs that figure in the middle, upper and top tiers of the scale-based regulations that were announced in October. The NBFCs that do not accept, or do not intend to accept, public funds, government companies, primary dealers and housing finance companies will be kept out of the ambit of this regulatory framework. The PCA framework for the so-called shadow banks will come into effect from October 1, 2022 based on the financial position of NBFCs on or after March 31 next year. Sources said the limited application of the PCA framework means that a “significant number” of the more than 10,000 NBFCs will be left out. In a notification issued on Tuesday, the RBI said the objective of the PCA framework, which was introduced for banks in 2002, is to enable supervisory intervention at an appropriate time and requires the supervised entity to initiate and implement remedial measures in a timely manner to restore their financial health. The banking regulator added that NBFCs have been growing in size and have substantial inter-connectedness with other segments of the financial system. It has, therefore, been decided to put in place a PCA framework and deploy rule-based supervisory tools for the larger shadow banks. The RBI has set three indicators for deposit taking and non-deposit taking NBFCs which include capital adequacy ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and net non-performing assets (NPAs) ratio. There are also three risk thresholds. The first alarm will be triggered if their capital-to-risk (weighted) assets ratio (CRAR) falls 300 basis points below the minimum requirement of 15 per cent. The second threshold will apply when the CRAR falls more than 300 basis points, but less than 600 basis points from the minimum requirement. The third threshold applies when the CRAR plunges by more than 600 basis points. Similarly, the PCA regime will be triggered if the Tier 1 capital ratio falls 200 basis points below the regulatory minimum (10 per cent). The second threshold will apply when the ratio falls by more than 200 basis points and up to 400 basis points; and the final threshold will be more than 400 basis points. If the net non-performing assets (NPAs, or bad loans) of an NBFC rises above 6 per cent but is below 9 per cent, it will fall under the first risk threshold. The other two categories in terms of asset quality is net NPAs rising above 9 per cent but under 12 per cent, and over 12 per cent respectively. As regards core investment companies (CICs), the RBI will look at the parameter of adjusted net worth to aggregate risk weighted assets (ANW/RWA-as per current rules they should be at least 30 per cent), leverage ratio and net NPA ratio. For the ANW/RWA metric, the three risk thresholds are 600 basis points below the regulatory minimum, 600-1200 basis and above 1200 basis points below the regulatory minimum. The first leverage risk threshold will be breached when the ratio of total liabilities to owned funds (or equity plus reserves) crosses 2.5 times. The other two thresholds will apply when these ratios cross 3 times and 3.5 times. The restrictions If the regulated entity breaches the first risk threshold, it will not be permitted to distribute dividend or remit profits and the promoters or the shareholders will be directed to infuse equity. The CICs will also have to bring down the leverage and will be restricted from issuing guarantees or taking on other contingent liabilities on behalf of group companies. When the second risk threshold is breached, there will be curbs on branch expansion in addition to the restrictions under the first threshold. If the third risk threshold is breached, appropriate restrictions will be placed on capital expenditure, which will not cover costs for technological upgradation and reduction in variable operating costs. The RBI added that it may also take certain governance-related actions as part of the corrective measures to restore the health of the NBFCs. This include recommending promoters or shareholders to induct a new board, remove managerial persons under the RBI Act, supersede the board and impose restrictions on directors or the management compensation among others. Axis view Axis Bank on Tuesday said it would not be seeking an extension of timelines for meeting the financial parameters with regard to loans recast under the KV Kamath framework that was announced last year. “I think there is some conversation that is going on currently among some of the banks with Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to extend the Kamath Committee timelines.. We are not seeing any need to do that at this point of time,” Rajiv Anand, deputy managing director (designate) at Axis Bank, told newspersons at an event. Some lenders and the Indian Banks’ Association have written to the RBI seeking extension to the October 2022 deadline for loan recast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
