16-12-2021||Business||Sensex ends 113 points higher on firm global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 113 points higher on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and Bajaj Finance amid a positive trend overseas. The 30-share index advanced 113.11 points or 0.20 per cent to settle at 57,901.14. Similarly, the NSE Nifty rose 27 points or 0.16 per cent to 17,248.40. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Infosys, Titan, Reliance Industries and HCL Tech. On the other hand, Maruti, Bajaj Auto and Sun Pharma were among the laggards. "Indian markets opened on a positive note following Asian market cues as globally investors assess US Fed's decision on taper and rates," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. The US Fed said it will aggressively unwind bond buying and sees three rate hikes in 2022 and two each in next two years. "During the afternoon session, the markets continued to hold their head above water. However, upside remained capped on relentless FII selling in capital markets which impacted traders' sentiment. During the closing session, the markets succumbed to selling pressure," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude firmed up 0.97 per cent to USD 74.60 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
16-12-2021||Business||Sensex rallies almost 500 points after Fed policy decision||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied nearly 500 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking a positive trend in global markets after the US monetary policy decision. The 30-share index surged 494.12 points or 0.86 per cent to 58,282.15 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty rose 122.15 points or 0.71 per cent to 17,343.55. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, HCL Tech, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra and NTPC. On the other hand, Maruti, Sun Pharma, HUL and ITC were among the laggards. Last night, the US Federal Reserve said it would accelerate its pullback of economic stimulus and likely raise interest rates three times next year to tackle rising inflation. "A hawkish Fed sending the markets higher is rare. But this happened on Wednesday in the US, since markets were positioned for a hawkish Fed, but hawkishness itself had positive market connotations," said VK Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Larger taper and three rate hikes of 25 bps each in 2022 are negative from market perspective, but the positive news is that the Fed expects inflation to cool off. In India markets are positioned for volatility since the short-term texture of the market is sell on rally, dictated by relentless FII selling. This trend may persist for a few more days, he added. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark slumped 329.06 points or 0.57 per cent to end at 57,788.03, and Nifty fell 103.50 points or 0.60 per cent to 17,221.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 3,407.04 crore on Wednesday, according to stock exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.88 per cent to USD 74.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
16-12-2021||Business||SBI Mutual Fund may soon get listed on bourses||SBI Mutual Fund (SBI MF) may soon be listed on the bourses. State Bank of India (SBI) which holds almost 63 per cent in the fund house on Wednesday said it planned to offload 6 per cent of its stake through an offer for sale (OFS). “The executive committee of the central board of the bank has accorded approval for exploring possibilities to offload 6 per cent stake of the bank in SBI Funds Management Pvt Ltd through initial public offering (IPO) route, subject to receipt of all regulatory approvals,’’ the country’s largest lender said in a regulatory filing on Wednesday. SBI MF is the country’s largest fund house. Its average assets under management (AAUM) stood at Rs 5.78 lakh crore in the July-September 2021 quarter according to AMFI data. It is a joint venture between SBI and Amundi of France, which holds around 37 per cent through a wholly owned subsidiary. The French asset manager is planning to sell around 4 per cent of its stake in the proposed IPO. Reports say the public float could raise around $1 billion. Four asset management companies are listed on the bourses at present — HDFC Asset Management, UTI Asset Management, Nippon Life India Asset Management and Aditya Birla Sunlife Asset Management. Aditya Birla Sunlife got listed in October. It was a tepid debut with its shares falling below the issue price of Rs 712 per share. It is being quoted at Rs 576.80 — a discount of 19 per cent. UTI Asset Management is the best performing fund house of the listed entities, surging almost 83 per cent in a year. PLR hike SBI, the country’s largest bank, on Wednesday raised the benchmark prime lending rate (BPLR) and the base rate, but kept the marginal cost of fund-based-lending rate (MCLR) unchanged. The base rate has been raised to 7.55 per cent from 7.45 per cent  while BPLR is up to 12.30 per cent from 12.20 per cent . The changes are expected to affect some of the bank’s customers as most of them have shifted to the MCLR regime. Banks had shifted to base rates from BPLR in 2010 and to MCLR from 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
16-12-2021||Business||TVS, BMW Motorrad  announced partnership extension, expansion||TVS Motor Company and BMW Motorrad on Wednesday said they are extending their long-term partnership with the joint development of new platforms and future technologies, including electric vehicles. Based on this decision, TVS Motor Company’s scope will include the design and development of future BMW Motorrad products. Under this enhanced co-operation, both companies have identified a range of products and technologies to deliver significant business benefits. BMW Motorrad and TVS Motor Company will develop common platforms by mutually tapping the emerging technologies in the future mobility space, keeping in mind the global requirements of customer segments in various markets. Exclusive products for both companies will be developed on these common platforms, and the companies will retail their products globally. The first product through this arrangement will be showcased in the next 24 months. Toyota prices Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Wednesday said it will increase prices across its entire product portfolio from January to offset the impact of a rise in input costs. The company sells a range of models, including the Glanza, the Urban Cruiser, the Innova Crysta and the Fortuner in the domestic market. “The price realignment is necessitated on the back of a sustained increase in input costs, including raw materials. All efforts have been made to ensure that the impact of the cost increase has a minimum effect on our esteemed customers,” TKM said. TaMo-Bandhan tieup Tata Motors on Wednesday said it has tied up with Bandhan Bank for retail finance for its range of passenger vehicles. As part of the tie-up, Bandhan Bank will provide loans to Tata Motors’ customers at an interest rate starting from as low as 7.5 per cent, the auto maker said in a statement. The scheme will offer a maximum of 90 per cent financing on the total on-road cost of the vehicle, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
16-12-2021||Business||Stress on microfinance sector eased during July-September quarter||Stress on the microfinance sector has eased during the July-September quarter after a spike in the April-June period because of the second wave of the Covid pandemic. The 30 days past due portfolio for banks was down from 15.9 per cent to 11.8 per cent while that of non bank microfinance companies was down from 13.7 per cent to 7.1 per cent. Small finance banks saw a sharp improvement in asset quality with dues past 30 days falling to 9.6 per cent during the second quarter from 21 per cent in the first quarter according to data from industry association MFIN. Micro finance industry officials said with the easing of lockdown, group level attendance have started to increase along with fresh borrower queries which has led to improved disbursal and repayment. The gross loan portfolio of the industry at Rs 2.43 lakh crore as of September 30, 2021, grew 5.16 per cent year-on-year. Banks hold the largest share of the microfinance portfolio with 41.52 per cent followed by NBFC-MFIs at 33.95 per cent, small finance banks at 16.63 per cent. NBFCs and other micro lenders account for the remaining 7.9 per cent. Bengal retained the top spot with gross advances of Rs 32,240 crore ahead of Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Assam in the top 10 states during the quarter. Total loan amount disbursed during the quarter was at Rs 64,899 crore against Rs 25,503 crore during the first quarter and Rs 31,261 crore during the second quarter of the previous year. “Microfinance operations seem to be returning towards normalcy after a difficult phase of the second wave of the pandemic. The second quarter of FY 2021-22 saw growth of portfolio as well as an improvement in portfolio quality. This trend of improvement is expected to continue in the coming quarters. The credit guarantee scheme for MFIs has also had a positive impact on the liquidity situation, particularly of medium and small MFIs,” said Alok Misra, CEO and director, MFIN. Misra added that the harmonised microfinance guidelines for all regulated entities are expected soon which will result in a level playing field for NBFC-MFIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
16-12-2021||Business||UBS to retain significant onshore presence in India||UBS will retain a significant onshore presence in India, the Swiss bank said on Wednesday after Bloomberg reported that it planned to move investment banking advisory services out of the country. “We remain committed to our business in India and retain a significant presence onshore and in the region,” UBS said in an emailed statement. Bloomberg on Wednesday reported that UBS planned to shut its global banking office in India and move investment banking coverage for the country offshore. Three staff would leave the bank, Bloomberg reported, citing a person familiar with the matter, while two others could potentially be transferred to Singapore. A “very small number of global banking” staff would be impacted, a person familiar with the matter told Reuters, confirming that global banking clients in India would be served offshore. However, no office would be closed, the person said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
16-12-2021||Business||Sugar mills say WTO ruling on Indian subsidies will not hurt them||Sugar mills on Wednesday said the WTO ruling on Indian subsidies will not hurt them even as India is set to file an appeal after it lost a WTO dispute on subsidies. “Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA) is confident that the current policies of the government on export of sugar and the subsidies therein, which were being given in the last few years are according to WTO rules and, therefore, there will be absolutely no impact on the Indian sugar mills or the sugarcane farmers,” the industry body said . A World Trade Organisation (WTO) panel has ruled against India’s sugar export subsidy and domestic support to sugarcane growers in a dispute filed by Australia, Brazil and Guatemala. India incentivises sugar exports through financial support to the sector, which employs more than 50 million farmers in politically sensitive states such as Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. The commerce ministry said there would be no impact of the panel’s findings  because it would file an appeal at  the WTO. In 2019, Brazil, Australia, and Guatemala requested dispute consultations with India regarding domestic support measures and alleged export subsidies provided by India to producers of sugarcane and sugar. Ashlar Law, led by its partner Pingal Khan, supported  WTO counsel for Brazil, Sidley Austin LLP,  on Indian law questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
16-12-2021||Business||SpiceJet settles dispute with De Havilland Aircraft of Canada||SpiceJet has settled a dispute with De Havilland Aircraft of Canada for failing to make pre-delivery payments for 15 Q-400 turboprops that were part of a 25-plane deal that it had signed with the Canadian plane maker in 2017. As part of the deal, SpiceJet will induct some planes from that order. In 2017, SpiceJet signed a purchase agreement for 25 Q-400 aircraft. It took delivery of five aircraft, but failed to make pre-delivery payments for 15 planes — sparking the dispute. Three years later, De Havilland had filed a case against SpiceJet in a United Kingdom court stating the budget airline paid and took delivery of five of the 25 aircraft but halted the pre-delivery payment for the remainder of them. The parties have agreed to settle all their disputes under the aircraft purchase agreement and component solution agreement, subject to compliance with the terms of settlement, SpiceJet said in a statement. “All related proceedings before the UK court and execution proceedings before the Delhi high court have been stayed and will be withdrawn upon compliance with the settlement terms,” a statement from the airline read. The UK court had in 2021 said De Havilland was entitled to recover $42.9 million from SpiceJet and terminate the aircraft purchase agreement. The Canadian aircraft maker had then filed a case in Delhi High court to recover the $42.9 million award. SpiceJet is also battling a liquidation suit filed by Credit Suisse over its failure to pay a Swiss maintenance contractor for services rendered. SpiceJet is challenging Credit Suisse’s right to file the suit and its claim that the Swiss contractor had assigned its rights over the dues to the Swiss financier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
16-12-2021||Business||Cabinet announces Rs 76,000cr PLI scheme for chipmakers||The Union cabinet on Wednesday announced a Rs 76,000-crore production linked incentive scheme for chip makers . The incentives will be provided over six years. The government is hoping to attract interest from global players such as Mediatek, Intel, Qualcomm and Texas Instruments. A government release said the Centre has lined up an attractive incentive support for companies engaged in silicon semiconductor fabs, display fabs, compound semiconductors, silicon photonics, sensors fabs, semiconductor packaging and semiconductor design. “The shortage of semiconductor chips has been haunting the Indian industry. The scheme can not only make India self-sufficient but also a global supplier,” Kulraj Ashpnani of Dhruva Advisors said. The scheme for setting up of semiconductor fabs and display fabs will extend fiscal support of up to 50 per cent of project cost. The funds will be also utilised to develop the IT ministry’s Semi-Conductor Laboratory (SCL) at Mohali through a joint venture. Besides, fiscal support of up to 30 per cent of capital expenditure will be provided to set up at least 15 units making compound semiconductors and semiconductor packaging. The scheme will cover compound semiconductors/ silicon photonics / sensors fabs and semiconductor ATMP / OSAT facilities, the government release said. A design linked incentive scheme has been envisaged under which the government will offer incentives of up to 50 per cent of expenditure to set up a unit. Besides, eligible units will be offered product deployment linked incentive of 4 per cent to 6 per cent of net sales for five years. Finally, a India Semiconductor Mission will be set up with the funds. It will be the nodal agency for the implementation of the schemes on semiconductors and display ecosystem. “It will be imperative that necessary permission to establish the industry is given with the same swiftness. There is current and potential demand and hence India must not miss the boat,” Sandeep Shah, managing Partner, NA Shah Associates, said. “It is a big step to bring India on the world map of the semiconductors industry as it will pave the path for the industry to broaden the horizon of research, manufacturing and export. This move will also make the Indian manufacturers globally competitive to attract investment in the areas of core competency and cutting-edge technology,” Sanjay Gupta, managing director, NXP India, said. RuPay incentives The cabinet approved an incentive scheme to promote RuPay debit cards and transactions up to Rs 2,000 through BHIM-UPI transactions. Under the scheme, the government will reimburse transaction charges levied on digital payments made by persons to the merchant as part of the merchant discount rate (MDR). The estimated financial outlay on the scheme is Rs 1,300 crore for a period of one year effective April 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
16-12-2021||Business||Markets nervous ahead of US Federal Reserve statement||The US Federal Reserve, signaling its inflation target has been met, on Wednesday said it would end its pandemic-era bond purchases in March, paving the way for three quarter-percentage-point interest rate increases by the end of 2022 as it exits from policies enacted at the start of the health crisis. At the end of its meeting on Wednesday, the Fed kept its interest rates unchanged. In new economic projections released following the end of a two-day policy meeting, officials forecast that inflation would run at 2.6 per cent next year compared with the 2.2 projected as of September, and the unemployment rate would fall to 3.5 per cent. As a result, officials at the median projected the Fed’s benchmark overnight interest rate would need to rise from its current near-zero level to 0.90 per cent by the end of 2022, with continued increases in 2023 to 1.6 per cent and in 2024 to 2.1 per cent required to pull inflation back to the central bank’s 2 per cent target. Eventual rate hikes, the Fed said, would now hinge solely on the path of the job market. “With inflation having exceeded 2 per cent for some time, the Committee expects it will be appropriate to maintain the current near-zero interest rates until labour markets have returned to full employment,” the Fed said in a statement that began to pin down more thoroughly the central bank’s “normalisation” of monetary policy following nearly two years of extraordinary efforts to nurse the economy through the fallout of the pandemic. That is still underway, with the new Omicron coronavirus variant adding to uncertainty about the course of the economy. But the Fed, at this point, said economic growth is expected to be 4 per cent next year, an increase over the 3.8 per cent projected in September. Fed Chair Jerome Powell is scheduled to hold a news conference later to elaborate on the new policy statement and answer questions about the central bank’s economic outlook. Markets worldwide are straddling fears of rising inflation on one side and growing concerns surrounding the Omicron variant, on the other, that may put a lid on recovery. UK picture Within 24 hours of the US Federal moves, the Bank of England is meeting to decide on the interest rates with inflation in the UK at more than a decade high of 5.1 per cent in November. However, most economists think BoE will opt against raising the benchmark rate from the current record low of 0.1 per cent because of the huge uncertainty surrounding the spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. With infections widely anticipated to hit levels not seen before during the coronavirus pandemic and new restrictions imposed, there are worries over the already muted economic recovery in the UK An interest rate increase which would increase many loans and mortgages, however modest, is the last thing UK households will want before Christmas. A week before the Fed meeting, India’s Reserve Bank of India stayed away from tinkering with the rates while forecasting a benign inflation regime that was questioned by economists who warned of supply shortages bedevilling the economy. The wholesale and retail inflation prints announced by the government this week resonates  with the scepticism expressed by the economists on inflation — retail inflation moved up to a three month-high of 4.91 per cent in November, while wholesale inflation was at an unprecedented 30-year high of 14.23 per cent in November . At its December monthly bulletin on the economy, the Indian central bank said the Omicron strain has heightened uncertainty in the global macro-economic environment but went on to highlight the revival of the economy in the second quarter. An article on the state of the economy in the bulletin pointed out that the global economy “remains hostage’’ to more uncertainty after detection of the new variant. It has also accelerated risks to global trade with the resumption of travel restrictions and quarantine rules at major ports and airports. Moreover, the ongoing supply-side constraints are likely to keep input prices and freight rates at elevated levels and this could act as a drag on overall exports. Rupee falls The rupee appeared to be more attuned to the problems of inflation overseas as it plunged 44 paise to close at a 20-month low on Wednesday as consistent foreign fund outflows and risk-averse sentiments weighed on the currency. Growing concerns over Omicron hit the appeal of riskier assets. The rupee has been under pressure for the past five weeks due to consistent forex outflows on expectations of faster rate of tapering by the Fed to rein in rising inflation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
