17-12-2021||Business||Competition Comm suspends approval for Amazon-Future Coupons deal||In a significant development, the Competition Commission on Friday suspended its more than two-year-old approval for Amazon's deal with Future Coupons and imposed a Rs 202 crore penalty on the e-commerce major for failure to furnish true and complete details about the transaction. The ruling by CCI assumes significance amid the long-drawn bitter legal battle between Amazon and Future Group over the Indian entity's proposed Rs 24,713 crore-deal with Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL). Deals beyond a certain threshold require CCI nod and it is quite rare for the watchdog to suspend an approval. In a 57-page order, the regulator noted that the contraventions of the competition law have arisen "from a deliberate design on the part of Amazon to suppress the actual scope and purpose of the combination". Consequently, fines totalling Rs 2 crore have been imposed on Amazon. For failure to notify the combination in the requisite terms, the watchdog has also slapped a penalty of Rs 200 crore. The combination pertained to Amazon acquiring 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons through three levels of transactions. The watchdog noted that Amazon had failed to disclose true and complete details of the purpose of the combination, which were required to be given while seeking the approval. "... Amazon had supressed the actual scope of the combination and had made false and incorrect statements in relation to the BCAs (Business Commercial Agreements), which are intertwined into the scope and purpose of the combination," the order said. CCI also said since the combination is between players who are known in the online marketplace and offline retailing and have contemplated strategic alignment between their businesses, it has decided to examine the combination afresh. A time period of 60 days starting from the date of receiving the order has been given to Amazon to file a notice with "true, correct and complete information". Till disposal of the notice, CCI said the approval granted for the combination on November 28, 2019 "shall remain in abeyance". The parties involved in the combination were Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC (Amazon) -- a direct subsidiary of Amazon.com Inc -- and Future Coupons. "We are reviewing the order passed by the Competition Commission of India, and will decide on next steps in due course," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement. Amazon had initiated arbitration proceedings against Future Group with respect to proposed transfer of assets of Future Retail. Future Coupons told CCI that submissions made by Amazon before the regulator and the arbitrator were contradictory. Subsequently, CCI issued a show cause notice to Amazon in June this year. "Further, Amazon had misrepresented that its decision to pursue the combination was based on the unique business model of FCPL (Future Coupons Pvt Ltd), and that FRL (Future Retail Ltd), a company with strong financials and futuristic outlook, is relevant to the combination only from the perspective of financial strength to FCPL," CCI said. The watchdog also pointed out that it has no hesitation to hold that the conduct of Amazon amounts to "suppression and misrepresentation of the purpose of the combination, which is a material particular", adding that those are in contravention of competition norms. "Similarly, the rights over FRL that were considered as strategic in the internal correspondence of Amazon, were represented as mere investor protection rights. "Such repeated assertions, contrary to their actual purport, amount to statements that are false in material particular, in contravention of the provisions contained in clauses (a) and (b) of Section 44 and clause (a) of sub section (1) of Section 45 of the Act," the order said. Citing Amazon's internal correspondence, CCI said it clearly highlights that the rights of Amazon over FRL "are at the heart of the negotiations and the need for FRL SHA (Shareholding Agreement) was to achieve the said objective of the combination". Apart from not giving a single notice covering all the inter-connected steps of the combination, Amazon also failed to give true and complete disclosure with respect to substance of its combination. "... the FRL SHA was pursued to ensure that the business of FRL become a strategic asset for Amazon to expand and enhance its ultra-fast delivery services," CCI said. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said suspension of the deal by CCI is a "landmark order" and that "Amazon stands fully exposed for its malpractices and bunch of lies at all levels together with continued violation of laws and the rules". In a statement, CAIT National President B C Bhartia and Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal said the CCI order is the first concrete result of more than two years of rigorous efforts of the grouping for bringing misdeeds of Amazon to light. CAIT has also demanded immediate suspension of Amazon portal in India, the statement said. CAIT had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) before the Delhi High Court seeking an expeditious disposal of the matter that was being dealt by CCI. While approving the deal in November 2019, CCI had also mentioned the order shall stand revoked if, at any time, the information provided by the acquirer was found to be incorrect. "This approval should not be construed as immunity in any manner from subsequent proceedings before the Commission for violations of other provisions of the (Competition) Act," it had said. On November 29, the Supreme Court gave two more weeks' time to Amazon to appear and argue before CCI which had declined adjournment of hearing in a case related to revocation of approval given to the e-retailer for the deal with Future Coupons. In August 2019, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent in unlisted Future Coupons, which owns 7.3 per cent equity in listed Future Retail through convertible warrants, with the right to buy into the flagship Future Retail after a period of 3 to 10 years. In August 2020, RRVL said it will acquire the retail and wholesale business, and the logistics and warehousing business of Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. The scheme of arrangement entails the consolidation of Future Group's retail and wholesale assets into one entity Future Enterprises Ltd and then transferring it to Reliance Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
17-12-2021||Business||Sensex sinks 889 points amid broad-based selloff||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 889 points on Friday, weighed by an across-the-board selloff amid a negative trend in global markets and relentless foreign fund outflows. The 30-share index ended 889.40 points or 1.54 per cent lower at 57,011.74. Similarly, the NSE Nifty plunged 263.20 points or 1.53 per cent to 16,985.20. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 5 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, HUL, Titan, Bajaj Finserv and HDFC. On the other hand, Infosys, HCL Tech, PowerGrid and TCS were among the gainers. "Indices succumbed to the relentless FII selling this month as the Nifty skid below 17K with the IT Index being the only exception," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with losses, while Seoul was positive. Similarly, stock exchanges in Europe were also largely trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.48 per cent to USD 73.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
17-12-2021||Business||Khan Chacha owner Navneet Kalra suggests the best ways to use QR codes this holiday season||It’s that time of the year again! Christmas and New Year are just around the corner, and just like every other sector, restaurant businesses are also gearing up for the holiday season boom. The time also sets the perfect stage for various events and special menus, and various innovations in the restaurant industry. One such innovative technique is QR codes, whose use in restaurant spaces has been limited. We talked to prominent Delhi restaurateur and Khan Chacha owner Navneet Kalra, about the emergence of QR codes and their relevance in the holiday season. According to him, while QR codes have taken the restaurant industry by storm, their usage extends far beyond the convention of viewing online menus. He also shared the most effective ways in which the capabilities of QR codes can be explored by restaurateurs. Read on to know what they are: Event RSVP The onset of holiday season provides restaurant businesses with the perfect opportunity to host various events. Whether it is a Christmas party, New Year eve celebration or any other event, restaurants can use QR codes amid their promotions, says Navneet Kalra. “When you are playing hosts to an event, you may want to know how many people have shown interest. QR codes are a great way to do that,” he says. Kalra continues, “You can use these codes on the flyers or elsewhere on the promotional material and link them the event webpage. This way, it will be easier for the prospective guests to RSVP and get a better understanding of the event. The number of times your QR code is scanned will also provide you with an opportunity to assess the performance of your event promotion and marketing strategy.” QR for enquiries Many a times, people may come across your establishment and might want to enquire about things like the seating or certain items on the menu. An effective way of providing them with a platform to place in their queries can be QR codes, suggests Navneet Kalra.“Holiday season is a busy time of the year for the restaurants. If people keep calling with their questions, you might not be able to answer them there and then owing to the increased footfall,” he says. “A good way of hearing to what people have to say is to provide them with a QR code on your website or tables which leads to a query form. People can fill it up with all the questions they have for you, and you can read them all and reply once you’ve call it a day. This ensures that people are getting their queries answers in an effective manner, thus improving your chances of turning these prospective customers in actual guests,” quips the Khan Chacha owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
17-12-2021||Business||How the cartoon show, The Jetsons, led Cluep CEO Karan Walia to build a tech empire||The young tech mogul Karan Walia is a highly successful entrepreneur and a renowned name in the field of articial intelligence and mobile advertising in Canada. He has contributed in the progress and evolution of the field of aritificial intelligence and mobile advertising through the work he has done under his company Cluep, which shows ads based on how you feel and what's inside the images and videos you publicly share on social media. But his fascination towards technology goes way back. Karan reveals, “As a kid I was obsessed with a cartoon show called The Jetsons and in it the jetpacks, Rosy the robot maid, RUDI a sentient and free thinking AI computer, moving sidewalks, regular space travel and flying cars that were able to fold into a briefcase for George Jetson to carry inside to his work."  The Jetsons lead Karan down a rabbit role he doesn't seem to want to come back from. According to him, "Works by Issac Asimov, especially his short story "The Last Question" and films like "2001 A Space Odyssey and "Back to the Future" got me even more excited about what the future could look like. All of the wacky ideas in them really moved me, especially in which machines are as smart as us and do useful things for us. I just knew that I wanted to be a part of this future and help build it." And he's been relatively successful at building it, for the most part. One of the algorithms he's helped write at Cluep allows a machine how to see and understand images and videos like a human does. To do this he borrowed techniques from what we know about the architecture of the human visual system and our biological neural networks. Karan and his team at Cluep plan on continuing to leverage aritifical intelligence to disrupt the traditional model of advertising and how they think about connecting with people, it’s actually making it more human and emotional.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
17-12-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped over 300 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and Kotak Bank amid a negative trend in global markets and persistent foreign fund outflow. The 30-share index declined 319.82 points or 0.55 per cent to 57,581.32 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty fell 91 points or 0.53 per cent to 17,157.40. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by M&M, HUL, Maruti, Asian Paints and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Infosys, TCS, HCL Tech and Tech Mahindra were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark advanced 113.11 points or 0.20 per cent to settle at 57,901.14, and Nifty rose 27 points or 0.16 per cent to 17,248.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 1,468.71 crore on Thursday, according to stock exchange data. There are three major headwinds to the market now - the fast spreading Omicron variant, relentless selling by FIIs and hawkish central banks, said VK Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "The countervailing tailwinds are the bullish DIIs and retail investors and the smart rebound in growth and corporate earnings. With the Bank of England becoming the first major central bank to hike rates on Thursday, after the hawkish Fed stance, there is an increasing realisation that inflation is turning more durable than thought earlier," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.79 per cent to USD 74.43 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
17-12-2021||Business||Coal India plans to boost stock at thermal power plants by March||Coal India plans to boost stock at thermal power plants  to over 45 million tonnes (mt) from 20mt by March. The decision follows the coal stock crisis at thermal power plants in September that prompted the Centre to intervene by forming an inter-ministerial committee comprising the coal, power and environment secretaries and the chairman of the Railway Board to review the situation and take corrective action and ensure adequate supply to power plants. Union power minister R.K. Singh informed the Lok Sabha earlier this month that revised stocking norms have been mandated by the Central Electricity Authority whereby pit-head stations have to maintain a stock of 17 days and non-pit head stations a stock of 26 days from February to June every year. Coal India on Thursday said the stock enhancement to 45 mt at thermal power plants by the end of the fiscal is based on a projection where the average coal fired power generation of previous five years — from December to March — was considered and increased by 7 per cent. On top of the current stock of 20mt, an additional 25mt coal stock is required to meet the requisite demand. Coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain has held a workshop with senior officials of Coal India and its subsidiaries and underscored the importance of shoring up coal stocks at power plants with indigenous coal. Coal India’s despatches to power plants have peaked to 340 MTs at the end of November, posting a 23 per cent year on year growth. At this rate the public sector miner by the end of the fiscal anticipates crossing the previous high of supplying 491 MT to the power sector in 2018-19. Industry sources however pointed out that a cause for the coal stock crisis has been the outstanding dues from state and central power generating companies with the amount still at a substantial level of around Rs 15,100 crore in November but lower than Rs 21,500 crore at the start of the year. This creates a liquidity crunch for Coal India subsidiaries – Western Coalfields, Eastern Coalfields and Bharat Coking Coalfields that need large capex push.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
17-12-2021||Business||Byju’ to list in US through special purpose acquisition company ||Byju’s, India’s most valuable start-up, may follow in the footsteps of ReNew Power to list in the US through the special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) route. According to a Bloomberg report, the ed-tech major is considering a merger with one of Churchill Capital’s SPAC’s. It said the Byju Raveendran- led firm held talks with several potential SPAC partners and has made progress with Michael Klein’s Churchill Capital. Churchill Capital VII had raised more than $1.3 billion in February and trades on the New York Stock Exchange. The report added that under the preliminary terms discussed, Byju’s would raise up to $4 billion and seek a valuation of about $48 billion. It was valued at $21 billion, according to market research firm CB Insights. While Sebi is understood to be considering a framework for SPAC, its popularity has gone up in mature markets like the US over the past few years. There is speculation that many Indian start-ups are looking to tap this route, particularly after ReNew Power showed the way in August. The renewable energy firm got listed on the Nasdaq through SPAC after combining with RMG Acquisition Corporation (RMG II). A SPAC, also known as a ‘blank-cheque company’, is largely a shell firm which raises money through an initial public offering (IPO) and later merges or acquires an unlisted firm within a timeframe of two years. SPACs are usually formed by private equity funds or financial institutions with expertise in a particular industry or business sector. One of the main advantages of this mechanism is that it saves companies the time that is otherwise consumed in bringing out an IPO. In the case of ReNew Power, RMG II became a wholly owned subsidiary of its arm ReNew Energy Global plc and the company received $610 million in net proceeds. The report, however, added that while announcement from Byju’s could come as early as January, the negotiations are not final and that the Indian start-up could even consider a domestic IPO in 2022. Byju’s could thus join the likes of Paytm, Zomato and Nykaa, which have used the primary market frenzy to get listed on the bourses. Founded in 2015, Byju’s has made a series of acquisitions to consolidate its space in the sector. Recently, it acquired GeoGebra of Austria for an undisclosed sum after purchasing Aakash Educational Services Ltd (ASEL), Epic and Great Learning. The company had launched its flagship product, Byju’s — The Learning App, for classes 4-12 in 2015 and the app has over 11.5 crore registered students and 70 lakh annual paid subscriptions. The company is backed by investors such as Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, Naspers, General Atlantic, Tencent, Sequoia Capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
17-12-2021||Business||Meghmani Organics’s resolution plan for Kilburn approved by NCLT||Gujarat-based Meghmani Organics’s resolution plan for Kilburn Chemicals has been approved by the National Company Law Tribunal, Calcutta. BSE-listed Meghmani has proposed to pay 61.32 per cent of the outstanding admitted claims of secured financial creditors, Bank of Baroda and State Bank of India, making it one of the rare bankruptcy cases where the lenders managed to salvage the majority of their loan exposure. Kilburn, which is also listed on the BSE, has its registered office in Calcutta even as the company’s plant is located in Dahej, Gujarat. The plant, having annual capacity of 15,000 tonne, manufactures titanium dioxide which finds use in pigment. Meghmani also specialises in pigments, apart from agrochemicals. Since October, 2018, the company could not operate the plant because of liquidity problems. BoB took the company to the NCLT and the corporate insolvency resolution process was initiated on August 10, 2020. Once part of Williamson Magor Group under late Brij Mohan Khaitan, the character of Kilburn changed in the first decade of the century. Deepak Khaitan, the elder son of BM Khaitan, stepped down from the board and the shareholding of the group, which stood at 11.50 per cent as on September 30, 2021, was reclassified as non-promoter public shareholders. The company was managed by Sandip Kumar Jalan, who was married to B.M. Khaitan’s daughter, and his family. S.K. Jalan was the managing director of Kilburn Chemicals till the time of his untimely death on July 15, 2020 from Covid-linked illness. Jalan and his family was the identified promoter group of Kilburn. Following the acquisition of the company, Meghmani plans to delist Kilburn Chemicals from the bourses, extinguish the existing shares before putting fresh money into the revival of the company. In the end, Meghmani Organics, which has a market cap of close to Rs 3,000 crore, will be the sole shareholder of the company. The total value of the resolution plan is Rs 130.21 crore, the court order showed. The financial creditors, who formed the committee of creditors, received Rs 128.51 crore out of their total Rs 209.58 crore of admitted claim. The plan put forward by Meghmani received 100 per cent support from the CoC. While six companies had initially showed interest, four resolution plans were considered before selecting the successful one. During the court proceedings, Rishav Banerjee appeared on behalf of the resolution professional, Joy Saha on behalf of Meghmani and Ratnanko Banerjee for the CoC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
17-12-2021||Business||Budget 2022-23: India Inc pitches for continuation of reforms||India Inc on Thursday pitched for the continuation of reforms while ensuring tax and policy stability in the forthcoming Budget to prop up the economy hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. In the virtual pre-budget consultation held with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, industry chambers said  government measures will help firmly entrench the nascent signs of recovery being currently seen in private investment. Capital expenditure by the government through enhanced infrastructure spending should in the meantime continue to support growth, CII president TV Narendran said. “Infrastructure sector with a multiplier impact on the rest of the economy requires interventions especially to improve and diversify sources of financing. In this context, it is suggested that the government should consider developing the municipal bond market so that urban local bodies can raise funds for investing in infrastructure,” he said. Meanwhile, Assocham suggested extending a scheme the ‘Vivad Se Vishwas’ for highly regulated sectors such as telecom, power and mining, as also a dispute resolution scheme for issues related to customs. “We appreciate the government for the Vivaad se Vishwas scheme which has gone a long way in reducing the long pending litigations and resulted in greater success. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
17-12-2021||Business||SC appoints ex-judges to mediate Lalit Modi family property dispute||The Supreme Court on Thursday appointed two former judges — Justice Vikramjit Sen and Justice Kurian Joseph — to mediate the family property dispute between former IPL commissioner Lalit Modi and his estranged mother Bina Modi, after both the parties left the choice to Chief Justice N.V.Ramana. The bench also comprising Justice A.S. Bopanna and Justice Hima Kohli while appointing the two former judges to mediate the row at the newly set up International Arbitration and Mediation Centre, at Hyderabad, asked senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for Bina and Harish Salve for Lalit Modi to maintain utmost confidentiality. The mediation exercise has to be completed in three months. Lalit Modi has filed the present special leave petition challenging a Delhi High Court judgment which had upheld the right of Bina and her two other children Charu and Samira to file a suit for restraining the arbitration proceedings initiated by Lalit before a Singapore Arbitral Tribunal against his mother and siblings. Bina is the wife of late industrialist KK Modi Bina subsequently moved the Delhi High Court seeking a restraint on the arbitral proceedings on the ground that as per the trust deed left behind by K K Modi, any dispute within the family cannot be settled outside the country. A single judge dismissed Bina’s plea, but a division bench of the high court ruled in her favour. Lalit Modi had filed the present SLP. At the last hearing, the CJI had suggested to the warring family to amicably resolve the issue through mediation and asked them to come out with suitable names of ex judges to act as mediators. However, the two parties could not arrive at any common name. As a result both Rohatgi and Salve left the choice of appointing the mediators to the court. Sahara relief The Delhi high court has stayed the operation and implementation of two orders of the Centre for the investigation into nine companies related to the Sahara Group, according to PTI. The court said it was of the view that petitioners Sahara Housing Investment Corporation Ltd and others have made out a prima facie case for the  grant of interim relief and the balance of convenience is also in their favour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
17-12-2021||Business||Sameer Gehlaut sells 11.9% in Indiabulls Housing Finance||Sameer Gehlaut, the founder of Indiabulls Housing Finance, on Thursday sold 11.9 per cent in the company, in a move which observers said was ‘de-promoterisation’ of the housing finance company. Gehlaut made these sales through block deal windows on the BSE and the NSE. Some of the prominent buyers included Blackstone, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Morgan Stanley Asia. Data available from the stock exchanges showed that Sameer Gehlaut IBH Trust  sold 5,000,000 shares at Rs 268.49 apiece on the BSE —yielding almost Rs 134.25 crore. He also offloaded 298,43,200 shares at Rs 262.35 (Rs 783 crore) on the NSE and also 125,41,432 shares at Rs 266.82 (Rs 335 crore) on the bourse. In all, the transaction was valued at over Rs 1,252 crore. As on September 30, Gehlaut held 21.69 per cent of the company’s equity. Following Thursday’s stake sale, his combined stake (which includes other promoter firms) have come down to 9.8 per cent. In August 2020, Gehlaut had resigned as the executive chairman of Indiabulls Housing and he was replaced by S.S. Mundra, the former deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). He is currently the non-executive, non-independent director in the company. Gehlaut has disclosed he will be resigning from its board by the end of the current fiscal and he will be completing the process of de-promotorisation with requisite approvals. “I have sold 11.9 per cent in the company with a view to make the company a fully professionally managed and run company. With this sale, I and my promoter companies now own 9.8 per cent of the company,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
17-12-2021||Business||Central banks worldwide battle spiralling inflation||Central banks worldwide went on a firefighting mode against spiralling inflation with the Bank of England becoming the first major central bank to raise interest rates, some hours after the US Federal Reserve said it would end its pandemic-era bond purchases in March and pave the way for a three quarter-percentage-point interest rate hikes by the end of 2022. The European Central Bank on Thursday slightly reined in its stimulus programme, while the Bank of Japan will be meeting on Friday. Norway’s central bank on Thursday also raised its key policy interest rate  citing the upswing in the economy that it said was likely to continue. While the risks of uncontrolled prices have forced the central banks to react in varied degrees, India's central bank appeared to brush price concerns under the carpet at its policy meet last week. The Reserve Bank  projected a glide path for prices with inflation expected at 4-4.3 per cent by the end of the next fiscal — though the price prints released days after the projections indicate inflation can upend the growth impulses in the economy. Stock markets for now have welcomed the Fed’s decision to draw a clear road map to check inflation — by announcing it would end its bond buying programme by March and take recourse to three rate cuts next year. Wall Street’s main indices climbed on Thursday while the BSE Sensex and the Nifty reported gains after a four- session losing streak. “Global cues turned positive despite hawkish statement from the US Fed as investors turned optimistic that Fed policy tightening will help fight inflation without derailing economic growth. Investors shrugged off the risk of new Covid-19 restrictions, focusing instead on the prospect of more reassurances from central banks,’’ Siddhartha Khemka, head — retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said. Analysts are advising caution. They point out that stocks could face headwinds in the form of hawkish statements or actions from other central banks. That was confirmed after trading hours on Thursday when Bank of England (BOE) in a surprise decision raised the interest rates to 0.25 per cent from 0.1 per cent. The analysts warned that factors such as  the Omicron virus and higher inflation could play the spoilsport in the near term. US economy Powell on Wednesday acknowledged that the spreading virus was a risk that contributed to economic uncertainty. “The rise in Covid cases in recent weeks, along with the emergence of the Omicron variant, pose risks to the outlook,” he said. The Fed chair said that a quicker conclusion to bond buying — which officials first announced they would slow following their November meeting — would put policymakers in a position to react to a range of possible economic outcomes next year. And asked if there would be a big gap between when bond buying ended and when rate increases began, as there was during the last economic rebound, Powell said the situation was different this time. “The economy is so much stronger now there wouldn’t be the need for that kind of long delay.” With inputs from, PTI,  Reuters & NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
