18-12-2021||Business||Dhunseri Tea & Industries Ltd rejigs tea operations in Assam||Dhunseri Tea & Industries Ltd, promoted by Chandra Kumar Dhanuka, has rejigged its tea operations in Assam. The company has acquired a large estate in Dibrugarh, with 1.3-million-kg capacity, from Warren Tea while selling off three smaller gardens with a combined capacity of 8 lakh kg. Following the transaction, Dhunseri will be in the market with a 15 million kg tea portfolio, split between its own production of about 8 million kg and bought leaf of 7 million kg. The company also has a 9 million kg tea production portfolio in Malawi, Africa, and a sizable macadamia nut cultivation there. Explaining the rationale of the Assam portfolio rejig, Dhanuka said the aim was to have large gardens instead of smaller ones to reduce the cost of operations. “They (larger gardens) are easier to manage, cost of operation is lower due to economy of scale,” Dhanuka said, adding Dhunseri does not have any small gardens any more. Dhunseri paid Rs 27 crore for Balijan North Tea Estate, which predominantly makes CTC tea along with some amount of orthodox tea. It had a turnover of Rs 21.36 crore in 2020-21. Simultaneously, it concluded the sale of Santi Tea estate for Rs 6.01 crore. It had a production capacity of 2.24 lakh kg. It had sold two other gardens during the course of the year. The rejig comes at a time prices have come off amidst higher costs linked to wage hikes. Rating agency Icra has projected 2022 to be a challenging year for the north Indian gardens. “I am cautiously optimistic about the tea sector. There has to be a floor price for tea. I hope the governments will act on this idea. Else the industry will die,” Dhanuka argued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
18-12-2021||Business||India offers 8 oil and gas blocks for bidding in latest round||India has offered eight oil and gas blocks, mostly in Assam, for bidding in the latest bid round with a view to bringing more area under exploration, leading to an increase in domestic production and reduction of imports. Eight blocks have been offered in the seventh bid round of Open Acreage Licensing Policy (OALP), with bids due on February 15, 2022, the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) said. The “eight blocks spread over six sedimentary basins, five states covering 15,766 square kilometres of area. Out of eight blocks, five blocks are onland type, two blocks are Shallow Water-type and one block is ultra deep-water type,” the DGH said in the notice inviting offers. Three out of the five onland blocks are in Assam Arakan or Assam Shelf while one is in Rajasthan. One block in the Satpura basin has also been offered. Two shallow water blocks are in Cambay off the Gujarat coast while one ultra-deepwater block in the Cauvery basin is also on offer. The last bid round, OALP-VI, attracted just three bidders, two of whom were state-owned explorers ONGC and Oil India. Twenty one blocks or areas were offered for exploration and production of oil and gas in the OALP Bid Round-VI, for which bidding closed on October 6. Besides ONGC and OIL, Sun Petrochemicals was the only other company to have bid, according to summary of bids” posted by the DGH. The government has been hoping that opening up more acreage for exploration will help boost India’s oil and gas production, helping cut down the $90 billion oil import bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
18-12-2021||Business||Airtel clears deferred liabilities worth Rs 15,519 crore||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel on Friday said it has cleared deferred liabilities worth Rs 15,519 crore for the spectrum it acquired in 2014. The company said the move would enable it to save Rs 3,400 crore . Bharti had acquired 128.4Mhz spectrum, including that of Telenor, for a consideration of Rs 19,051 crore in the 2014 auction. The liabilities were due between 2026-27 and 2031-32 with 10 per cent interest, which was the highest rate amongst deferred liabilities and borrowings. It carried an average residual life of more than 7 years. “Airtel continues to exercise flexibilities towards a stronger and efficient capital structure. The company welcomes the DoT’s decision giving the industry the flexibility to prepay their deferred liabilities anytime at their NPV basis. This allows the licensees to efficiently plan and use their cash flows,” it said. The telecom sector recently got a shot in the arm with the government approving a blockbuster relief package for the industry, which included a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid, and allowing 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The measures, aimed at providing relief to companies, also included the scrapping of spectrum usage charge (SUC) for airwaves acquired in future auctions. Airtel has already stated that it will opt for four-year payments moratorium — on AGR and spectrum dues — being offered by the government as part of a relief package for the telecom sector. The company registered net profit of Rs 1,134 crore for the September 2021 quarter against a loss (attributable to owners of the parent) of Rs 763.2 crore during the year-ago quarter. Bharti Airtel’s about Rs 21,000 crore rights issue, which had opened on October 5 and closed on October 21, 2021, was oversubscribed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
18-12-2021||Business||India-UK free trade agreement talks to be launched next month||The negotiations for a free trade agreement between India and the UK would be launched next month and with Canada by March-April, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday. “So, we are looking at new ideas along with the FTA with the UAE. We are also simultaneously in discussions with Australia... UK, we launch possibly next month. Canada we may launch by about March or April,” he said speaking at the 94th Annual Convention of industry body Ficci here. Goyal, who also holds the textiles portfolio, said a “trillion-dollar opportunity” is waiting for the textiles industry, which is the largest job-creating sector in the country after farming. The proposed FTA between India and the UK is expected to unlock extraordinary business opportunities and generate jobs. “All the Gulf Cooperation Countries (GCC) have approached us for starting talks on behalf of the entire GCC grouping. Opportunities will come in a big way. We will have to be more ambitious and be grasping these opportunities. There is a trillion-dollar opportunity waiting for us in the world textile market,” the minister said. Goyal said most of the industries in the country are doing reasonably well, but still, there are few sectors that are under stress. He said in spite of certain Covid-related concerns around certain sectors, the industry has broadly redeemed itself and that merchandise exports touching $400 billion could be a reality this year, which would mean a 40 per cent annual growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
18-12-2021||Business||Sensex crashes by over 889 points on hawkish moves by central banks||The week ended on a poor note for investors as the benchmark Sensex crashed over 889 points on hawkish moves by central banks amid continued selling by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs). While the Sensex ended at 57011.74, thus tanking by 889.40 points or 1.54 per cent, the Nifty ended below 17000 at 16985.20 — a drop of 262.20 points. Market sentiment was affected by actions of various central banks in response to rising inflation overseas. The headwinds from inflation and consequent actions from central banks come at a time the mood remains cautious because of the rising reports of Omicron globally as well as in India. On Friday, the Centre said that the new variant was spreading rapidly, with the number of cases at more than 100. Observers said there were no positive triggers for retail investors to scoop up stocks even as FPIs continue to be on a sale mode because of concerns of rich valuations in India vis-à-vis other markets. So far in December, the FPIs have sold stocks worth Rs 13,500 crore. Analysts said the next key event is the Union budget in February and the subsequent  monetary policy meeting of the Reserve Bank. Stocks are expected to remain volatile now. Infosys led the short list of gainers in the Sensex pack, rising almost 3 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
18-12-2021||Business||Bank of Japan dials back emergency pandemic funding ||The Bank of Japan on Friday dialled back emergency pandemic funding but maintained ultra-loose policy and extended financial relief for small firms, cementing expectations it will remain among the most dovish central banks for the foreseeable future. BoJ governor Haruhiko Kuroda said borrowing costs will remain low in Japan even as other central banks hike interest rates, stressing the roll-back of emergency funding was in no way a prelude to a full-blown withdrawal of monetary stimulus. The BoJ’s decision, underpinned by cautious optimism that the economic damage wrought by the Covid crisis is gradually healing, came hours after Britain became the first G7 economy to raise rates since the onset of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
18-12-2021||Business||RBI board meets on Central Bank Digital Currency, private cryptos||The board of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) met in Lucknow on Friday and  discussed various aspects related to Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) and private cryptocurrencies. The discussions around the subject come at a time the government is planning to bring in a legislation cryptocurrencies, though the central bank remains sceptical of private cryptocurrency.  The RBI statement did not provide details of the meeting. The Centre has listed Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, for consideration in the ongoing winter session of Parliament. But reports said it may not be taken up during in the present session. The RBI has on many occasions expressed its strong views against cryptocurrencies, saying they pose  a serious threats to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country. It has also cast doubts on the number of investor accounts and their ticket size,with a substantial portion between Rs 500 and Rs 2,000. Last month, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das warned there were “far deeper issues” involved and that when a central bank expresses its apprehension on the virtual currency, it needs more discussions. Speaking to the press after its monetary policy meeting last week, Das said the RBI was at an advanced stage of introducing the digital currency, but was also taking care to ensure cyber security. “Just as a few years ago the major concern was fake Indian currency notes, similar things can also happen when we are launching CBDC,’’ he had said. The RBI statement said the board discussed the present domestic and global economic situation.The RBI has been less proactive on inflation compared to its global peers and has adopted a benign view on prices. Besides Das, deputy-governors Mahesh Kumar Jain, Michael Patra, M Rajeshwar Rao, and T Rabi Sankar were present at the meeting. RBI board directors Satish K Marathe, S Gurumurthy, Revathy Iyer and Sachin Chaturvedi attended the meeting. Debasish Panda, secretary, department of financial services, were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
18-12-2021||Business||Competition Commission of India suspends Amazon-FCPL deal||Amazon suffered a massive setback on Friday when the Competition Commission of India suspended its approval to the Jeff Bezos-owned retail giant’s deal in August 2019 through which it acquired a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupon Private Ltd and a 4.82 per cent indirect interest in Future Retail Ltd (FRL). The two Kishore Biyani companies have been at the centre of a proxy corporate battle between Amazon and Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Retail which signed a Rs 24,713 crore deal with Biyani in August 2020 to acquire Future Retail. Amazon has been trying to stymie the FRL-Reliance Retail by trying to assert its pre-emptive rights under the prior transactions in 2019. It has even obtained a favourable verdict from the Singapore arbitration tribunal which it has been trying to enforce in Indian courts without much success. The CCI decision to withhold its approval to the original FCPL-Amazon deal effectively erodes the basis on which the US giant is fighting the case. In its ruling, the CCI said Amazon had furnished false and incorrect information and suppressed certain material facts while seeking approval for the transaction with FCPL and did not adequately divulge the nature of its pre-emptive rights in Future Retail. The Commission asked Amazon to re-submit its application for approvals of that deal within the next 60 days and ordered it to pay fines amounting to Rs 202 crore for violation of several sections of the Competition Act. The fines must be paid within 60 days of Friday’s order. Deliberate design In its 57-page order, the CCI said that there was a “deliberate design on the part of Amazon to suppress the actual scope and purpose of its proposal in 2019 and that its approval for the transaction which was given in November that year, will remain in `abeyance’. While approving the Future Coupons-Amazon deal in November 2019, the CCI had mentioned that its order would stand revoked if, at any time, the information provided by the acquirer was found to be incorrect. “This approval should not be construed as immunity in any manner from subsequent proceedings before the Commission for violations of other provisions of the (Competition) Act," it had said. In June this year, the body had issued a show-cause notice to Amazon citing FCPL’s allegations that the US giant had taken completely divergent stand with respect to the transaction before the CCI while seeking its approval – and then before the arbitration tribunal and various Indian courts when it was trying to block the Future Retail-Reliance deal. The accusation against Amazon is that it had submitted before the CCI that it had opted to invest in FCPL on account of account of its unique business model. But later during the battle with the Future group, it had said in the courts that the FCPL transaction had been struck because of the special and material rights that it was indirectly acquiring in Future Retail. The transaction between Amazon and FCPL was struck on August 12, 2019. At that time, several entities from the Future group including Future Retail, Future Coupon and certain promoter companies had also entered into a shareholders’ agreement (SHA). In its notice, CCI said Amazon had represented before the commission that the Future group SHA was independent of its acquisition of 49 per cent in FCPL. However, it was brought to its notice that Amazon had subsequently claimed before the arbitrator that the SHA was an integral part of the combination – a fact that had not been disclosed before the CCI. The Commission also said that Amazon had concealed its strategic interest over FRL. CCI, in the order said that Amazon had represented that its rationale behind the investment was the business potential of FCPL to create long-term value and provide return on the investment made by Amazon. However, anti-trust regulator said that Amazon’s internal correspondent clearly showed that the global retail giant intended to get a “foot in the door” in the Indian retail sector at a time when Indian laws did not allow foreign investment in offline retail companies engaged in both food and non-food retail. Amazon was looking to contrive a mechanism to acquire Future Retail (called Taj in the internal e-mails) which would give it “the largest asset with a pan-India footprint”. CCI observed that Amazon had “continued with the suppression of actual purpose of the combination’’. The body felt that the purpose of Amazon to pursue the investment or the combination was not the potential of the gift and loyalty card business of FCPL, but, the latter was envisaged only as a vehicle and the main purpose was the business of FRL. A Reuters report recently said that Amazon warned the antitrust body that revoking the 2019 deal with Future Group would send a negative signal to foreign investors and allow Reliance Industries to "further restrict competition".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
