19-12-2021||Business||CIC dismisses appeal seeking disclosure of RBI's electoral bonds reports||Central Information Commission (CIC) dismissed an appeal seeking disclosure of reports submitted by State Bank of India to the Centre and Reserve Bank of India, regarding sale and encashment of electoral bonds in 2018 which are withheld by SBI on grounds of personal information held in fiduciary capacity. Nearly, three years after an appeal was filed with the Central Information Commission (CIC), the highest adjudicator of RTI matters, Information Commissioner Suresh Chandra noted that there appears to be "no public interest" in further prolonging the matter as there is no substance in the appeal calling for intervention by the Commission. "The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing both the parties and perusal of records, feels that due information has been given to the appellant," he said. The case pertains to an RTI application filed by activist Venkatesh Nayak seeking denomination wise details of electoral bonds sold by State Bank of India (SBI) in March and April 2018, total number of buyers, application forms submitted for buying the bonds, reports submitted by SBI to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the government on sale and encashment of bonds, in his eight pointer application. The SBI provided the data on electoral bonds sale through various branches, but did not give details on application forms submitted for purchase of the bonds and the reports submitted by the bank to RBI and the government, citing two exemption clauses, information being held in fiduciary capacity and information being personal in nature, to deny the information. Nayak approached the CIC in 2018 with his appeal against the SBI's denial of information. He argued that the Electoral Bonds Scheme, 2018 was not a legislation duly enacted by parliament or any state legislature. It was merely an instrument brought into existence by the Government of India in exercise of the powers conferred on it by subsection(3) of Section 31 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), he said. He cited the reply of SBI on his query on the methodology applied by the bank to ascertain whether or not a political party redeeming electoral bonds with any of authorised branches had secured at least one per cent of the votes polled during the last round of general elections, as required under the electoral bond scheme. The SBI had said it referred to Election Commission of India (ECI) website to prepare the list based on votes polled for the party in last election. Nayak, in between, had also filed another RTI application before ECI which said they do not compile such information. He alleged that the reply given by the SBI was misleading. "The appellant (Nayak) reiterated that there were sufficient public interest grounds to require the disclosure of the information, to ensure transparency of action in order to make the government and its instrumentalities accountable to the governed," Chandra noted in his order. After three hearings, Information Commissioner Chandra agreed with SBI, saying the bank emphasised that the Supreme Court had already seized of the matter relating to the electoral bond scheme and had refused to stay the said scheme vide their order dated March 26, 2021, and since there were no specific directions to make the information public, the said scheme continued to be valid and continued to cast an obligation and duty on the respondent to maintain confidentiality and not to disclose information with respect to contested points of the application. "The authorities have claimed exemption by virtue of the provisions under section 8(1)(e) (fiduciary) and (j) (personal) of the RTI Act. The claim of the respondent has been buttressed by the law laid down by the Supreme Court in K S Puttaswamy case," Chandra said while dismissing the appeal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
19-12-2021||Business||India's biggest privatisations - Air India and Bharat Petroleum ||Changing tracks helps. But, not taking the beaten path isn't always helpful. This is the story of two of India's biggest privatisations - Air India and Bharat Petroleum (BPCL). Nearly two decades after the last privatisation, a landmark divestment concluded this year when the loss-making national carrier Air India was sold to the Tatas. This was made possible only after the government changed the track from selling 76 per cent of its stake in the national carrier to putting on block its entire 100 per cent holding as well as giving bidders an option of deciding how much debt they were willing to take over. But in the case of BPCL, the government ignored suggestions of following its time-tested policy of putting on block 26 per cent stake along with management control, just like it had done in the case of Hindustan Zinc and Balco. Instead, it offered its entire 52.98 per cent in the company operating in a sunset sector. The result - just three bids came in, and two of them struggled to arrange for finances for the acquisition which going by current market value should not be less than USD 10-12 billion. So, while Air India privatisation sailed, BPCL is dragging on. Some say that if the government had offered just 26 per cent along with management control, it would have given a better value for the remainder stake once the company added value under private management. But the biggest disinvestment in India's history is expected in the January-March quarter of 2022 with the country's largest insurer Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) slated to come out with an initial public offer (IPO) and list itself on the bourses. The government currently holds 100 per cent in LIC. Yet the biggest achievement of circa 2021 was shedding of the taboo that 'family silver' was being sold. Privatisation helps save taxpayers money gained more roots than ever before. The year 2021 was a landmark in many aspects in terms of the government's disinvestment programme, as it saw the first privatisation in 19 years and categorizing government companies as strategic and non-strategic -- making it clear to the private sector that the government will walk the talk when it says that 'government has no business to be in business'. Two CPSEs, Air India and Central Electronics Ltd, were privatized in 2021 the first since 2003-04. While Tata group bought the ailing carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore, Central Electronics under the Ministry of Science and Technology was sold to Delhi-based firm Nandal Finance and Leasing for Rs 210 crore. Also, work is underway to privatise 5 CPSEs, BPCL, BEML, Shipping Corp, Pawan Hans and NINL. Alliance Air and three other Air India subsidiaries too would be privatised during 2022. The tone was set by Prime Minister Narendra Modi early in February making a strong pitch for privatisation of public sector units and fiscal support to sick PSUs puts a burden on the economy and public sector units should not be run just because of legacy. The government unveiled the new Public Sector Enterprise (PSE) policy, which had four strategic sectors in which "bare minimum" number of CPSEs will be retained and the rest would be privatised or merged or made subsidiary of another CPSE or closed down. The four sectors are atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services. In non-strategic sectors, CPSEs will be privatised, or will be considered for closure. The policy states that NITI Aayog will recommend the CPSEs under strategic sectors that are to be retained under government control or to be considered for privatisation or merger or put under the control of another PSE or for closure. The alternative mechanism for strategic disinvestment, comprising Finance Minister, Road Transport Minister and Ministers of the Administrative Ministries willl give final approval for the CPSEs to be retained, or privatised or merged or made subsidiary or closed down. The budget for 2021-22 set a target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore from disinvestment. Of this, Rs 1 lakh crore is estimated to come from the sale of government stake in PSU banks and insurance companies -- the majority from the IPO of LIC. A sum of Rs 75,000 crore is budgeted from CPSE stake sale. Asset Monetisation The government also launched a four-year (FY 2022-2025) road map for a Rs 6-lakh-crore asset monetisation plan, a large chunk of which will be through brownfield assets of central ministries and public sector entities across road, railways and power. The sector wise target set for monetisation are road (over Rs 1.60 lakh crore), Railways (Rs 1.52 lakh crore), power transmission (Rs 45,200 crore), power generation (Rs 39,832 crore) and telecom (Rs 35,100 crore). Privatisation Since coming to power in 2014, the NDA government has talked about the sale of PSUs, especially loss-making ones, such as Air India. It sought to pass off the sale of state-run entities, such as HPCL to ONGC, another PSU, as strategic sale, drawing criticism even from the CAG. It is now trying to push privatisation as a key reform initiative and has even added state-run banks and a general insurance company to the privatisation list. Air India, which was surviving on Rs 20 crore a day fund infusion by the government, was a case of an elephant in the room for previous governments. After an unsuccessful attempt in 2018, when the government was selling 76per cent in the national carrier, the government in 2020 floated fresh EoI for 100 per cent sale. But Covid delayed the privatisation plan and the sale process spilled over to 2021. Air India had total debt of Rs 61,562 crore as of August 31. 75% of this debt or Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to a special purpose vehicle AIAHL before handing over the airline to Tata group by this month-end. Now, work is on to monetise Alliance Air and 3 other Air India subsidiaries -- AI Airport Services Ltd (AIASL), AI Engineering Services Ltd, Hotel Corporation of India that runs Centaur hotels in Delhi and Srinagar. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
19-12-2021||Business||SEBI to auction Vishwamitra International Infra's properties ||To help recover investors’ money, markets regulator Sebi will auction eight properties of Vishwamitra International Infra next month for a reserve price of Rs 2.8 crore. These properties are vacant lands located in Bengal, the Securities and Exchange Board of India said in a notice. Inviting bids for the sale of these properties, Sebi said the auction will be conducted through online mode on January 27, 2022 between 11 am and 1 pm. The regulator has asked the intending bidders to make their own independent enquiries regarding the measurement, nature, type, classifications, encumbrances, litigations, attachments and liabilities of the properties put on auction. Procurement technologies have been engaged by Sebi to assist it for sale of the properties. Vishwamitra International had allotted over 41.5 lakh non-convertible debentures (NCDs) worth Rs 41.61 crore in 2012-13 to Vishwamitra India Tour & Hotels (its group company), which in turn transferred these NCDs to 83,109 investors, without complying with public issue norms, according to a Sebi order issued in 2016. As of March 2014, the amount raised through NCDs by Vishwamitra International was Rs 107 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
19-12-2021||Business||Foxconn India factory workers hospitalised after food poisoning||Several employees of a Foxconn India unit, which makes iPhones for Apple Inc, were hospitalised on Saturday after a bout of food poisoning, a source familiar with the matter said. The food poisoning occurred earlier this week at Foxconn’s dormitories, where a majority of its staff lives, said a second source. A bulk of the Taiwanese manufacturer’s workforce is women. It was not immediately clear how many workers are seriously ill and whether the incident would disrupt production at the plant in Sriperumbudur, which is on the outskirts of the southern city of Chennai. Foxconn did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
19-12-2021||Business||Government gets financial bids for Pawan Hans stake||The government has received an undisclosed number of financial bids for the sale of its stake in ailing helicopter operator Pawan Hans, moving the divestment process to the last stage. “The financial bids for Pawan Hans divestment have been received by the transaction adviser. The process now moves to a concluding stage,” Dipam secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. He, however, did not disclose the number of bidders. The government is selling its entire 51 per cent stake in Pawan Hans. State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), which holds the remaining 49 per cent, has also offered its entire shareholding in the company for sale along with the government stake. Set up in 1985, Pawan Hans has a fleet of over 40 helicopters and over 900 employees, less than half of them on permanent roles. It provides helicopter services to support the exploration activities of ONGC and to India’s Northeast. For 2019-20, the company reported a net loss of Rs 28 crore, lower than Rs 69 crore in the previous year. As on March 31, 2020, its authorised capital stood at Rs 560 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
19-12-2021||Business||City gas distribution network receives 430 bids in 65 areas||The city gas distribution network has received about 430 bids in 65 geographical areas, which is expected to result in investments worth Rs 80,000 crore, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board has said. During the bidding for the 11th round of city gas distribution auction, the regulator said all the 65 geographical areas got multiple bids, which indicates growing competition in the clean energy fuel distribution business. The geographical areas, which would be part of the bidding, were Purulia and Bankura districts, East Midnapore, West Midnapore and Jhargram districts and Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. The technical bids would be opened between December 17 and December 22, 2021, PNGRB said. The 65 areas to be bid out in the 11th CGD bidding round include Jammu, Udhampur, Samba and Kathua districts in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, Nizamabad in Telangana, the Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu, East Midnapore in Bengal, Madurai in Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan’s Bikaner and Churu districts. After the completion of the 11th CGD round, 96 per cent of India’s population and 86 per cent of its geographic area would be covered under the CGD network, petroleum and natural gas minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said. In the 10th round, PNGRB had given away city gas distribution licences for 50 geographical areas. At present, there are 228 geographical areas authorised by PNGRB in 27 states and Union territories covering about 53 per cent of the country’s geography and 70 per cent of the population. The regulator has authorised approximately 33,764 km Natural Gas Pipeline Network across the country with the aim to create a national gas grid and increase the availability of natural gas across the country. The country consumes around 145 million standard cubic metres a day (mmscmd) of gas. Gas comprises about 6.2 per cent of India’s primary energy mix, far behind the global average of 24 per cent. The government plans to increase this share to 15 per cent by 2030. India’s gas demand is expected to be driven by the fertiliser, power, city gas distribution and steel sectors. India’s energy demand is expected to grow at 4.2% per year over the next 25 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
19-12-2021||Business||Odisha govt approves Arcelor plan to set up integrated steel plant ||The Odisha government has approved a proposal from ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel’s (AM/NS) to set up a 24 million tonnes per annum integrated steel plant at Mahakalpara block of Kendrapara district at an investment of Rs 1,02,275 crore. The decision was taken at a meeting of the high-level clearance authority (HLCA) chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday. With this project, Odisha has garnered investments worth Rs 2.70 lakh crore in the past 12 months, creating potential employment opportunities for over 1.6 lakh persons. “This mega project will generate direct employment opportunities to 16,000 persons and create significant indirect employment opportunities through ancillary and downstream industries and services. The approved project is the largest project in the manufacturing sector in the country,” said a press release issued by the chief minister’s office. At its Kendrapara complex, ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel (AM/NS) will produce various grades of steel with its latest green steel-making technology. It will also produce high value added steel downstream products. This facility will also produce 18.75 MT of cement annually, making it one of the largest cement manufacturing plants in the country and will boost the infrastructure development in the region. The company will also develop a downstream industry park to promote a cluster of micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs) and help import substitution. A large number of ancillary manufacturing companies are expected to establish their units in this region to support the huge steel-making facility, the press release said. The infrastructure to be developed for the Kendrapara projects facility will provide a boost to the logistics and overall development of the region. This modern, green and environment-friendly steel making facility will put Kendrapara and Odisha on the world steel map. A number of international equipment manufacturers will be stakeholders in this project and catalyse more employment opportunities to the state. The mega project will get completed in seven years in phases. The logistic infrastructure, power and water utilities and all the clearances for the project will be provided in a time bound manner by the government agencies, which will be monitored by a high-powered committee chaired by the state’s chief secretary. ⚫ Plan is to set up a 24 million tonnes per annum integrated steel plant at Mahakalpara block of Kendrapara district at an investment of Rs 1,02,275 crore. ⚫ With this project, Odisha has garnered investments worth Rs 2.70 lakh crore in the past 12 months, creating potential employment opportunities for over 1.6 lakh persons||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
