20-12-2021||Business||Public Sector Banks recover more than Rs 5.49 lakh crore over last 7 fiscal years: Govt||The government has taken comprehensive steps to reduce NPAs and to effect recovery, enabling public sector banks to recover more than Rs 5.49 lakh crore over the last seven fiscal years, the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. In a written reply, Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad said that with regard to the details of the recovery rate of non-performing assets (NPAs), the RBI has informed that it has not formally defined 'recovery rate' in the context of NPAs in the banking industry. "Comprehensive steps have been taken by the Government to reduce NPAs and to effect recovery, which enabled PSBs to recover Rs 5,49,327 crore over the last seven financial years," he said. However, as per RBI data, recovery made by public sector banks (PSBs) during the financial year as a percentage of gross NPA as at beginning of the financial year (FY) has improved from 11.33 per cent in 2017-18, to 13.52 per cent in 2018-19, and to 14.69 per cent in 2019-20. "In FY2020-21, despite widespread impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy and its cascading effect on the actions in respect of recovery measures, the recovery during the financial year as a percentage of gross NPA as on beginning of the financial year was still at 12.28 per cent," the minister said. The minister also informed that primarily as a result of transparent recognition of stressed assets, gross NPAs of PSBs rose from Rs 2,79,016 crore (gross NPA ratio of 4.97 per cent) as on March 31, 2015, to Rs 8,95,601 crore (gross NPA ratio of 14.58 per cent) as on March 31, 2018. He further said that as a result of government's strategy of recognition, resolution, recapitalisation and reforms, NPAs have since declined to Rs 6,16,616 crore (gross NPA ratio of 9.11 per cent) as on March 31, 2021. To a question related to PAN Card, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said in some cases, persons have been allotted more than one PAN. However, all duplicate PAN cards, as per record, have been de-duplicated, he said. The number of PANs which have been de-duplicated is 12,12,527, he said, and added this does not include PANs which have been re-activated over a period of time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
20-12-2021||Business||Sensex nosedives over 1,800 points in mid-trade||The Indian equity benchmarks crashed on Monday with the 30-share Sensex falling over 1,800 points or 3.2 per cent and Nifty 50 index breaking below its important psychological level of 16,450 as spread of Omicron variant of Coronavirus rattled investors' sentiment. Spread of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron has stoked fears of stagflation, analysts said. Stagflation is a scenario with rising inflation and stagnant or declining economic growth due to the spread of Omicron and expectations of lockdowns. As of 1:02 pm, the Sensex was down 1,752 points or 3 per cent at 55,272 and Nifty 50 index dived 543 points or 3.2 per cent to 16,442. Asian share markets fell and oil prices slid on Monday as surging Omicron Covid-19 cases triggered tighter curbs in Europe and threatened to swamp the global economy into the New Year. Beijing lightened the mood a little by cutting one-year loan rates for the frost time in 20 months, though some had hoped for an easing in five-year rates as well. Chinese blue chips still dipped 0.4 per cent, while MSCI's index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 0.8 per cent. Japan's Nikkei dropped 1.7 per cent and South Korean stocks 1.2 per cent. S&P 500 futures shed 0.8 per cent and Nasdaq futures almost 1 per cent. EUROSTOXX 50 futures lost 1.1 per cent and FTSE futures 1.0 per cent. The spread of Omicron saw the Netherlands go into lockdown on Sunday and put pressure on others to follow, though the United States seemed set to remain open. Back home, selling pressure was visible across the sectors as all the 15 sector gauges compiled by the National Stock Exchange were trading lower led by the Nifty Metal Index's over 3 per cent decline. Nifty Bank, Auto, Financial Services, FMCG, IT, PSU Bank, Private Bank, Realty and Consumer Durable indices also fell between 1.5-2.85 per cent. Mid- and small-cap shares were also facing selling pressure as Nifty Midcap 100 index declined 2.76 per cent and Nifty Smallcap 100 index dropped nearly 3 per cent. Forty-eight shares in the Nifty 50 basket were trading lower led by Bajaj Finance's 4 per cent fall. JSW Steel, Tata Steel, State Bank of India, Bharat Petroleum, Tata Motors, ONGC, HDFC Bank, Hero MotoCorp, Axis Bank, Tech Mahindra, NTPC, Hindalco and Bajaj Finserv also fell between 2.5-3.6 per cent. On the flipside, Cipla and Sun Pharma were among the notable gainers. The overall market breadth was extremely bearish as 2,389 shares were declining while 568 were advancing on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
20-12-2021||Business||Two-wheeler leaders race for EV knowhow||Two-wheeler leaders are riding piggy-back on the technology of their foreign joint venture partners to kickstart their own EV (electric vehicles) programmes in the country. Hero MotoCorp has announced a joint venture with Taiwan based Gogoro Inc, a leading battery swapping EV player, and said it would launch its first EV in the last quarter of 2021-2022. Bajaj Auto is restructuring its joint venture with KTM AG to get better access to EV technology from its parent company Piere Mobility AG (PMAG), while TVS Motors and BMW Motorrad have extended the  terms of their joint venture to develop joint platforms for EVs. Hero MotoCorp has a partnership with Taiwanese electric scooter manufacturer Gogoro to build a battery swapping network across India and manufacture Hero-branded, Gogoro Network-powered electric two-wheelers. Gogoro, established in 2011, has become a leading EV player in the Taiwanese market since the launch of its first e-scooter in 2015. It has over 2,000 battery swap stations that handle up to 265,000 swaps on a daily basis. The batteries and charging stations are all linked to the Gogoro Network cloud service which keeps a tab on battery condition and decides how fast the batteries need to charge. The ‘‘Powered by Gogoro Network’’ programme gives Gogoro’s partners access to the company’s innovations and intellectual property, including its drivetrains and controllers, components and smart systems so that they can develop and roll out their own electric vehicles that integrate Gogoro's battery swapping facilities. Speaking on the tie-up, Pawan Munjal, chairman and CEO at Hero MotoCorp, said, “This partnership will further extend the work which we are doing at our R&D hubs at the Centre of Innovation and Technology (CIT) in Jaipur and our tech centre in Germany”. The company also owns a near 35 per cent stake in Ather Energy, one of the top electric two-wheeler manufacturers in India. Bajaj Auto Ltd is eyeing access to electric vehicle (EV) technologies through the restructuring of its joint venture with Austrian bikemaker KTM AG, sources in the company said. Bajaj Auto International Holding BV, its wholly owned subsidiary, has swapped 46.5 per cent out of its about 48 per cent stake in KTM AG for a 49.9 per cent stake in PTW Holding, thus becoming an equity holder along with Pierer lndustrie in PTW Holding. Owned by industrialist Stefan Pierer, Pierer Industrie holds more than a 63 per cent stake in Pierer Mobility AG (PMAG), which now owns a 99.7 per cent stake in KTM AG, the maker of motorcycles under KTM, Husqvarna and GasGas brands. “The restructuring will simplify Bajaj Auto’s shareholding structure in KTM Group. Besides KTM AG, the parent company Pierer Mobility has several other subsidiaries including Pexco, which makes electric bikes," a company insider said, indicating the company’s plans to get access to EV technologies. In December 2019, PMAG inducted electric bike maker Pexco GmbH as a wholly owned subsidiary. The acquisition represented early steps by PMAG aiming for two-wheeler electrification globally as the company drew plans for Pexco to achieve a turnover of 100 million euros in 2020. “Bajaj Auto’s intent behind swapping its stake from KTM to its parent company is to get a better access to the EV technologies as Pierer Mobility also has a subsidiary named Pexco, which produces and sells electric bikes," said an auto analyst. Coming from KTM, the EV technologies would be more sophisticated and could be used in electric bikes as well, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
20-12-2021||Business||Economy set for strong rebound in current fiscal: CEOs||Indian economy is all set for a strong rebound in the current fiscal posting a growth rate of 9-10 per cent, says a CEOs poll conducted among the members of the CII National Council. A large number of CEOs polled, however, appeared worried about the impact of the new Covid variant Omnicron on services and the manufacturing sector. As regards growth, about 10 per cent of the CEOs polled believe that it could even exceed 10 per cent during 2021-22, the CII said in a release on Sunday. “Government’s strong emphasis on public works, timely interventions to boost liquidity and several reforms carried out in the recent months including easing regulations, production linked incentives scheme, RoDTEP and several other bold reforms have buoyed the optimism on higher economic growth,” said CII president T.V. Narendran. The poll is based on responses of about 100 CEOs. On the impact of Omicron on business, 55 per cent of the CEOs polled expect that the services sector would get adversely impacted due to the spread of the new variant of coronavirus, while another 34 per cent of the CEOs indicated that it could adversely impact manufacturing activities. According to the CEOs poll, 56 per cent of the respondents indicated that the economy would grow in the range of 9 per cent to 10 per cent during 2021-22, while another 10 per cent polled expected the growth rate in excess of 10 per cent this fiscal year, CII said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
20-12-2021||Business||Artha to scale up direct investment covering over 100 start-ups||Artha India Ventures (AIV) plans to scale up its direct investment covering over 100 start-ups by the end of 2022. The move comes at a time of rising interest among domestic family offices and high net worth individuals in making a direct private investment in Indian as well as global start-ups. A study by Trica Capital estimates 40 per cent of the family offices have doubled their allocation to private markets in the past five years. Around 75 per cent of the investors covered in the study see direct start-up investment as the highest conviction opportunity in the next three to five years. AIV, the alternate investment arm from the family office of Ashok Kumar Damani, was founded in 2012 and is currently invested in a portfolio of 85 start-up companies spread across India, the US, and Israel. Artha India Ventures has already scored successful exits from its investments in Oyo Rooms (150x), Purplle (120x), Tala (65x), and Coutloot (40x) and plans to scale up its investments further both in India and overseas. Anirudh A. Damani, director, Artha India Ventures, said the assets under management of the family office (excluding structured funds) have the potential to reach $70 million in the next couple of years. A combination of better control and lower volatility compared to equity is pushing several family offices to consider direct investment in start-ups as an alternative to investing in publicly listed companies. “Private equity is better in tidying over short term shocks because of its relatively longer investment cycle. Moreover, family offices in India are mostly entrepreneurial and private equity offers better control and lower volatility compared to stocks. Combining all of that, there is a compelling argument that family offices should have allocation in private equity as well as stock markets,” said Damani. Damani said fintech, retail and consumer tech, e-commerce and logistics are among the start-up sectors where family offices are looking to scale up their exposure. He added that the 85 odd companies where AIV has investment have generated almost a 51 per cent IRR (internal rate of return). However, a key challenge from an investor perspective is the time-consuming process in organising a funding round of a start-up that could take several months during which the valuation of a firm may fluctuate. Damani said there is a need to streamline the process and make it easier for start-ups to raise capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
20-12-2021||Business||Essar Group eyes Vietnam expansion||Essar Group promoters Ravi and Prashant Ruia met with the Vietnamese leadership as they looked for investment opportunities and potential business collaborations in the South East Asian nation, the company said on Sunday. Essar Exploration and Production Ltd (EEPL) and ENI of Italy have a significant investment in Block 114, located in the offshore area of Central Vietnam. Significant oil and gas discovery was announced in this block which is the largest hydrocarbon find in SE Asia spanning two decades, it said in a statement. The Block has approximately 2 billion barrels of oil and gas resources. “Having invested over $300 million in Block 114, Essar and ENI are committed to a fast track development of the Ken-Bau basin whilst exploring for more hydrocarbons in Dan Day basin and other prospects. Development of Block 114 is of utmost importance for energy interests of Vietnam,” it said. The commercial production of gas and condensate from this block will be a key strategic benefit for the central region of Vietnam. Chairman of the Vietnam National Assembly Hue greeted Essar for its continued investment in Vietnam and called on to further increase the investments. Prashant Ruia, director, Essar Capital, said: “Essar is committed to the development of Block 114, making it a significant resource for oil and gas in Vietnam’s economy... ”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
20-12-2021||Business||Plea to extend filing deadline due income tax portal glitches||Persistent glitches at the new income tax portal have prompted tax professionals to urge union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to extend the income tax filing deadline to February 28, 2022. The last date for filing returns for assessment year 2021-22 is December 31. Direct Tax Professionals’ Association has listed several problems with the new income tax portal, which was inaugurated in June but has since faced flak on account of multiple technical glitches . According to the DTPA, the income tax portal is not allowing the filing of Form 10-IE, which allows taxpayers to exercise/withdraw the option on the new income tax regime. Companies are facing problems in filing Form 10-IC if they have chosen to pay concessional tax at the rate of 22 per cent under section115BAA of the Income Tax Act. “On behalf of our association, we request your kind intervention for the extension of the due dates of filing of returns at least till 28th February, 2022 and also your help to early resolution of pending problems faced by the taxpayers in the new Income Tax portal,” said Kamal Kumar Jain, president DTPA and Narayan Jain, chairman, representation committee, DTPA in a letter to the finance minister. CBDT has disclosed a total of 3,71,74,810 income tax returns have been filed up to December 17, 2021. The government in a statement earlier this month had urged tax assesses to avoid last minute rush and file their returns before the deadline. Net Direct Tax collections for 2021-22 as on December 16, 2021 was Rs 9.45 lakh crore, posting a 60 per cent growth in collections over corresponding period of previous year. Cumulative advance tax collections as on December 16 was at Rs. 4.60 lakh crore posting a year on year growth of 53.5 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
20-12-2021||Business||RBI's PCA framework may put weak NBFCs in a spot||The Reserve Bank’s prompt corrective action framework unveiled for non-banking finance companies could see the weaker shadow lenders resort to higher provisions or sales to asset reconstruction companies (ARCs). The RBI on December 14 said NBFCs like banks would be subject to PCA from October 1, 2022, based on their financial position on or after March 31, 2022. Under this mechanism, curbs will be imposed on weaker entities if certain metrics breach thresholds set by the RBI. Though all NBFCs will not come under the framework, observers say the latest rules should be seen in the context of a clarification by the banking regulator in November that may push up bad loans. Following the clarification, analysts have projected bad loans could go up for NBFCs. While Icra projected bad loans to rise 160-180 basis points, India Ratings and Research said it will increase NPAs by one-third. In the PCA framework, the RBI has set three indicators for deposit taking and non-deposit taking NBFCs: capital adequacy ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and net non-performing assets (NPAs) ratio. There are also three risk thresholds. With regard to asset quality, if net NPAs of the NBFCs rise above 6 per cent and are under 9 per cent, they will fall under the first risk threshold. The other two categories set by the RBI are net NPAs rising above 9 per cent but under 12 per cent and over 12 per cent, respectively According to a note from India Ratings, NBFCs breaching any of the risk threshold have time till March 2022 to correct their books as the guidelines will be based on year-end numbers. NBFCs with net NPAs of 6 per cent and higher may have to make higher provisions or sell to asset reconstruction companies during the second half of the current fiscal to bring the ratio within the RBI mandated threshold. This however, may impact their profitability and capital buffers. India Ratings pointed out that currently most of the large NBFCs are comfortably poised to  comply with the regulations and that many of them have raised capital before and during pandemic, leading to an improvement in their capital buffers. A note from Icra said among the large NBFCs with asset size more than Rs 25,000 crore, about three entities are in breach of the net NPA criterion as of September 2021. Though the rating agency did not disclose the identities of these companies, it said that they have an established parentage. Analysts at Motilal Oswal said only Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services has net NPAs of above 6 per cent, though it could bring the number down to below 6 per cent by the end of the current fiscal year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
20-12-2021||Business||LIC IPO unlikeely in current financial year||The government is unlikely to come up with the IPO of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) in the current financial year ending March 2022, as the valuation of the state-owned behemoth is taking more than anticipated time, and the preparatory work is still far from complete. There are still some issues that need to be addressed concerning the valuation of LIC, a senior official of one of the merchant bankers said. Even after the valuation, several regulatory processes have concluded, the official said. However, selloff secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey later in a tweet expressed confidence that IPO plans of LIC are on course and it would happen in the January-March quarter of 2021-22. “It is reiterated that the plan is on course for the IPO in the last quarter of this fiscal,” Pandey tweeted. The merchant banker added that the IPO requires vetting not only by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) but also the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) that has been headless for almost seven months. Valuation of LIC is a complex process because of its size, product mix, real estate assets, subsidiaries, and profitability sharing structure, and the size of share sale depends on the valuation, another official said. Given the number of regulatory procedures to be fulfilled, the official said it would be difficult to meet the deadline of the fourth quarter of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
20-12-2021||Business||Govt unlikely to table Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 in House||The much awaited privatisation of two state-owned banks will be delayed with the Modi government unlikely to table Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 in the ongoing session of Parliament. With the Winter session ending Thursday, the government’s top priority is to secure the House’s approval for gross additional spending of Rs 3.74 lakh crore under the  the supplementary demand for grants to be taken up on Monday or Tuesday, sources said. With the crucial assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab among others slated to be held early next year, the government is keen to go slow on the reform agenda to minimise the political damage it has suffered because of the year-long protests by the farmers. The government had withdrawn the three farm legislations after the farmer agitation and the bank unions, which observed a two-day strike, plan to hold further industrial action in the coming months. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said in her budget speech for 2021-22 that two public sector banks (PSBs) will be privatised during the fiscal as part of the government’s disinvestment drive to mop up Rs 1.75 lakh crore. According to the intent of the proposed bill, for privatising two PSBs, amendments need to be made in Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 and 1980 as well as incidental amendments in Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was expected to bring down the minimum government holding in the PSBs to 26 per cent from 51 per cent. Sources said a final call in this respect would be taken by the Union cabinet. Finance ministry officials said they are yet to shortlist the banks for privatisation. This could push the privatisation exercise to the next fiscal. Government think tank Niti Aayog has reportedly recommended the sell-off of Indian Overseas Bank and Central Bank of India to the  core group of secretaries on disinvestment,. The Centre had already listed the bank privatisation bill. The objects of the bill said  it was meant “to effect amendments in Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Acts, 1970 and 1980 and incidental amendments to Banking Regulation Act, 1949 in the context of Union Budget announcement 2021 regarding privatisation of two Public Sector Banks”. These Acts led to the nationalisation of banks in two phases and provisions of these laws have to be changed for the privatisation of banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
20-12-2021||Business||IOC-Syama Prasad Mukerjee Port tiff hits Haldia project||A petrochemical project ‘‘dedicated’’ to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run-up to the Bengal Assembly election is caught in a standoff between two entities controlled by his own government in Delhi. PM Modi laid the foundation stone of the Rs 1,019-crore venture of public sector Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) on February 7 for a catalytic dewaxing unit at Haldia refinery. The plant, projected to be completed by April 2023, plans to make lube oil base stock, an export substitute product. Ten months down the line, the oil marketing company is yet to start the groundwork for the plant which it had envisaged to build on a 175-acre plot which at present houses a closed unit of Hindustan Fertiliser Corporation Ltd. IOC, which reports to the petroleum ministry at the Centre in Delhi, says the owner of the HFCL land, Syama Prasad Mukerjee Port, Calcutta, which also reports to a central ministry — ports and shipping — has laid down onerous conditions for the plot. At a local industry meet organised by the state government earlier this week, an IOC official highlighted the land issue. “I don’t know if there is anyone here (in the meeting) from the port. We have been requesting them (SMP, Calcutta) for the land for the last one -and-a-half years. We want to build a petrochemical plant, which has a bright prospect. The future expansion is stuck due to the want of land,” Shambhu Chakraborty, general manager HR said at the meeting. He sought the help of two state ministers present at the meeting and promised local employment if the plant comes up. An IOC official later informed the port has sought a guarantee of 15 million tonne cargo handling through SMP, Calcutta, rent revaluation of the existing land parcels to the market rate. It has also offered the HFCL land at the prevailing market rate. Port’s counter The port countered the allegations leveled against it by the oil major. SMP, Calcutta chairman Vinit Kumar said the port could not possibly lease the plot to IOC because the land is still with HFCL. “We are awaiting the transfer of the land along with clearance of the pending lease rent due,” he said on Sunday. Kumar expressed anguish that IOC has been raking up the issue at public forums. “Port land is valuable. It is meant to be given to those who use the port facility. If an industry does not require the water front or proximity to port facilities, it can come up anywhere,” Kumar argued. “If IOC wants the land, it should give us a minimum guaranteed tonnage. If they are willing, we can give them some concession on the lease rent because as a port, the priority is to enhance cargo movement,” he added. IOC is in possession of 605.05 acres, out of which 480 acres has been given to the refinery at 99 per cent concession to the market rate. Another 121.63 acre land was given for the residential zone at a concession of 98.49 per cent. The land was given by the port at a concessional rate with a mutual but unwritten understanding that IOC's Haldia refinery would use the port at Haldia. It did so, before constructing a pipeline to the nearest port at Paradip in Odisha. IOC diverted 12 million tonne of cargo (importer crude oil) from 2008-9 to Paradip from Haldia, saving on the logistic cost to import crude oil as the Odisha port on the sea could handle bigger ships because of deeper draft. Port estimates it has lost around Rs 1,000 crore on account of port and vessel related charges since 2009-10 over and above Rs 33 crore it lost out every year on account of concessional land given to IOC. The PSU now handles around 4 million tonne (mt) of cargo annually compared with 14.5mt it handled in 2008-9. “IOC is a commercial organisation. It had diverted cargo for commercial interest. We suffered. It should now not cringe about paying market rate to the poor port,” a port official said. Alternatively, it may consider putting up the plant elsewhere if it does not want to use the port facilities, the official added. Change of guards When IOC started pitching for the project and lobbying for the land, Dharmendra Pradhan was the petroleum minister and Mansukh L. Mandaviya was the minister for port and shipping. During the cabinet reshuffle in July both of them were shifted out of their respective ministries. Hardeep Singh Puri is now at the helm of the petroleum ministry while former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal is the minister for ports, shipping and waterways. Pradhan as oil minister had written to the then chemicals and fertiliser minister Sadananda Gowda and minister Mandaviya seeking the land. He also objected to the high price the port was asking, arguing it would make the refinery ‘unviable’. The correspondence, however, demonstrated that the project was publicly announced even before it had all prerequisites in place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
