21-12-2021||Business||No cabinet decision taken on privatising 2 state-owned banks: FM ||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday informed Parliament that the union cabinet has not taken any decision “on the proposed privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs),” according to ndtv.com. In fact, she had declared the proposal of privatising two public sector banks during her budget speech for 2021-22. In a written response to a question in Rajya Sabha, Sitharaman said, "Consideration of various issues related to disinvestment is entrusted to the Cabinet Committee designated for this purpose. Decision by the Cabinet Committee has not been taken in this regard." The Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021, entailing privatisation of public sector banks, was listed in the ongoing Winter session of the Parliament but with the session ending on December 22, “the move is all set to be delayed,” ndtv.com added. And it added, “On November 16, NDTV had exclusively reported that the government may not bring the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 during the ongoing Winter session of Parliament, as it plans to have a relook at some key aspects related to the entire exercise before going ahead with the move.” Sources added the current market scenario is conducive for bringing the legislation and “discussions are likely to be held with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) before a final decision is taken on it.”  The impact of the Coronavirus pandemic and the rise of the omicron have also influenced the government's thinking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
21-12-2021||Business||Sensex surges 497 points to close at 56,319||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 497 points on Tuesday after a two-day selloff, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank amid a positive trend in other Asian markets. The 30-share BSE index jumped 497 points or 0.89 per cent to end at 56,319.01. Similarly, the NSE Nifty advanced 156.65 points or 0.94 per cent to 16,770.85. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Wipro, Tata Steel, Titan, Tech Mahindra and Sun Pharma. On the other hand, PowerGird, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance and SBI were among the losers. Indian benchmarks were positive tracking gains in other Asian markets, said Gaurav Garg, Head of Research, Capitalvia Global Research. "Traders took encouragement as a Commerce Ministry official said Indian exports showed a turnaround after December last year and are still strong," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.07 per cent to USD 71.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
21-12-2021||Business||Snapdeal files papers with Sebi to raise funds via IPO||E-commerce platform Snapdeal has filed preliminary documents with markets regulator Sebi to raise funds through an initial public offer (IPO), joining the league of internet-led businesses looking to list on domestic stock exchanges. The public issue comprises fresh issuance of equity shares worth Rs 1,250 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) of 3.07 crore equity shares, according to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP). According to market sources, potential listing could value Snapdeal at about USD 1.5-1.7 billion. Snapdeal's founders Kunal Bahl and Rohit Bansal are not selling any of their holding in the IPO. Those selling shares in the OFS are Starfish I Pte, Wonderful Stars, Sequoia Capital, Kenneth Stuart Glass, Myriad Opportunities Master Fund, Ontario Teacher's Pension Plan Board, Laurent Amouyal and Milestone Trusteeship Services. Proceeds from fresh issue would be used towards funding organic growth initiatives, expanding logistics capabilities, and enhancing the company's tech infrastructure. Axis Capital, BofA Securities India, CLSA India and JM Financial are the book running lead managers to the issue. A stellar response to Zomato's IPO, and a profitable listing in July has prompted a number of internet-led businesses to make a beeline for this route. Since then a number of internet-led businesses, including Nykaa, Paytm and PolicyBazaar got listed on the exchanges too. However, Paytm -- one of the most awaited IPOs -- witnessed lacklustre listing. Snapdeal is an e-commerce company, and focuses exclusively on the value segment, with more than 90 per cent of the products sold on the platform priced below Rs 1,000 and more than 80 per cent of its users residing beyond the metro cities. Once a leading player in the Indian e-commerce space, Snapdeal has seen its fortunes falling amid strong competition from rivals Amazon and Flipkart. In 2017, Snapdeal walked away from a potential merger deal with Flipkart and instead pursued what it called the ''Snapdeal 2.0'' strategy to become "financially self-sustainable". The company, which is backed by Softbank, BlackRock Inc, Temasek Holdings Pte and eBay Inc, has been investing in video, vernacular and other strategic projects, aimed at growing the online market among new users, especially those coming in from tier II cities and beyond. The company's Power Brands, UniMove logistics platform, multi-lingual user support and its discovery-based shopping approach that replicates the offline journey of buyers are some of the capabilities built by it as part of its Bharat-focused strategy. As part of its expansion plans, Snapdeal plans to expand into omni-channel distribution through partner-driven offline stores. The offline channels accounted for 92 per cent of all sales in the value lifestyle retail market, as of the financial year 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
21-12-2021||Business||Certainty in Uncertain times – A Deep dive into Cryptopreneur Rishabh Jain’s Shiftal Journey||“Shiftal has started taking the turn and soon would walk and then hopefully run.” – says Rishabh Jain, founder & CEO of Shiftal. With technology lifting all barriers in trading and finance, the past decade has been witnessing some massive contributions towards crypto trading from the founder and CEO of Shiftal, a P2P crypto exchange platform - Rishabh Jain. A Bit of the Background Rishabh Jain did his high schooling from a Military School. Later, after completing his undergraduate degree in Computer Applications, he took the very first step in realizing his dream to be an entrepreneur. He pursued his Master's degree in International Business at the University of Birmingham, United Kingdom. It is of no wonder that he is still a learner at heart. While recalling his first few steps into the world of cryptocurrencies as an amateur, Rishabh Jain says that the journey was no cakewalk and that he had to rely on the very few resources, courses, and study materials that were available. He also highlights that it was all thanks to trial and error that he got the knack for it. Rishabh Jain’s First Victory Though he came from a non-business family, Rishabh Jain was determined to be an entrepreneur. He realized that he cannot spend the rest of his life working for somebody. In the year 2019, the seeds were sown. He indulged in market research and analysis with the aim to create and launch a P2P Crypto Exchange. He successfully launched Shiftal in Europe as a registered company. The following year was even more exciting when Shiftal’s official website went live after successful real-world testing of its beta version. In just about 6 months, he marked his first achievement of making $300,000 through Crypto Trading. Risk Mitigation and Management The life of an entrepreneur can often be unpredictable and challenging. Being a cryptopreneur, Rishabh Jain had to face the people whom he describes as “industry experts with opinions based on tweets, rumors, or simply put, lack of understanding”. This stood as a major reason behind why Shiftal was bootstrapped at the inception stage. He says, “Never doubt yourself, never listen to someone who has a short-sighted approach, and never believe in what reels on Instagram tell you. Basic fact, if one would have invested $1000 in Bitcoin in 2011, they would be billionaires but the reality is they would have to wait for 11 years to see that happen.” Later, as Shiftal grew, investors pitched in, seeing the whitepaper. He also collaborated and partnered with multiple companies for the benefit of Shiftal users. About Shiftal Shiftal, the brainchild of Rishabh Jain, is a user-friendly, European-regulated P2P crypto exchange. It is a registered company in four countries (India, UK, USA and Estonia). It has been marching forward with its goals in the decentralization of financial institutions, financial freedom and privacy. It supports more than 70 payment methods. It also has a secure multicurrency wallet for its users. Shiftal also has its own native crypto named ShiftalCoin which uses TRON Blockchain, thereby ensuring quick and economical processing and transactions. Shiftal Referral program enables its users to earn up to 40% of the trade fee upon every successful referral. Shiftal’s Milestones In the year 2021, Shiftal became the first crypto exchange to bring forth the callback option for instant dispute resolution. The development of the Shiftal mobile app also got completed. Shiftal ICO Coin was developed and listed on the Shiftal P2P Exchange. Rishabh Jain considers himself as a Project Manager in his own company, where his users’ experiences have an upper hand. This makes Shiftal a customer-centric organization, which always updates and grooms itself according to the difficulties and expectations of its users. With the help of successful partnerships, supportive investors, and ingenious strategies, Shiftal’s value soared up to a 30 Crore mark from 1 Crore over a span of 2 years. A Few Words from Rishabh Jain “If you have a dream, convert them into a vision or goal and be realistic. Achieving them would be easier. Never get your idea evaluated by friends or family, I always recommend reaching out to people who have been there and done that, so you get to learn more than just get clarity.” Rishabh Jain describes himself as someone who is always ready to compete with oneself rather than just enjoying the limelight. He believes it is the mindset that one brings to the table that makes the difference. “Be consistent, show up, that's all”, he says. Connect with Rishabh Jain at https://www.instagram.com/cdrishabh/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
21-12-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 600 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 600 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, Infosys and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in other Asian markets. The 30-share index jumped 635.96 points or 1.14 per cent to 56,457.97 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 187.05 points or 1.13 per cent to 16,801.25. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Tata Steel, Wipro, NTPC and Titan. On the other hand, Axis Bank was the sole loser. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark crashed 1,189.73 points or 2.90 per cent to end at 55,822.01, and Nifty tanked 371 points or 2.18 per cent to 16,614.20. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 3,565.36 crore on Monday, according to stock exchange data. The negative sentiments caused by the global sell-off triggered by the explosive growth of the Omicron variant may persist in the short run. Sustained FII selling (above Rs 30,000 crore for December, so far) continues to be a major headwind for the market, said VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. However, it is important to note that FIIs are booking profits rather than selling indiscriminately in India. From November 1st to 15th December FIIs sold bank stocks worth Rs 19,442 cr. They have been sitting on big profits on bank stocks, which they accumulated during 2015-20. So, profit booking makes sense, he stated. FIIs are not indiscriminately selling India and will turn buyers when they see the value. Meanwhile, DIIs are spotting value and accumulating stocks in many beaten down segments, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US ended in the red in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.80 per cent to USD 72.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||Adani wins Ganga Expressway project worth Rs 17,000 crore||Adani Enterprises Ltd on Monday said it had received the letter of award from the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority to implement three major stretches of the greenfield Ganga Expressway. The company said the project cost was over Rs 17,000 crore and that this was India’s largest-ever expressway project awarded to a private company under the public-private partnership framework. The 594km expressway will connect Meerut with Prayagraj. AEL will build a 464km segment from Budaun to Prayagraj, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||Life Insurance Corporation IPO plans on course: Government||The government has kept its hopes alive of an IPO of the Life Insurance Corporation by stating that plans are on course for the issue to be floated in the last quarter of the current fiscal. There has been speculation that the mega issue could be deferred to the next fiscal as the lengthy valuation process and regulatory approvals are still pending. “Some media speculation doubting the feasibility of LIC IPO this fiscal year is not correct,” divestment secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said in a tweet. Quashing rumours that the LIC IPO might be held up, he said “it is reiterated that plan is on course for the IPO in the last quarter of this fiscal”. The IPO is expected to become the biggest one in India and it may fetch the government around Rs 1 lakh crore. Once listed, LIC is likely to become one of the biggest domestic companies by market capitalisation with an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. The government is relying on divesting its stake in LIC and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) to meet the Rs 1.75 lakh crore divestment target for the current financial year. LIC, the largest life insurer in India, reportedly has assets under management to the tune of Rs 31 lakh crore. According to IRDAI data, the insurer had a market share of 66.18 per cent in the first-year premium during the year ended March 2021 at Rs 1.84 lakh crore. It is also the largest institutional investor in the country, with a total investment of Rs 120 lakh crore. The government has already appointed 10 merchant bankers for the transaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||Lok Sabha clears second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants||The Lok Sabha on Monday cleared the second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants authorising the government to spend an additional Rs 3.73 lakh crore during the current fiscal amid protests by the Opposition over various issues. The extra spending includes infusion of over Rs 62,000 crore into the company that holds residual assets and liabilities of Air India; Rs 58,430 crore by way of additional fertiliser subsidy; Rs 53,123 crore towards payment of pending export incentives; and Rs 22,039 crore to rural development ministry for transfer to the National Rural Employment Guarantee Fund. The Lower House passed the second batch with voice vote, permitting the government to spend an additional Rs 3.73 lakh crore. Talking about the Supplementary Demands for Grants, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said additional cash outgo of Rs 2.99 lakh crore is because of big ticket expenditure going for Air India and a rise in fertiliser subsidy due to firming up of global prices. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||McLeod Russel debt restructuring to materialise in next few months||The top management of McLeod Russel tried to soothe worries of the company’s shareholders by assuring them that the long-awaited debt restructuring proposal would be ready in the next few months. Aditya Khaitan, chairman of India’s largest bulk tea producer McLeod, said at the annual general meeting of the company that the management was engaged with the bankers which had so far fully supported the plan. “The management is engaging very consciously with the bankers to come up with a restructuring plan. “The bankers are fully in support of the company and hopefully in the next few months we will be able to finalise the restructuring programme with the bankers and with that the company should be able to manage its debt position,” Khaitan said at the virtual AGM. On November 5, the company had informed the bourses that an inter corporate agreement (ICA) has been signed between McLeod and the consortium of lenders “to provide for ground rules for finalisation and implementation of resolution plan in respect of borrower/company”. The signing of ICA comes months within the tea planter reaching an out of court settlement with a private lender that took the company out of the corporate resolution insolvency process (CIRP) under the bankruptcy code. A techno economic viability study has also been prepared to finalise the restructuring plan, which may involve the part conversion of loan to a long-term non interest bearing instrument, infusion of funds by the promoters and a moratorium on interest payment. Speaking about the operations, Khaitan hoped the next crop season may open with strong prices, helping producers such as McLeod, as the pandemic over the last two years has built up a shortage in the market. He was also hopeful that wage indiced cost hikes was behind the industry. “We are expecting hopefully when the market opens the next season in the month of April to be strong. We also had a wage increase which has been finalised by the various governments of Assam and Bengal. “So hopefully we believe that all the cost increases that needed to happen have happened and the market is also ready to pay a higher price for the tea product,” Khaitan said at the AGM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||Vedanta acquires Goa-based nickel and cobalt producer Nicomet||Vedanta has acquired Nicomet, a leading nickel and cobalt producer based in Goa, for an undisclosed amount. The Anil Agarwal-company has become the only nickel producer in the country. “India imports 100 per cent of its nickel requirements and our focus will be to boost domestic production that would fuel India’s transition to a net zero economy,” Anil Agarwal, chairman of Vedanta, said. He said: “We are excited about Vedanta’s foray into nickel and cobalt production which will play a critical role in supporting the government’s mission for an Atma Nirbhar Bharat. Nickel and cobalt are a metal of great strategic importance, especially for our transition towards clean energy and electric mobility.” The asset has been acquired under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), so it does not require CCI (Competition Commission of India) approval, analysts said. The acquisition comes at a time the nickel market is tightening with a surge in battery demand and an increase in global stainless-steel production, a trend that is expected to continue into 2022, the mining company said. Nickel, a strategic mineral, is a vital input in the manufacturing of stainless steel and batteries for electric vehicles (EVs). Similarly, cobalt is a key element for lithium-ion batteries for EVs, energy storage systems and has other uses like superalloy for steelmaking. Both nickel and cobalt are regarded as the minerals of the future for a transition to renewable and cleaner energy. India’s demand for nickel is put at 45 kilo tonnes per annum (KTPA) which is entirely met through imports. At present, Nicomet’s plant has a capacity to produce 7.5 KTPA nickel and cobalt. With an ambitious growth plan in place, Vedanta is well poised to meet 50 per cent of the country’s total nickel demand. The Nicomet acquisition is in line with Vedanta’s ESG mission and will support India’s carbon neutrality goals, said Vedanta. Certified with ISO 9001 for quality and with strong R&D focus, Nicomet has emerged as a certified producer of high-quality battery grade Nickel Sulphate Crystals used for manufacturing batteries of electric vehicles globally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||Future group stocks jump on Monday||Future group stocks were on the overdrive on Monday, fuelled by the possibility of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) taking the legal route to terminate all the cases filed by Amazon against the takeover of Future Retail by Reliance Retail. The rally came after the Competition Commission of India (CCI) last Friday suspended a 2019 deal between Amazon and Future Coupon Pvt Ltd (FCPL), a promoter entity, for suppressing the “actual scope and purpose” of its investment. The transaction had played a key role behind the Singapore International Arbitration Centre’s (SAIC) decision not to allow the Reliance-Future deal. Amid a carnage in the markets on Monday, Future group stocks stole the limelight by rising up to 20 per cent. Shares of Future Retail were locked in at the upper circuit as they gained Rs 9.55 to close at Rs 57.50. A similar trend was seen among other the other Future group shares on the BSE: Future Enterprises surged 19.94 per cent to Rs 11.61, Future Consumer by 19.91 per cent to Rs 8.19, Future Lifestyle Fashions by 20 per cent to Rs 60. Similarly, the Future Supply Chain Solutions scrip gained 19.99 per cent to settle at Rs 80.75.  However, shares of Reliance Industries fell victim to the weak market sentiment and it ended lower by 2.73 per cent at Rs 2277.20. This across-the-board rally came on a report that FRL may approach various courts and tribunals that include the Supreme Court and SIAC urging that all the cases be quashed following the CCI order. However at the same time, observers are not ruling out the possibility of the US e-commerce giant approaching the courts or the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking a stay on the CCI order. In its order, the competition watchdog said its rationale behind the investment was the business potential of FCPL to create long term value and provide return on its investment. Referring to the internal correspondence of Amazon, CCI said it clearly showed a different purpose for envisaging the combination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||Amit Mitra voices three economic concerns ||Amit Mitra, principal chief adviser to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the state finance department, on Monday raised three economic concerns — a mix of high inflation and unemployment, lack of demand stimulating measures and a broken supply chain leading to big companies following vertical integration. “We rarely in history see both inflation and unemployment rising simultaneously. This is in violation of what we the students of economics call the Phillips curve. Today the wholesale price inflation is 14.2 per cent and at the same time the growth of unemployment year on year is 10.48 per cent. “This was seen in the 1970s when I was a student in the United States due to the Oil Shock. What worries me is that we are heading towards a stagflation,” Mitra said at an event organised by the Institute of Cost Accountants of India. He also referred to the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman pulling up government ministries on sluggish capital expenditure but said the spend on this head alone is not adequate to create excess demand. “The Union finance minister, my good friend, because she chairs the GST Council and I am a vocal member, herself admitted two days ago that private investment is not taking place. She sent out a notice to all the departments who have not done enough capital expenditure. My humble submission is capital expenditure to create infrastructure has a time lag. There is a need to create excess demand right now,” Mitra said. “Bengal has put money in the hands of the people directly which immediately creates demand. We have also started supply side stimulation which creates demand. We lowered the stamp duty on registration by 2 per cent and we also reduced the circle rates by 10 per cent. Immediately our real estate industry has picked up.” He also referred to supply chain concerns faced by big companies who depend on MSMEs who are struggling across the country. “Big companies, when they don’t get the supply from vendors, they start vertical integration. That means they start to do what vendors used to do,” he said. Mitra also referred to the recently released World Inequality Report 2022. “What worries me is that the share of the bottom 50 per cent of the population is now down to 13 per cent of national income. Inequalities of this nature will lead to tensions in our democracy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||Benchmark indices sink to their lowest in four months||Benchmark indices on Monday sank to their lowest level in almost four months, wiping out investor wealth by Rs 6.80 lakh crore amid fears that rising Omicron-related Covid infections and stubbornly high inflation could derail global economic growth. The 30-share Sensex plunged 1189.73 points to close at 55822.01 after nosediving to 55132.68 — a fall of over 1879 points. The broader Nifty crashed 371 points or 2.18 per cent to 16614.20. In India, market players, including retail investors, have turned hesitant fearing a longer bout of correction even as an end to the easy money policy by global central banks could affect portfolio inflows. Analysts said given the bearish conditions, stocks were likely to remain under pressure and show volatility in the near term till apprehensions over the new Covid-19 variant blow away. According to a note by Kotak Mutual Fund, Omicron is the most important concern for the markets. “Fortunately, all the data received so far shows that this is a mild variant and hopefully this will not result in disruption and our battle continues to remain with the delta variant.’’ The fund house said prices were also a damper. Though inflation remains within the RBI’s comfort zone, if prices continue to rise overseas central bankers will have to raise interest rates and take away liquidity. Both of those steps will have a direct impact on equity valuations. “As long as headline inflation and Omicron risks remain elevated, investors need to remain nimble footed as the economic recovery will probably be in a zig zag mode. The ongoing pessimism indicates that the recent dramatic crash is nowhere near over. The Nifty’s biggest support is seen only at 15,871-16,000 zone with an inter week-perspective,’’ Prashant Tapse, vice-president (research) at Mehta Equities said. Manoj Dalmia, founder and director-Proficient Equities, said the Sensex may correct till 52000-53000 range which is seen as a support area. Rupee rises The rupee notched up gains for a third straight session on Monday, rising by 16 paise to settle at 75.x90 (provisional) against the dollar as easing crude oil prices revived an otherwise lacklustre sentiment. Massive sell-offs in domestic equities, sustained foreign fund outflows and concerns around Omicron variant were a host of factors restricting rupee gains, traders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||Global raw sugar price fall a drag for exports||Sugar mills are going slow on signing new export contracts amid the fall in global raw sugar prices. However, with lower output in Brazil, the world’s largest producer, the mills are hoping the prices will firm up for the sweetener. “Signing of further export contracts have slowed down a bit during the last fortnight or so due to a fall in global prices of raw sugar to around 19 cents/pound,” Indian Sugar Mills Association (Isma) said in a statement. Isma said the global prices have recovered to some extent and are hovering around 19.5 cents per pound but exports are still not viable for Indian sugar. There is a general opinion that as more than nine months are still left in the current season, there is enough time for the sugar mills to wait for an opportune moment when they would like to enter into export contracts, it noted. In the first two months of the ongoing 2021-22 season that started from October, sugar mills have exported over 6.5 lakh tonnes of sugar compared with 3 lakh tonnes in the year-ago period. Sugar mills have contracted for export of 37 lakh tonnes so far in the current season, it said. However, most of these contracts were signed when the global raw sugar prices were in the range of 20-21 cent per pound. “The international trade houses are also of the opinion that the world (sugar) prices will need to move up from the current levels if the world wants Indian sugar mills to export another couple of million tonnes of sugar in the next 7-8 months or so,” Isma said. The country’s sugar production reached 77.91 lakh tonnes till December 15 of the ongoing 2021-22 season, higher than the 73.34 lakh tonnes a year ago. Food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey last week said he expects sugar exports to reach 50-60 lakh tonnes in the current marketing year, which begins in October. “We have noticed that direct export support to the industry has totalled over Rs 13,000 crore in the last five years to six years. And it didn’t stop there. The government also provided help for buffer stocks,” he stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
21-12-2021||Business||Sebi halts futures trading in key farm commodities||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has called a halt to futures trading in key farm commodities on Monday as the world’s biggest importer of vegetable oils, and a key producer of wheat and rice, struggles to tame food inflation. The year-long suspension, India’s most dramatic move since it allowed futures trade in 2003, will deny hedging options to traders and affect price discovery, weeks after farmers ended a year of protests that led to the scrapping of contentious reforms. Deepak Jasani, head of retail research at HDFC Securities, said banning derivatives for seven agricultural commodities for one year seems to be a knee-jerk reaction to the unrelenting inflation pressure from food items. Wholesale price-index based inflation had come at an unprecedented 40-year high of at 14.2 per cent. Traders said the government, facing intense pressure to rein in food prices ahead of key state elections early next year, wanted to curb speculation that might have fuelled the rises. Sebi barred exchanges and trading members from launching new futures contracts and taking fresh positions for seven agri-commodities: wheat, paddy (non-basmati), chana, crude palm oil, mustard seeds and its derivatives, soybean and its derivatives and moong. More importantly, the restrictions are proposed to last for a year. Participants can only square up existing positions. “While some correction in prices of these commodities may be expected in the near term, a sustained fall in the prices will happen when the supply of these commodities rises due to better crop or imports,” Jasani said. The move could adversely affect importers who hedge their positions by entering into such contracts, analysts said. India imports close to 70 per cent of its edible oil requirements and a drop in production from countries such as Brazil and Argentina has led to a spike in prices, resulting in retail edible oil inflation coming at an elevated 29.7 per cent during November. Though the government had cut import duties and set limits on how much edible oil dealers could stock, the steps have not made much of an impact largely because of international factors. Speaking to The Telegraph, Anuj Gupta, VP-commodities & currency at IIFL Securities, said the prices had been going northwards largely on account of international factors. Gupta pointed out that while the Centre’s step may soften inflation, it is a bad news for importers and traders who use futures trading in exchanges such as the NCDEX to hedge their risk. Farm economist Abhijit Sen said the suspension of commodities trading “would have little impact in taming inflation. Over 60 per cent of the edible oil is imported and the suspension of their trade would impact inflation”. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
