22-12-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 612 points to close at 56,930||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 612 points on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and L&T amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index jumped 611.55 points or 1.09 per cent to end at 56,930.56. Similarly, the NSE Nifty advanced 184.60 points or 1.10 per cent to 16,955.45. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, Sun Pharma, Reliance Industries and SBI. On the other hand, Wipro, ITC and Nestle India were the laggards. "Domestic market is gaining ground amid a positive rebound in the global market. The rebound was broad-based while mid and small caps outperformed as the bargain opportunity led investors to accumulate the beaten-down stocks," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai closed in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.38 per cent to USD 74.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
22-12-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 400 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index jumped 449.23 points or 0.80 per cent to 56,768.24 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 134.95 points or 0.80 per cent to 16,905.80. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Tata Steel and M&M. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, Wipro and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark rose 497 points or 0.89 per cent to end at 56,319.01, and Nifty surged 156.65 points or 0.94 per cent to 16,770.85. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 1,209.82 crore on Tuesday, according to stock exchange data. The positive global backdrop provided by the recovery in the US and European markets might aid the bulls, but this is not sufficient to take the markets much higher. Nifty is unlikely to reach near the October high of 18,604 anytime soon, said VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Even though FII selling has come down, they are likely to press sale if the market goes up meaningfully, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.24 per cent to USD 74.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
22-12-2021||Business||State Bank of India acquires minority stake in JSW Cement Ltd||The country’s largest lender State Bank of India (SBI) has acquired a minority stake in JSW Cement Ltd at an investment of Rs 100 crore. SBI has acquired compulsorily convertible preference shares that will be converted to equity shares on terms linked to JSW Cement’s future business performance. The valuation will be fixed at the time of the proposed initial public offering (IPO) of the company. JSW Cement added that the capital infusion will support its capacity expansion to 25 million tonnes (mt) from 14mt. Earlier this year, two private equity players  —  Apollo Global Management Inc through its investment entity in Singapore and Synergy Metals Investments Holding — invested in the company. In this case also JSW Cement issued compulsorily convertible preference shares to the company. “We are one of the fastest growing cement companies and the largest green cement company in India,” Parth Jindal, managing director, JSW Cement said. “We take great pride in being the recipient of one of SBI’s larger investments through the private equity route. I take this opportunity to welcome SBI as a strategic investor at JSW Cement and look forward to a long & fruitful association with them.’’ JSW Cement is part of diversified $13 billion JSW Group. It has manufacturing units at Vijayanagar in Karnataka, Nandyal in Andhra Pradesh, Salboni in West Bengal, Jajpur in Odisha and Dolvi in Maharashtra. The company’s subsidiary, Shiva Cement, is investing over Rs 1,500 crore in a 1.36 million tonne (mt) clinker unit to be set up in Sundergarh district of Odisha. The project includes the setting up of a one million tonne grinding unit. JSW Cement is present across the entire value-chain of building materials comprising cement, concrete & construction chemicals. “Financing our growth and expansion strategy with investment from a power banking partner such as SBI sets us up very well for our planned IPO in the next 12-18 months. We look forward to a long-term association with SBI,’’ Narinder Singh Kahlon, director finance of JSW Cement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
22-12-2021||Business||Bharat Road Network sells 40 per cent stake in Odisha toll road||Calcutta-based Bharat Road Network has sold its entire 40 per cent stake in the 67-km-long Shree Jagannath Expressway in Odisha to an arm of the marquee Canadian infrastructure-focused fund Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ) for Rs 2,100 crore, according to two sources. The Srei Group, which was sent to the NCLT by the Reserve Bank recently, owns 30 per cent in the toll road project through one of its alternate investment funds called Trinity Investment Managers. The deal is between Bharat Road Network and India Highway Concession Trust, one of the infrastructure investment trusts set up by CDPQ in the country, one of the sources told PTI. Both the companies did not respond to calls seeking confirmation of the sale. The 67-km toll road from Bhubaneswar to Chandikhole in Odisha started operations in December 2011 with an initial concession period of 26 years, the second source added. The deal, which has all the approvals barring an NHAI nod and the customary regulatory approvals, is likely to be completed anytime now, the first source said, adding Srei and other creditors would get over Rs 2,020 crore from the sale. This excludes additional claims of Rs 200 crore that are in advanced stages of realisation and will get added towards the overall corpus, the source added. The sale process is set to be completed any time now or latest by early January as only the final nod from the regulators and National Highway Authority is pending now, the source said, adding all agreements have been signed. The sale was in the making as Bharat Road Network and India Highway Concession Trust had signed a share purchase agreement in January this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
22-12-2021||Business||Exide board of directors approve lithium unit plan||Lead acid battery major Exide Industries on Tuesday said its board of directors have approved plans to set up a greenfield multi-gigawatt lithium ion cell manufacturing plant in India. The automotive and industrial battery company plans to participate in the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the national programme on Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC) battery storage. The Union ministry of heavy industries has floated a request for a proposal to select manufacturers who wish to set up ACC units under the scheme with the due date at December end. The scheme, which has a capital outlay of Rs 18,000 crore for a period of five years, envisages to establish a cumulative ACC manufacturing capacity of 50 GWh and an additional capacity of 5 GWh for niche ACC technologies. A beneficiary firm has to commit a minimum of 5 GWh capacity and 60 per cent domestic value addition within five years from the appointed date. The Centre anticipates a direct investment of Rs 45,000 crore in ACC battery storage manufacturing projects. According to industry estimates, roughly Rs 700 crore per GWh could be the capital spend on an ACC project. The decision from Exide to venture into ACC manufacturing according to Exide MD and CEO Subir Chakraborty is on account of the government’s push towards electric vehicle manufacturing which will lead to lithium ion battery based storage solutions gaining prominence. “Cell manufacturing is an integral part of the lithium-ion battery manufacturing chain and we believe setting up of this plant will enable us to be more competitive and better serve our esteemed customers,” said Chakraborty. Exide currently has a joint venture with Swiss firm Leclanche SA and a factory has been set up at Gujarat with an estimated investment of around Rs 240 crores for lithium ion battery packs and modules. Exide scrips setted at Rs 156.50, up 0.77 per cent at the Bombay Stock Exchange, after reaching a high of Rs 163.90 following the announcement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
22-12-2021||Business||Snapdeal files draft red herring prospectus with SEBI for IPO||E-commerce platform Snapdeal on Tuesday filed a draft red herring prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for an initial public offering (IPO). The sale by the SoftBank-backed entity comprises fresh issuance of equity shares worth Rs 1,250 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) of 3.07 crore equity shares, according  to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP). Snapdeal follows other internet-led businesses such as Zomato, Nykaa, Paytm and PolicyBazaar that have tapped the markets through IPO. Snapdeal’s founders Kunal Bahl and Rohit Bansal are not selling any of their holding through OFS. The selling shareholders include Starfish I Pte (a SoftBank holding firm), Wonderful Stars (a Foxconn affiliate), Sequoia Capital, Kenneth Stuart Glass, Myriad Opportunities Master Fund, Ontario Teacher's Pension Plan Board, Laurent Amouyal and Milestone Trusteeship Services. SoftBank at present holds around 35.41 per cent in Snapdeal while Bahl and Bansal have shareholdings of 4.56 per cent and 2.94 per cent, respectively. Snapdeal said that proceeds from the fresh issue would be used towards funding organic growth initiatives, expanding logistics capabilities and enhancing the company's tech infrastructure. It disclosed that of this amount, around Rs 900 crore will be utilised towards fulfiling its organic growth plans. The company has been positioning as a pure-play value ecommerce application, amid tough competition from majors such as Amazon, Walmart-owned Flipkart and Reliance. Snapdeal said it was targeting value buyers who belong to the mid-income segment and are predominantly located in the smaller cities. According to RedSeer, this segment forms the majority of the untapped value e-commerce buyers. Snapdeal posted revenues of Rs 238.58 crore for the quarter ended September 30. Revenues during the year ended March 31, 2021 declined to Rs 472 crore from Rs 847 crore in the preceding fiscal. It posted a pre-tax loss of Rs 124.54 crore in 2020-21, lower than Rs 273.54 crore in the previous year. Axis Capital, BofA Securities India, CLSA India and JM Financial are the book running lead managers to the issue. ’’The company added that since the start of the 2021-22, it has continued the focus on growth and that the volume of delivered units in both the first and second quarters of the fiscal exceeded that of the quarters last year in which the COVID-19 pandemic and related lockdowns occurred.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
22-12-2021||Business||Oriental Insurance re-classified as public shareholder: Axis Bank||Axis Bank on Tuesday said that Oriental Insurance Company Ltd (Oriental Insurance) has been re-classified as a public shareholder from its earlier tag of a promoter category. In September this year, the private sector lender had received a request from Oriental Insurance, which holds 0.16 per cent stake, to re-classify it from promoter to public shareholder. The board of Axis Bank subsequently approved the proposal and applications were made to both BSE and NSE for re-classification of the insurer. “In this regard...BSE and NSE vide their respective letters dated December 20, 2021, have granted their approval for the reclassification of the aforementioned promoter to public category from promoter category,” Axis Bank said in a regulatory filing. Shares of Axis Bank on Tuesday ended lower by 1.31 per cent at Rs 665.95 on the BSE. Earlier, the bank had received similar requests from United India Insurance, National Insurance Company Ltd, The New India Assurance Company Ltd and General Insurance Corporation of India. Data available with the stock exchanges show that for the quarter ended September 30, they held 1.71 per cent in the private sector bank. The general insurance companies together hold 1.9 per cent stake in the bank. LIC with 8.19 per cent is the largest promoter shareholder. Among its promoter category, SUUTI has a stake of 1.56 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
22-12-2021||Business||RBI fixes cut-off closer to  repo rate at seven-day VRRR auction ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday fixed a cut-off closer to the repo rate at a seven-day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction as it looks to bring money market rates closer to the policy rate. Against a notified amount of Rs 2 lakh crore, the central bank received offers for Rs 1.55 lakh crore — all of which were accepted at a cut-off rate of 3.99 per cent. The central bank — which has been sucking out liquidity from the system — has kept the variable reverse repo rate a tad below the repo rate in the two previous auctions. It had fixed a cut-off rate of 3.99 per cent at the three-day VRRR auction held on Monday and 14-day auction on December 17. The three-day VRRR which came as a surprise to the markets resulted in inter-bank call money rates touching a high of 3.99 per cent. Though the RBI retained key rates and maintained an accommodative stance a fortnight ago, its liquidity soaking actions at higher rates than the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent have led to many observers saying the Indian central bank is raising interest rates by stealth. Yields on government bonds have also moved up on account of apprehensions that India could face the challenge of rising inflation like some of the other economies. The 10-year bond yield on Tuesday settled at 6.47 per cent against the previous close of 6.44 per cent. They were at 6.35 per cent nearly a month ago. Analysts said the RBI is almost certain to raise the reverse repo rate at the meeting in February 2022. Stocks bounce back The benchmark indices on Tuesday clawed back part of the sharp losses seen on Monday, but the mood remained cautious because of  concerns over the Omicron variant and continued selling by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs). Bargain hunting by investors after the Monday carnage saw the 30-share Sensex spurting  around 1079 points on Tuesday to an intra-day high of 56900.74. The Sensex finally ended at 56319.01 — a rise of 497 points or 0.89 per cent. On the NSE, the broader Nifty rose over 322 points to touch the day’s high of 16936.40, after which it closed at 16770.85 — a gain of 156.65 points. HCL Technologies led the gainers pack in the Sensex rising about 3.91 per cent. It was followed by Wipro, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement and Titan which rose up to 3.66 per cent. PowerGrid was the biggest loser. “The correction at the end of the session is a clear indication of bears yet ruling the market. The immediate hurdle for Nifty is at 16920 levels and a major support is at 16600. Any move on either side will drive the sentiments of the market,” Rahul Sharma, co-founder Equity 99, said. “The sentiments are yet weak and we expect further correction in coming days. Investors are advised to remain cautious and add quality stocks on dips,’’ he said. Rupee rise Rising for a fourth straight session, the rupee surged 31 paise to close at a nearly two-week high of 75.59 against the dollar on Tuesday as positive domestic equities and a weak US currency in the overseas markets boosted investor sentiment. “Rupee has seen pullback from its 20 months lows but difficult to say that pain is over as foreigners are continuously selling and Fed is heading for a rate hike as early as the first quarter of 2022,” Dilip Parmar of HDFC Securities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
