23-12-2021||Business||RBI imposes penalty on One Mobikwik Systems, Spice Money||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said it has imposed a penalty of Rs 1 crore each on payment system operators One Mobikwik Systems Private Ltd and Spice Money Ltd for deficiencies in regulatory compliance. Giving details, the central bank said it observed that the two entities had not complied with the directions issued by the RBI on networth requirement for Bharat Bill Payment Operating Units (BBPOUs). As these were offences of the nature referred to in a Section of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007, notices were issued to the entities. "After reviewing their written responses and the oral submissions made during the personal hearing, the RBI concluded that the aforesaid charges of non-compliance with the RBI directions were substantiated and warranted imposition of monetary penalty," it said. The RBI, however, added that the penalties are based on deficiencies in regulatory compliance and are not intended to pronounce upon the validity of any transaction or agreement entered into by the entities with their customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
23-12-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 385 points on firm global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 385 points on Thursday following gains in index majors Infosys, ITC and HDFC amid a positive trend overseas. The 30-share index jumped 384.72 points or 0.68 per cent to end at 57,315.28. Similarly, the NSE Nifty advanced 117.15 points or 0.69 per cent to 17,072.60. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by ITC, Bajaj Finance, Infosys, NTPC and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Sun Pharma, Maruti and UltraTech Cement were among the laggards. "Indian markets opened in green following positive Asian market peers as investors reacted to studies about reduced risk of hospitalisation and severe disease with Omicron compared to Delta," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, markets continued their firm trade. Additional support came as rating agency ICRA stated that profitability of sugar, fertiliser and dairy sectors will remain stable in FY22, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.08 per cent to USD 75.22 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
23-12-2021||Business||Amazon drags Enforcement Directorate to court||Amazon.com Inc is taking India's financial crime-fighting agency to court, seeking to quash an investigation into one of its 2019 deals, a court filing seen by Reuters shows. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has for months been probing Amazon's $200 million investment in India's Future Group for suspected violations of foreign investment laws. The investment is at the centre of protracted legal battles, as Amazon has used the terms of that deal - and cited contract breaches by Future - to stall the $3.4 billion sales of the Indian company's retail assets to a rival. In an 816-page filing, seen by Reuters, Amazon calls the investigation a "fishing and roving" inquiry, saying the ED had sought privileged legal advice and opinions from Amazon and other information not connected to the Future Group deal. Multiple Amazon executives, including its India head, had been summoned by the ED in recent weeks and the investigation had caused "unnecessary harassment," the U.S. e-commerce giant said in its filing to the Delhi High Court on Dec. 21. "The directions by the ED asking for disclosure of legally privileged documents and litigation privilege information is derogatory of the principles" laid out in Indian constitution, Amazon said in the filing, which is not public. "The investigation is a fishing and roving exercise." Amazon and the ED, which does not make details of its investigations public, did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The case will likely be heard on Thursday. The filing is the latest twist in the long-running dispute between Amazon and Future. Though India's antitrust body suspended their 2019 deal last week, saying Amazon had suppressed information when seeking approvals for it, the ED's probe is independent of that. The dispute centres around three commercial agreements signed between Future and Amazon entities, which a Singapore arbitration panel - also hearing the dispute - has said must be read together when reviewing the transaction. Future contends conflating the commercial agreements would effectively mean the deal violated Indian law. Amazon's court filing contained a notice from the ED dated Feb. 19 which sought details of its investment in Future, including copies of agreements, bank account details and other related internal communication. It also showed the ED is conducting a far wider probe, and had sought details of big vendors on Amazon's e-commerce website in India, including sales numbers for those that account for more than 5% of total sales on Amazon.in. The notice came after a February Reuters investigation which found Amazon helped a small number of sellers prosper on its Indian platform, giving them discounted fees and using them to bypass foreign investment laws. Amazon said at the time it was confident it complied with regulations and that it "does not give preferential treatment to any seller on its marketplace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
23-12-2021||Business||Call Centres India: The Shift to AI||India has been a global leader in outsourcing and BPO services for over 20 years. The call centre outsourcing sector is a large part of this market. In India, the IT, ITeS, BPO and KPO segments make up almost 10% of India’s GDP, with approximately 3.1 million individuals working in these sectors. However, call centres in India make up a much smaller part of the industry, with about 1.1 million workers. Although this is a significant number, it still places India behind the Philippines in voice-based outsourcing services. For organisations competing in a global marketplace, call centre outsourcing was one of the earliest and most popular outsourcing services. For the most part, India was able to meet much of this demand due to its large pool of labour to draw from. There are shifts happening in the call centre outsourcing industry, however. Much of this change is being driven by introducing and adopting new technology such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) and machine learning. These technologies will dramatically impact call centres in India and elsewhere. Some of these effects will be beneficial, and others will present challenges. AI has been around for decades in various forms, but it has recently experienced accelerated advances in applications and adoption. It is now increasingly being used in many different industries. This technology can be used in call centres and is also being utilised in other businesses such as manufacturing, service companies, retail, BFSI, healthcare, and logistics and transportation. With so many sectors of the global economy utilising AI for a variety of processes, the demand to build out the infrastructure for AI-related services by call centres in India will inevitably continue to grow. With the country’s massive pool of highly skilled labour, India can surely meet much of this demand. “The flip side of the coin is that increased reliance on this technology will lead to many job losses for call centres in India. For example, AI is being used for automated chatbots that can answer customers’ questions without human intervention. This has made simple customer service interactions easy enough that the call centre agent need not be involved at all,” says Ellspermann. It is also being used for transcription of various types, effectively eliminating the need for human interpretation. In addition, machine learning is being used to improve the quality of customer interactions by analysing past interactions and providing agents with real-time recommendations. All these applications of AI are resulting in a reduced need for human intervention in call centres and will eventually lead to job losses in India. “Call centres inevitably are related to voice-based services, and in this regard, call centres in India will likely face competitive challenges from the Philippines as AI continues to be widely adopted. The Philippines has been the global leader in voice-based contact centre outsourcing since 2010. In fact, the country’s dominance in this sector is so significant that India’s top outsourcing providers long ago began setting up operations in the Philippines to take advantage of some of its key advantages. This includes a population that is highly proficient in American-English, and which enjoys a close cultural affinity with the US, as a result of being a US protectorate for 50 years,” explains Ellspermann. These factors have made the Philippines very attractive to US buyers of call centre services. Additionally, Philippines-based call centres have been early adopters of AI technology, as they understand its benefits from working with some of the leading customer-centric companies in the world. “Despite these competitive challenges, India still has a massive population and highly skilled workforce, which gives it a strong foundation to build upon. With large investments in call centres in India and strong support for the industry, it is likely that India will remain a leader in this field as it continues to evolve,” he adds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
23-12-2021||Business||Is Fossil Fuel Immensely Impacting Food Prices & Others In An Inter-Linked Manner? by Dr. Jagdish Chandra Rout||Gone are the days when fossil fuel (petrol & diesel) had not been in heavy demand/use, and the consumers, especially the peasants and farmers along with the traders and merchants, were least/less dependent on it either for farming or other purposes in their day-to-day go of life. With the use of motor vehicles, chiefly tractors and power tillers, and use of motor-pumps for irrigation, the fossil fuel has begun to rule the roost. Same is the fate of the transporting and marketing of the farm merchandise – both the packed and unpacked, processed and unprocessed food particles. Hence, a hike in the prices of petrol and diesel is obviously noticed to be influencing as well as wielding a cascading effect on the costs of various farm produce used as our staple food unavoidably on daily basis. In this context, let us examine the latest reports published basing on the recent data on global Food Price Index (FPI) released by the United Nations (UN) Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). The FAO data has reportedly exhibited that the global FPI stands at an average 133.2 points in October this year (2021) and claimed to be the highest during the last one decade (precisely since July 2011). Such a significant development has been attributed to the unprecedented and apocalyptic virus called Covid-19 (Coronavirus) and subsequently various variants/mutants of grave concerns since its marauding outbreak in December 2019. The nightmare is still spreading its tentacles worldwide. Last year (2020), the pandemic compelled each and every nation to forcibly opt for stringent precautionary measures like total lockdown in a bid to wage a war against the deadly and highly contagious virus. Thus, the whole humanity of the current era witnessed the vibrant and lively world screeching to a grinding halt/in a limbo. The global economy in the month of May in 2020 reportedly registered a deadlock as almost all of the economic activities went kaput. As a result, the global economy reportedly registered a piquantly plummeted 91.1 points.  On the contrary, the grim point has now been marked to be assuaging, improving and soaring. The economists have reportedly found out the cause behind it to be the see-saw that the price of the fossil fuel played during the pandemic crisis. For instance, the crude oil prices reportedly collapsed to an average between 25.27 and 35.33 dollar per barrel in April and May 2020 while it jumped to 84.38 dollar per barrel in October this year (2021). Delving into the arena of price pangs, the experts in money matters have reportedly discovered that the bio-fuels are also a major link relating to the ups and downs in the emergence of petro and agri-commodity prices. For instance, a sudden demand is reportedly been stumbled upon so far ethanol is concerned when the price of crude oil is going up and up. Ethanol is stated to be a product from sugarcane and maize (corn) and it is affordable in comparison to petrol. Similarly, bio-diesel, stated to be extracted from palm and soyabean, turns lucrative amid the pricking price scenario of fossil fuel. Same is the case with cotton when we compare its fibres as well as price with that of the petrochemicals-based synthetic counterpart. Thus, it is obvious to note that the prices of sugarcane, maize and cotton catapult. In addition, the price of sugar (yet another commodity craved for by the common consumers) also starts skyrocketing in the wake of more sugarcanes being preferably crushed to elicit ethanol.  Sugarcane is also in demand for fermenting alcohol which is also a beverage most longed for.  Even, there is a rush in the demand for other foodgrains those act as precious substitutes to sugarcane, maize, etc. This emergent imbalance in demand and supply as well as production ignites the price pangs in the market leading to inflation. Although farming activities (that play a pivotal role in the national economy) are on and the Indian farmers now geared up for the Rabi crop, have reportedly been encountering insufficient supply of fertilizers as well as price hike. Needless to mention that, such a bitter situation being experienced by the farmers, could further aggravate the ongoing inflationary ill-effects and predicament. It may be deduced here that the scar of the old wound, unleashed by the pandemic laced with allegedly improper policy and inapt decision being taken for amelioration, is still bleeding and might be paving path for gangrene.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
23-12-2021||Business||Outsourcing India: 3 Ways it’s Evolving||Offshore outsourcing to India has been a popular strategy for companies to contain costs, scale business, and achieve higher ROI for the past 20-plus years. With one of the largest populations in the world, India has an enormous labor pool to draw from. This massive population density feeds outsourcing vendors in Bangalore and Mumbai primarily, both of which have approximately one million people employed with outsourcing providers. This gives outsourcing companies in India the ability to scale programs quickly to many thousands of employees. The availability of a highly skilled workforce has also helped India's outsourcing industry scale to great heights. “Especially in the ITES-BPO sector, India has been the clear global leader. The outsourcing industry, however, is changing and there are three ways this is happening. A new era of technology is being ushered in, led by the accelerated growth of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML). The outsourcing industry is also being disrupted by service buyers' evolving prioritization of Customer Experience (CX) over cost-containment as well as a flood of new competition from countries entering the outsourcing space,” says Ralf Ellspermann, CEO of PITON-Global, an award-winning outsourcing provider. Led by the phenomenal success of companies like Amazon, CX has been the number one priority for outsourcing buyers in North America for several years now. For the last two decades, for companies interested in outsourcing various business processes, cost savings were the overriding benefit. No longer. Now organizations have put a premium on delivering premium customer experiences. In India, however, the trend has only recently started to take hold. Now, Indian outsourcing companies are forced to compete not just on cost but also on delivering exceptional CX. “This shift of focus to delivering superior CX is seen as a differentiator for companies competing within a global marketplace. Outsourcing to India will no doubt continue to be a popular option for years to come, but for India-based outsourcing providers, it is essential to pivot and adjust to highly customer-centric strategies and focus on CX if they want to remain competitive as this part of the outsourcing market continues to evolve,” says Ellspermann. Another way that the outsourcing landscape is changing can be seen in the increased demand for higher-value services. This is being driven by the growth of technologies such as AI and machine learning. The days of companies wanting only call centers or back-office functions are gone. India has a good cost advantage, but it is no longer the only country in the running. As these technologies become more mainstream, businesses are looking for service providers who can help them not only build and deploy but also integrate and manage these new technologies. Companies competing in a global marketplace are in a race to provide information to customers in an ever-faster, more efficient, and cost-efficient manner. This will require outsourcing companies in India to become more tech-focused enterprises. When outsourcing to India, one advantage that buyers have always relied on is India's strong specialisation in the IT sector. “To this end, India does have an advantage due to its highly skilled workforce. As the push to provide these higher-value services continues, India is in a good position to upskill its outsourcing workforce to adequately meet this demand,” says Ellspermann. The third way that the outsourcing industry is changing presents the biggest challenge to Indian outsourcing providers. Countries such as the Philippines, which has been in the outsourcing business for many years, are having significant success in winning contracts from companies in North America and Europe. “Like India, the Philippines offers significant cost advantages, but its primary advantage is the success of its voice-based contact centers. In this segment of the outsourcing sector, the Philippines has been the clear leader since 2010,” explains Ellspermann. In fact, many of India's largest outsourcing providers have shifted much of their voice-based outsourcing operations to the Philippines to diversify as a result of losing clients and business to Philippine-based companies. The Philippines represents significant competition in voice-based outsourcing largely due to the country's high degree of English proficiency, but also because the Philippines enjoys a cultural affinity with the US, which has been an attractive feature to US outsourcing buyers. As the outsourcing landscape continues to evolve there will be challenges to India-based service providers, but there will also be opportunities. This is a result of the country's highly skilled labor and simply because outsourcing to India has always offered key competitive advantages to companies looking to outsource key business processes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
23-12-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index jumped 305.15 points or 0.54 per cent to 57,235.71 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 88.25 points or 0.52 per cent to 17,043.70. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, PowerGrid, M&M, NTPC and ITC. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel and Asian Paints were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark rose 611.55 points or 1.09 per cent to end at 56,930.56, and Nifty advanced 184.60 points or 1.10 per cent to 16,955.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 827.26 crore on Wednesday, according to stock exchange data. According to analysts, despite concerns over COVID resurgence and FII selling, domestic equities are following the positive trend in global markets. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.16 per cent to USD 75.40 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
23-12-2021||Business||Amazon to acquire Prione Business Services||E-commerce major Amazon on Wednesday said it will acquire Prione Business Services — its joint venture firm with Catamaran —  subject to requisite regulatory approvals. In August, Amazon and Catamaran — promoted by N.R. Narayana Murthy — decided to terminate their joint venture in May 2022 when the agreement comes up for renewal. Prione Business Services was formed in 2014 . The two parties had not disclosed the reason behind the decision. Cloudtail — a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prione Business Services — is one of the biggest sellers on the Amazon platform. “Amazon will acquire Catamaran’s shareholding in Prione in compliance with applicable laws including all assets and liabilities. The businesses of the JV shall continue under the leadership of the current management and on receipt of regulatory approvals, the board of Prione and Cloudtail will take steps to complete the transaction,” Amazon said. While Amazon did not share further details, sources said it has approached the CCI for approval of the deal. The move comes at a time of a greater scrutiny on the operations of e-commerce marketplaces in India that have foreign investments. In 2020, fair trade regulator CCI ordered a probe against Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart for alleged malpractices, including deep discounting and tie-ups with preferred sellers on their platforms. Trader bodies like CAIT have also contended that such practices by these companies have severely impacted the business of offline retailers. In 2018, the government had introduced stricter norms for e-commerce marketplaces with foreign investments, mandating that they do not sell products of their group companies on their platforms. ED charges Amazon on Wednesday filed a writ petition in the Delhi high court seeking clarifications on the scope of Enforcement Directorate's (ED) investigations into alleged foreign exchange violations by the company, according to sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
23-12-2021||Business||Monster.com raises up to Rs 137.5 crore in funding ||Business services provider Quess Corp on Wednesday said group firm Monster.com, an online talent platform, has raised up to Rs 137.5 crore in a funding round led by Akash Bhanshali of Volrado Venture Partners and Mohandas Pai of Meridian Investments. Quess Corp also participated in the funding round. After the funding round, Monster.com is valued at close to $100 million (around Rs 755 crore). The current close has been done at Rs 112.5 crore with an option built-in to expand the round to Rs 137.5 crore, Quess Corp said in a regulatory filing. The funds raised will be used for enhancing investments in product development and marketing in India, South East Asia and West Asia markets and help Monster.com evolve from a job-board into a talent platform, delivering a full-stack experience for both candidates and companies, it added. Commenting on the fund raise, Monster.com CEO – Asia Pacific and West Asia, Sekhar Garisa said, “The participation of visionary investors with a long term outlook is a tremendous vote of confidence in Monster’s ability and vision in building India’s premier talent marketplace platform”. Last year, the company achieved very healthy growth across all metrics, he said, adding “we have an exciting product and business road map in line with our view on how hiring will evolve in the next few years”. Pai said the platform is poised to “redefine the jobs market by building tech workflows that put the candidate at the centre of the universe of innovation and possibilities”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
23-12-2021||Business||Shares of Metro Brands list with nearly 13 per cent discount||Shares of footwear retailer Metro Brands on Wednesday listed with a discount of nearly 13 per cent from the issue price of Rs 500 and settled over 1 per cent lower. The stock listed at Rs 436, a decline of 12.8 per cent against the issue price on BSE. During the day, it tumbled 14.78 per cent to Rs 426.10. It settled at Rs 493.55, a discount of 1.29 per cent. On the NSE, it made its debut at Rs 437, a discount of 12.6 per cent. It settled at Rs 493.35, lower by 1.33 per cent. The company commanded a market valuation of Rs 13,400.25 crore on the BSE. In volume terms, 7.76 lakh shares were traded on the BSE and over 1.97 crore on the NSE. The initial public offer of Metro Brands was subscribed 3.64 times on the last day of subscription on Tuesday last week. The Rs 1,367.5-crore IPO had a price range of Rs 485-500 per share. The initial public offer (IPO) had a fresh issue of Rs 295 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to 2,14,50,100 equity shares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
23-12-2021||Business||Foxconn arm files papers with Sebi to raise Rs 5000 crore||Bharat FIH, a subsidiary of FIH Mobiles and a Foxconn Technology Group company, has filed preliminary documents with markets regulator Sebi to raise over Rs 5,000 crore through an initial public offering (IPO). The public issue comprises fresh issue of shares worth Rs 2,502 crore and an offer for sale of shares worth up to Rs 2,502 crore by promoter group and Foxconn unit Wonderful Stars, according to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP). At present, Wonderful Stars holds 99.97 per cent stake in the company. Bharat FIH makes devices for Xiaomi and Nokia. Proceeds of fresh issue will be used for funding capital expenditure requirements of the company towards expansion of its existing campuses, investment in subsidiary, RSHTPL, to support working capital requirements and general corporate purposes. Bharat FIH, formerly Rising Stars Mobile India, is the largest electronic manufacturing services (EMS) provider in India, with approximately 15 per cent market revenue share in financial year 2021. In addition to EMS services, the company is building the capabilities to provide original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) with a comprehensive, vertically integrated “one-stop solution” comprising a range of original design manufacturer (ODM) services including product design and development, component manufacturing and sourcing, logistics, and after-sales services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
23-12-2021||Business||India can potentially achieve 500 GW non-fossil fuel target||A power ministry official on Wednesday said that the country can potentially achieve the 500 gigawatt (GW) non fossil fuel capacity before its stated deadline of 2030. Speaking at a CII organised event, Ghanshyam Prasad, joint secretary in the ministry of power, said the country has already achieved a 40 per cent non-fossil fuel installed capacity last month, nine years ahead of its stated target. According to a statement from the Union ministry of new and renewable energy, total non-fossil fuel based installed energy capacity was 156.83 GW, which is 40.1 per cent of the total installed electricity generation capacity of 390.8 GW. A target of 500 GW has now been set to be achieved by 2030. “We will be able to achieve this target as well probably before 2030,” said Prasad. The government has recently issued revised guidelines to thermal power generating companies to set up renewable capacities either by themselves or through developers and supply power to customers with existing power purchase agreements (PPAs). This will enable replacement of fossil fuels under existing PPAs. Moreover, the distribution companies will also be allowed to count the renewable energy supplied under the scheme towards renewable power purchase obligation according to a power ministry statement. Prasad also said that the ministry is working on guidelines on resource adequacy that will allow better contingency planning in peak power months. “What consumers need is 24 by 7 electricity and quality power. This can be ensured if discoms have a proper tool to have resource adequacy plans in place. Some of the private discoms are doing this but I am not sure about other discoms,” he said. Abhay Bakre, director general, Bureau of Energy Efficiency said that with 1 million square meters of commercial space and 3 million square meters of residential space coming up in the next few years, there would be a significant jump in the peak load of discoms due to cooling needs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
23-12-2021||Business||MPC members prefer gradual normalisation||Minutes of the RBI’s last monetary policy committee meeting showed the members wanted the slow process of normalisation to continue, using what a Reserve Bank of India executive director called “Swiss knife-like” policy tools, though the strategy is at odds with the one followed by central banks of the US and UK. At the December 6-8 meeting, a majority of the six-member committee said the RBI should stick with its policy to focus on growth and an accommodative stand on liquidity because of the Omicron scare and the fact that some sectors of the domestic economy are yet to reach the pre-pandemic levels of growth. All the members had voted in favour of retaining the policy repo rate at 4 per cent at the meeting. MPC member Jayanth Varma, who has been calling for a hike in the reverse repo rate, wanted the RBI to do away with its accommodative stand as there is increasing evidence of inflation becoming entrenched in the upper region of the tolerance band of 6 per cent though it is projected to remain within the ceiling. Members cited the uneven recovery in the economy even as they were worried that the Omicron virus which is reportedly more transmissible than the other variants could pose a risk to global economic growth. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said there was growing uncertainty regarding the evolving global macroeconomic outlook. “On the domestic front, even as the prospects for economic activity are improving, there is still a slack with key drivers like private consumption remaining well below their pre-pandemic levels,” Das said. “Given these uncertainties, continued policy support is warranted for a durable, broad-based and self-sustaining rebound, especially to nurture revival in sectors which are lagging and to safeguard those which are exposed to the evolving headwinds,’’ he said. In such conditions, Das said, it would be prudent to watch out for growth signals becoming well entrenched while remaining vigilant on inflation dynamics. RBI deputy-governor Michael Patra said even before the arrival of the new Covid-19 variant, the momentum of the global recovery and of world trade was ebbing in the second half of 2021, including in countries with relatively high vaccination rates. He noted that with national income prints coming in lower for several countries, estimates suggest that global GDP growth is slowing by a full percentage point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
23-12-2021||Business||Tech startups need to make better disclosures: Sebi chairman||The chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) said internet-based start-ups that were entering the capital markets needed to make better disclosure on valuations as many of them were loss-making. “Pricing is a critical issue and perhaps more explanation of the basis of pricing in the (offer) document may be a good idea, especially for the new tech companies which are typically loss making,” Tyagi said. “These companies have their own ecosystem and capital structure. So, in terms of educating the investor on pricing, some more documentation may be helpful in maintaining the trust.” He was speaking at an event of the Association of Investment Bankers of India. Several start-ups including Paytm, Zomato, Cartrade, Nykaa and  Policybaazar were listed on the bourses this year, with many more in the pipeline. Paytm, one of the most awaited IPOs of the year, witnessed a lacklustre listing and continues to trade below its issue price of Rs 2,150 per share. The Sebi chairman’s observations gain importance as several analysts are concerned over the valuation of these tech companies and expensive issue prices. With India adding more unicorns in its fold in 2021, over the next few years, the number of listings are expected to go up. Utilisation of proceeds Tyagi said Sebi would not interfere in the valuation process but planed to effectively monitor the utilisation of IPO proceeds. A consultation paper has been issued by the regulator in November on the use of funds ,  including for inorganic expansion. The Sebi chairman also listed out the responsibility of merchant bankers that includes protecting the interest of investors, conducting business with fairness and integrity and ensuring true disclosures to investors so that they are made aware of the attendant risks before taking decisions. “It is incumbent upon the merchant banker community to not only follow the regulations in letter but also in spirit. It may be an opportune time for AIBI to reflect upon and review the standards of due diligence adopted by merchant bankers in various issue management activities offered by them,” Tyagi said. The ongoing fiscal year has been a bumper year for the IPO markets with 76 initial share-sales raising more than Rs 90,000 crore till November. The participation from retail investors in equity IPOs has also increased with the number of applications totalling 5.43 crore till November against 3.8 crore in the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
23-12-2021||Business||Zee Entertainment seals merger terms with Sony Pictures||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd and Sony Pictures Networks India Pvt Ltd (SPNI) have signed definitive agreements for a merger that will see them combining their networks, digital assets, production operations and programme libraries into a $ 2billion media powerhouse. In September, the two media giants had signed a non-binding term sheet that provided for an exclusive negotiation period of 90 days during which they conducted mutual due diligence. While the merger is expected to be completed in 8-10 months, it comes amid a legal dispute between Zee and its largest shareholder Invesco, which had demanded  the removal of Zee’s managing director and chief executive officer Punit Goenka along with the appointment of six independent directors. According to the terms of the agreement,  Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc,  the parent of SPNI, will indirectly hold a majority 50.86 per cent in the merged entity. The founders of Zee will hold 3.99 per cent and public shareholders, 45.15 per cent. Goenka will be the managing director and chief executive officer of the merged entity. The majority of the board of directors will be nominated by the Sony group and will include the present SPNI managing director and CEO, N.P Singh. Singh will assume a broader executive position at Sony Pictures Entertainment (SPE) as chairman, Sony Pictures India, which is a division of SPE. The merger will need the approval of the Competition Commission of India (CCI), the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), the stock exchanges and the Centre’s information and broadcasting ministry. It will also require the approval of 75 per cent of Zee shareholders. Under the terms of the definitive agreements, the shareholders of Zee will get 85 shares of the merged entity for every 100 shares with them. The transaction will initially see the stake of the Zee promoters declining to around two per cent from four per cent at present. SPE Mauritius, a Sony arm, will pay Rs 1,101 crore to Essel Mauritius, a promoter firm of the Subhash Chandra group as a non-compete fee . The sum will be infused by Essel into SPNI, giving the Zee founders an additional 2.11 per cent stake in the merged company. The founders can also raise their shareholding up to 20 per cent, the agreement states. Ahead of the of the merger, SPNI will have a cash balance of $1.5 billion to be built through an infusion by its current shareholders and the promoters of Zee. Speaking to analysts in a conference call, Goenka said the shares of Zee would be delisted for three weeks after all the approvals are obtained — after which the merged company will start trading on the bourses. There will be no tax implications on the individual shareholders due to this process, Goenka said. He said the funds infused by Zee and Sony would be utilised towards pursuing M&A opportunities in the digital space, bidding for premium content such as sports apart from growing organically in the digital or OTT business. Replying to a question, he said the capital allocation would be decided by the new board and that the merged company will remain a dividend paying company. The cash infusion by Sony has been made to have control over the amalgamated firm in terms of shareholding, Goenka said. He added that though the merged company would chase important assets such as the IPL, it would not be too aggressive in its bids. A statement from Zee Entertainment said that the combination would explore synergies and are well positioned to meet the growing consumer demand for premium content across entertainment touchpoints — given their strengths in scripted, factual and sports programming, respective distribution footprints across India and iconic entertainment brands Shares of Zee, however, ended marginally lower as investors resorted to profit booking after the announcement. At the BSE, the share settled at Rs 348.70 — a drop of 0.09 per cent over the last close. Analysts said that it was a win-win deal for both the companies and the duo could pose tough competition to other platforms such as  Netflix and Amazon. “In the broadcasting space, they would be numero uno which will give them tremendous pricing power especially on the ad revenue front,” Vivek Menon, co-founder of NV Capital, said. Further, the investments in content creation would increase as there would be a greater focus of both on OTT  platforms Sony Liv and ZEE5, Menon said. “With the infusion of additional capital in excess of $1 billion, they could compete aggressively with Amazon and Netflix. There would also be a lot of competition for marquee sports properties which is currently housed in Star and coming up for renewal,’’  he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
