24-12-2021||Business||Sensex drops 191 points to close at 57,124||The BSE benchmark Sensex tumbled 191 points on Friday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Axis Bank amid mixed cues from global markets. After a choppy session, the 30-share index ended 190.97 points or 0.33 per cent lower at 57,124.31. Similarly, the NSE Nifty declined 68.85 points or 0.40 per cent to 17,003.75. NTPC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by M&M, Axis Bank, PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Finserv and HDFC. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, Asian Paints, Wipro and Infosys were among the gainers. "A range-bound day of trading ahead of Christmas ended the week as this month quite clearly belonged to the IT sector which stood tall amidst extreme volatility as cost-push inflation across sectors is keeping street worried on the impact in the hands of the consumer," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. While buoyancy in exports and tax collections coupled with the success of the PLI schemes are positives, there are many sectors where consolidation is waiting to happen which is where longer term investors need to focus on in the present corrective phase, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude dipped 0.10 per cent to USD 76.52 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
24-12-2021||Business||Adil Qadri's Success Shows Struggle Is The Only Instrument To Achieve It||Life is a beautiful journey of struggle. Without it, life would be devoid of essence. Struggle not just shapes up our life, but it also adds meaning and values to it. Nothing in life but the struggle paves the way for success. Nevertheless, the phase of struggle is uncertain, demanding, and full of emotional heartbreaks. Those who surmount all of the difficulties coming their way set an example of gallantness to be idolized. Adil Qadri's struggle to defeat his illness first and then impediments in his career has made him an exemplary persona to idolize. Mohammad Adil Asif Malkani, also known as Adil Qadri on the digital platforms and business world, was born in Gujarat on 20 December 1993. His family members, including his father and mother, had only a single stream of income: a daily wage. Adil Qadri's family's economic condition was always had below average, and it got exacerbated further when Adil Qadri was diagnosed with a severe type of asthma. Given his illness, Adil had restrictions to most of the childhood phase. He could not even attend school, which is essential in the developing years of childhood. His illness also hampered his childhood and education, but Adil had no option but to wait for betterment in his situation. Over time, Adil Qadri gathered the strength to deal with his asthma as he got older. All through his childhood, he had seen his family striving diligently to meet both ends meet. So, he decided to learn some courses that helped him financially support his family. Adil Qadri learned Mobile and computer repairing as it included less exhausting work.   His skill created a stream of income for him. He was earning well from the job he got at a mobile repairing center, but Adil wanted to do more to earn more. So, his uncle Ilyas Hingora advised him to learn digital marketing and search engine optimization as these fields were new then. Adil Qadri mastered digital marketing and SEO skills as well. A couple of skills he had learned was helping him earn significantly. With time, Adil Qadri got introduced to technology and internet entrepreneurship. Earning through the internet was not common in those days. So, Adil decided to launch his first website in 2015. He invested a heavy amount in the development and maintenance of the site, but it could not accomplish the expected results. Adil Qadri took the hard decision to shut down the website as spending more time and money on the website would be his foolishness. Adil realized that he needed to do something insightful and innovative to create a unique identity for him in the long term. After a lot of research, Adil Qadri found his path to success. He decided to venture into the e-commerce business. For that, he chose attars as his exclusive products to sell online. Adil Qadri launched his e-commerce site in 2018 and named it Adil Qadri, which has become a top brand providing quality and luxury attars across the country. Adil Qadri brand was the first one to jot down the losing charm of attars and thus decided to reinvigorate it by promoting the importance and usefulness of attars online and offline. The brand put hard work and diligence in researching the needs and likes of customers before they bring new fragrances to the market. Adil Qadri Oud-Al-Hashmi and Musk-Al-Ghazali are some of the widely popular attars of the Adil Qadri brand. Adil Qadri's exclusiveness in the products and quality he delivered made his e-commerce platform very famous. The e-commerce platform receives thousands of orders every day. New customers come on the platform looking for something new.  So, the Adil Qadri brand has increased the line of products from just attars to luxury soaps, essential oils, barkati topi, abaya, bakhoor, thobes jhubba, and several more. Adil Qadri has also opened its first brand outlet in Chikhali on Ahmadabad Mumbai highway to promote its business in a parallel offline market. The attar brand has also recently announced that it accepts proposals for its business franchise. Adil Qadri's approach towards life shows that everybody has a weakness, but the struggle is the instrument to overcome them and wade towards success, which is waiting for us on the other end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
24-12-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, TCS and HCL Tech amid a positive trend in global markets. After a volatile opening, the 30-share index jumped 114.57 points or 0.20 per cent to 57,429.85 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 28.50 points or 0.17 per cent to 17,101.10. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, TCS, Asian Paints, Infosys and Dr Reddy's and Wipro. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank and NTPC were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark jumped 384.72 points or 0.68 per cent to end at 57,315.28, and NSE Nifty advanced 117.15 points or 0.69 per cent to 17,072.60. According to analysts, domestic equities are following the broader positive trend in global markets. However, indices are expected to trade on a volatile note as investors would prefer booking profits at higher levels. Meanwhile, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 271.59 crore on Thursday, according to stock exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.10 per cent to USD 76.52 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
24-12-2021||Business||Ford loans with Kotak Mahindra Bank||A Kotak Mahindra Bank arm on Wednesday announced it has acquired the passenger vehicle finance portfolio of the exiting Ford Motor Company’s captive lending platform for an undisclosed sum. Kotak Mahindra Prime acquired Ford Credit India’s loan portfolio of Rs 425 crore spread across 16,000 customers. Ford Credit has been in business since 2015 and its customers will transition to Kotak Prime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
24-12-2021||Business||HSBC Asset Management to acquire L&T Finance Holdings ||HSBC Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd is acquiring the mutual fund business of L&T Finance Holdings (LTFH) for $425 million or Rs 3,200 crore. In a late evening announcement on Thursday, LTFH said it has entered into a definitive agreement with HSBC AMC wherein the latter will acquire 100 per cent of L&T Investment Management Ltd (LTIM), its wholly owned subsidiary for an aggregate purchase consideration of $ 425 million subject to adjustments as set out in the definitive agreements. LTIM is the investment manager of L&T Mutual Fund. The transaction is subject to the requisite regulatory approvals. LTFH  said both LTIM and HSBC AMC will work to ensure that there will be continuity of services . According to LTFH, the divestment of its mutual fund business fits with the strategic objective of unlocking value from its subsidiaries to strengthen its balance sheet. “The transaction with HSBC is in line with our strategic objective of unlocking value from our subsidiaries which will help us to strengthen our balance sheet for our lending business,” Dinanath Dubhashi, managing director & CEO, LTFH said “When seen alongside the recent capital raise it provides us with enough ammunition to increase the pace of retailisation in our lending portfolio, which is one of our long-term goals,’’ he said. HSBC is planning to merge the operations of LTIM with that of its existing asset management business in India. Ahead of the announcement, shares of LTFH gained by 3.57 per cent to settle at Rs 82.60 in the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
24-12-2021||Business||Kesoram may rope in strategic partner for Cygnet||Kesoram Industries may consider inducting a strategic partner in wholly owned subsidiary Cygnet Industries with the aim to raise efficiency and cut losses by putting fresh money into the business. The loss making subsidiary, based in Hooghly district of Bengal, makes transparent paper and rayon, employing close to 2,500 people. Future plans include investment of about Rs 70 crore in the business for technology upgradation, reduction of manpower by voluntary separation scheme and working capital infusion. “We are open to partnership in Cygnet,” P. Radhakrishnan, whole time director and CEO of Kesoram, said. The plant, located in Kuntighat, was under suspension of work from June 22 onwards. The suspension was lifted on Wednesday. Sources said an understanding has been reached to reduce workforce progressively to make the operation viable. Cygnet has a technology and marketing tie up with Japanese major Futamura, which manufactures bio degradable transparent paper. The overseas partner is in the process of transferring technology to Cygnet. The present scope of understanding includes manufacturing Futamara branded products in India and also marketing it here. If Kesoram does look for an equity partner, the Japanese company may be a contender. Cygnet posted a loss of Rs 100.78 crore on a turnover of Rs 237.56 crore in the last fiscal. The rayon factory was established in 1959 and it was later transferred to a wholly owned subsidiary in 2016. During the last six months when the unit was closed, Kesoram managed to bring the cement business back on track, increasing capacity utilisation by infusion of fresh working capital. It is aiming to clock an annual EBIDTA of around Rs 600 crore. The company, under the leadership of Manjushree Khaitan, daughter of late Basant Kumar Birla, is now in the process of retiring a high cost loan, which was taken from private lenders to ease liquidity, with the proceeds from a rights issue and other instruments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
24-12-2021||Business||Havells India adds greenfield washing machine unit ||Fast moving electrical goods company Havells India on Thursday said it has stepped up indigenous manufacturing with the addition of a greenfield washing machine unit under the Lloyd brand at Ghiloth in Rajasthan. The new unit with an annual production capacity of 3 lakh units is located in the same place where the company’s AC plant is housed. Havells said the Lloyd’s brand will now have 20 models of washing machines and 50 SKUs of ACs in 2022. “Today whatever Havells sells, we manufacture 95 per cent of that in-house. The usual perception is that many of the electrical and electronic products are imported from across the world, including China. “But Havells has never resorted to those practices. When we acquired Lloyd, everything was imported from China. With this launch of the factory, last year for ACs and now for washing machines, I can say that Lloyd has also converted itself to a completely self reliant manufacturer and brand where we do not have to depend on any outsourced manufacturing from China,” said Anil Rai Gupta, chairman and managing director, Havells India. Gupta said the company has incurred a capital expenditure of Rs 500 crore in the plant which will help it to make air-conditioners in India and export to over 25 countries. Havells said the plant has advanced robotic machines, automated guided vehicles and a fully integrated materials management system. “Their industry 4.0 standard manufacturing facility, with real time monitoring system showcases Havells’ ability to manufacture world class products at globally competitive prices,” Havells said. “The high automation and management systems at Ghiloth AC plant, will help us further optimise our cost structure, make more efficient products and cement our foot-hold in the market,” said Shashi Arora, CEO, Lloyd. Havells have 13 manufacturing units in India located at Haridwar, Baddi, Sahibabad, Faridabad, Alwar, Ghiloth and Neemrana. Price rise Amid increasing raw material costs, Gupta said that there is a probability of an increase in product costs for the consumers. He said that during Covid period, the companies has improved their cost efficiency. While absorbing input costs in some areas, a part has been passed on to the buyers. But the increases that were not done in the earlier months, may be passed on in the next couple of months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
24-12-2021||Business||Medplus Health Services shares list with nearly 31 per cent premium||Shares of Medplus Health Services on Thursday listed with a premium of nearly 31 per cent against the issue price of Rs 796 and settled with a gain of nearly 41 per cent. The stock listed at Rs 1,015, a gain of 27.51 per cent against the issue price on the BSE. During the day, it zoomed 43.60 per cent to Rs 1,143.10. It jumped 40.81 per cent to close at Rs 1,120.85. On the NSE, it made its debut at Rs 1,040, reflecting a gain of 30.65 per cent. It zoomed 40.70 per cent to close at Rs 1,120. Its market valuation stood at Rs 13,372.38 crore. In volume terms, 11.99 lakh shares were traded on the BSE and over 1.84 crore shares on the NSE. The initial public offering of pharmacy retail chain MedPlus Health Services was subscribed 52.59 times last week. The Rs 1,398.3-crore IPO had a price range of Rs 780-796 per share. MedPlus was founded in 2006 by Gangadi Madhukar Reddy, who is the company’s managing director and chief executive officer. The Hyderabad-based pharmacy retailer offers a wide range of products, including pharmaceutical and wellness products such as medicines, vitamins, medical devices and test kits, and FMCG products such as home and personal care items, including toiletries, baby care products, soaps and detergents and sanitisers. PTI Medplus was also the first pharmacy retailer in India to offer an omnichannel platform and continues to scale up its retail store network. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
24-12-2021||Business||RBI extends card tokenisation deadline by six months||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday extended the card tokenisation deadline by six months to June 30, 2022 following requests from several stakeholders who feared that the rules would hurt small merchants. Tokenisation is a process by which card details are replaced by a unique code or token, generated by an algorithm, allowing online purchases to go through without exposing card details, in a bid to improve data security. The RBI had ordered all companies in India to purge saved credit and debit card data from their systems from January 1, 2022. In a circular issued on Thursday, the central bank said that in the “light of various representations received... the timeline for storing of card on file (CoF) data is extended by six months, i.e., till June 30’’, after which the data will have to be purged. The RBI added that in addition to tokenisation, industry stakeholders may devise alternate mechanisms to handle any use case which includes recurring e-mandates, EMI option or post-transaction activity (like dispute resolution or reward/loyalty programme) that requires storage of the CoF data by entities other than card issuers and card networks. On Wednesday, the Merchants Payments Alliance of India and Alliance of Digital India Foundation while pointing out to several operational challenges, said the entire industry was not yet ready. They had also added that if implemented from January 1, 2022 there could be revenue losses of anywhere between 20 per cent and 40 per cent. Sijo Kuruvilla George, executive director of ADIF, pointed out that merchants will lose out in this process for no fault of theirs and they cannot create tokenisation infrastructure under the RBI rules. According to CII, India has an estimated 98.5 crore cards, which are used for about 1.5 crore daily transactions worth Rs 4,000 crore. as per the RBI annual report for 2020-21, the value of the Indian digital payments industry during the year was Rs 14,14,85,173 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
24-12-2021||Business||Sony-Zee merger rests on public shareholders of latter||The merger of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited and Sony Pictures Networks India Pvt (SPNI) rests on the public shareholders of Zee, with largest shareholder Invesco vehemently opposed to the merger. Zee needs to get at least 75 per cent votes in terms of its shareholding for the merger, which will be a challenge with Invesco holding 18 per cent shares. Public shareholders hold around 96 per cent of Zee, while the promoters hold around 3.99 per cent, according to data with the stock exchanges . Invesco had earlier sought the removal of Zee’s managing director and CEO Punit Goenka, and the appointment of six independent directors. In a letter written to the shareholders of Zee on October 11, the fund said the non-compete clause between Sony and the company’s founders — which “gifts” the latter two per cent stake — is dilutive to all other shareholders. It had also said that the founders of Zee have an option to raise their stake to 20 per cent and that the proviso was silent on how this would be done and whether it would change the majority control of Sony in the merged company. While these observations came after the non-binding term sheet that was signed between Zee and Sony in September, the definitive agreements between the duo do not contain any major change. Accordingly Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc (SPE) the parent of SPNI will indirectly hold a majority 50.86 per cent of the merged entity while the founders of Zee will hold 3.99 per cent and public shareholders, 45.15 per cent. Further, SPE Mauritius, a Sony group company will pay Rs 1,101 crore to Essel Mauritius, a promoter firm from the Subhash Chandra group. This fees will be infused by Essel into SPNI, thereby giving Zee founders an additional 2.11 per cent stake in the merged company. Observers said that with the non-compete clause staying and Zee founders also having the option to raise their stake up to 20 per cent, it remains to be seen if Invesco opposes this key feature in the merger. In October, the Bombay High Court had temporarily restrained Invesco from calling an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) for the removal of Goenka and the appointment of its six nominees on the company’s board. The fund later filed an appeal against this order. “With the merger agreement signed, key things to watch out for now will be Invesco’s support for the merger, timely regulatory approvals, smooth integration, strategic roadmap for OTT investments, and recovery in Zee’s viewership share in select core markets’’, analysts at Emkay said in a note. On Wednesday, Goenka had said in an analyst call that the merger process could take 8-10 months to be completed, even as he also indicated that it will require the support of 75 per cent of Zee’s shareholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
24-12-2021||Business||Delhi HC to hear Amazon petition to stop ED probe||The Delhi high court will hear in January a petition filed by Amazon.com Inc against the enforcement directorate (ED) which had sought details of its transaction with the Future group in 2019. The petition was listed before Justice Rekha Palli who did not hold court. The matter is now listed for hearing on January 5. On Wednesday, two Amazon group firms — Amazon Wholesale (India) Pvt Ltd and Amazon Seller Services Pvt Ltd — had challenged the jurisdiction of ED and its officers to investigate Amazon Wholesale (India) Pvt Ltd in matters which it said are beyond the scope of power and remit of the agency under Foreign Exchange Management Act . The US e-commerce giant said ED, which had issued a directive on February 19, is conducting a “fishing and roving” investigation against Amazon Wholesale and subjecting the petitioners to proceedings without any legal basis or jurisdiction. Its plea claimed that this was causing unnecessary harassment despite their full co-operation. The two firms also said they are Indian resident entities and are challenging the investigation as it pertains to transactions that have no foreign exchange element. Last month, Amazon had said it was in receipt of summons by ED in connection with its deal with Future Group. The agency had reportedly summoned senior executives of its Indian arm under the provisions of Fema. Amazon in its petition said that various summons and emails have been issued to the employees of Amazon Seller Services for a transaction which is completely unconnected with them, and seeking from them legal advice and privileged legal opinions that have been received from time to time by the Indian subsidiaries of Amazon.com. Amazon also sought a direction to ED to forthwith withdraw or cancel the February 2021 directive and all summons or proceedings commenced by the agency. . The latest action by Amazon comes just days after the Competition Commission of India (CCI) suspended its August 2019 deal with Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) — a promoter entity from the Kishore Biyani group. Amazon and Future Group have been locked in a legal battle following the Rs 24,713cr deal between Biyani and Reliance Retail in August 2021. Prione deal Domestic traders body CAIT on Thursday claimed e-commerce major Amazon’s plan to acquire Prione Business Services — its joint venture with Catamaran — will be a violation of FDI policy. “It would be a violation because Amazon will have complete control over a seller on its marketplace platform and this will convert the online company from being a marketplace platform to an inventory based platform, which is strictly prohibited under the FDI policy, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
