25-12-2021||Business||Amit Mitra calls for textile GST reversion||Amit Mitra, principal chief advisor to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, on Friday urged Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to call an urgent GST Council meeting to discuss and reverse the correction of the inverted duty structure in the textile industry that comes into effect from January 2022. Mitra said the GST Council did not discuss in detail the textile duties that could lead to a 7 per cent rise in prices with a potential closure of 1 lakh units across the country and an estimated job loss of around 15 lakh workers. The Telegraph had reported in September following the 45th GST Council meeting in Lucknow of the possibility of a rise in garment prices because of the government’s move to correct the inverted duty structure. At present, GST rate on yarn in the category of man-made fibres is at 12 per cent which is higher than that of garments at 5 per cent, leading to a refund of input tax credit generating a revenue outflow. “The 45th meeting of the GST Council on September 17, did not discuss this matter in any depth. The officers committee called fitment committee had proposed this. Such an important issue should have been discussed in the council threadbare,” said Mitra. Mitra said that around one lakh small units will close because of this 7 per cent additional GST. “Job loss including ancillaries estimated by a responsible consulting firm for the associations will be 15 lakh people straight away.” The government estimates additional GST collection of around Rs 7,000 crore but Mitra said that this comes at a bigger cost. “A huge proportion of these textile manufacturers are small and have recently become formal and registered to pay GST. For them 7 per cent from the pocket would lead to a huge problem. They already run on a very thin margin,” Mitra said. Besides, apparel prices have already increased by 20-22 per cent because of an increase in cotton prices. A further 7 per cent rise in the price will lead to a slowdown in demand, Mitra said. Around 85 per cent of the market is expected to be affected by the correction in duty structure. The textile industry is estimated at Rs 5.4 lakh crore with an employment of around 3.9 crore in the manufacturing segment. The industry’s net profit margin is estimated at between 1 per cent and 3 per cent while tax collection from the entire value chain is Rs 19,000-21,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
25-12-2021||Business||Shares of L&T Finance Holdings crash at stock exchanges||Shares of L&T Finance Holdings (LTFH) crashed at the stock exchanges on Friday as markets reacted negatively to its decision of selling its  mutual fund business. The scrip settled sharply lower by 6.90 per cent at Rs 76.90 on the BSE after falling to a day’s low of Rs 76.70 — a drop of 7.14 per cent over the previous close. On Thursday, the non-banking finance company (NBFC) had announced the sales of its mutual funds business to HSBC Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd for $425 million or Rs 3,200 crore. J.P. Morgan and Citi were the financial advisors to LTFH. Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas acted as the legal advisors and PwC acted as due diligence and tax advisors to LTFH on the transaction. The business had posted total income of around Rs 348 crore in 2020-21 and had a net worth of Rs 643 crore during the period. LTFH had said that the divestment of the business is in line with the strategic objective of unlocking value from its subsidiaries to strengthen its balance sheet. Dinanath Dubhashi, managing director & CEO, LTFH had said that the move will help the company to strengthen its balance sheet for the lending business and that the sale along with a recent capital raise will provide it with enough ammunition to increase the pace of retailisation in the lending portfolio. Market circles, however, indicated that the street was not impressed by the valuation given to the mutual fund business.  L&T Mutual Fund is the 12th largest fund house in the country and offers equity, fixed income and hybrid schemes to both retail and institutional investors. Around 64 per cent of its overall assets under management is accounted by retail investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
25-12-2021||Business||DoT extends duration of archiving call data and Internet usage records||The department of telecom has extended the duration of archiving call data and Internet usage records of subscribers to two years from one year because of security reasons. The amendments in the licences were issued on December 21 and extended to other forms of telecom permits on December 22. “The licensee shall maintain all commercial records/call detail record/exchange detail record/IP detail record with record to the communications exchanged on the network. Such records shall be archived for at least two years for scrutiny by the licensor for security reasons...,” the DoT circular said. Telecom companies may destroy the data stored thereafter if there is no direction from the DoT thereafter. The circular said the amendment is necessary in “public interest or in the interest of the security of the state or for the proper conduct of the telegraphs”. The amendment mandates telecom companies to maintain Internet data records of subscribers, including login and logout details of all subscribers for services provided such as internet access, e-mail, internet telephony services like calls made from mobile applications or WiFi calling for at least two years. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
25-12-2021||Business||Sidbi enters MoU with Bengal for development of MSMEs||Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi) has entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Bengal government to further develop the micro, small and medium enterprises in the state. Under the MoU, a project management unit will be deployed by Sidbi with the state government to support the latter in making interventions. The key functions of the unit would include hand-holding MSMEs for onboarding on digital platforms for funding, marketing and listing. The unit will evaluate the scope of infrastructure projects for MSME clusters. It will support the MSMEs to get collateral-free loans and incentives from governments. The unit will co-ordinate the the rollout of various schemes for MSMEs .Sidbi will design and develop schemes, products and interventions and provide technical and consultative support to the state government . The memorandum was exchanged by Sudatta Mandal, deputy managing director, Sidbi, and Rajesh Pandey, principal secretary of state MSME & Textile department, in the presence of state chief secretary Hari Krishna Dwivedi. “We are working towards strengthening the MSME eco-system in the states. Sidbi would be placing an expert agency with the state MSME Department,” said Mandal. Under the annual credit plan for 2021-22, public sector, private sector, regional rural, and co-operative banks have been set a target to disburse Rs 1.02 lakh crore to the MSMEs under priority sector lending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
25-12-2021||Business||Shares of HCL Technologies rally on stock exchanges||Shares of HCL Technologies rallied on the stock exchanges on Friday amid heavy volumes on reports that its promoters may buy up 45 lakh shares through a block deal. The scrip rose nearly 5 per cent in intra-day trades on the BSE to touch a high of Rs 1,283.40. It later gave up some of these gains to close at Rs 1,265.10 — a rise of 3.08 per cent or Rs 37.80 over the last close. Around 6.11 lakh shares were transacted in the exchange compared with a two-week average of 2.90 lakh shares. Similarly, on the NSE, the scrip ended nearly three per cent higher on volumes of over 1.59 crore shares. The upmove came on the back of a CNBC-Awaaz report on Thursday about the promoters of the IT services firm purchasing 45 lakh shares through the open market. They currently hold a stake of 60.33 per cent in the company. Though stock exchange data did not indicate any such purchases on Friday, it may happen over the next few days. HCL Technologies posted a 3.7 per cent increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 3,263 crore in the second quarter ended September 30 against Rs 3,146 crore in the same period a year ago. Its consolidated revenue from operations rose 11 per cent to Rs 20,655 crore during the period from Rs 18,594 crore in the same quarter of 2020-21. Analysts at Motilal Oswal said in a note that HCL Technologies should deliver dollar revenue growth of 13.1 per cent over 2021-23. The brokerage added that its acquisition intensity in the past has led to lower shareholder payouts compared with its larger peers. However, the company has been improving its  payouts and has recently announced a dividend payout policy.,  which implies a distribution of at least 75 per cent of net income over a five-year period, the analysts noted. ``The management has revised its quarterly dividends to Rs 10 per share (from Rs 6 per share) for 2021-22. The 75 per cent payout ratio would be the highest in the past 15 years. We see this commitment as a strategic shift to focus on organic growth and limit inorganic investments to bolt-on and capability-based acquisitions,’’ they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
25-12-2021||Business||NCLT allows Yes Bank  to vote in Dish TV AGM||The Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Friday gave the green signal to private sector lender Yes Bank to vote in the forthcoming annual general meeting (AGM) of Dish TV. The NCLT was hearing an application moved by few shareholders of Dish TV who had sought to restrain Yes Bank to cast its vote on a proposal in the AGM that pertained to the re-appointment of Ashok Mathai Kurien as a director. Yes Bank is the single largest shareholder in the DTH company with a stake of 25.6 per cent. On October 13, the board of Dish TV had rejected the requisition notice made by the bank to hold an extraordinary general meeting to reconstitute its board, saying that it requires certain prior approvals. Earlier, in the requisition notice of September 21, 2021, Yes Bank Ltd had sought to remove its managing director Jawahar Goel along with four other directors Rashmi Aggarwal, Bhagwan Das Narang, Shankar Aggarwal and Ashok Kurien. Yes Bank, had also suggested seven people which included two non-executive directors and five independent directors to be nominated on the board of the company. The lender had also sent a notice to Dish TV, for reconstitution of its board in the AGM of the company, which was first scheduled to be held on September 27, 2021 and later postponed to November 30. Earlier this month, the company said that it will hold the shareholders meet on December 30. Recently, World Crest Advisors LLP, a promoter group entity, had filed a petition against  Catalyst Trusteeship Ltd and Yes Bank at the Bombay High Court saying that it is the owner of the 44 crore shares held by the bank. This was however, rejected by the Bombay High Court. Shares of Dish Tv on Friday ended with gains of almost five per cent at Rs 18.25 in the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
25-12-2021||Business||Uneasy truce ahead of Indigo EGM||The warring promoters of InterGlobe Aviation, the parent of Indigo Airlines, have arrived at an uneasy truce ahead of the extraordinary general meeting (EGM) to be held on December 30 where shareholders will vote on resolutions to amend the articles of association. The company has convened the meeting on a joint requisition made by promoters Rakesh Gangwal and Rahul Bhatia representing the IGE Group and the RG Group respectively. During the meet, shareholders will have to vote on the proposal to amend its articles of association (AoA) which gives the promoters the right of first refusal (RoFR) over the acquisition of each other’s shares and other tag-along rights. Indigo is the country’s largest airline in  with a market share of over 53 per cent. The truce is a result of an order handed down by the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA) in September which ruled that the AoA should be amended and that the clause relating to the RoFR ought to be scrapped. The court had given them 90 days’ time to implement its directions. Following this, Gangwal had moved the Delhi High Court seeking directions for calling the EGM. However, the Delhi High Court did not grant the plea. Bhatia and his family hold a stake of 38.18 per cent and Gangwal, his family and a group entity own 36.61 per cent as per shareholding for the period ended September 30, 2021. It is still too early to speculate what the fallout of the AoA amendment will be. But there is a growing speculation that a foreign airline like Qatar Airways may acquire a stake in the company. Differences between the two promoters had come out in the open in July 2019 after Gangwal wrote a letter to the Securities and Exchange Board of India seeking its intervention to address corporate governance issues in the company.  He had also raised questions about certain related party transactions (RPTs) between IndiGo and entities belonging to the IGE group. He also alleged that these transactions between IndiGo and the IGE group did not have the approval of the board and the audit committee and were often backdated and that many of the RPTs undermined the interests of the airline. He also said there had been several misrepresentations in the company's Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) dated October 16, 2015. All these charges were rejected by the IGE group. The AoA says that if a transferring shareholder proposes to transfer or sell shares outside the stock exchange, it will have to first notify the other shareholder in writing disclosing the the number of shares, the proposed price in cash, the identity of the third party purchaser, the proposed closing date for the transfer which shall not be less than 45 business days of the date of the notice apart from any other material terms of the agreement between the seller and the buyer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
25-12-2021||Business||Benchmark indices go through choppy session, finished in red||Benchmark indices on Friday went through a choppy session and finished in the red as investors continued to exercise caution over the Omicron variant. The mood remains divided on how 2022 will unfold with some analysts forecasting moderate returns while others expecting stocks to go back to their record breaking ways despite the various headwinds. The 30-share Sensex had a volatile: it opened in the green at 57567.11 and rose 308 points to the day’s high of 57623.69 on positive global cues. However, a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in cities such as  Mumbai and New Delhi and apprehensions over a likely third wave hit sentiment. The index soon fell to a day’s low of 56813.42 down 810 points from the highest point. It ended at 57124.31, a fall of 190.97 points or 0.33 per cent. Likewise, the Nifty finished 68.85 points lower at 17003.75. At close, the Sensex has fallen more than 8 per cent from its record intra-day peak of 62245.43 on October 19. Analysts said 2022 could see stocks running into more headwinds even as the possibilities of more coronavirus waves cannot be discounted, resulting in equities delivering moderate returns . One of the key development are interest rate hikes by central banks and the withdrawal of easy money policy which could affect foreign fund inflows into emerging economies such as India. “It is unlikely to be an extremely rewarding year as the markets will have to grapple with global interest rates hikes that could put pressure on prices, more particularly in the first half,’’ an  analyst with a foreign brokerage said. Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, said 2022 will see the start of a meaningful economic and financial transition. “A transition not just to post-Covid reality, but also to more normal monetary policy, and to more moderate returns on financial markets. We could see another year of positive equity returns (though milder) coupled with a down year for bonds,’’ he said. However, there could be a surprise element  in the form of the Indian economy recording robust growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
25-12-2021||Business||Luxury British store chain Selfridges sold for $5.4bn||Luxury British store chain Selfridges is being sold to a Thai retailer and an Austrian property company in a deal that a source close to the matter said was worth around $5.37 billion. Thailand’s Central Group and Austrian real estate company Signa Group, which already jointly own major department stores across Europe, said on Thursday they had struck a deal for the chain best known for its Oxford Street store in London. The Canadian wing of the billionaire Weston family bought Selfridges for nearly 600 million pounds in 2003. Central Group, owned by the billionaire Chirathivat family, and Austrian investor Rene Benko’s Signa together own department stores in Germany, Italy, Denmark and Switzerland. Founded in 1908, the Selfridges Group employs 10,000 people and owns 25 stores worldwide, including in major cities in England, Ireland, the Netherlands and Canada. Signa and Central will take over 18 of the 25 stores and hope to build a luxury hotel alongside the Oxford Street flagship, the source said, adding that seven department stores in Canada were not part of the package. With Selfridges, they hope to build a luxury department store empire, complemented by an online business. The source said they plan to increase sales to 8 billion euros ($9.1 billion) by 2024, including more than 1 billion online, from around 5 billion now. The conglomerate will be managed from a holding company in London, with the potential for an eventual stock exchange listing, although local management of the stores in other countries will remain, the source said. Central opened its first department store in 1956, growing to become Thailand’s largest mall owner with about 2,400 retail stores. It has an e-commerce joint venture with China’s JD.com and stakes in Southeast Asia ride-hailer Grab Holdings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
25-12-2021||Business||RBI policy influenced by financial inclusion: Michael Patra||A social welfare principle underpins the conduct of monetary policy in the country: financial inclusion. Financial inclusion was the lofty goal that the UPA government under Manmohan Singh had first articulated before that somewhat nebulous concept was gummed up by then chief economic advisor Arvind Subramanian into a quantifiable and measurable level of achievement using Jan Dhan, Aadhar and Mobile (JAM). But now — and perhaps for the first time — the Reserve Bank of India has tried to explain how the noble social welfare goal of financial inclusion has influenced the conduct of monetary policy . On Friday, RBI deputy governor Michael Patra said the government’s compulsion to push the financial inclusion agenda in the country has influenced monetary policy choices and options even as he also justified the choice of CPI inflation in the inflation targeting framework of the central bank. The RBI, which has also over the past few years taken various steps to widen the spread of financial inclusion, released a national financial inclusion index (FI-Index) in September 2021 to assess achievement in easily quantifiable terms. The index is based on 97 indicators representing “access” or the supply of financial inclusion infrastructure, “usage” or demand for financial services and "quality", or inequality in access and usage due to lack of financial literacy and protection. The index takes values from 0 to 100 and implicitly sets a goal for the RBI: 100 per cent financial inclusion for India. “By 2021, we have passed the halfway mark, doing best in access or the supply of the financial infrastructure, and lagging the most in usage or demand to be financially included,” Patra said in a keynote address at a seminar organised by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. The FI index rose from 49.9 in March 2019 to 53.1 in March 2020 and further to 53.9 in March 2021, thus crossing the half-way mark. The RBI deputy governor said  though the needle on financial inclusion has moved even during the pandemic, there is still a long way to go. He however, pointed out that India’s monetary policy is by design financially inclusive and it will reap the benefits of this strategy in the future in terms of effectiveness and welfare maximisation. According to the RBI deputy governor, the relationship between financial inclusion and monetary policy is “unfashionable’’ but interest is growing in the effects of financial inclusion on conduct of monetary policy and its contribution to human welfare through this channel. While monetary policy looks to minimise the deviations of output from its potential and inflation from the target, there is a two-way relationship between monetary policy and financial inclusion. He said low financial inclusion in the rural areas has led to a situation where food price increase is translating into income which isn’t being saved because of limited access to banking channels. As people start to spend the money as soon as they receive it, there is a rise in aggregate demand which feeds the inflation spiral in the country. “Inflation volatility affects all consumers, whether included or excluded. Therefore, minimising inflation volatility should be the predominant objective of monetary policy in its welfare maximising role,” he added. However, financial inclusion can dampen inflation and output volatility by smoothing consumption, as people are able to draw down financial savings in difficult times for everyday needs. Significantly, in this process, it makes the people interest-sensitive. “Inflation targeting monetary policy ensures that even those at the fringe of financial inclusion are secured from adverse income shocks that hit them when prices rise unconscionably,’’ the RBI deputy-governor said. Justifying the choice of the CPI index, he said that in India, food accounts for 46 per cent of the retail inflation, among the highest shares anywhere in the world. Further, CPI combines a rural index and an urban index, with the share of food being even higher in the rural index at 54.2 per cent. In the urban index, the share of food at 36.3 per cent is also sizable in a cross-country perspective. Given such conditions, aggregate demand is highly influenced by the behaviour of food prices and farm output, rather than interest rate changes to which the urban index could be sensitive. “It is in this context that the monetary policy framework overhaul in 2016 to usher in a flexible inflation targeting regime wisely chose the headline CPI as its metric for measuring the inflation target rather than any measure of core inflation, despite persuasive arguments for the latter that are made even today,” he added Patra further said that as financial inclusion rises even further in India, consumption volatility as a source of output volatility can be expected to wane, providing headroom for monetary policy to remain focused on minimising inflation volatility. On the impact of financial inclusion on monetary policy transmission, he said that it enhances the potency of interest-rate based monetary policy by causing an increasing number of people to become responsive to interest rate cycles, which in turn, prompts "appropriate smoothing behaviour". There is also some evidence to suggest that as interest rate sensitivity of the population increases, central banks need to move interest rates by less to achieve their objectives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
