26-12-2021||Business||India imposes antidumping duty on five Chinese goods ||India has imposed antidumping duties on five Chinese products, including certain aluminium goods and some chemicals, for five years to guard local manufacturers from cheap imports from the neighbouring country. According to separate notifications of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), the duties have been imposed on certain flat rolled products of aluminium; sodium hydrosulphite (used on dye industry); silicone sealant (used in manufacturing of solar photovoltaic modules, and thermal power applications); hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) component R-32; and hydrofluorocarbon blends (both have uses in refrigeration industry). These duties were imposed following recommendations of the commerce ministry's investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR). The DGTR in separate probes have concluded that these products have been exported at a price below normal value in Indian markets, which has resulted in dumping. The domestic industry has suffered material injury due to the dumping, the DGTR has said. "The anti-dumping duty imposed under this notification (on Silicone Sealant ) shall be levied for a period of five years (unless revoked, superseded or amended earlier) from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette and shall be payable in Indian currency," the CBIC has said. The CBIC has also imposed the duty on a vehicle component - Axle for Trailers in CKD/SKD (complete and semi knocked down) to protect domestic makers from cheap Chinese imports. Similarly it has also slapped the duty on imports of calcined gypsum powder from Iran, Oman, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates (UAE) for five years. While DGTR recommends the duty to be levied, the finance ministry imposes it. Countries initiate anti-dumping probes to determine if the domestic industry has been hurt by a surge in below-cost imports. As a counter-measure, they impose duties under the multilateral WTO regime. Anti-dumping measures are taken to ensure fair trade and provide a level-playing field to the domestic industry. Both India and China are members of the Geneva-based World Trade Organisation (WTO). India has initiated maximum anti-dumping cases against dumped imports from China. India's exports to China during the April-September 2021 period were worth USD 12.26 billion while imports aggregated at USD 42.33 billion, leaving a trade deficit of USD 30.07 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
26-12-2021||Business||NCLAT stays CCI order imposing Rs 873 crore penalty on UBL||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has imposed a stay on the orders passed by fair trade regulator CCI slapping penalties on several beer makers, including United Breweries which faces a fine of Rs 751.8 crore. Passing an interim order, a two-member NCLAT bench has directed parties, including United Breweries, to deposit 10 per cent of the penalty amount by way of ‘Fixed Deposit Receipt’ within three weeks. The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on September 24, 2021, imposed penalties totalling over Rs 873 crore on UBL, Carlsberg India, All India Brewers’ Association (AIBA) and 11 individuals for cartelisation in the sale and supply of beer. The said order was challenged before the NCLAT, which is an appellate authority over the CCI. It hears appeals against any direction issued or decision made or order passed by the CCI. The NCLAT has also directed the CCI and the All India Brewers Association to file replies over the notices issued by it. The appellate tribunal has directed to list the matter on March 29, 2022, for admission. UBL in a regulatory filing said it received an order passed by the NCLAT. ⚫ The beer makers, including United Breweries, have to deposit 10% of the penalty amount by way of ‘Fixed Deposit Receipt’ within three weeks. ⚫ The CCI had imposed penalties totalling over Rs 873 crore on UB, Carlsberg India, All India Brewers’ Association and 11 individuals for cartelisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
26-12-2021||Business||Adhunik Power preferred bidder for Lalgarh (North) coal mine ||Adhunik Power and Natural Resources has emerged as the preferred bidder for Lalgarh (North) coal mine in Jharkhand. Auro Coal has emerged as the preferred bidder for Beheraband North Extension coal block in Madhya Pradesh, the coal ministry said in a statement. The coal ministry had launched a second attempt of auction of 11 coal mines for commercial mining on September 27 and bids were received for four mines, it said. The auction was held for two mines that have received multiple bids. With the conduct of this auction, the ministry of coal has successfully auctioned 30 mines till date from the launch of first tranche in June last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
26-12-2021||Business||Centre to change nutrient-based subsidy policy ||The government on Saturday decided to make changes to the existing nutrient based subsidy (NBS) policy to promote domestic production of phosphatic and potassic (P&K) fertilisers amid a sharp rise in global prices. A decision was taken in a high-level meeting chaired by Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya. In the meeting, “...it was decided to continue support to the domestic industry for production of P&K fertilisers and propose additional provisions in the present NBS Policy to promote domestic production of P&K fertilisers in the country,” an official statement said. This decision will help in utilising the unutilised domestic production capacity of these fertilisers and promote ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, it added. Under the NBS policy being implemented since April 2010, a fixed amount of subsidy that is decided on an annual basis is provided on P&K fertilisers depending on their nutrient content. Under this policy, maximum retail price (MRP) of P&K fertilisers is fixed by the fertiliser companies according to the market dynamics at reasonable levels which is monitored by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
26-12-2021||Business||Bharat Petroleum Corporation-Solar Energy Corporation of India join hands ||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) has joined hands with Solar Energy Corporation of India Ltd (SECI) to pursue business opportunities in the renewable energy space. The tieup is part of BPCL’s plan to create a renewable energy portfolio of 1GW by 2025 and 10GW by 2040. BPCL said in a statement on Saturday that the collaboration with SECI would help both organisations to leverage each other’s expertise to pursue opportunities in renewable energy space like solar, wind, electric mobility, hydrogen and waste-to-energy. The oil marketing company follows in the wake of host of other companies, including Reliance Industries and the Adani group, which have announced ambitious plans in green energy. Adani Green Energy recently signed an agreement with the SECI to supply 4.6 GW of green power. The company said this was the world’s largest green power purchase agreement (PPA). Gautam Adani is planning to invest $20 billion over the next 10 years across renewable energy generation, component manufacturing, transmission and distribution. Reliance Industries, on the other hand, is planning to invest Rs 75,000 crore in renewable energy over the next three years. BPCL said the MoU was signed by its head of renewable energy business, Amit Garg, and SECI’s executive director, Sanjay Sharma. The corporation added that in line with the government’s objective to hasten renewable energy capacity development and speed up adoption of electric mobility in the country, it intends to diversify further in the areas of renewable energy and electric mobility and will also take up the development of ESG (environmental, social & governance) projects. SECL, a PSU under the ministry of new and renewable energy (MNRE), is engaged in promotion and development of various renewable energy resources, particularly solar/wind energy, renewable based storage systems, trading of power, R&D as well as renewable energy based products like green hydrogen among others. India is looking at 175 GW of renewable energy by 2022 and scale it up to 500 GW by 2030. “BPCL has an aspiration to have a portfolio of 1 GW of renewable power by 2025, and 10 GW by 2040. Leveraging the skillsets and knowledge base of SECI will help us significantly in achieving these targets,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chairman & managing director of BPCL. In September, Singh had said the company was planning to invest over Rs 1 lakh crore over the next five years to raise the capacity of petrochemicals, gas business, clean fuel and augment marketing infrastructure. ⚫Tieup is part of BPCL’s plan to create a renewable energy portfolio of 1GW by 2025 and 10GW by 2040. ⚫ Plan is to pursue opportunities in renewable energy space such as  solar, wind, electric mobility, hydrogen and waste-to-energy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
26-12-2021||Business||Reliance gets NCLT nod to withdraw oil-to-chemical scheme||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has allowed Reliance Industries to withdraw its proposal to demerge its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business, which effectively rings down the curtain on a two-year-old saga surrounding the Mukesh Ambani-owned company’s relentless pursuit of an investment deal with Aramco of Saudi Arabia. “We would like to inform that the NCLT, Mumbai bench has vide its order dated December 3, 2021 approved the withdrawal of the O2C scheme pending before the NCLT,” RIL said in a regulatory filing on Saturday. The Ambanis have been in negotiations with Aramco since the middle of 2019 for the purchase of a 20 per cent stake in the O2C business at an enterprise value of $ 75 billion. Talks ran into several hurdles and were finally bogged down by the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Speculation about a deal with Aramco were reignited last year but the two sides eventually decided to abandon negotiations apparently after failing to agree on the valuation of the business. On November 27, the oil-to-telecom conglomerate had requested the tribunal to permit withdrawal of its petition at the next date of hearing, December 3, or any other early date that the NCLT found convenient. RIL had said that it along with Reliance O2C Ltd no longer desired to go ahead with the scheme due to “certain commercial considerations”. Last month, both Saudi Aramco and RIL had decided to `re-evaluate’ the latter’s investment in the O2C business. The two sides had signed a non-binding letter of intent in August 2019 to assess the feasibility of Aramco picking up a 20 per cent stake in the O2C business at a deemed valuation of $ 75 billion. Reliance said both the teams made significant efforts during the process of due diligence to clinch the deal. But due to the evolving nature of its business portfolio, they mutually determined that it would be beneficial for them to re-evaluate the proposed investment in O2C business amid the changed context. RIL had, however, added that it would continue to be Saudi Aramco’s preferred partner for investments in the private sector in India and that it would collaborate with the overseas company and SABIC for investments in Saudi Arabia, which indicates that both could join hands at a later date. The key assets that were supposed to hived off along with the O2C business included RIL's refining and petrochemical plants, fuels retail marketing joint venture (where BP holds 49 per cent and RIL the rest), and other midstream businesses. Though RIL’s announcement initially put some pressure on the stock, it recovered later as analysts felt that the development was unlikely to affect its ability to finance growth in areas like green energy, where the company has announced massive plans. Observers also say that RIL could look at monetising some of its other businesses like refining, specialty chemicals and new energy by bringing in strategic partners. RIL has a very strong balance sheet and is at present net debt free, which means the cash and cash equivalent on its books is greater than its overall debt. For the period ended September 30, outstanding debt stood at Rs 255,891 crore while its cash and cash equivalents totalled Rs 259,476 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
