27-12-2021||Business||Air India handover to Tata Group delayed till January ||Tata Group's takeover of loss-making national carrier Air India is most likely delayed by a month till January as the completion of procedures taking longer than expected, an official said on Monday. In October, the government accepted the highest bid made by a Tata Sons company for 100 per cent equity shares of Air India and Air India Express along with its 50 per cent stake in ground-handling company AISATS - the first privatisation in 20 years. At that time, the government had stated that it wanted to complete the transactions, which included Tatas paying Rs 2,700 crore in cash, by December end. As per the conditions in SPA, all formalities of handover would have to be completed within 8 weeks, but this date can be mutually extended by the buyer and seller and is being done in this case. However, some regulatory approvals are yet to come in for the handover, and certain formalities are yet to be completed, the official, who wished not to be named, told PTI. "The process would be completed by January," he said without giving a specific date. On October 25, the government had signed the share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for the sale of national carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. Tata's would pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and takeover Rs 15,300 crore of the airline's debt. The cash component would come once the handover process is completed, another official explained. Tatas beat the Rs 15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 per cent stake in the loss-making carrier. As of August 31, Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore. 75 per cent of this debt or Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to a special purpose vehicle AIAHL before handing over the loss-making airline to Tata Group. Tatas will not get to retain non-core assets, such as the Vasant Vihar Housing colony of Air India, Air India Building at Nariman Point, Mumbai, and Air India Building in New Delhi. Of the 141 Air India aircraft that Tatas will get, 42 are leased planes, while the remaining 99 are owned. While this will be the first privatisation since 2003-04, Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable - it holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd. Tata's acquisition of Air India will give it access to a fleet of 117 wide-body and narrow-body aircraft, and Air India Express Ltd another 24 narrow-body aircraft besides control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing, and parking slots at domestic airports. Air India started suffering losses every year since its merger with Indian Airlines in 2007-08. A Turnaround Plan (TAP) and a Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) were approved for Air India by the previous UPA regime in 2012. However, the TAP did not work out, and Air India continued to reel under losses, with the government giving Rs 20 crore per day to keep the airline afloat. Over the last decade, more than Rs 1.10 lakh crore was infused by way of cash support and loan guarantees in the loss-making airline to keep it afloat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
27-12-2021||Business||Sensex ends 296 points higher to end at 57,420||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 296 points higher on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Tech Mahindra amid a largely positive trend in global markets. After rebounding over 960 points from the day's low during the session, the 30-share index settled 295.93 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 57,420.24. Similarly, the Nifty recovered 82.50 points or 0.49 per cent to 17,086.25. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, Sun Pharma, ICICI Bank and M&M. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Asian Paints, Maruti and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. Indian markets opened in red tracking mixed Asian market cues as investors tracked the impact of Omicron variant amid holiday-thinned trade, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, the markets swung back to green showing a steady trade with the recovery supported by healthcare, industrials, and capital goods stocks. Traders were encouraged as a member of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank expressed hope that in a few quarters from now, capital investment would begin to pick up even in the old economy, and said the next fiscal year is also expected to witness a decent growth, Solanki said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red, while Hong Kong was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.01 per cent to USD 75.78 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
27-12-2021||Business||Sensex slumps over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 400 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank as concerns over Omicron-induced restrictions had an adverse impact on investor sentiment. The 30-share index plunged 444.83 points or 0.78 per cent to 56,679.48 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty tumbled 128.40 points or 0.76 per cent to 16,875.35. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, Bajaj Finserv, Maruti and Tata Steel. On the other hand, PowerGrid, M&M, Dr Reddy's and HDFC were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark ended 190.97 points or 0.33 per cent lower at 57,124.31, and Nifty declined 68.85 points or 0.40 per cent to 17,003.75. Meanwhile, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 715 crore on Friday, according to stock exchange data. According to analysts, investor sentiment weakened on concerns over impact of restrictions imposed by various states amid rising number of Omicron cases over the weekend. So far, 422 Omicron cases have been detected across 17 states and union territories in India and 130 of these people have recovered or migrated, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.40 per cent to USD 76.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
27-12-2021||Business||2021, a year marred by chip scarcity for automobile industry||2021 has been a challenging and an unprecedented year for the Indian automobile industry which had to grapple with the twin scourges of a brutal second wave of the pandemic and a debilitatingsupply chain crisis. Almost all car makers have been affected by the crunch in the supplyof semi-conductors which in turn affected their production, though the industryshowed a recovery in demand. The passenger vehicle segment surpassed sales of  three million in 2021 -- they rose 27 per cent to 3.08 million against 2.43 million a year ago. “The end part of the year has not been good,the semi-conductor crisis continues and recovery might be compromised,” said Shashank Srivastava, senior executive director of Maruti Suzuki India. The company despite being hit by the supply crisis has surpassed its sales of last year. “From January till November 2021, we have sold 12,42,000 units compared with 12,13,000 calendar year 2020.” The chip crisis has lowered in intensity since August.  Srivastava said Maruti could manufacture only 40 per cent of the cars planned for September and 60 per cent in October. “In November we did 84 per centand in December 85 per cent.” HyundaiMotor India Limited has also been rocked by the challenges faced by the industry but is “cautiously optimistic at the government initiatives to promote investments and growth in the entire manufacturing value-chain in India,” a spokesperson said. TataMotors recorded a decade-high sale in passenger vehicles and delivered thehighest-ever quarterly sales in electric vehicles (EV)s. The company’s marketshare  in this fiscal rose to 11 per cent from 7.1 per cent in the same period last year.“The focus this year has been to keep the customers engaged as we ramped up production by carefully addressing supply side challenges to meet the demand,”said a Tata Motors spokesperson. Toyota Kirloskar Motors said it was witnessing a constant rise in customer orders, while demand was gravitating towards pre-Covid levels. Toyota said the upgrade of the Fortuner in the form the Legender has received a very good response and has become the flagship model in the segment as is the Crysta. “The Glanza andthe Urban Cruiser also have been runaway successes witnessing sustained sales and  attracting  younger customers,” said V. Wiseline Sigamani, AGM, sales and strategic marketing, Toyota Kirloskar Motors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
27-12-2021||Business||RSS-affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch wants complete crypto ban||RSS-affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch on Sunday passed a resolution demanding that the central government completely ban buying, selling, investing, and otherwise dealing in cryptocurrencies by any person in the country. The law relating to issuing of digital currency by the Reserve Bank of India should be framed “quickly” and the Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) considered as legal tender, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) said in its fifteenth national meet. “The resolution was passed by the 15th Rashtriya Sabha of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, which concluded in Gwalior today,” the outfit’s co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan said. The national meet had started on December 24. “The government should outrightly ban buying, selling, investing, and otherwise dealing in cryptocurrencies by any person resident in India,” the resolution demanded. It also said people holding cryptocurrencies can be allowed to sell or exchange the same within a short span of time, subject to the provision of submitting information to the Income Tax department. “Disobeying the ban should make person/entity liable to the financial penalty,” the resolution added. The resolution passed at the SJM national meet argued that giving recognition to cryptocurrencies could lead to heavy speculation and adversely impact the financial market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
27-12-2021||Business||Ashlar Law plans to scale up operations||Ashlar Law, a corporate law firm that worked with Sidley Austin LLP  to advise Brazil in the WTO dispute on India’s sugar subsidy, plans to scale up operations. Founded in 2014 by two city-born lawyers – Pingal Khan and Souvik Bhadra – the firm has offices in Calcutta, Mumbai, and Bangalore and will open an office in New Delhi next year. With clients ranging from fintech, deep tech and banking to healthcare and luxury real estate, the firm offers advisory services on the changing technology regulatory landscape in the country and the emerging legislation around gig workers. The founders told The Telegraph that although they had studied together at  the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences, their paths were initially divergent. But they started considering coming together to build a practice with the shifts in market trends following the 2008-09 recession. “The industry started feeling the effects with clients becoming very prudent about expenses and at the same time, we could see that in big firms we were not being able to provide a value for the price. At the same time a young generation of entrepreneurs were rising who needed legal support,” said Bhadra. “Souvik and I decided to start Ashlar Law to transform our vision of a 21st-century law firm into reality, with offices at Calcutta, Bangalore, and a small presence in Mumbai,” said Khan. No named partners A key trend among legal firms both globally and in India is to have the surname of the founding partners or family name in the registered name of the firm. “In India, the big law firms are mostly personality-driven. In many firms, none of the promoters have exited the firm or at least stopped being involved in day-to-day practice. We wanted to and still look forward to building an institution that is bigger than any of us individuals,” Khan said. “I read about the term ‘ashlar’ which in classical architecture refers to a piece of stone used to build monuments. We thought this signifies hard work and the pursuit of perfection. This we felt symbolised our journey till then and also going forward.” Ashlar has advised  Workex in a funding round from Michael and Susan Dell Foundation. It has supported fintech platform Benow in their merger with Mosambee. Other clients include  Wow Momo, Eupheus Technologies, Le 15 Patisserie. The firm has also represented pharmaceutical majors like Merck and Sun Pharma and advised ITC, Diageo, NPCI, and Standard Chartered Bank on different issues. Expansion Khan said that the firm was careful in not splurging on big set-ups in the early stages to bring down the establishment cost which aided in achieving a running break even in the first quarter. “We had about six lawyers when we started. Now we have two more partners and in total, we have 15 lawyers in 3 offices. We have expanded the Bombay practice. At the end of 2019, we were clear we wanted to start the Delhi office from April 2020. But that has not happened because of the pandemic. Now, we are in a stage where we would start that office by April 2022,” said Bhadra. “We are setting up a Delhi office to give our existing clients a seamless experience at the highest appellate forums, and also because in the last few years NCR has emerged as an exciting hub for disruptive technology companies,” said Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
27-12-2021||Business||Reliance Digital Health invests in Karkinos Healthcare||Oncology-focussed managed healthcare platform Karkinos Healthcare has received an undisclosed amount of investment from Reliance Digital Health, a statement said on Sunday. The start-up, backed by Ratan Tata personally and the Tata Group, has other major angel investors that include Venu Srinivasan, Kris Gopalakrishnan, Ronnie Screwvala, Vijay Shekar Sharma and Bhavish Agarwal. The San Diego, Californai-based Rakuten Medical, the global clinical stage biotechnology firm, also holds a minority stake it it. The Tata Group had recently invested Rs 110 crore into this technology-driven oncology-focussed managed healthcare platform that helps in early detection and diagnosis of common cancers. Using a distributed cancer care network, it works with multiple healthcare institutions and professionals to get cancer care closer to the patient’s home by decoupling the delivery from the knowledge systems of care. The statement said Reliance Industries has invested an undisclosed sum in Karkinos through Reliance Digital Health for a minority stake. Commenting on the investment, Venkataramanan R, chief executive of Karkinos Healthcare said this investment yet again validates our pioneering model of distributed cancer care and the potential impact it can have in the country. Though headquartered in Mumbai, it has operations only in Kerala now in four locations in the state — Kothamangalam and Chottanikkara in Ernakulma district of Kerala — and is planning to ramp up its operations across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
27-12-2021||Business|| Cairn Energy Plc drops lawsuits against Indian govt and entities||Britain's Cairn Energy Plc has dropped lawsuits against the Indian government and its entities in the US and other places and is in the final stages of withdrawing cases in Paris and the Netherlands to get back about Rs 7,900 crore that were collected from it to enforce a retrospective tax demand. As part of the settlement reached with the government to the seven-year old dispute over levy of back taxes, the company — which is now known as Capricorn Energy PLC — has initiated proceedings to withdraw lawsuits it had filed in several jurisdictions to enforce an international arbitration award which had overturned levy of Rs 10,247 crore retrospective taxes and ordered India to refund the money already collected. Two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said Cairn on November 26 withdrew the lawsuit it had brought in Mauritius for recognition of the arbitration award and took similar measures in courts in Singapore, the UK and Canada. On December 15, it sought and got “voluntary dismissal" of a lawsuit it had brought in a New York court to seize assets of Air India to recover the money due from the government. On the same day, it made a similar move in a Washington court where it was seeking recognition of the arbitration award. Recognition of arbitration award is the first step before any enforcement proceedings like seizure of assets can be brought. Sources said the critical lawsuit in a French court, which had attached Indian properties on the petition of Cairn, is in the final stages of withdrawal. Paper work is expected to get completed in the next couple of days. The attachment of Indian assets, including some flats in Paris, in July used by the Indian government staff had triggered scrapping of a 2012 amendment to the Income Tax Act that gave taxmen powers to go back 50 years and slap capital gains levies wherever ownership had changed hands overseas but business assets were in India. The tax department had used the 2012 legislation to levy Rs 10,247 crore  on alleged capital gains Cairn made on reorganisation of its India business prior to its listing in 2006-07. Cairn contested such demand saying all taxes due when the reorganisation, which was approved by all statutory authorities, took place were duly paid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
27-12-2021||Business||GST regime to witness host of tax rates and procedural changes||The GST regime will see a host of tax rates and procedural changes coming into effect from January 1 including liability on e-commerce operators to pay tax on services provided through them by way of passenger transport or restaurant services. Also, the correction in inverted duty structure in footwear and textile sectors would come into effect from Saturday wherein all footwear, irrespective of prices will attract GST at 12 per cent while all textile products, except cotton, including readymade garments will have 12 per cent GST. While the passenger transport services provided by auto-rickshaw drivers through offline/ manual mode would continue to be exempt, such services when provided through a e-commerce platform would become taxable from January, at  5 per cent rate. The procedural changes that would come into effect include e-commerce operators, such as Swiggy and Zomato, being made liable to collect and deposit GST with the government on restaurant services supplied through them from January 1. They would also be required to issue invoices in respect of such services.  There would be no extra tax burden on the end consumer as currently restaurants are collecting and depositing GST. Only, the compliance of deposit and invoice raising has been shifted to food delivery platforms. The move comes after government estimates showed that tax loss to the exchequer due to alleged underreporting by food delivery aggregators is Rs 2,000 over the past two years. Making these platforms liable for GST deposits would curb tax evasion. The other anti-evasion measures that would come into effect from the New Year include mandatory Aadhaar authentication for claiming GST refund, blocking of the facility of GSTR-1 filing in cases where the business has not paid taxes, and filed GSTR-3B in the immediate previous month.  Currently, the law restricts the filing of returns for outward supplies or GSTR-1 in case a business fails to file GSTR-3B for the preceding two months. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
27-12-2021||Business||Bulk tea prices at auctions likely to open firm in New Year||Bulk tea prices at the auctions are likely to open firm in the New Year and stay that way till June, senior planters said, even as they cautioned that the industry’s overall performance in 2022 could depend on the volume of crop coming to the market from July onwards. The shortage has been created in the market by the crop losses in 2020 and 2021 following pandemic-related disruptions, boosting prices at the auctions. Industry players said the impact of the shortage in the pipeline would continue till June. “Prices should remain firm till June. However,  production during July-October will determine how the rest of the year pans out. If the crop is high, we may again be in trouble,” said Atul Asthana, managing director of Goodricke, part of UK’s Camellia Plc, the world’s largest bulk tea producer. India produced 1,257.53 million kg tea in 2020 compared with 1,390.88 million kg in 2019, a drop of about 10 per cent. According to a provisional figure provided by the Tea Board, production stood at 1,144.89 million kg till October 2021, suggesting the 2019 level may not be breached. Gardens produce 60 per cent of their crop in four months from July to October compared with 30 per cent in the first six months of the year. Aditya Khaitan, chairman of McLeod Russel India, India’s largest bulk tea producer, held views similar to Asthana. He hoped the prices would be strong when the market opened for the next season in April. Khaitan was speaking to McLeod shareholders last week. A 10 per cent drop in production resulted in a 32.5 per cent rise in North India (NI) auction prices in 2020 over 2019. Organised bulk tea producers were able to breathe easy after years of margin squeeze caused by stagnating prices and increasing cost. Even though production rose in 2021, NI auction prices are down only 7.4 per cent till November compared with the same period of 2020, Tea Board data show. In 2020, prices remained firm during the better part of the year but tapered off at the end of the season. In contrast, prices firmed up at the end of 2021 as the early onset of winter led to green leaf production slowing down. Khaitan also suggested a new floor price may have been found, and consumers are ready to pay higher prices for tea. Asthana said the only way large producers can stay in the green is by focusing on quality. “Out of 1,400 million kg, the demand for quality tea, especially from the west Indian packers, is about 200 million kg. Our target is to be in that top bracket,” he said. “Gardens  focused on quality are expected to perform much better on a relative basis in FY2022. Two consecutive years of lower production is likely to support prices at least till around June 2022, ” Sujoy Saha, vice-president and sector head of Icra, said. “Assuming normal production levels and no further increase in wage rates, profitability of bulk tea players, particularly those producing quality teas, in 2022-23 is expected to remain largely at the same level as that estimated for 2021-22,” Saha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
27-12-2021||Business||RBL Bank chief goes on leave after RBI appoints additional director||Vishwavir Ahuja, managing director and CEO of RBL Bank, has proceeded on leave after the Reserve Bank of India on Saturday appointed Yogesh K. Dayal as an additional director of the bank for a period of two years with effect from December 24. The developments over the weekend cap a period of simmering tension between Ahuja and the banking regulator which had earlier turned down the bank’s request to grant him a three-year extension and instead directed that he could stay on till June 30 next year. On Sunday, RBL Bank called a press conference where it announced that Rajeev Ahuja (no relation of Vishwawir) would take over as interim managing director and CEO. The bank also tried to allay apprehensions over the appointment of Dayal who is a chief general manager of RBI and has been heading the RBI’s Department of Communication. Earlier, he was also a director at J&K Bank. Officials at the press conference said the bank and its management had the “full support of the RBI” and the latest developments were not a reflection on its fundamentals, or even triggered on account of any concerns over its advances, asset quality, governance standards or level of deposits. Vishwavir Ahuja who has been with the bank for more than a decade, has apparently stepped down with immediate effect, six months before his tenure was to end. In June, the RBI had approved his re-appointment for a period of one year instead of the three years sought by the bank. He is unlikely to join the board again. RBL Bank, however, continued to maintain that Vishwavir Ahuja had proceeded on medical leave. Dayal’s appointment has set the dovecotes aflutter as the banking regulator usually takes such a course of action when it wants to enhance scrutiny in areas such as  governance and asset quality or even assess the financial condition of a bank. “Earlier, the RBI also did not give a three-year extension to Vishwavir Ahuja. The appointment of an additional director suggests that there are some things within the bank that the RBI is worried about,” said a senior banker who did not wish to be quoted. The RBI has not, however, stated the reasons for Dayal’s appointment. In a letter written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) had expressed concerns about the developments at the bank. The AIBEA said given the background of the problems encountered by private sector lenders such as Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank, the government should immediately intervene in the matter in the interest of RBL Bank’s depositors and consider necessary steps which include its merger with a PSU bank. Speaking to newspersons in a conference call, Rajeev Ahuja said the bank is on solid ground and that it has surplus liquidity to of over Rs 15,000 crore .  Rajeev asserted that the bank will post better profits in the December quarter than the preceding September quarter. He said the bank will stick to all the targets spelled out at the earning call in September, but conceded that microfinance lending is an area which requires more attention. “We need to up the game on service, governance, digital and risk areas.” He claimed that the board of the bank had already chosen him as the successor to Vishwavir, and RBI-appointed additional director Yogesh Dayal also voted for his appointment as MD and CEO at a meeting held over the weekend. The central bank is fully behind the bank and its strategy, he added. Vishwavir Ahuja was central to the transformation exercise at the bank and the new leadership will carry forward the same agenda, Rajeev said. Asked about the RBI action, which has a few precedents, Rajeev said the central bank would have its own specific reasons to make such an appointment, but declined to share any details. To a question on what he feels will be the focus areas for RBI, Rajeev pointed to compliance and risk management as the possible priorities but was quick to add that these are the same as the bank's own internal interests as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
