28-12-2021||Business||BPO in India: The Challenges of Outsourcing||India is closely associated with the offshore Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) industry. And with good reason, it remains the biggest single centre for BPO, having pioneered the sector in the late twentieth century. “For many, especially in the West, IT and business process outsourcing to India simply "is" outsourcing,” says Ralf Ellspermann, CEO of PITON-Global, an award-winning BPO provider. Much of this dominance came from the early lead that India had. It was the first place that saw large-scale offshoring of IT and BPO services. These were initially captive operations providing front and back-office services for large multinationals who could justify the set-up costs with the scale of subsequent ongoing savings. However, it was not long before the local workforce developed their expertise, enabling them to start their operations as third-party outsourcing providers, hugely expanding the market for BPO services. It was no longer just for multinationals, but any business regardless of size or industry. The consequence of this was not just to expand the client base, though. “With the potential for almost anyone to establish a BPO, almost anywhere in the world, it meant that India could no longer assume it was the only option. Yet, it remains, by far, the largest offshore ITO and BPO destination in the world,” says Ellspermann. So, how has BPO in India retained that dominant position? In short: size and domain expertise. The sheer scale of India has played a large part in its success. With a population of 1.4 billion, the sector has a huge pool of talent, even allowing for the largely rural population; plenty of English-speaking Indians can staff BPO operations. “And that size also brings other advantages. Indian BPOs are often first in any search because of the long-established sector and sheer volume of options available to businesses. And the government also helps, promoting and supporting an industry that provides close to a tenth of national GDP,” explains Ellspermann. But while these advantages have protected the Indian BPO sector, they might also prove its weaknesses. The industry has grown enormously, employing millions of Indians. Still, even with a population of 1.4 billion, there is a limit to how many have sufficient language skills, and some operators can struggle to find suitably skilled staff. Additionally, there are some signs the sector is outgrowing the infrastructure. Increasingly, operators have to locate in second-tier cities, where the communications infrastructure is not as good. The government is rushing to improve, but it has a big job on its hands. And outside factors are influencing business decisions as well. The Covid-19 pandemic, for example, provided a vivid illustration of the dangers of geographic consolidation, and many businesses are deliberately choosing multiple locations and providers for outsourcing and not just BPOs in India. And there are plenty of places that have been keen to compete. “One of those that has emerged as a key challenger to India's BPO dominance has been the Philippines. With a robust education system and cultural links to the West, there is a high level of English fluency among Filipinos, frequently with little to no accent,” says Ellspermann.  The result has been that more businesses, especially from the US, UK and Australia, have chosen the Philippines for their call centre outsourcing needs over India. The Philippine BPO sector has, as a result, seen the same type of rapid growth that India experienced at the dawn of the industry. “While BPO in India might still be the world's biggest outsourcing destination, it is facing a stiff challenge from the Philippines and other nations keen to get their share of the US$250 billion outsourcing market,” adds Ellspermann.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
28-12-2021||Business||Union budget 2022-23: FM to consult state finance ministers in meet||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will hold a meeting with finance ministers of states on Thursday as part of customary pre-Budget consultations with various stakeholders. According to sources, the meeting on December 30 would be held at Vigyan Bhawan here. This is going to be a physical meeting unlike others held earlier this month. The Budget 2022-23 is likely to be presented on February 1 during the first half of Parliament's Budget session which usually begins in the last week of January every year. Sitharaman has held meetings with stakeholders of industries, financial sectors players, labour unions, agriculturists and leading economists during which suggestions were made about rationalisation of income tax slabs, infrastructure status for digital services and incentives to hydrogen storage. Eight such meetings were held between December 15 and December 22, as per the finance ministry statement issued last week. More than 120 invitees representing seven stakeholder groups participated in eight meetings, scheduled during this period, it said. It will be the fourth Budget of Modi 2.0 government and Sitharaman. The Budget would come against the backdrop of gradual recovery taking place in the Indian economy hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The growth this fiscal year is expected to be in double-digit. The RBI in its latest bi-monthly monetary policy review pegged a GDP growth of 9.5 per cent in 2021-22. The government has projected a fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
28-12-2021||Business||The business Tycoon behind the Best digital Marketig Company in India - Jitender Goswami,Founder of SMMPackage Pvt. Ltd.||A well-known figure in the world of digital marketing who is helping Entrepreneurs and Brands to grow their companies through digital transformation. Now, if something is ever in the news, then it is that fresh, young and brilliant Entrepreneurs and Businessman are doing well and growing their businesses through Online Marketing. That's Why Today we have brought for you The Best Digital Marketing Company in Indiai, Smmpackage Pvt. Ltd. founded by Jitender Goswami. Jitender Goswamiis a 28 years old Business Magnate is young Entrepreneur and Founder Of India's No.1 Digital Marketing Company"Smmpackage Pvt. Ltd.'' He is very kind and humble personality. His company SmmpackagePvt. Ltd. is famous for their all services like Website Designing , You Tube Channel SEO , Social Media Marketing , Google Ads , Website Traffic , Search Engine Optimization and many more. SMMPackage Pvt. Ltd. is also known as one of the Top Digital Marketing Company in India. Jitender Goswami is a personality of devoting all his time and efforts to his prosperous career while maintaining a good reputation and a good life. Somehow the man did it all, set temporary goals, and separated his attention between homework and his interests. This all Because Jitender Goswami was keen to learn new things, he was able to adapt new marketing tactics, observations, and adjustments. On 14 April 1993 in Fatehbad, Haryana.JitenderGoswami was born to Mr.DevinderGoswami and Mrs.Neelam Goswami .Jitender's fame can be seen on Instagram and Facebook by his immense followers. Jitender Goswami is a well-known public figure in the world of digital marketing who is helping individuals and brands to grow their companies through digital transformation and channels. Due to his out-of-box concepts and his pleasant work ethics, he had reached many satisfied customers in India as well as Dubai and U.S.A . Besides, His Clients reviewed SmmpackagePvt. Ltd. as a Best Digital Marketing Company in India. After a lot of Failure in Life Jitender Goswami has decided to move to Digital Marketing Industry. Amazing thing is that he has not learned it from any Digital Marketing School or Institute, everything is done by his hard work and Self Researching." Thanks to my Mom and Dad who always Support me in my Life, Their Importance is like a Backbone to me. " he adds. We wish him and SmmpackagePvt. Ltd. for a Great Future and may he be able to help more and more Youngsters and Business to help them to grow on Internet. Jitender has great plans and ideas for the future which he may reveal soon. By that time, you can follow him on his social media handles to stay connected with him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
28-12-2021||Business||India needs to opt for basic model for central bank digital currency, says RBI||India needs to initially go in for the basic model of central bank digital currency (CBDC) and use the payment system architecture as a backbone to make a state-of-the-art CBDC, the Reserve Bank said on Tuesday. In its basic form, a CBDC provides a safe, robust, and convenient alternative to physical cash. Depending on various design choices, it can also assume the complex form of a financial instrument. Given its dynamic impact on macroeconomic policy making, it is necessary to adopt basic models initially, and test comprehensively so that they have minimal impact on monetary policy and the banking system. "India's progress in payment systems will provide a useful backbone to make a state-of-the-art CBDC available to its citizens and financial institutions," the RBI said in its report on 'Trend and Progress of Banking in India 2020-21'. In comparison with existing forms of money, the CBDC can offer benefits to users in terms of liquidity, scalability, acceptance, ease of transactions with anonymity and faster settlement, it said, adding the central banks across the globe are deliberating on how to implement CBDCs. The RBI has been examining use cases and working out a phased implementation strategy for the introduction of CBDC with little or no disruption. Central banks across the globe are deliberating on how to implement CBDCs, moving ahead from their initial exploratory forays. Earlier this month, the Central Board of the RBI had discussed various aspects relating to CBDC and private cryptocurrencies. Parliament was recently informed that the government had received a proposal from the RBI in October 2021 for the amendment to the Reserve Bank of India Act 1934 to enhance the scope of the definition of 'bank note' to include currency in digital form.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
28-12-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 477 points to end at 57,897||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 477 points on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index surged 477.24 points or 0.83 per cent to end at 57,897.48. Similarly, the Nifty rose by 147.20 points or 0.86 per cent to 17,233.45. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 3 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, M&M, NTPC, UltraTech Cement and Titan. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank and PowerGrid were the laggards. The resilience of the US market (S&P 500 registered its 69th record high on Monday) and the spike in crude oil are indications that the Omicron variant, though surging, is unlikely to impact economic activity in any meaningful way, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.61 per cent to USD 78.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
28-12-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 300 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Infosys, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index surged 320.31 points or 0.56 per cent to 57,740.55 in the opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty rose 94.70 points or 0.55 per cent to 17,180.95. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, L&T, Infosys, HCL Tech and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's was the sole laggard. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark settled 295.93 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 57,420.24, and Nifty recovered 82.50 points or 0.49 per cent to 17,086.25. Meanwhile, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 1,038.25 crore on Monday, according to stock exchange data. "If the market's ability to discount the future turns right, the global economy is likely to clock decent growth in 2022," said VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The resilience of the US market (S&P 500 registered its 69th record high yesterday) and the spike in crude are indications that the Omicron variant, though surging, is unlikely to impact economic activity in any meaningful way, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were positive. Stock exchanges in the US ended with strong gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.12 per cent to USD 78.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
28-12-2021||Business||Foxconn delays plant restart in Chennai||A Foxconn  iPhone factory in Chennai at the centre of a mass food-poisoning incident will extend a week-long closure by an extra three days, a senior official told Reuters. The factory, which employs some 17,000 people, had been due to resume some operations on Monday but is now expected to restart production with 1,000 workers on Thursday, the official said, adding that the state government had conducted inspections of workers’ hostels. Last week, protests erupted after more than 250 women who work at the plant and live in one of the hostels had to be treated for food poisoning. Some of the protesters were rounded up by the police but later released. The incident has thrown a spotlight on living conditions for the workers, most of them women, who reside in hostels near the factory in Chennai. The Taiwanese contract manufacturer for Apple Inc  and other big tech names as well as 11 of its contractors, including those who provide food and living facilities were summoned for a meeting, said the official. The official was not authorised to speak on the matter and declined to be identified. The state government asked Foxconn to review services provided to the workers, including power backup at the hostels, food and water, and the directorate of industrial safety and health also recommended providing recreational facilities such as a TV, a library and indoor games, the official added. According to a separate government source, Foxconn has told state bureaucrats it had “ramped up production too quickly” and would gradually ensure that workers’ facilities were upgraded before they go back to full capacity. Representatives for Foxconn and Apple were not immediately available for comment. The gates of the factory, which is on the outskirts of   Chennai, were open on Monday and some vehicles were moving in and out but the area was mostly deserted. The impact on Apple from the closure of the plant, which makes iPhone 12 models and has started trial production of the iPhone 13, is expected to be minimal, analysts have said. But the factory is strategic in the long term as Apple tries to cut its reliance on China’s supply chain amid trade tensions between Washington and Beijing. The disruption comes as Apple is dealing with pandemic-related supply chain bottlenecks that have hit production. In October, the company warned that the impact of these supply chain problems would worsen during the holiday quarter. The unrest at Foxconn is the second such involving an Apple supplier factory in India in a year. In December 2020, thousands of contract workers at a factory owned by Wistron Corp destroyed equipment and vehicles over the alleged non-payment of wages, causing damages estimated at $60 million. Cupertino, California-headquartered Apple has bet big on India since it began iPhone assembly in the country in 2017. Foxconn, Wistron and another supplier, Pegatron , have together committed roughly $900 million over five years to make iPhones in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
28-12-2021||Business||Vedanta  to raise Rs 1000cr through non-convertible debentures  ||Vedanta Ltd on Monday said a committee of directors has approved raising up to Rs 1,000 crore through non-convertible debentures  on private placement basis. The meeting was held on Monday, Vedanta said in a filing to BSE. “The duly authorised committee of directors at its meeting ...considered and approved offering for subscription, on a private placement basis, up to 10,000 nos secured, rated, listed, redeemable, NCDs....aggregating up to Rs 1,000 crore,” the filing said. Vedanta, a subsidiary of Vedanta Resources Ltd, is one of the world's leading oil & gas and metals company with significant operations in oil & gas, zinc, lead, silver, copper, iron ore, steel, and aluminium and power across India, South Africa and Namibia. Ratings India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) has revised the company’s outlook to positive from stable. Besides, the long-term issuer rating has been affirmed at “IND AA-“. The outlook revision reflects a likely improvement in the operational cash flow for 2021-22 and 2022-23 because of a significant increase in the operating profitability, led by enhanced volume performance, cost improvements across segments and a sharp recovery in metal prices, according to Ind-Ra. Cairn COO Vedanta group firm Cairn Oil & Gas has appointed Martyn Smith, a seasoned oil and gas global leader, as chief operating Officer. “Smith is joining Cairn with an extensive experience of 35 years in reservoir & petroleum engineering and subsurface geoscience disciplines,” the company said in a statement. Smith has been part of the leadership in global companies, including British Petroleum where he led as the Global Head of Reservoir Development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
28-12-2021||Business||N. Chandrasekaran lists four Tata growth areas ||Tata group chief N. Chandrasekaran on Monday  said digital, new energy, supply chain resilience and health would be the key themes of its growth strategy. In his New Year’s message to the employees of the $103bn conglomerate, Chandrasekaran said winning the bid for Air India was the most important milestone in 2021. He pointed out that due to its 3S — implifying, synergizing and scaling — strategy the group is becoming simpler and financially stronger than it has been in a long time. On the new four-pronged themes, he the group companies are already adapting to these changes and they are witnessing stronger performance. “Our new pilots and businesses, from 5G to TataNeu and Tata Electronics, are poised to benefit from these four themes,’’ he added. According to the Tata group chairman, they must continue with the transformation exercise in their companies. “As a business, we can play our part in the evolution of India, with its ambitions to become a $3 trillion economy by 2024. We must keep pushing ourselves to be simpler, more sustainable, and more technologically advanced. If we do, we can push our company, and our country, forward,’’ he said. Chandrasekaran, however, cautioned that all its ambitions are contingent on a more immediate concern of learning to live with the coronavirus. Businesses and society must adapt to it by preparing as best as they can for new outbreaks and variants. A year ago there was hope that the worst of the pandemic was over — only for the second wave to rum amock across the country, proving to be much more difficult than the first. Though the peak of the second wave was a very difficult period, the Tata group responded positively. “We supplied hospitals with life-saving oxygen and expanded healthcare capacity so more could get the treatments they needed. It was an incredible effort,’’ Chandrasekaran  said. “Thankfully, India’s brilliant vaccine program has built a vast wall of protection. Infections, so far, seem to be mild. But we must be careful. This isn’t time to let our guard down,’’ he said while urging the employees to follow the latest health protocols. Strong show Chandrasekaran added that this coincided with an excellent year for its businesses with group firms not only doing well in terms of financial performance, but also in executing the transformation agenda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
28-12-2021||Business||IndusInd Bank ties up with NPCI to use UPI for remittances||IndusInd Bank has tied up with the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) to offer real-time cross-border remittances by using the UPI IDs of the beneficiaries. The bank is the first lender to offer this facility. The arrangement will do away with the necessity of remembering one’s bank account while transferring money. Under the arrangement, money transfer operators (MTO) partners of the bank will connect with NPCI’s UPI payment systems for validation and cross-border payments into the accounts of benficiaries. IndusInd said it has thus become the first Indian bank to go live on UPI for cross-border payments or NRI remittances. Thailand pact IndusInd has started with Thailand for foreign inward remittance through UPI. It has partnered DeeMoney a financial solutions provider offering money transfers and foreign currency exchange services in that country. Customers using the DeeMoney website can easily transfer funds just by adding the beneficiary’s UPI ID. IndusInd Bank added that it also plans to add more partners in various other countries for cross border-payments through UPI in the near future. “We are proud to partner with NPCI to introduce the country’s first UPI-based cross-border remittance facility, which enables NRIs to send money to a beneficiary in India using their UPI ID through our partner exchange houses, banks, and money transfer operators,” Soumitra Sen, head – consumer banking & marketing, IndusInd Bank said. “Individuals residing overseas will now be able to transfer money to a beneficiary by simply adding their UPI IDs, without having to remember their bank account details,’’ Sen said. Sen added that enabling foreign remittance through UPI is a major milestone towards strengthening its usage as a platform, and this will go a long way in enhancing its adoption by NRIs across geographies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
28-12-2021||Business||Adani Group to ship first coal cargo from Australia||Adani Group is preparing to ship the first coal cargo from Australia’s most controversial mine, after battling a seven-year campaign by climate activists and defying a global push away from fossil fuels. The Carmichael mine in outback Queensland state is likely to be the last new thermal coal mine to be built in Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter, but will be a vital source of supply for importers such as power plants in India. “The first shipment of high-quality coal from the Carmichael mine is being assembled at the North Queensland Export Terminal in Bowen ready for export as planned,” a spokeperson for Adani’s Australian subsidiary Bravus Mining & Resources said in a statement. The statement did not say where the shipment was headed, except that “we have already secured the market for the 10 million tonnes per annum of coal that will be produced at the Carmichael Mine”. When Adani bought the project in 2010, it envisioned building a 60-million-tonne-a-year mine with a 400km rail line for around $16 billion , one of several projects planned in the then untapped Galilee Basin. It shrank the mine plan in 2018 to 10 million tonnes a year following a sustained “Stop Adani” campaign by green groups which scared off lenders, insurers and major engineering firms. “That sharpening of the plan has kept operating costs to a minimum and ensured the project remains within the first quartile of the global cost curve,” Adani’s Australian CEO Lucas Dow told Reuters in emailed comments. The company has not disclosed the cost of the smaller mine and a 200km rail line it built tying into an existing railway, but the project has been estimated at $2 billion. “It is quite a celebration because this is going to be the last true greenfield thermal coal mine in Australia,” said Lloyd Hain, managing director of consulting firm AME Group. Climate activists, concerned about carbon emissions and potential damage to Australia’s Great Barrier Reef,  both from global warming and dredging at Abbot Point port, brought several cases challenging government approvals for the mine. Their campaign turned into a lightning rod at Australia's last election in 2019, in a jobs versus the environment fight which saw the coal-supporting conservative coalition government re-elected when it was expected to lose. While activists succeeded in delaying the project for seven years and even leading Adani to change its local name to Bravus, they are not claiming victory. “It’s a shame that the mine's still going to go ahead. But just because the mine's open doesn’t mean all the coal in the ground is going to come out. We will continue to campaign to keep as much in the ground as possible,” said Andy Paine, who chained himself to Adani’s rail line several weeks ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
28-12-2021||Business||Google files writ in Karnataka HC seeking more time on CCI charge||Google has filed a writ in Karnataka High Court seeking more time to reply to the Competition Commission’s queries pertaining to a probe into Play Store rules. Google said it respects the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) investigative process and “will continue to engage cooperatively and constructively in the interest of a fair investigation”. “We have filed a writ in Karnataka High Court regarding the interim relief application in the Google Play probe by the CCI, seeking to move forward in line with established due process principles,” a Google spokesperson said in an email on Monday. A source aware of the company’s position on the matter noted that Google has extended the timeline for developers in India to integrate with Play’s billing system to October 31. The source also said Google believes this voluntary extension of the deadline extinguishes the need for the “interim injunctive relief” sought by the Alliance of Digital India Foundation. So, the insistence on extremely tight timelines is concerning as there is no cause for undue haste, the source added. Google has also made some other “procedural” requests to the CCI with regard to the identity of the complainants (which will help it respond adequately to the complaint) as well as the inclusion of a judicial member in the probe panel. In the absence of any urgency, Google believes the CCI should observe due process in the interest of a fair and thorough investigation, the source said. Earlier this month, Google said it was deferring the deadline for developers in India to integrate with its Play billing system from March 2022 to October next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
28-12-2021||Business||RBL bank stocks battered on rejig fears||Investors clobbered the RBL Bank stock on Monday amid deepening concerns over the bank’s affairs which the Reserve Bank of India failed to soothe with a rare statement in which it expressed confidence in the existing management and the bank’s financial position. The dramatic developments at RBL Bank erupted last Saturday when the RBI appointed its chief general manager Yogesh Dayal as an additional director on the board of the bank — a very unusual move that suggested the regulator was unhappy with the bank’s working and wanted to enhance its oversight. The appointment led to the sudden exit of CEOand MD Vishwavir Ahuja — who had apparently gone on sought medical leave — and the appointment of Rajeev Ahuja as the interim chief. Nervous investors started dumping the stock from the start of trading which sent the stock plunging 25 per cent in intra-day trades. The stock clawed back some of the losses after the RBI statement but it could not shake off the bear attack and closed at Rs 140.90, a fall of 18.3 per cent from Friday’s close. At one stage, the stock had dipped to an intra-day low of Rs 132.35. Around 96 lakh shares were traded in a frenetic session, way above the two-week average of 4.20 lakh. At a press conference on Sunday, the bank indicated the resignation of Ahuja who has been with RBL for more than a decade was only coincidental. With the RBL stock taking a beating on the bourses amid apprehensions over the appointment of Dayal, the RBI issued a rare statement. “The Reserve Bank would like to state that the bank is well capitalised and the financial position of the bank remains satisfactory. As per half yearly audited results as on September 30, 2021, the bank has maintained a comfortable Capital Adequacy Ratio (CRAR) of 16.33 per cent and Provision Coverage Ratio (PCR) of 76.6 per cent. The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) of the bank is 153 per cent as on December 24, 2021  against the regulatory requirement of 100 per cent,’’ the RBI said. RBI said the appointment of an additional director in private banks is undertaken under Section 36AB of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as and when it is felt that the board needs closer support in regulatory or supervisory matters. “As such, there is no need for depositors and other stakeholders to react to the speculative reports. The bank’s financial health remains stable.’’ “RBI’s similar action at other banks in the past has hinted at compliance or asset quality or governance or business risk issues. Repercussion of this move on various stakeholders, including depositors  and employees,  and consequent derailment of confidence and disruption would be key monitorable going forward,’’ a note from ICICI Securities said. A note from Emkay said the RBL management did not provide satisfactory reasons for the appointment of RBI's Dayal and the sudden management rejig. Volatile markets After rebounding over 960 points from the day’s low , the 30-share Sensex settled 295.93 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 57420.24. As many as 24 Sensex stocks closed in the green while six declined. The broad-based Nifty of the National Stock Exchange recovered 82.50 points or 0.49 per cent to close at 17086.25 with 40 of its constituents advancing. Rising for the eighth straight session, the rupee on Monday appreciated 3 paise to nearly four-week high of 75 against the dollar amid a firm trend in domestic equities and rising appetite for riskier assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
