29-12-2021||Business||GST Council meeting to be held on December 31||The GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, will meet on December 31 and discuss, among other things, report of the panel of state ministers on rate rationalisation. This will be a physical meeting, which will also discuss correction in duty inversion in certain goods. The 46th GST Council meeting will be held on December 31 in Delhi, an official said, adding that it will be an extension to the pre-budget meeting with state finance ministers on December 30. The Group of Ministers (GoM) on rate rationalisation will submit report to the Council. The panel has reviewed items under an inverted duty structure to help minimise refund payout. Besides, the Fitment committee, comprising tax officers from states and the Centre, has made many "sweeping" recommendations to the GoM regarding slab and rate changes and taking items out of the exemption list. Currently, GST is a four-tier slab structure of 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent. Essential items are either exempted or taxed at the lowest slab, while luxury and demerit items attract the highest slab. On the top of the highest slab, a cess is levied on luxury and demerit goods. There have been demands for merging the 12 and 18 per cent slabs as also taking out certain items from the exempt category to balance the impact of slab rationalisation on revenue. West Bengal's former finance minister Amit Mitra has urged the Union finance minister to roll back a proposed hike in textile from 5 per cent to 12 per cent saying this would lead to closure of around one lakh textile units and 15 lakh job losses. Telangana Industries Minister K T Rama Rao has also urged the Centre to withdraw its proposed plan to increase GST rates. Industry has also opposed the rise in tax from five per cent, citing higher compliance cost especially for the unorganised sector and MSMEs besides making the poor man's clothing expensive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
29-12-2021||Business||Economy regaining strength but omicron haunts: RBI ||Though the economy has steadily gained momentum and remained resilient since the second quarter of the current fiscal, the Omicron variant of coronavirus remains the major challenge along with rising inflation pressures, says the Reserve Bank in its second financial stability report. In the foreword to the report released on Wednesday, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das notes that after the destructive second wave in April-May 2021, the growth outlook has progressively improved, though there are headwinds from global developments and more recently from the omicron virus. A stronger and sustainable recovery hinges on the revival of private investment and shoring up private consumption, which unfortunately still remain below their pre-pandemic levels, he notes. Admitting that inflation remains a concern as it is by the build-up of cost-push pressures, Das has called for stronger supply-side measures to contain food and energy prices. Noting that the financial institutions have remained resilient amidst the pandemic and stability prevails in the financial markets cushioned by policy and regulatory support, the governor is confident that the strong balance sheets of banks with higher capital and liquidity buffers will help mitigate future shocks. Quoting the stress tests on banks, the governor has also warned that gross NPAs may jump to 8.1-9.5 per cent by September 2022 from 6.9 per cent in September 2021. The governor concluded by reiterating the Reserve Bank's resolute commitment to ensure a robust and efficient financial system that supports strong, sustainable and inclusive growth with macroeconomic and financial stability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
29-12-2021||Business||Sensex drops 91 points to close at 57,806||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped by nearly 91 points on Wednesday due to profit booking in HDFC Bank, SBI and ITC after a two-day rally. The 30-share index ended 90.99 points or 0.16 per cent lower at 57,806.49 in volatile trade. The broader Nifty fell by 19.65 points or 0.11 per cent to 17,213.60. SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by ITC, NTPC, Tech Mahindra, Tata Steel, Kotak Bank and M&M. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's and Bajaj Finserv were among the gainers. Markets were choppy throughout the session following a weak trend in global markets, experts said. There are two divergent trends in the governments' and market's response to the Omicron variant, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "Governments, globally, are responding with caution and imposing some restrictions. In India too Maharashtra and Delhi have imposed some restrictions in the context of rising cases. But the markets have responded to the Omicron variant assuming that this marks the last phase of the pandemic," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.11 per cent to USD 78.76 per barrel. "Rising crude is a macro headwind." said Vijayakumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
29-12-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. The 30-share index was trading 104.31 points or 0.18 per cent higher at 58,001.79 in opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty rose 28.45 points or 0.17 per cent to 17,261.70. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, Tata Steel, HDFC Bank, Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share equity benchmark surged 477.24 points or 0.83 per cent to end at 57,897.48, and Nifty rose by 147.20 points or 0.86 per cent to 17,233.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) turned net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 207.31 crore on Tuesday, according to stock exchange data. There are two divergent trends in the governments' and market's response to the Omicron variant, said VK Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "Governments, globally, are responding with caution and imposing some restrictions. In India too Maharashtra and Delhi have imposed some restrictions in the context of rising cases. But the markets have responded to the Omicron variant assuming that this marks the last phase of the pandemic," he said. He further said, "a strong positive for the market is that FIIs have turned buyers. This augurs well for financials, particularly leading banking stocks whose valuations are attractive now. Rising crude is a macro headwind." Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US largely ended with losses in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.06 per cent to USD 78.72 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
29-12-2021||Business||Intel might set up semiconductor manufacturing unit in India||Intel, the chipset maker, may set up its semiconductor manufacturing unit in India, taking advantage of the Rs 76,000-crore production-linked incentive scheme for designing and manufacturing semiconductor chips in India. “Intel — welcome to India,” tweeted Union minister for electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw, sparking speculation that the US tech major was firming up plans. The minister welcomed Intel to India after Intel Foundry Services president Randhir Thakur congratulated the minister over the central government’s efforts to  promote design and manufacturing of semiconductor chips in India. “Congratulations to ministry of electronics and IT, Ashwini Vaishnaw, Rajeev Chandrasekhar for semiconductor design and manufacturing incentives for India as a hub for electronics and semiconductors,” tweeted Thakur. “Glad to see a plan laid out for all aspects of the supply chain: talent, design, manufacturing, test, packaging and logistics,” he added. Intel Foundry Services deals with designing and manufacturing assured integrated circuits by establishing and demonstrating a semiconductor IP ecosystem to develop and fabricate test chips on Intel 18A, Intel’s most advanced process technology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
29-12-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Limited mulls leadership rejig||Mukesh D Ambani, the country’s richest individual, on Tuesday mentioned the leadership transition at his Rs 2.65 lakh crore conglomerate, in an indication that he would give more responsibilities to his three children — Akash, Isha and Anant Ambani. This is the first time that Ambani, 64, is speaking about passing on the baton to the younger generation. The occasion was the Reliance Family Day that is held to celebrate the birthday of its founder Dhirubhai Ambani. Ambani made these comments as he spoke about three imperatives that Reliance must undertake to make it their way of life. Stating that he attached “special importance” to the third initiative, Ambani said that achieving big dreams and impossible-looking goals is all about getting the right people and the right leadership. Pointing out that Reliance is now in the process of effecting a “momentous leadership transition”, he hinted that this will involve the seniors belonging to his generation making way to the next generation of young leaders. More importantly, Ambani said that he would like this process to be accelerated. “All seniors — myself included — should now yield to the highly competent, extremely committed and incredibly promising young leadership talent at Reliance. We should guide them, enable them, encourage them and empower them …and sit back and applaud as they perform better than us,’’ he told the Reliance family. Ambani even pointed out that his children had the same enthusiasm and ability that Dhirubhai Ambani had for making a difference not only to society but also to contribute to India’s growth. “At Reliance we must build an organisational culture that outlasts its leaders... I have no doubt that Akash, Isha and Anant as the next-gen leaders will lead Reliance to even greater heights. “I can see and feel their passion, commitment, and devotion to the cause of Reliance every day. “I see in them the same spark and potential that my father had for making a difference to millions of lives and contributing to India’s growth. Let us all wish them good luck in their mission to make Reliance ever more successful with even more transformative initiatives and achieving even greater accolades for our Reliance,’’ Ambani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
29-12-2021||Business||Amazon, Flipkart-Walmart targeted by Swadeshi Jagran Manch||RSS-affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) wants the Centre to immediately withdraw the permissions given to e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart-Walmart to operate in India as they are “blatantly contravening rules”. An SJM resolution has demanded a CBI probe into the operations of the two e-commerce giants and other multinationals in this segment, alleging they are all doing business in India by “blatantly”' violating foreign direct investment (FDI) regulations. “Foreign direct investment in multi-brand retail trade is regulated through the FDI policy. Foreign players cannot have an inventory-based model to operate (in India). They are also barred from influencing prices by cash-burning models,” the SJM claimed in the resolution passed at its 15th national conclave in Gwalior on December 26. “Multinational e-commerce companies such as Amazon and Walmart-Flipkart are blatantly contravening rules and operating uncontrolled in India.” The SJM was particularly severe on Jeff Bezos-owned Amazon, which has suffered a major setback when the Competition Commission of India revoked its deal with Future Coupons. The CCI U-turn has put a rival deal between the Future group and Reliance Retail on firmer ground. Amazon is “on a spree” to acquire brick-and-mortar retail outlets, the outfit claimed. The company’s investments in the Shoppers Stop and the More Retail chains are “major steps in this direction”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
29-12-2021||Business||Mutual Fund trustees need consent to close scheme: Sebi||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Tuesday made it mandatory for trustees of a mutual fund to seek the approval of its unitholders for winding up a scheme or for the premature redemption of its units. This decision was taken at its board meeting on Tuesday and it comes after the Supreme Court in July said that approval of unitholders is mandatory while winding up a scheme. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by Franklin Templeton. The fund house was in the news after it had shut six debt schemes on April 23, 2020 citing redemption pressure and lack of liquidity in the bond market. Sebi said its board approved amendment to mutual fund regulations to mandate the trustees to obtain the consent of the unitholders when the majority of the former decide to wind up a scheme or prematurely redeem the units of a close ended scheme. They will have to obtain the consent of the unitholders by simple majority of those present and voting on the basis of one vote per unit held. They will also have to publish the results of voting within 45 days of the publication of notice of circumstances leading to winding up. Sebi added that if the trustees fail to obtain the consent, the scheme will open for business activities from the second business day after publication of results of voting. In another step, the market regulator tightened rules regarding the re-appointment of directors, who were earlier rejected by shareholders at an annual general meeting. It said that after this, if a company wants to re-appoint a person that includes a managing director or a whole-time director or a manager, it shall be done only with the prior approval of the shareholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
29-12-2021||Business||Sebi tightens norms governing initial public offerings||Sebi on Tuesday tightened norms governing initial public offerings (IPOs) —  it imposed a ceiling on proceeds to be utilised for unidentified acquisitions, set limits on offer for sale by selling shareholders and extended the lock-in period for a section of anchor investors. The measures are largely in line with a discussion paper released by the regulator in November. If one of the objects of IPO is to fund acquisition or inorganic growth but the target has not been identified, the amount for such purpose and for general corporate purpose (GCP) cannot exceed 35 per cent of the total sum being raised Registered credit rating agencies have been given the task of acting as a monitoring agency instead of scheduled commercial banks and public financial institutions (PFI). The monitoring will be done for 100 per cent utilisation of issue proceeds instead of the prescribed limit of 95 per cent. Sebi has prescribed certain conditions for OFS (offer for sale) in IPO where draft papers are filed by an issuer without a track record. There will be a limit on the number of such shares that can be offered in a public float, whether it is individually or with persons acting in concert. Those holding more than 20 per cent of pre-issue shareholding of the issuer, cannot sell  more than 50 per cent of their pre-issue shareholding. In cases of less than 20 per cent shareholding, the offer for sale cannot exceed more than 10 per cent of their pre-issue shareholding . Lock-in rules Sebi also took steps on the lock-in period applicable for anchor investors. Existing lock-in of 30 days will continue for 50 per cent of the portion allocated to anchor investors and for the remaining portion, a period of 90 days from the date of allotment will be applicable for all issues opening on or after April 1, 2022. The capital markets watchdog also made changes to price band. It said the difference between the floor price and the upper end of the price band will have to be at least 105 per cent. This will be applicable to all issues opening on or after notification in the official gazette.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
29-12-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of india caveat on bad loans, pace of credit||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday said there had been an improvement in asset quality, capital buffers and profitability indicators of banks but cautioned that bad loans might inch up in the future. In its report on the “Trend and Progress of Banking in India 2020-21”, the central bank said the moderation in the gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratios of banks that began in 2019-20 continued during the year. It fell from 8.2 per cent in 2019-20 to touch 7.3 per cent by the end of March 2021. The proportion of bad loans further moderated to 6.9 per cent by end-September 2021. The gross NPAs in absolute terms stood at Rs 8.37 lakh crore crore in 2020-21 compared with Rs 8.99 lakh crore in the preceding fiscal. During 2020-21, banks had written off loans worth Rs 2.08 lakh crore. Though there has been an improvement in some of the metrics, a closer look reveals a more “nuanced” picture. The credit growth is muted, which shows the adverse impact of the pandemic on aggregate demand apart from the risk aversion of banks. “Banks’ asset quality may get dented, going forward,’’ the RBI said. The central bank which held key rates in its monetary policy constant earlier this month, added that as the pandemic situation is dynamic, the regulatory response will be calibrated in response to the evolving situation. During the two waves of Covid-19, the RBI had come out with resolution frameworks (RF) 1.0 and 2.0 to provide relief to borrowers and lending institutions. While the restructuring of large borrowal accounts under RF 1.0 could be invoked by December 31, 2020 and implemented within 180 days from the date of invocation, they have time till September 30, 2022 to achieve the operational parameters. Similarly, resolutions under RF 2.0 for individuals, small businesses and MSMEs could be invoked before September 30, 2021 and the resolution plan had to be implemented within 90 days from the date of invocation. The RBI cautioned that as support measures start unwinding, some of these restructured accounts might require higher provisioning by banks over the coming quarters while pointing out that incipient stress remains in the form of increased proportion of restructured advances and the possibility of higher slippages arising from sectors that were relatively more exposed to the pandemic. Cut-off rate Meanwhile, the RBI continued to fix a cut-off rate that is closer to the policy repo rate at the variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auctions. At the 7-day VRRR auction, it fixed a cut-off of 3.99 per cent. While the auction was for a notified amount of Rs 2 lakh crore, the central bank received offers for Rs 1.25 lakh crore. A cut-off rate was also fixed at the 28-day VRRR auction that was for a notified amount of Rs 50,000 crore against which offers were received for Rs 49,387 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
29-12-2021||Business||Preferential issue price rule recast||Companies looking to offer more than 5 per cent of the equity through a preferential share issue will have to obtain a valuation report from a registered independent valuer before fixing the price for the flotation. A valuation report will also be mandatory when a preferential share issue leads to a change in ownership of the company. The new rule — which was approved at a meeting of the board of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Tuesday — puts a lid on the controversy that erupted earlier this year when PNB Housing Finance ran into a regulatory storm when trying to clinch a Rs 4,000 crore deal with private equity firm Carlyle. PNB Housing Finance did not seek a valuation report before pricing its preferential share issue even though its articles of association (AoA) explicitly provided for such a requirement, arguing that the extant Sebi regulations did not make it mandatory to obtain one. In the end the deal with Carlyle was abandoned, but it left a tricky question open: should Sebi rules prevail over a company’s articles of association? That question has now been settled. Soon after PNB Housing Finance announced the transaction in May, proxy advisory firm Stakeholders Empowerment Services (SES) had put out a note saying that it was not compliant with the AoA of the housing finance company and damaged the interests of minority shareholders. PNB Housing Finance terminated the deal in October citing legal and regulatory difficulties which delayed its capital raising plans. After this, Sebi came out with a discussion paper that sought to review provisions related to preferential issues. Based on the feedback received, the market regulator on Tuesday decided that for infrequently traded securities, the valuation report by a registered independent valuer will be required. New formula The market regulator prescribed a new formula for pricing of shares that are frequently traded. The floor price will now have to be higher of the average of weekly high/low of the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of 60 trading days (it was 26 weeks earlier) and VWAP for two weeks (10 days), preceding the relevant date. Sebi added that if there is a stricter provision in the company’s AoA, it should also be taken into consideration. Sebi said the valuation report, which is mandatory when there is a sale of more than 5 per cent of the equity or a change in control, should be considered while determining the floor price. Moreover, in the event of a change in control, a committee of independent directors will be required to provide a reasoned recommendation along with their comments on all aspects of preferential issuance, including pricing. The voting pattern of the committee will have to be disclosed to shareholders or the public. Sebi also relaxed the lock-in provisions for preferential issues. It said that the lock-in requirement for allotment up to 20 per cent of the post-issue paid up capital will be reduced to 18 months from the existing three years. The lock-in requirement for allotment exceeding 20 per cent of the post issue paid up capital will be reduced to six months from the existing one year. In the case of non-promoters, the lock-in requirement has been reduced from one year to six months. It further stipulated that the issuer company will have to seek in-principle approval from stock exchanges on the same day as the date of dispatch of notice for annual general meeting or extraordinary general meeting to shareholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
