30-12-2021||Business||States demand extension of GST compensation for another 5 years||Many states have demanded that the GST compensation cess regime be extended for another five years and the share of the Union government in the centrally-sponsored schemes be raised as the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted their revenues. The GST compensation to states for revenue shortfall resulting from subsuming of local taxes such as VAT in the uniform national tax Goods and Services Tax (GST) will end in June next year. There has been a loss of revenue to the states due to the GST tax system, the Centre has not made arrangements to compensate the loss of revenue of about Rs 5,000 crore to the state in the coming year, so the GST compensation grant should be continued for the next five years after June 2022, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said. "Many states have asked for this. We have also asked to extend GST compensation. If it is not extended, the finances of many states will be in a bad shape," Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said after pre-Budget consultation of finance ministers of states with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman here. Pointing out that Chhattisgarh has received less share of central taxes by Rs 13,089 crore in the Union Budget of the last three years, Baghel demanded the share of central taxes should be given to the state completely in the coming year. He also demanded that Rs 4,140 crore deposited with the Centre at the rate of Rs 294 per tonne on coal mining from coal block companies should be transferred to Chhattisgarh soon. Rajasthan Education Minister Subhash Garg said extension of compensation cess window till 2026-27 is a valid demand of states and the Centre should consider it. He also demanded reduction in import duty on gold and silver from 10 per cent to 4 per cent. "Our most significant demand is that the Centre's share in centrally-sponsored scheme has gradually reduced and states share has increased. Earlier share would be 90-10 and now it is 50-50 or 60-40, our request is that it should go back to 90-10," Garg said. Rajasthan also requested that all irrigation and water work projects should be brought under the Centre's ambit and declared central schemes. West Bengal also pitched for extension of GST compensation for another five years citing two years of difficult time due to Covid -19. Covid crisis was not anticipated when this was fixed, said West Bengal Urban Development & Municipal Affairs Minister Chandrima Bhattacharya. She also said that states have also asked for raising the Union government's share in the Centre-sponsored schemes. With regarding to state borrowing, she said that additional borrowing window should be without any restriction. Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P Thiaga Rajan said he has demanded extension of GST compensation cess regime for at least two years because of COVID-19. He also made a case for raising share of Government of India in the centrally-sponsored schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
30-12-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty edge down to close flat||Equity benchmarks indices Sensex and Nifty ended marginally down on Thursday due to losses in Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and Maruti as investors remained cautious amid surging Omicron cases. The 30-share index ended 12.17 points or 0.02 per cent lower at 57,794.32. Similarly, the broader Nifty fell 9.65 points or 0.06 per cent to 17,203.95. Reliance Industries was the top loser in the Sensex pack, falling nearly 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Maruti, Bajaj Finance, Sun Pharma and SBI. On the other hand, NTPC, HCL Tech, IndusInd Bank, Titan, Wipro and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.68 per cent to USD 78.69 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 975.23 crore on Wednesday, according to stock exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note, finance stocks decline||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Thursday, tracking weakness in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, SBI and ICICI Bank amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 13.25 points or 0.02 per cent lower at 57,793.24. Similarly, the Nifty slipped 8.45 points or 0.05 per cent to 17,205.15. Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding about 1.5 per cent, followed by M&M, Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, L&T, Reliance, SBI and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Wipro, PowerGrid, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra and Titan were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index dropped by 90.99 points or 0.16 per cent to settle at 57,806.49. And the broader Nifty slipped by 19.65 points or 0.11 per cent to close at 17,213.60. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were in losses. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a mixed note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.25 per cent to USD 79.41 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 975.23 crore on Wednesday, according to stock exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business||NTPC renewable energy arm mulls IPO ||NTPC Ltd is reportedly seeking a strategic investor in its renewable energy arm before taking the subsidiary public next year. A Bloomberg report on  Wednesday said NTPC Renewable Energy, its 100 per cent subsidiary, is planning roadshows in the next fiscal year and later come out with an initial public offering (IPO). Shares of NTPC on Wednesday ended marginally lower at Rs 123.05 — a drop of 0.89 per cent on the BSE. The company has a market cap of Rs 1,19,317.48 crore. According to the information available at the utility firm’s website, it is planning to add significant capacities of renewable energy (RE) sources. By 2032, NTPC is looking to have 60GW capacity through RE sources which it says will constitute nearly 45 per cent of the overall power generation capacity. Part of this will come through capacity addition and implementation of new projects. The company is also looking at a developer mode role where it acts as an intermediary procurer from developers and sells them to discoms. NTPC has disclosed that around 4.783 MW of RE projects has been commissioned under the developer mode. A host of companies have in the recent past announced ambitious plans in the RE sector, which includes Reliance Industries and the Adani group among others. Last week, BPCL tied up with Solar Energy Corporation of India Ltd (SECI) to pursue business opportunities in the renewable energy space. The firm is planning to have a renewable energy portfolio of 1GW by 2025 and 10GW by 2040. These plans come amid the country aims to have a capacity of 175 GW of renewable energy by 2022, which is expected to go up to 500 GW by 2030. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy said that India’s clean energy sector drew foreign direct investment (FDI) of over $ 7 billion from 2014-15 till June 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business||Apple warns Foxconn over plant unrest||Apple said it had placed the southern Indian factory of iPhone assembler Foxconn on probation after both companies found that some worker dormitories and dining rooms did not meet required standards. Apple did not explain what probation meant. When it placed the southern India plant of another supplier, Wistron Corp, on probation after unrest last year, it said it would not award that company new business until it addressed the way workers were treated. The latest action follows protests that erupted this month after more than 250 women who work at the Foxconn plant and live in one of the dormitories were treated for food poisoning. More than 150 employees were hospitalised, Reuters reported. The plant, which is located in the town of Sriperumbudur town near Chennai and employs about 17,000 people, was closed on December 18. Apple and Foxconn did not say when they expected it to reopen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business|| Centre seeks proposals for PLI scheme in speciality steel||The Centre has sought proposals for the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme in speciality steel, with the last date for submission being March 29. The PLI scheme for speciality steel was approved in July with the Centre offering Rs 6,322cr incentives under the scheme that is expected to generate Rs 40,000cr investments and create 5.25 lakh jobs. The scheme was notified on October 22. State-owned SAIL said it would consider availing the benefits under the scheme when it draws up its next round of capex plans Private player JSPL said it would “definitely register for this scheme”. Tata Steel said the scheme would provide an added advantage to its future plans. The scheme proposes to encourage eligible manufacturers by paying between 4 per cent and 12 percent incentive on incremental production. The five categories of speciality steel that have been included in the PLI scheme are coated/plated products, high strength/wear-resistant steel, speciality rails, alloy steel products, steel wires and electrical steel. Industries such as automobile, electrical, defence and pipes are the consumers of these grades of steel. The government aims to save Rs 33,000-crore foreign exchange that goes out of India annually on the import of speciality steel. The duration of the scheme will be five  years commencing from 2023-24 to 2027- 28, an official statement said. The scheme  will lead to enhanced exports and minimise the dependence on the imports for high-end steel. India presently operates at the lower end of the value chain in the steel sector. Value added steel grades are largely imported in India. This is because of the disabilities faced by the steel industry to the tune of $80-100 per tonne on account of higher logistics and infra cost, higher power and capital cost and taxes and duties. Any company registered in India, engaged in manufacturing of the identified “specialty steel” grades will be eligible to participate in the scheme. It will, however, have to ensure that the steel used for making “specialty steel” is “melted and poured” in the country, thereby ensuring end-to-end manufacturing Junior steel minister Faggan Singh Kulaste had earlier said he was upbeat on the success of the scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business||Bajaj Auto to set up electric vehicle manufacturing facility in Pune||Bajaj Auto on Wednesday said it will set up an electric vehicle (EV) manufacturing facility at Akurdi in Pune at an investment of Rs 300 crore. While work has already commenced for the facility, it will have the capacity to produce 5,00,000 EVs per annum and will cater to both domestic and exports markets. Bajaj Auto said in a statement that the first vehicle from the new unit, spread over half-a-million square feet space, is expected to be rolled out by June 2022. The unit will employ around 800 personnel. “In 2001, Bajaj 2.0 took off on the roaring Pulsar, in 2021, Bajaj 3.0 arrived on the charming Chetak. “Going forward, for the Bajaj portfolio, except for implementing one state-of-the-art ICE (Internal Combustion Engine) platform that is currently under development, all our R&D drive train resources are now laser focused on creating EV solutions for the future,’’ said Rajiv Bajaj, managing director of Bajaj Auto. Pointing out that light electric vehicles for sustainable urban mobility is an idea whose time may finally have come, Bajaj said the investment at the facility will complete the virtuous cycle of hi-tech R&D competencies, high-efficiency engineering capabilities, world class supply chain synergies and global distribution network which should leapfrog the company into a market leading position in EVs in India and overseas. He disclosed the investments made by the company will be supplemented by a number of vendors, who will invest another Rs 250 crore. While Akurdi is the site of the Chetak scooter factory, Bajaj Auto said it is co-located with the company’s state-of-the-art R&D centre to foster greater collaboration, leading to faster time-to-market. Shares of Bajaj Auto on Wednesday ended with gains of 2.70 per cent, or Rs 85.90, to close at Rs 3,262.40 on the news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business||IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd raises  Rs 5347 crore||IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd has completed the equity fund-raise of Rs 5,347 crore from Cintra INR Investments BV and Bricklayers Investments Pte. This is the largest equity fund mobilisation by a domestic highways infrastructure developer. In October, the company had announced the infusion through preferential shares allotment to Cintra which is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Cintra Global S.E, an arm of Ferrovial S.A., Spain, a global infrastructure giant. Bricklayers is a 100 per cent subsidiary of GIC, Sovereign Wealth Fund of the Singapore government. Under the deal, Cintra has invested Rs 3,180 crore through preferential placement, thus having a stake of up to 24.9 per cent in the company. On the other hand, Bricklayers  invested Rs 2,167 crore which translates to a holding of up to 16.9 per cent stake in IRB Infrastructure Developers. Cintra has nominated Jose Tamariz Martel Goncer as a non-retiring additional non-executive director and Carlos Ugarte Cruz Coke as an additional non-executive director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business||I-T department brings in changes to faceless appeal scheme||The income-tax department has brought in changes to the existing faceless appeal scheme easing the process for taxpayers wanting a personal hearing through video conference while appealing against a tax demand by the department. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on December 28, notified the “Faceless Appeal Scheme, 2021” and said that the Commissioner (Appeals) shall allow the request for personal hearing via video conference and communicate the date and time of hearing to the appellant through the National Faceless Appeal Centre. “The board shall establish suitable facilities for video conferencing or video telephony including telecommunication application software which supports video conferencing or video telephony at such locations as may be necessary,” the CBDT notification said. This will “ensure that the appellant, or his authorised representative, or any other person is not denied the benefit of this Scheme merely on the ground that such appellant or his authorised representative, or any other person does not have access to video conferencing or video telephony at his end”. However, a person would not be permitted to appear before the income-tax authority either personally or through an authorised representative in connection with any proceedings under this scheme. The scheme ran into legal tangles as many taxpayers approached courts challenging denial of personal hearing facility, following which the the faceless appeal scheme, 2021 was notified on December 28. E-verification Taxpayers who have not e-verified their ITRs for 2019-20 fiscal can complete the verification process by February 28, 2022, as the income tax department has given a one-time relaxation to assessees. Under the law, an income tax return (ITR), filed electronically without a digital signature, has to be verified electronically through Aadhaar OTP, or net-banking, or code sent through demat account, pre-validated bank account and ATM within 120 days of filing the return. Alternatively, taxpayers can send a physical copy of the ITR filed to the Centralised Processing Centre (CPC) office in Bangalore. If the verification process, which is done through ITR-V form, is not complete, it is considered that the return has not been filed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business||GST Council to meet on December 31||The GST Council, chaired by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, will meet on December 31 and discuss, among other things, the report of panel of state ministers on rate rationalisation. This will be a physical meeting, which will also discuss correction in duty inversion in certain goods. The 46th GST Council meeting will be held on December 31 in Delhi, an official said, adding that it will be an extension to the pre-budget meeting with state finance ministers on December 30. The Group of Ministers (GoM) on rate rationalisation will submit a report to the Council. The panel has reviewed items under an inverted duty structure to help minimise refund payout. Besides, the fitment committee, comprising tax officers from the states and the Centre, has made many “sweeping” recommendations to the GoM regarding slab and rate changes and taking items out of the exemption list. At present, GST is a four-tier slab structure of 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent. Essential items are either exempted or taxed at the lowest slab, while luxury and demerit items attract the highest slab. On the top of the highest slab, a cess is levied on luxury and demerit goods. There have been demands for merging the 12 and 18 per cent slabs as also taking out certain items from the exempt category to balance the impact of slab rationalisation on revenue. Bengal’s former finance minister Amit Mitra has urged the Union finance minister to roll back a proposed hike in tax on textile from 5 per cent to 12 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business||BPCL selloff may not take place this fiscal||The Modi government may miss its ambitious disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for the current fiscal as the strategic sale of state-owned refiner BPCL is unlikely to be over before the end of March. “Efforts are on to meet the budgeted target. However, strategic sale of BPCL before the end of March seems unlikely. There are other stake sales in the pipeline which would be concluded in the current fiscal,” a senior finance ministry official said. In the first round of bidding a year ago, BPCL received multiple bids from companies such as Vedanta, Apollo Global Management and Think Gas. The bidders got access to the data room in April that allowed them to evaluate PSU books for their financial bids. At present, the Centre holds a 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL, and the bidders will have to shell upwards of Rs 60,000 crore to take control of the company. The strategic sale faces several hurdles, analysts said. Apprehensions over government interference in the pricing of petrol and diesel could dissuade bidders unless they  get a categorical assurance on the operation of market forces in fuel retail. State-owned IOC and HPCL have been seen to stay away from price hikes during elections. The crucial assembly polls in 5 states including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are likely to be held before March. “This would result in unfair competition as the new private buyers of BPCL would have to price their products similar to the state owned refiner, which would not be market determined,” the analysts said. The growing shift away from fossil fuels has emerged as a new challenge before the government. Global energy firms and other investors are keen to be associated with the green fuel which would make it  difficult for the government to bring in firms with technical and financial muscle to clinch the deal. Another factor is the forecast of a spike in global crude prices in 2022, which will make it difficult to ascertain the value of BPCL. The other companies listed in the budget for privatisation include Shipping Corporation of India, Air India, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Limited, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML Limited and Pawan Hans. While the government has successfully carried out the sale of Air India, it has not so far handed over the airline to the Tatas. The official said the government is in the final stages of concluding the sale of Shipping Corporation of India and Neelachal Ispat. Besides, it is focussed on listing insurance behemoth LIC on the bourses in the last quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
30-12-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India forecasts rise in bank NPA to 8.1%||The bad loan headache is not going away anytime soon for banks. Stress tests of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) show the ratio of gross non-performing assets to total assets (gross NPA ratio) will rise to 8.1 per cent in September 31, 2022 under the baseline scenario and 9.5 per cent under severe stress conditions. This forecast comes just a day after another report on banking trends by the RBI revealed gross NPA ratio declining to 6.9 per cent by end-September 2021 from 7.3 per cent by the end of March 2021 and 8.2 per cent in 2019-20. However, pressure points remain in the system that could lead to higher NPAs. The Financial Stability Report — a bi-annual RBI document released Wednesday —  said the gross NPA ratio could rise to 9.5 per cent under severe stress conditions by September. Banks, however, have sufficient capital both at the aggregate and individual levels even under stress conditions, the report said. The projection is an improvement from those made in the previous stability report in July: gross NPA ratio was then expected to increase to 9.80 per cent by March 2022 under the baseline scenario and 11.22 per cent under a severe stress scenario. The baseline scenario incorporates the forecasts of macroeconomic variables such as  the GDP growth, combined fiscal deficit-to-GDP ratio, CPI inflation, weighted average lending rate and certain other metrics. The RBI clarified the adverse scenarios were stringent conservative assessments under hypothetical adverse economic conditions, and these model outcomes should not be interpreted as forecasts. If the stress conditions do not materialise and the situation turns optimistic relative to the baseline, the gross NPA ratio of all the banks may moderate. However, the report did flag certain sectors that may contribute to higher NPAs. It pointed to the emerging signs of stress in micro, small and medium enterprises as also in the micro finance segment and called for the close monitoring of the portfolios. The report also warned of stress in retail loans where the overall demand for consumer credit, reflected in inquiry volumes, has recovered following a dip on account of the second wave with the upturn led by demand for personal loan and credit card segments . However, inquiries have shot up from sub-prime consumers, particularly after the second wave, with PSU banks showing a disproportionate size of below prime borrowers in the consumer credit mix. “Delinquency levels in terms of product types point to a general deterioration across product category levels in September 2021 relative to September 2020, with the credit card segment being the only exception,’’ the report said. In his foreward to the report, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the Indian economy was regaining strength and resilience which got interrupted by the second wave. Consumer confidence and business optimism are on the rise with rapid vaccinations. Though the outlook is progressively improving, there are headwinds from global developments and more from Omicron recently. “Entrenching the recovery hinges on revival of private investment and shoring up private consumption, which remain below their pre-pandemic levels,” Das added. Admitting that inflation remains a concern due to the build-up of cost-push pressures, Das said the strong supply side measures to contain food and energy prices have worked towards moderating these risks. Noting that the financial institutions have remained resilient amidst the pandemic and stability prevails in the financial markets cushioned by policy and regulatory support, the governor said he is confident that the strong balance sheets of banks with higher capital and liquidity buffers will help to mitigate future shocks. The stability report expressed doubts about the government’s ability to contain fiscal deficit at the budgeted 6.8 per cent of GDP this fiscal after it moved the second supplementary demand of grants worth Rs 3.73 lakh crore which came in spite of a massive 83 per cent jump in net tax revenue so far this year to Rs 10.53 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
