31-12-2021||Business||Competition Commission of India orders probe against Apple over App Store restrictions||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Friday ordered a detailed probe against technology major Apple for alleged unfair business practices with respect to its App Store. It was alleged that Apple uses anti-competitive restraints and abuse of dominant practices in markets for distribution of applications (apps) to users as well as in processing of payments for digital content used within iOS mobile apps. The complaint was filed against Apple Inc and Apple India Pvt Ltd. In a 20-page order, the watchdog said Apple's App Store is the only channel for app developers to distribute their apps to iOS consumers which is pre-installed on every iPhone and iPad. "Further, third party app stores are not allowed to be listed on Apple's App Store as the developer guidelines as well as agreement prohibit app developers from offering such services... these restrictions imposed by Apple forecloses the market for app stores for iOS for potential app distributors," the order said. According to the CCI, this prima facie results in denial of market access for the potential app distributors/app store developers in violation of competition norms. Further, such practices prima facie result in limiting/restricting the technical or scientific development of the services related to app store for iOS, due to reduced pressure on Apple to continuously innovate and improve its own app store, which is also in violation of competition rules, the order said. Citing these factors, the regulator has ordered a detailed probe by its Director General (DG). Apple did not respond to a query on the CCI probe. To assess the complaint, the CCI has taken the 'market for app stores for iOS in India" as the relevant one. The watchdog said, the app developers appear to be dependent on the Apple's App Store to reach the app users and app users are also dependent on the App Store to download apps. "Thus, the Commission is of the prima facie view that Apple holds a monopoly position in the relevant market for app stores for iOS in India. This dependence of the app developers appear to result in acceptance of Apple's mandatory and non-negotiable rules inter alia relating to distribution of apps through App Store, by the latter," the order said. Among other aspects, the watchdog observed that Apple conditions the provision of app distribution services on the app developer accepting supplementary obligations which by their nature or according to commercial usage, have no connection with the subject of the contract for provision of distribution services. "This appears to be in violation of Section 4(2)(d) of the Act. Further, it also prima facie results in leveraging by Apple of its dominant position in App Store market to enter/protect its market for in-app purchase payment processing market, in violation of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act," the order said. Section 4(2) of the Competition Act pertains to abuse of dominant position. Regarding Apple's averments that it has a market share of 0-5 per cent only, the order said the "Commission is of the view that the approach of Apple is completely misdirected as the alleged anti-competitive restrictions, in the present matter, have been imposed on the app developers in the form of App Store policies, by Apple". In other words, the CCI noted that the allegation in the present matter pertains to abuse of dominance by Apple in relation to the app developers. "Therefore, at this stage, it appears that the relevant market has to be defined from the perspective of the app developers and not from the perspective of end users," the order said. Apple has contended that the complainant is likely acting in concert with parties with whom Apple has ongoing commercial and contractual disputes globally and/or that have complained to other regulators. Besides, the company told the regulator that it should be wary of attempts by persons who use proxy parties as a front rather than coming forward in their own name. In this regard, CCI said that as per the extant statutory framework, the informant has a limited role and the proceedings before the Commission are purely guided by the merits of the matter in terms of the provisions of the Act. "The Commission would intervene in any matter only if same merits consideration under the relevant provisions of the Act". The complaint was filed by NGO Together We Fight Society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
31-12-2021||Business||I-T department raids 'foreign-controlled' mobile companies, detects evasion worth crores||The Income Tax Department has detected alleged unaccounted income worth over Rs 6,500 crore after it recently raided some "foreign-controlled" mobile communication and handset manufacturing companies and persons linked to them, the CBDT said on Friday. The searches were carried out on December 21 and premises in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Assam, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bihar, Rajasthan and Delhi-NCR were covered. "The search action has revealed that two major companies have made remittance in the nature of royalty, to and on behalf of its group companies located abroad, which aggregates to more than Rs 5,500 crore. "The claim of such expenses does not seem to be appropriate in light of the facts and evidence gathered during the search action," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the policy-making body for the I-T Department, claimed in an official statement issued here. It did not identify the entities searched. The raids "brought out the modus operandi of purchase of the components for manufacturing of mobile handsets. "It is gathered that both these companies had not complied with the regulatory mandate prescribed under the Income Tax Act for disclosure of transactions with associated enterprises," the statement said. Such a lapse, it said, makes them liable for penal action under the I-T Act and the quantum could be more than Rs 1,000 crore. A modus operandi was detected "whereby foreign funds have been introduced in the books of the Indian company but it transpires that the source from which such funds have been received are of doubtful nature, purportedly with no creditworthiness of the lender. "The quantum of such borrowings is about Rs 5,000 crore, on which interest expenses have also been claimed," it said. The CBDT said "evidence with regard to the inflation of expenses, payments on behalf of the associated enterprises, etc. have also been noticed which led to the reduction of taxable profits of the Indian mobile handset manufacturing company." "Such amount could be in excess of Rs 1,400 crore," it said. The statement claimed one of the companies raided had utilised the services of another entity located in India but did not comply with the provisions of tax deduction at source introduced from April 2020. "The quantum of liability of TDS on this account could be around Rs 300 crore," it said. In the case of another company covered in the search action, the statement said, it was detected that the control of the affairs of the company was "substantively" managed from a neighbouring country. "The Indian directors of the said company admitted that they had no role in the management of the company and lent their names for directorship for namesake purposes. "Evidences have been gathered on attempt to transfer the entire reserves of the company to the tune of Rs 42 crore out of India without payment of due taxes," it said. The CBDT said a survey action was also undertaken against certain fintech and software service companies and it was found that a number of such companies had been created for the purposes of inflating expenses and siphoning out funds. "For this purpose, such companies have made payments for unrelated business purposes, as also utilised the bills issued by a Tamil Nadu-based non-existent business concern. "The quantum of such outflow is found to be around Rs 50 crore," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
31-12-2021||Business||India's current account slips into deficit of 1.3 per cent of GDP in Q2||India's current account slipped into a deficit of USD 9.6 billion or 1.3 per cent of GDP in the September quarter, the Reserve Bank said on Friday.  The current account, which records the value of exports and imports of both goods and services along with international transfers of capital, was in a surplus mode both in the quarter-ago and year-ago periods.  India's current account surplus had stood at USD 6.6 billion or 0.9 per cent of GDP in the April-June 2021 quarter, while in the year-ago period (Q2FY22), the surplus had stood at USD 15.3 billion or 2.4 per cent of the GDP, the data said.  For the reporting quarter, the deficit was mainly due to widening of trade deficit to USD 44.4 billion from USD 30.7 billion in the preceding quarter, and an increase in net outgo of investment income, the RBI said.  Net services receipts decreased marginally over the preceding quarter but increased on a year-on-year basis, on the back of robust performance of the exports of computer and business services, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
31-12-2021||Business||No extension of income tax return filing deadline: Govt||The government on Friday ruled out extending the deadline for filing of ITRs, saying there were no problems faced by taxpayers in filing returns as the total number of returns filed so far is 14 per cent higher than last year's.  As the ITR filing deadline draws to a close, over 5.62 crore returns have been filed till 3 pm, 14 per cent higher than total 4.93 crore filed till December 31 last year.  Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said ITR filing is going on "very smoothly" and till 3 pm, 5.62 crore returns have already been filed in total.  "Today people have filed more than 20 lakh return which is the highest and in the last one hour, 3.44 lakh returns have been filed. So if returns are being filed in such numbers, I see no reason for anybody to claim (deadline extension)", Bajaj told reporters.  He said as on December 30 last year, 4.83 crore tax returns were filed, compared to 5.43 crore filed till December 30, 2021.  The government has already extended the deadline for filing income tax returns for 2020-21 fiscal year (ended March 2021) by five months till December 31.  "I expect another at least 20-25 lakh returns to come by 12 in the night... The figures that we were anticipating would have come... There is absolutely no proposal to extend the dates," Bajaj said.  To a query on the glitches on the I-T portal impacting filing, he said "I'm okay (with extension) if the returns were less by 1 crore. But the returns filed is more than last year's... I'm watching the figures every hour... ITR filings are going up to 3 lakh (per hour) ".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
31-12-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 450 points on last trading day of 2021||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 450 points on the last trading day of 2021 on Friday, led by strong gains in Maruti, SBI and Bajaj Finance. The 30-share index surged 459.50 points or 0.80 per cent to end at 58,253.82. Similarly, the Nifty rose by 150.10 points or 0.87 per cent to 17,354.05. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 3.5 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, SBI, Maruti Suzuki, Bajaj Finance, HUL, Axis Bank and Sun Pharma. On the other hand, NTPC, Tech Mahindra, PowerGrid and Infosys were the laggards. Bourses in Tokyo and South Korea were closed on Friday. Among others, Hong Kong's Hang Seng rose by 1.24 per cent while Shanghai Composite gained 0.57 per cent. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. "What a year 2021 has been...The globe recovered from the Covid pandemic but faced another round of virus spread in March. However resilient Nifty kept rising through the year till October and then saw some decent correction. Globally and in India the marketcap on GDP ratio touched an all-time high due to large liquidity flows, low-interest rates, the expectation of early return to normalcy and low returns from other asset classes," Dhiraj Relli, MD & CEO, HDFC Securities, said. Transition to 2022 will see a more normal monetary policy, and investors could do well to expect more moderate returns from financial markets. Central banks will start to raise rates but remain more tolerant of inflation. Central banks and their assessment of economic conditions will likely be front and centre once again in shaping investment strategies in 2022, he added. "Post a super show in 2021, valuation levels in Indian equities could make most people cautious on India within EMs and Asia. Indian equities are running into many challenges, including the US rate cycle, rising oil prices, elections in key states, potential Covid wave 3, an upward inflexion in domestic interest rates, rich headline valuations and strong relative trailing performance," Relli said. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.43 per cent to USD 79.19 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 986.32 crore on Thursday, according to stock exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
31-12-2021||Business||Why is it beneficial to buy your own home Explains Shravan Gupta  ||Mumbai: It is the latest trend to have one's own home. But this scenario has undergone a complete overhaul in 2021. Experts like Shravan Gupta believe firmly that real estate will witness some major changes and these changes have started happening in a subtle but visible manner. It has been projected that in the coming months, the sale of houses in urban cities like Mumbai and Delhi will be at par with pre-pandemic levels. Some major Factors are responsible for this path-breaking change in the real estate arena are: Home loans are back in demand. Gone are the days when one needed to think twice before getting a home loan. The good news is that home loans are being offered at the same pre-pandemic levels now. According to Shravan Gupta, it is possible because of changes implemented by the Government. Today home loans are being offered at as low as 6-7%. This has drawn first-time buyers. And made it possible for them to own their dream home. Some market experts believe that this trend is bound to continue till 2022. Enhanced demand for houses. Contrary to the belief held by market experts like Shravan Gupta. The housing demand has doubled by ¾ in these months. And he believes that this will grow much more in the next 4-5 months. This trend is visible in both urban as well as semi-urban areas. One reason for investing in a new home is that one doesn’t have to pay monthly rents. With home loans being as low as 7 % many new buyers are flogging the market. This is an encouraging sign for builders and investors alike. Vibrant options. There are many options if one is looking to buy a new apartment. Most prominent builders like Shravan Gupta are making apartments for the middle class. Hence, it isn’t difficult to find the same quality apartment in mid-level cities like Kanpur and Indore. This also means that people are now willing to move to small cities. Shravan Gupta says that at the same cost one can have a more spacious apartment. More income availability. The youth have realized the value of owning their own homes. This became more evident in times of pandemics. In such a scenario, people have realized the value of their own homes where it becomes beneficial. Owning a home has become a more feasible choice due to low registration costs and cheap homes. The trend of buying new homes has become more popular in mid-level cities now. Shravan Gupta feels that this is bound to change the thought process of people. It is indeed a time for the bounce in the real estate sector. In the long run, this will benefit in progressing the real estate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
31-12-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 350 points in early trade on Friday, led by strong gains in index majors ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and HDFC amid mixed cues from Asian markets. The 30-share index was trading 364.54 points or 0.63 per cent higher at 58,158.86 in opening trade. Similarly, the Nifty rose 104.05 points or 0.60 per cent to 17,308. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over two per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, UltraTech Cement, ICICI Bank, M&M, Reliance Industries and HDFC. On the other hand, NTPC, Tech Mahindra, IndusInd Bank and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index closed lower by 12.17 points or 0.02 per cent at 57,794.32. And the NSE Nifty edged down by 9.65 points or 0.06 per cent to 17,203.95. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were in losses. Stock exchanges in the US ended with losses in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.80 per cent to USD 78.89 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 986.32 crore on Thursday, according to stock exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
31-12-2021||Business||Chartered Accountants fear loss of autonomy||Chartered accountants have strongly opposed the government’s move to introduce non CAs into the disciplinary committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. The Chartered Accountants, Cost and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Bill, 2021, has proposed the inclusion of two CAs and three non-CAs — often government nominees —  in the ICAI disciplinary committee, a change from the current setup comprising two non-CA nominees and three ICAI members. The rejig in composition changes the power equation in favour of non-CAs in the committee which oversees the complaints and enquiries relating to the misconduct of members. The proposal to have a non CA as the presiding officer of the disciplinary committee has also irked the fraternity as it is a post traditionally held by the president of the institute who holds considerable sway over the committee’s decisions. The bill introduced in the winter session of Parliament has been referred to  standing committee. Many chartered accountants feel non CAs won’t have the deep knowledge of accounting that’s required to deliver fair judgements. “The ICAI had shared its reservation with the ministry only on one of the points of the CA amendment bill, with regards to the constitution of the disciplinary committee,” Nihar Jambusaria, president, ICAI, said. Ved Jain, past president of the ICAI, said “the non CAs won’t have the in-depth knowledge of accounting, which is a must for fair judgement. Simply because there is pendency in the judiciary, the government cannot appoint non-judicial persons to reduce the burdens of the courts.” “If there are any aberrations, the specific cases should be scrutinised and action be taken and not appoint a body to oversee the regulating body,” he said. ICAI vice-president Debasish Mitra said “we would present our case to the parliamentary panel so that a balanced view on the issue could be taken”. The bill has proposed a time limit to resolve cases under investigation and allows the ICAI to take action not just against individuals but also  firms for lapses. The ICAI indicated they are not opposed to the time limit, which would ensure speedy resolution of complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
31-12-2021||Business||Dish TV holds annual general meeting||The annual general meeting of Dish TV, which has been in the news over a tussle between its promoter family and the single largest shareholder Yes Bank, was held on Thursday. Shareholders voted for the re-appointment of Ashok Kurien as a director and the adoption of the financial statements of the company. The third resolution that was proposed related to remuneration of cost auditors for 2021-22. However, its results were not announced as the Bombay high court has said that the voting result will be subject to the outcome of its hearing, which is scheduled to take place in early February 2022. Dish TV said in a regulatory filing that the results have been submitted to the Bombay high court in a sealed cover. Recently, the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) gave its approval to Yes Bank for voting in the AGM. The private sector lender has a stake of over 24 per cent. The tribunal was hearing an application moved by a few shareholders of Dish TV who had sought to restrain Yes Bank to cast its vote in the AGM. In October, the board of Dish TV had rejected the requisition notice made by Yes Bank to hold an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) to reconstitute its board. RBL Bank post RBL Bank has tasked a search panel, comprising two board members, chairman of its nomination & remuneration committee and an external expert, to find a suitable candidate for the lender’s MD and CEO post, according to a regulatory filing. The bank’s board on December 25 elevated Rajeev Ahuja as an interim MD and CEO with immediate effect, after sending Vishwavir Ahuja on leave. Rajeev’s appointment was subject to regulatory and other approvals. A day earlier, on December 24, the RBI appointed its chief general manager Yogesh K Dayal on the lender’s board as an additional director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
31-12-2021||Business||Foreign auto makers interested in acquiring Ford Tamil Nadu plant||Foreign auto makers have indicated an interest in acquiring Ford Motor’s Tamil Nadu plant, the state’s  industries minister said on Thursday, after inconclusive talks with the Tata Group. Ford announced plans to stop production in India in September as it did not see a path to profitability there. The car maker expected to wind down operations at its vehicle and engine manufacturing unit in Tamil Nadu by 2022. “Early stage talks are going on,” Thangam Thennarasu, industries minister of Tamil Nadu, told Reuters, adding that he could not give details of which firms were interested. “It is eventually up to Ford as it will be a commercial arrangement. We are merely facilitating talks between the companies,” he said. Thennarasu said the Tata Group had also shown an interest in buying the Ford plant, having met the state’s chief minister and visited the plant for a preliminary study but the state government had yet to hear from them about any deal. “It is now up to them to make an official announcement,” Thennarasu told Reuters in an interview on Thursday. Ford India will wind down operations at a second factory, in Gujarat, by the fourth quarter of 2021 and vehicle and engine manufacturing in the Tamil Nadu plant by 2022, the company said in September. Ford has the capacity to produce about 440,000 cars in India a year across both plants but is only using about 25 per cent of that, according to data intelligence company Global Data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
31-12-2021||Business||State FMs demand extension of GST compensation cess||A pre-budget consultation between the Centre and states on Thursday proved to be a curtain raiser for a stormy GST Council meeting scheduled Friday. At their meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on the budget, state finance ministers demanded the extension of the GST compensation cess for another five years and a rollback on the rate hike in textile and footwear. The states also said the share of the states in the centrally-sponsored schemes be raised as the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted their revenues. The compensation to states for the revenue shortfall resulting from the subsuming of local taxes such as VAT to the GST regime will end in June. The agenda of the GST meeting on Friday is a discussion on the recently announced hikes in the rates for textiles and footwear, which come into effect from next month. Several states have voiced concern about the rates as it would impact two labour intensive sectors and also hit demand. Bengal demand Bengal pitched for the extension of the GST compensation cess for another five years citing two years of difficult time because of Covid-19. The Covid crisis was not anticipated when this was fixed, said Bengal urban development and municipal affairs minister Chandrima Bhattacharya. For centrally-sponsored schemes, the Centre should increase its share, she said, adding, there are various areas from where the central government can actually augment finance but it is very difficult for the states because the area is very short. With regards to state borrowing, she said that additional borrowing window should be without any condition. Rajasthan education minister Subhash Garg said the extension of compensation cess window till 2026-27 is a valid demand of states and the Centre should consider it. He also demanded reduction in import duty on gold and silver from 10 per cent to 4 per cent. “Our most significant demand is that the Centre’s share in centrally-sponsored scheme has gradually reduced and states’ share has increased. Earlier the share would be 90-10 and now it is 50-50 or 60-40, our request is that it should go back to 90-10,” Garg said. Tamil Nadu finance minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan said the Centre should allow the states to borrow up to 5 per cent of the state gross domestic product without conditions for the 2022-23 fiscal. The Union government’s preconditions for states to avail themselves of additional borrowing limit of 1 per cent — 0.5 per cent for capital expenditure and 0.5 per cent for power sector reforms —  of state GDP, adversely affects the state finances and its patterns of expenditure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
31-12-2021||Business||Bengal government to incentivise setting up of power mills||The Bengal government plans to incentivise the setting up of power mills in a bid to boost textile manufacturing in the state. State MSME and textiles minister Chandranath Sinha on Thursday said that an incentive scheme for MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) in the powerloom sector has been notified by the state government with an objective to provide fiscal support for the installation of new age powerlooms to boost production of improved quality fabrics in the state. The scheme, which runs from January 1, 2022 for three years ending December 31, 2024, will offer eligible MSMEs a capital investment subsidy of 20 per cent on fixed capital investment in plant and machinery. There will also be an interest subsidy on term loans for five years depending upon the location of the plant and waiver of electricity duty. Under the scheme, the state is classified into five zones covering developed and backward areas for purposes of incentive limits. “For those who would be interested in setting up powermills under the scheme, Tantuja will provide them with yarn (to the first 2000 powerlooms) and buyback support,” Sinha said at the annual general meeting of Merchants Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Under the scheme, the state would also provide reimbursement towards Employees State Insurance and Employees Provident Fund if the MSMEs employ 50 per cent from persons registered with the employment bank of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
31-12-2021||Business||IndiGo promoters can sell shares||The shareholders of InterGlobe Aviation, the parent of budget carrier IndiGo, on Thursday approved a resolution to amend the company’s articles of association (AoA) that lifts the restrictions on the promoters to sell their shares. The approval marks a major turning point in the over two-year feud between promoters Rahul Bhatia and Rakesh Gangwal. Speculation has been rife that on shareholder approval, Gangwal may sell a part of his stake in India’s largest airline with a market share of around 54 per cent. Gangwal himself in July 2019 had said that he would not sell his shareholding and was in for the “long-haul’’. Shareholding data with the stock exchanges show the promoters held around 74.44 per cent on September 30, 2021 —  36.61 per cent with the Gangwals and 37.83 per cent with Bhatia’s InterGlobe Enterprises Pvt Ltd. The duo had called for an EGM to scrap a clause in the articles of association (AoA) that gave them the right of first refusal on each other’s shareholding. InterGlobe Aviation said in a regulatory filing after market hours that its shareholders have approved the special resolution for amendment to its AoA. Details of the voting showed that while 35,57,611,30 votes were polled, around 35,57,602,61 or 99.99 per cent were in favour of the resolution. Observers said the approval means the two promoters can now sell their holding to a third party without informing the other. This comes at a time IndiGo is staring at greater competition with the entry of Rakesh Jhunjhunwala’s Akasa and from a revived Jet Airways along with the Tatas who will soon have Air India under their wings. Speaking at the EGM that was held through video-conferencing, IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said Omicron had led to some moderation in bookings, though he added that they still remain above September levels. He also told the shareholders that IndiGo is emerging stronger from the Covid-19 crisis. Differences between the two promoters surfaced in July 2019 after Gangwal wrote a letter to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) seeking its intervention to address corporate governance issues. He had also raised questions about certain related party transactions (RPTs) between IndiGo and the entities of the IGE group. He alleged that these related party transactions did not have the approval of the board and the audit committee and were often backdated. Gangwal said there were  misrepresentations in the company’s red herring prospectus (RHP) dated October 16, 2015. The charges were rejected by the IGE group. Bhatia later moved the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA) against Gangwal. The LCIA in September said the AoA be amended and that the clause regarding the RoFR be done away with. It had given them 90 days to implement its directions. Gangwal had then moved the Delhi high court seeking directions for calling an EGM. However, the court did not allow the plea. The particular clause in  AoA says if a shareholder proposes to sell shares outside the stock exchange, he will have to first notify the other shareholder disclosing the number of shares, the proposed price, the identity of the purchaser, the proposed closing date for the transfer apart from any other material terms of the agreement between the seller and the buyer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
