15-04-2020||World||Donald Trump’s decision to halt WHO funding amid Covid-19 pandemic criticized by world leaders||US President Donald Trump has announced he will halt funding for the WHO for “severely mismanaging” the Covid-19 crisis, prompting the Indian government to say on Wednesday the world community’s focus should remain on the pandemic.Trump’s move was widely seen as an effort to deflect mounting criticism of his administration’s handling of the outbreak as coronavirus deaths rose by 2,228 in a single-day record on Tuesday. Nearly 26,000 people have died and 608,377 have been infected in the US.At his daily briefing, Trump announced the suspension of US funding for the World Health Organization (WHO), ranging between $400 million and $500 million a year, for a period of 60 to 90 days.“Today I’m instructing my administration to halt funding of the World Health Organisation while a review is conducted to assess the World Health Organisation’s role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the Coronavirus,” he said.Trump, who has repeatedly accused the WHO of toeing China’s line, noted Beijing “contributes roughly $40 million a year and even less”. He added: “As the organisation’s leading sponsor, the US has a duty to insist on full accountability.”He further said: “One of the most dangerous and costly decisions from the WHO was its disastrous decision to oppose travel restrictions from China and other nations…Fortunately, I was not convinced and suspended travel from China, saving untold numbers of lives.”It was not clear when the halt in US payments will take effect or whether Trump can unilaterally suspend payments, which are authorised by the Congress. The US contributed $893 million to the WHO for its two-year budget of $5.8 billion for 2020-21.The WHO’s two-year budget includes member dues and voluntary contributions from countries and non-profit organisations. Member dues are based on a country’s wealth and population. For 2020-21, the US accounted for almost 25% of member dues, followed by China, Japan and Germany.The Indian government reacted cautiously to Trump’s decision, with people familiar with developments saying the focus of global efforts should remain on overcoming the pandemic.“At present, our efforts and attention are fully focused on dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. Once the world has addressed this crisis, we can revisit this question [of funding for the WHO],” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while participating in a virtual summit of G20 leaders last month, had called for reform of the WHO, which was based on the “last century’s models” and hadn’t adapted to deal with new challenges.The move was criticised by world leaders, and UN chief Antonio Guterres said this was “not the time to reduce the resources for the operations” of the WHO.Guterres said in a statement the need of the hour is unity in the global battle against Covid-19. “It is my belief that the WHO must be supported, as it is absolutely critical to the world’s efforts to win the war against Covid-19,” he said.Acknowledging the need to review actions of different entities in responding to the Coronavirus, Guterres said this can be done after overcoming the epidemic “to understand how such a disease emerged and spread its devastation so quickly across the globe, and how all those involved reacted to the crisis”.He added, “The lessons learned will be essential to effectively address similar challenges, as they may arise in the future. But now is not that time.”German foreign minister Heiko Maas tweeted: “Blaming does not help. The virus knows no borders…One of the best investments is the @UN, especially the underfunded @WHO, to strengthen…the development and distribution of tests and vaccines.”Trump’s criticism of the WHO runs counter to his own praise for the world body and China. “CDC (Centers of Disease Control and Prevention) & World Health have been working hard and very smart,” he tweeted in February.The US president has severed or scaled down ties with several world bodies – the Paris Accord on climate change (2017), Unesco (2017) and UNHCR (2018). He has also complained about US contributions to bodies such as the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-decision-to-halt-who-funding-amid-covid-19-pandemic-criticized-by-world-leaders/story-FhytwJSgpjFM30zZcR31uK.html
15-04-2020||World||Spain’s daily coronavirus deaths decline as testing increases||Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez on Wednesday promised more coronavirus testing to try to build on a decline in daily COVID-19 deaths that has allowed Spain to start tentatively reopening its locked-down economy.Officials hope more testing will give a better indication of the areas where lockdowns can be eased further.“Spain is already one of the countries making the most daily tests. More than 20,000, and we are increasing the number,” Sanchez told a near-empty parliament.Spain’s daily number of deaths from the coronavirus fell to 523 on Wednesday from 567 the day before, the health ministry said - well below a peak of 950 reached on April 2.The International Monetary Fund has said Spain’s economy is likely to suffer heavily from the pandemic, and the government is keen to reactivate whatever businesses it can as soon as possible, especially ahead of the tourist summer months. The IMF expected an 8% economic slump this year, because of the collapse in tourism and Spain’s high proportion of small and medium-sized businesses, with the debt-to-GDP ratio projected to hit 113% - its highest level in over a century. It put the 2020 budget deficit at 9.5% of GDP, the widest in the euro zone.On Monday and Tuesday, sectors including construction and manufacturing were allowed to reopen but, with most people still confined to their homes, shops, bars and public spaces will stay closed until at least April 26.For the lockdown to be eased more broadly, officials say testing for the virus has to be expanded to include people who have mild or no symptoms, to track the spread in more detail.The government also said last week it would carry out mass antibody tests on the blood of 60,000 randomly chosen people over three weeks, to begin identifying those who might in theory now be immune after exposure to the virus.However, health and virology experts are not yet certain about the quality of such tests, or how much immunity such antibodies might provide.Spain remains one of the world’s worst-affected countries, with only the United States and Italy recording higher cumulative death tolls than the 18,579 reported on Wednesday.The official tally of cases rose by just over 5,000 to 177,633, although Fernando Simon, the national emergency coordinator, said the expansion of testing had meant more mild or asymptomatic cases were being recorded.Despite signs that public health authorities are slowly getting on top of the pandemic, healthcare workers have had no respite. In Barcelona, a doctor filed a complaint with police after her vehicle was scrawled with grafitti reading “contagious rat”, El Periodico newspaper reported.The World Health Organization said on Wednesday that countries should wait at least two weeks before evaluating the impact of loosening their lockdowns and deciding whether to go further.But Spain, having suffered a heavy blow to growth and employment during the euro zone debt crisis, is under acute pressure to restart its economy.The IMF said unemployment, already the highest in the European Union, would jump to nearly 21% from 14% last year.“Those levels of unemployment are not sustainable,” European Central Bank Vice-President Luis de Guindos told Onda Cero radio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-s-daily-coronavirus-deaths-decline-as-testing-increases/story-5DE6NqEyPZ33YzgYlrp6iP.html
15-04-2020||World||Germany to begin easing virus curbs: Merkel||German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday announced first steps in undoing coronavirus lockdowns for the coming weeks, with most shops allowed to open although schools must stay closed until May 4.Shops up to 800 square metres (8,600 square feet) will be allowed to reopen once they have “plans to maintain hygiene”, Merkel said, while schools will gradually reopened with priority given to pupils about to take exams.Meanwhile, a ban on large public events will be upheld until August 31 to prevent possible mass transmissions of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-to-begin-easing-virus-curbs-merkel/story-RxPrbwHxIAHuCb9xA6uumJ.html
15-04-2020||World||In another signal to progressives, Warren backs Biden||Senator Elizabeth Warren on Wednesday endorsed former vice-president Joe Biden for the 2020 race for the White House, paving the way for further coalescing of Democratic party’s progressives ty around his candidacy. Notably, also, she has been on his shortlist for running mate.“In this moment of crisis, it’s more important than ever that the next president restores Americans’ faith in good, effective government—and I’ve seen Joe Biden help our nation rebuild,” Warren said in a video message. “That’s why I’m proud to endorse Joe Biden as president of the United States.”Warren’s endorsement was the third in a quick succession of high-profile announcements coming Biden’s way this week. Senator Bernie Sanders, another icon of the party’s progressives, announced his endorsement Monday, weeks after he became the last of the contenders to drop out of the race.Former president Barack Obama announced his support for his former deputy on Tuesday, with a message that Biden was what Americans needed “one of our darkest time”. Obama added an appeal to the country to unite in a “great awakening” and defeat current day politics characterized by “plain meanness”.Now Warren, the firebrand senator from Massachusetts, who excited legions of young supporters in the party, tapping into about the same constituency that also rooted for Sanders, with her meticulous plans on almost every issue facing the country. She had even led the crowded field of contenders briefly.Biden needs this constituency of progressive Democrats, who support state-led medicare for all, aggressive and comprehensive measures to combat climate change, lower college tuitions higher taxes on the super-rich. Leading members of this wing include New York lawmaker Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Indian American lawmaker Pramila Jayapal. The former vice-president has already begun reaching out to them, and will expect Warren and Sanders to weigh in.“I’ve been proud to work with her over the past few weeks to identify and adopt important policy proposals that will strengthen us as a people,” Biden said in a statement. He has adopted Warren’s bankruptcy plan last month.Warren is also on the former vice-president’s shortlist for a running mate, as he said December. He has publicly committed himself to picking a woman for the ticket, and others on his list, according to speculation, are Indian American senator Kamala Harris, Michigan governor Gretchen Whitmer and former candidate for Georgia governor Stacey Abrams.Biden has not given any further indications about his thinking. On her endorsement, he he said Tuesday, he is “proud” to have her in his corner. “Not just as we work to defeat Donald Trump in November, but in the years to come, as we push through a bold and progressive policy agenda for the American for the fight ahead.”Warren’s failed bid may be remembered for ever for, among other things, her epic take down of the New York billionaire Michael Bloomberg who had invested an millions from his private wealth into ads to blow out the competition and propel him to the top of the race.The strategy worked for him, but only till he got into the debate stage, where he became fair game for everyone. Warren’s attacks on him were most devastating, and he quietly ended his race after only his second debate, and poor showing in the primaries and caucuses. Warren, however, failed to turn these debate performances into wins in primaries and ended her race.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-another-signal-to-progressives-warren-backs-biden/story-bkO54CXBvrIAqf3mgLq7WL.html
15-04-2020||World||‘Can’t wait to see my family’: 106-year-old woman beats Covid-19 in Britain||A 106-year-old woman, thought to be the oldest patient in Britain to beat the novel coronavirus, has been discharged from hospital.Connie Titchen, a great grandmother from Birmingham, in central England, battled the virus for just under three weeks and was given a clean bill of health by medics at City Hospital.“I feel very lucky that I’ve fought off this virus,” Titchen said. “I can’t wait to see my family.”Titchen, who was born in 1913 and has lived through both world wars, was admitted to hospital in mid-March with suspected pneumonia. She was diagnosed with Covid-19 soon afterwards.“She has always cooked for herself too, although she likes a cheeky McDonalds every now and then. I haven’t told her they are closed,” said her granddaughter Alex Jones, 40.“I think the secret of her old age is that she is physically active and very independent. She had a hip operation back in December and within 30 days she was walking again. She really is amazing and I know all the family can’t wait to see her. She has quite a few fans!”Nurse Kelly Smith who looked after Titchen said:“It’s been fantastic to see Connie recover. She is amazing and we’ve been doing our best to nurse her back to health.”“We were really pleased when she was given the all clear. It’s nice to see patients leave our ward after having beaten this virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-t-wait-to-see-my-family-106-year-old-woman-beats-covid-19-in-britain/story-060F5u1giyqEBdWnatDAzN.html
15-04-2020||World||Nirav Modi faces new charges in second UK extradition case||India has made a second extradition request for diamantaire Nirav Modi on the basis of two new charges relating to ‘causing disappearance of evidence’ and intimidating witnesses, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said on Wednesday.Modi, who is lodged in the Wandsworth jail since his arrest in March last year, is due to face extradition trial in the Westminster Magistrates Court from May 11 for large-scale fraud involving a Mumbai branch of the Punjab National Bank (PNB).The second extradition request was certified by home secretary Priti Patel on February 20, the CPS said, adding that the two new charges are part of the case brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the multi-crore fraud case,Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, the first brought by CBI, and the second by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The CBI case relates to the fraud upon PNB, through the fraudulent obtaining of Letters of Understanding; the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.On the two new charges, CPS said: “The Government of India has issued this further extradition request…Put shortly, those offences relate to allegations that Nirav Deepak Modi has interfered with the CBI investigation by ‘causing disappearance of evidence’ and intimidating witnesses (‘criminal intimidation to cause death’)”.It added that the five-day extradition hearing scheduled from May 11 will go ahead, but the two additional offences part of the CBI case will be dealt with at a separate later hearing, probably in July. If the May hearing does not proceed due to the coronavirus pandemic situation, the two requests will be joined and heard in September. The next case management hearing will take place on April 28, the CPS said. Modi has been denied bail on four occasions by the magistrates court and the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nirav-modi-faces-new-charges-in-second-uk-extradition-case/story-48O6bbsnWpu9fS085n0mvN.html
15-04-2020||World||China hid truth about Covid-19 pandemic from its people for almost a week||In the six days after top Chinese officials secretly determined they likely were facing a pandemic from a new coronavirus, the city of Wuhan at the epicenter of the disease hosted a mass banquet for tens of thousands of people; millions began traveling through for Lunar New Year celebrations.President Xi Jinping warned the public on the seventh day, Jan. 20. But by that time, more than 3,000 people had been infected during almost a week of public silence, according to internal documents obtained by The Associated Press and expert estimates based on retrospective infection data.Six days.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThat delay from Jan. 14 to Jan. 20 was neither the first mistake made by Chinese officials at all levels in confronting the outbreak, nor the longest lag, as governments around the world have dragged their feet for weeks and even months in addressing the virus.But the delay by the first country to face the new coronavirus came at a critical time — the beginning of the outbreak. China’s attempt to walk a line between alerting the public and avoiding panic set the stage for a pandemic that has infected almost 2 million people and taken more than 126,000 lives.“This is tremendous,” said Zuo-Feng Zhang, an epidemiologist at the University of California, Los Angeles. “If they took action six days earlier, there would have been much fewer patients and medical facilities would have been sufficient. We might have avoided the collapse of Wuhan’s medical system.”Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakOther experts noted that the Chinese government may have waited on warning the public to stave off hysteria, and that it did act quickly in private during that time.But the six-day delay by China’s leaders in Beijing came on top of almost two weeks during which the national Center for Disease Control did not register any cases from local officials, internal bulletins obtained by the AP confirm. Yet during that time, from Jan. 5 to Jan. 17, hundreds of patients were appearing in hospitals not just in Wuhan but across the country.It’s uncertain whether it was local officials who failed to report cases or national officials who failed to record them. It’s also not clear exactly what officials knew at the time in Wuhan, which only opened back up last week with restrictions after its quarantine.But what is clear, experts say, is that China’s rigid controls on information, bureaucratic hurdles and a reluctance to send bad news up the chain of command muffled early warnings. The punishment of eight doctors for “rumor-mongering,” broadcast on national television on Jan. 2, sent a chill through the city’s hospitals.“Doctors in Wuhan were afraid,” said Dali Yang, a professor of Chinese politics at the University of Chicago. “It was truly intimidation of an entire profession.”Without these internal reports, it took the first case outside China, in Thailand on Jan. 13, to galvanize leaders in Beijing into recognizing the possible pandemic before them. It was only then that they launched a nationwide plan to find cases — distributing CDC-sanctioned test kits, easing the criteria for confirming cases and ordering health officials to screen patients, all without telling the public.The Chinese government has repeatedly denied suppressing information in the early days, saying it immediately reported the outbreak to the World Health Organization.“Allegations of a cover-up or lack of transparency in China are groundless,” said foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian at a Thursday press conference.The documents show that the head of China’s National Health Commission, Ma Xiaowei, laid out a grim assessment of the situation on Jan. 14 in a confidential teleconference with provincial health officials. A memo states that the teleconference was held to convey instructions on the coronavirus from President Xi Jinping, Premier Li Keqiang and Vice Premier Sun Chunlan, but does not specify what those instructions were.“The epidemic situation is still severe and complex, the most severe challenge since SARS in 2003, and is likely to develop into a major public health event,” the memo cites Ma as saying.The National Health Commission is the top medical agency in the country. In a faxed statement, the Commission said it had organized the teleconference because of the case reported in Thailand and the possibility of the virus spreading during New Year travel. It added that China had published information on the outbreak in an “open, transparent, responsible and timely manner,” in accordance with “important instructions” repeatedly issued by President Xi.The documents come from an anonymous source in the medical field who did not want to be named for fear of retribution. The AP confirmed the contents with two other sources in public health familiar with the teleconference. Some of the memo’s contents also appeared in a public notice about the teleconference, stripped of key details and published in February.Under a section titled “sober understanding of the situation,” the memo said that “clustered cases suggest that human-to-human transmission is possible.” It singled out the case in Thailand, saying that the situation had “changed significantly” because of the possible spread of the virus abroad.“With the coming of the Spring Festival, many people will be traveling, and the risk of transmission and spread is high,” the memo continued. “All localities must prepare for and respond to a pandemic.”In the memo, Ma demanded officials unite around Xi and made clear that political considerations and social stability were key priorities during the long lead-up to China’s two biggest political meetings of the year in March. While the documents do not spell out why Chinese leaders waited six days to make their concerns public, the meetings may be one reason.“The imperatives for social stability, for not rocking the boat before these important Party congresses is pretty strong,” says Daniel Mattingly, a scholar of Chinese politics at Yale. “My guess is, they wanted to let it play out a little more and see what happened.”In response to the teleconference, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in Beijing initiated the highest-level emergency response internally, level one, on Jan. 15. It assigned top CDC leaders to 14 working groups tasked with getting funds, training health workers, collecting data, doing field investigations and supervising laboratories, an internal CDC notice shows. The memo directed Hubei province, where Wuhan is located, to begin temperature checks at airports, bus and train stations, and cut down on large public gatherings.The National Health Commission also distributed a 63-page set of instructions to provincial health officials, obtained by the AP. The instructions ordered health officials nationwide to identify suspected cases, hospitals to open fever clinics, and doctors and nurses to don protective gear. They were marked “internal” — “not to be spread on the internet,” “not to be publicly disclosed.”In public, however, officials continued to downplay the threat, pointing to the 41 cases public at the time.“We have reached the latest understanding that the risk of sustained human-to-human transmission is low,” Li Qun, the head of the China CDC’s emergency center, told Chinese state television on Jan. 15. That was the same day Li was appointed leader of a group preparing emergency plans for the level one response, a CDC notice shows.On Jan. 20, President Xi issued his first public comments on the virus, saying the outbreak “must be taken seriously” and every possible measure pursued. A leading Chinese epidemiologist, Zhong Nanshan, announced for the first time that the virus was transmissible from person to person on national television.If the public had been warned a week earlier to take actions such as social distancing, mask wearing and travel restrictions, cases could have been cut by up to two-thirds, one paper later found. An earlier warning could have saved lives, said Zhang, the doctor in Los Angeles.However, other health experts said the government took decisive action in private given the information available to them.“They may not have said the right thing, but they were doing the right thing,” said Ray Yip, the retired founding head of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control’s office in China. “On the 20th, they sounded the alarm for the whole country, which is not an unreasonable delay.”If health officials raise the alarm prematurely, it can damage their credibility — “like crying wolf” —and cripple their ability to mobilize the public, said Benjamin Cowley, an epidemiologist at the University of Hong Kong.The delay may support accusations by President Donald Trump that the Chinese government’s secrecy held back the world’s response to the virus. However, even the public announcement on Jan. 20 left the U.S. nearly two months to prepare for the pandemic.During those months, Trump ignored the warnings of his own staff and dismissed the disease as nothing to worry about, while the government failed to bolster medical supplies and deployed flawed testing kits. Leaders across the world turned a blind eye to the outbreak, with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson calling for a strategy of “herd immunity” — before falling ill himself. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro sneered at what he called “a little cold.”The early story of the pandemic in China shows missed opportunities at every step, the documents and AP interviews reveal. Under Xi, China’s most authoritarian leader in decades, increasing political repression has made officials more hesitant to report cases without a clear green light from the top.“It really increased the stakes for officials, which made them reluctant to step out of line,” said Mattingly, the Yale professor. “It made it harder for people at the local level to report bad information.”Doctors and nurses in Wuhan told Chinese media there were plenty of signs that the coronavirus could be transmitted between people as early as late December. Patients who had never been to the suspected source of the virus, the Huanan Seafood Market, were infected. Medical workers started falling ill.But officials obstructed medical staff who tried to report such cases. They set tight criteria for confirming cases, where patients not only had to test positive, but samples had to be sent to Beijing and sequenced. They required staff to report to supervisors before sending information higher, Chinese media reports show. And they punished doctors for warning about the disease.As a result, no new cases were reported for almost two weeks from Jan. 5, even as officials gathered in Wuhan for Hubei province’s two biggest political meetings of the year, internal China CDC bulletins confirm.During this period, teams of experts dispatched to Wuhan by Beijing said they failed to find clear signs of danger and human-to-human transmission.“China has many years of disease control, there’s absolutely no chance that this will spread widely because of Spring Festival travel,” the head of the first expert team, Xu Jianguo, told Takungpao, a Hong Kong paper, on Jan. 6. He added there was “no evidence of human-to-human transmission” and that the threat from the virus was low.The second expert team, dispatched on Jan. 8, similarly failed to unearth any clear signs of human-to-human transmission. Yet during their stay, more than half a dozen doctors and nurses had already fallen ill with the virus, a retrospective China CDC study published in the New England Journal of Medicine would later show.The teams looked for patients with severe pneumonia, missing those with milder symptoms. They also narrowed the search to those who had visited the seafood market — which was in retrospect a mistake, said Cowling, the Hong Kong epidemiologist, who flew to Beijing to review the cases in late January.In the weeks after the severity of the epidemic became clear, some experts accused Wuhan officials of intentionally hiding cases.“I always suspected it was human-to-human transmissible,” said Wang Guangfa, the leader of the second expert team, in a Mar. 15 post on Weibo, the Chinese social media platform. He fell ill with the virus soon after returning to Beijing on Jan. 16.Wuhan’s then-mayor, Zhou Xianwang, blamed national regulations for the secrecy.“As a local government official, I could disclose information only after being authorized,” Zhou told state media in late January. “A lot of people didn’t understand this.”As a result, top Chinese officials appear to have been left in the dark.“The CDC acted sluggishly, assuming all was fine,” said a state health expert, who declined to be named out of fear of retribution. “If we started to do something a week or two earlier, things could have been so much different.”It wasn’t just Wuhan. In Shenzhen in southern China, hundreds of miles away, a team led by microbiologist Yuen Kwok-yung used their own test kits to confirm that six members of a family of seven had the virus on Jan. 12. In an interview with Caixin, a respected Chinese finance magazine, Yuen said he informed CDC branches “of all levels,” including Beijing. But internal CDC numbers did not reflect Yuen’s report, the bulletins show.When the Thai case was reported, health authorities finally drew up an internal plan to systematically identify, isolate, test, and treat all cases of the new coronavirus nationwide.Wuhan’s case count began to climb immediately — four on Jan. 17, then 17 the next day and 136 the day after. Across the country, dozens of cases began to surface, in some cases among patients who were infected earlier but had not yet been tested. In Zhejiang, for example, a man hospitalized on Jan. 4 was only isolated on Jan. 17 and confirmed positive on Jan. 21. In Shenzhen, the patients Yuen discovered on Jan. 12 were finally recorded as confirmed cases on Jan. 19.The elite Peking Union Medical College Hospital held an emergency meeting on Jan. 18, instructing staff to adopt stringent isolation — still before Xi’s public warning. A health expert told AP that on Jan. 19, she toured a hospital built after the SARS outbreak, where medical workers had furiously prepared an entire building with hundreds of beds for pneumonia patients.“Everybody in the country in the infectious disease field knew something was going on,” she said, declining to be named to avoid disrupting sensitive government consultations. “They were anticipating it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hid-truth-about-covid-19-pandemic-from-its-people-for-almost-a-week/story-8CiFkBxJh37CEl67eK5paN.html
15-04-2020||World||UK not to stop WHO funding, but cool on Trump rebuff||The Boris Johnson government on Wednesday refused to comment or criticise US President Donald Trump’s decision to stop funding to the World Health Organisation (WHO), insisting that London would continue to support the UN body.The UK and US have what is called a ‘special relationship’, at times prompting criticism that London closely follows Washington’s foreign policy moves uncritically. Alleging failures in handling the coronavirus pandemic, Trump on Tuesday announced withdrawing funding to WHO.A Downing Street spokesman said: “Our position is that the UK has no plans to stop funding the WHO which has an important role to play in leading the global health response. Coronavirus is a global challenge and it’s essential that countries work together to tackle this shared threat”.Asked if the Johnson government is disappointed by Trump’s decision, he added: “I can only set out the UK’s position, and that is that we have no plans to stop funding the World Health Organisation”. The UK contributes over USD 10 million annually to WHO.However, Labour leader Keir Starmer criticised Trump’s decision in a radio interview.“That is completely the wrong thing to do. There needs to be a global response to this, we should be supporting our global institutions”, he told LBC.“We’re about to go on and try and get a vaccine, there should be a global effort to get that vaccine and a global plan as to how we roll that out across the world. This is not the time to be retreating and pulling away from global organisations that help roll that out”.The UK is one of the worst affected countries in Europe, with over 12,000 deaths and over 93,000 cases in hospitals. The figures do not include those passing away or infected in private homes, retirement villages and care homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-not-to-stop-who-funding-but-cool-on-trump-rebuff/story-Kb7ZwaALSyVYS6UhsX6KuO.html
15-04-2020||World||WHO focused on saving lives, says chief after US funding freeze||The World Health Organization is purely focused on saving lives and halting the coronavirus pandemic, its chief said Wednesday after US President Donald Trump announced he was freezing funding for the WHO. There is no time to waste. @WHO’s singular focus is on working to serve all people to save lives and stop the #COVID19 pandemic. https://t.co/08xlv7HLC4“There is no time to waste. WHO’s singular focus is on working to serve all people to save lives and stop the COVID-19 pandemic,” director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Twitter following Trump’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-focused-on-saving-lives-says-chief-after-us-funding-freeze/story-8ENeKLJ8kJX6QvShYfW0oL.html
15-04-2020||World||At 99, veteran of World War II in India raises £7 million||People locked down in homes around the world have contributed over £7 million to a fund-raising effort by a 99-year-old veteran of the Second World War, who set a goal of completing 100 laps in his garden to initially raise £1,000 as a tribute to doctors and nurses.Tom Moore, who rose to be a captain in the British army and served in colonial India and Burma, wanted to express his gratitude to medical staff in the National Health Service (NHS), who looked after him and helped him recover from a hip operation and skin cancer.Millions of Britons and others hunkering down in homes in lockdowns watched him complete 10 laps a day with the help of a walking aid in his Yorkshire home when he began on April 8. The initial target was soon reached, with £70,000 raised within 24 hours.The figure reached £7 million live on BBC television on Wednesday morning as Moore watched in grateful bewilderment.Moore said: “I think that’s absolutely enormous. At no time when we started off with this exercise did we anticipate we’d get anything near that sort of money…Our brave nurses and doctors are frontline in this case … this time our army are in doctors and nurses uniforms and they’re doing a marvellous job.”“It just shows that people have such high regard for matters of our NHS and it’s really amazing that people have paid so much money. It’s almost unbelievable isn’t it,” he said from his home in Keighley.There is an outpouring of gratitude and concern for NHS staff dealing with tens of thousands of people stricken with coronavirus in the UK. Many have recovered, but over 12,000 people have passed away, as temporary mega hospitals came up in London, Cardiff and elsewhere.Moore’s daughter, Hannah, said her father was overwhelmed when the figure reached the first £1 million, but he responded with a determination to walk more: “He’s a typical Yorkshireman, so he’s very stoic, very controlled and takes everything in his stride.”“We always knew that he was this incredible gem of a man, but we never had any idea that his story would capture the hearts of the nation. We thought we could give people a little bit of happy and we wanted to share a little bit about him, and it has just gone beyond even our wildest, wildest dreams.”The money raised will be donated to NHS Charities Together, a group representing various charity organisations linked to the NHS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-99-veteran-of-world-war-ii-in-india-raises-6-million/story-uvoJrXpI8H7znCIBASn7VI.html
15-04-2020||World||One million coronavirus cases reported in Europe: Report||More than one million cases of the coronavirus have been detected in Europe, just over half the global total, according to a tally compiled by AFP from official sources at 0830 GMT Wednesday.With at least 1,003,284 cases, including 84,465 deaths, Europe is the worst hit continent. Globally, 1,991,019 COVID-19 infections and 125,955 deaths have been registered.The tallies, using data collected by AFP from national authorities and information from the World Health Organization (WHO), probably reflect only a fraction of the actual number of infections. Many countries are testing only the most serious cases. Spain, with 172,541 cases and 18,056 deaths, Italy (162,488 and 21,067), France (143,303 and 15,729) and Germany (127,584 and 3,254) are the only European countries with more than 100,000 infections.Britain, with 93,873 cases and 12,107 deaths, is the country that currently has highest daily number of new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-million-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-europe-report/story-XEJUrKDIatxdDS0KPEvnHP.html
15-04-2020||World||China says ‘seriously concerned’ by US freeze of WHO funds||China said Wednesday it was “seriously concerned” about the US decision to suspend funding for the World Health Organization, and urged Washington to fulfil its obligations during the coronavirus crisis.President Donald Trump on Tuesday accused the Geneva-based body of putting political correctness above life-saving measures as he ordered the funding freeze for “mismanaging” the pandemic.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“China is seriously concerned about the US announcement to suspend funding for the World Health Organization,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a regular press briefing.“The current global epidemic situation is grim. It is at a critical moment. This US decision will weaken WHO’s capacities and undermine the international cooperation against the epidemic.” The US and China have been sparring over the deadly virus, which was first reported in China and has killed more than 125,000 worldwide.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakTrump’s latest decision reflects his belief that the WHO has been biased towards China, colluding to prevent the US’ main economic rival from having to be open about the unfolding health crisis.“We urge the United States to earnestly fulfill their responsibilities and obligations, and support the WHO-led international action against the epidemic,” Zhao said, adding that the agency plays an “irreplaceable role” against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-seriously-concerned-by-us-freeze-of-who-funds/story-Y4EkY1UhdRwDetklDlvUHI.html
15-04-2020||World||South Korea holds parliamentary election under strict safety measures amid pandemic||South Koreans began going to the polls on Wednesday to elect members of parliament, wearing masks and plastic gloves as part of strict safety measures in one of the first national elections held amid the coronavirus pandemic. About 14,000 polling stations were open at 6 a.m. (2100 GMT Tuesday) around the country after disinfection, and voters were required to wear a mask and have a temperature check upon arrival. Anyone whose temperature was higher than 37.5 Celsius (99.5 Fahrenheit) was led to a special booth. All voters must use hand sanitizer and plastic gloves when casting ballots and maintain 1 metre (40 inches) distance between each other. The election is set to decide control of parliament and shape President Moon Jae-in’s ability to push through his agenda in the final two years of his administration, including looser fiscal policy aimed at creating jobs, raising the minimum wage, and continued re-engagement with North Korea.Globally, South Korea was one of the first countries to hold a national election since the coronavirus epidemic began, while many others postponed votes. “I had worries as the election was not delayed, but having come here and seen for myself, I felt it’s good we did vote as planned, and people are taking greater caution about distancing and restraining themselves even more,” Choi Sun-hwa, 56, told Reuters outside a polling station in Hongje-dong, central Seoul. Once grappling with the first large outbreak outside China, South Korea has largely managed to bring its cases under control without major disruptions thanks to a massive testing campaign and intensive contact tracing.The Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 27 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, bringing the total infections to 10,564. The daily tally has hovered around 30 over the past week, most of them from overseas travellers. But authorities have warned that infections could resurge at any times, calling for special caution on Election Day. As of 9 a.m. (0000 GMT), voter turnout was 8%, about 0.9% points higher than in the last parliamentary election in 2016, according to the National Election Commission. That excludes nearly 27% of the 44 million registered voters who took part in early voting last weekend. Among them were about 2,800 coronavirus patients, for whom the NEC allowed voting by mail and set up special polling stations for early voting.More than 13,000 in self-quarantine have signed up to vote and will be allowed to do so after other voters leave at 6 p.m. (0900 GMT)The election campaign has taken on a different look, with candidates wearing masks and bumping fists instead of pressing the flesh and mass rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-holds-parliamentary-election-under-strict-safety-measures-amid-pandemic/story-z6LlIAEwNtEkGmZKWIQ0iI.html
15-04-2020||World||Germany arrests 4 Islamic State suspects planning attack on US bases||German authorities say police have arrested four suspected members of the Islamic State group alleged to be planning an attack on American military facilities.Federal prosecutors said the suspects were arrested early Wednesday at various locations in the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia.They identified the men as Azizjon B., Muhammadali G., Farhodshoh K. and Sunatullokh K. — all citizens of Tajikistan. The suspects’ surnames weren’t released for privacy reasons.German weekly Der Spiegel reports that the men’s alleged leader, a 30-year-old Tajik man identified only as Ravsan B., has been in jail since last year on firearms charges.Prosecutors said the men swore allegiance to IS in early 2019 and had contacts with high-ranking figures in the group. They reportedly first planned to carry out an attack in Tajikistan but later shifted their target to Germany, including U.S. Air Force bases in the country and persons deemed critical of Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-arrests-4-islamic-state-suspects-planning-attack-on-us-bases/story-ZxNpecGgR8BRKqs3c22RUO.html
15-04-2020||World||Coronavirus lockdown paralyses tourism worldwide, Spain and Italy worst hit||The coronavirus pandemic has brought top world economies to a grinding halt and has adversely affected various sectors. With more than half of the globe under lockdown, one of the sectors to take a massive hit is the tourism industry. According to the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), the tourism sector accounts for one in ten jobs across the globe but due to the coronavirus crisis, as much as 75% of it under threat. “Research conducted by WTTC shows that 75 million Travel & Tourism jobs are at risk globally due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with at least 6.4 million losses across the EU, and one million in the UK,” mentions WTTC on its webpage.The coronavirus pandemic has shut the tourism sector and countries like Spain and Italy, that depend massively on their tourism industry, have taken a huge hit.According to WTTC data, Spain and Italy, two of the European nations to have borne a severe brunt of the coronavirus outbreak, reap close to 15% of their total GDP from the tourism sector. As per the 2019 figures, Spain accrued nearly 14% to its GDP through its tourism and travel sector. For Italy, the figure stood at around 13%.Other nations with a significant hit to their travel and tourism sector include China, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the United States. All these nations have around 8-10%, more for some countries, of their GDPs benefit from the tourism sector. Coronavirus cases have crossed over 2 million worldwide. Over one lakh people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion that originated from the Chinese city of Wuhan last year in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-lockdown-paralyses-tourism-worldwide-spain-and-italy-worst-hit/story-ylIqoyjM8zela8BCBX0uXJ.html
15-04-2020||World||Five daily prayers necessary, say Pak clerics flouting Covid-19 lockdown norms||The clerics in Pakistan have refused to adhere to government guidelines to stop the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19, saying the five daily prayers and the Friday prayers would be held in mosques.The ulemas and priests, however, said that they will follow the precautionary measures.The number of coronavirus cases in Pakistan inched towards 6,000 after 272 new infections were reported, the health ministry said on Wednesday as Prime Minister Imran Khan extended the ongoing lockdown until the end of this month to fight the pandemic.He, however, said that some key industries would be opened in order to start business activities.Authorities in all provinces have officially restricted congregations in mosques, including for Friday prayers, to five people or less for the past two weeks. But several instances of violation of government orders, and confrontation with police trying to enforce these orders, have been reported.Mufti Taqi Usmani, a renowned religious scholar and former judge of the Federal Shariat Court, called the five daily prayers a “necessity”, according to Pakistan newspaper Dawn.Prominent religious scholar and chairman Ruet-e-Hilal Committee Mufti Muneebur Rehman said the lockdown was not “applicable to mosques”, adding that arrangements would be made for Friday congregational prayers and tarawih in Ramazan, reported Dawn.Pakistan’s Ministry of National Health Services said that the number of coronavirus patients in the country rose to 5,988, with 272 new cases and 11 deaths during the last 24 hours.The ministry further said that Punjab reported 2,945 cases, Sindh 1,518, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 865, Balochistan 240, Gilgit-Baltistan 236, Islamabad 140 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 46.So far, 1,446 people have recovered from the disease and 107 deaths have been reported in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/five-daily-prayers-necessary-say-pak-clerics-flouting-covid-19-lockdown-norms/story-ylccA8djCdnf51dS4rjWiN.html
15-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update: China didn’t warn public of likely pandemic for 6 key days||In the six days after top Chinese officials secretly determined they likely were facing a pandemic from a new coronavirus, the city of Wuhan at the epicentre of the disease hosted a mass banquet for tens of thousands of people; millions began travelling through for Lunar New Year celebrations.President Xi Jinping warned the public on the seventh day, Jan. 20. But by that time, more than 3,000 people had been infected during almost a week of public silence, according to internal documents obtained by The Associated Press and expert estimates based on retrospective infection data.Six days.That delay from Jan. 14 to Jan. 20 was neither the first mistake made by Chinese officials at all levels in confronting the outbreak, nor the longest lag, as governments around the world have dragged their feet for weeks and even months in addressing the virus.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here But the delay by the first country to face the new coronavirus came at a critical time — the beginning of the outbreak. China’s attempt to walk a line between alerting the public and avoiding panic set the stage for a pandemic that has infected almost 2 million people and taken more than 126,000 lives.“This is tremendous,” said Zuo-Feng Zhang, an epidemiologist at the University of California, Los Angeles. “If they took action six days earlier, there would have been much fewer patients and medical facilities would have been sufficient. We might have avoided the collapse of Wuhan’s medical system.”Other experts noted that the Chinese government may have waited on warning the public to stave off hysteria, and that it did act quickly in private during that time.Also read| ‘World needs recovery’: IMF tells nations to refrain from export bans on medical suppliesBut the six-day delay by China’s leaders in Beijing came on top of almost two weeks during which the national Center for Disease Control did not register any cases from local officials, internal bulletins obtained by the AP confirm. Yet during that time, from Jan. 5 to Jan. 17, hundreds of patients were appearing in hospitals not just in Wuhan but across the country.It’s uncertain whether it was local officials who failed to report cases or national officials who failed to record them. It’s also not clear exactly what officials knew at the time in Wuhan, which only opened back up last week with restrictions after its quarantine.But what is clear, experts say, is that China’s rigid controls on information, bureaucratic hurdles and a reluctance to send bad news up the chain of command muffled early warnings. The punishment of eight doctors for “rumor-mongering,” broadcast on national television on Jan. 2, sent a chill through the city’s hospitals.“Doctors in Wuhan were afraid,” said Dali Yang, a professor of Chinese politics at the University of Chicago. “It was truly intimidation of an entire profession.”Also read: China’s recent Covid-19 cases jump to 1,500 amid exodus of Chinese from RussiaWithout these internal reports, it took the first case outside China, in Thailand on Jan. 13, to galvanize leaders in Beijing into recognizing the possible pandemic before them. It was only then that they launched a nationwide plan to find cases — distributing CDC-sanctioned test kits, easing the criteria for confirming cases and ordering health officials to screen patients, all without telling the public.The Chinese government has repeatedly denied suppressing information in the early days, saying it immediately reported the outbreak to the World Health Organization.“Allegations of a cover-up or lack of transparency in China are groundless,” said foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian at a Thursday press conference.The documents show that the head of China’s National Health Commission, Ma Xiaowei, laid out a grim assessment of the situation on Jan. 14 in a confidential teleconference with provincial health officials. A memo states that the teleconference was held to convey instructions on the coronavirus from President Xi Jinping, Premier Li Keqiang and Vice Premier Sun Chunlan, but does not specify what those instructions were.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The epidemic situation is still severe and complex, the most severe challenge since SARS in 2003, and is likely to develop into a major public health event,” the memo cites Ma as saying.The National Health Commission is the top medical agency in the country. In a faxed statement, the Commission said it had organized the teleconference because of the case reported in Thailand and the possibility of the virus spreading during New Year travel. It added that China had published information on the outbreak in an “open, transparent, responsible and timely manner,” in accordance with “important instructions” repeatedly issued by President Xi.The documents come from an anonymous source in the medical field who did not want to be named for fear of retribution. The AP confirmed the contents with two other sources in public health familiar with the teleconference. Some of the memo’s contents also appeared in a public notice about the teleconference, stripped of key details and published in February.Under a section titled “sober understanding of the situation,” the memo said that “clustered cases suggest that human-to-human transmission is possible.” It singled out the case in Thailand, saying that the situation had “changed significantly” because of the possible spread of the virus abroad.“With the coming of the Spring Festival, many people will be traveling, and the risk of transmission and spread is high,” the memo continued. “All localities must prepare for and respond to a pandemic.”In the memo, Ma demanded officials unite around Xi and made clear that political considerations and social stability were key priorities during the long lead-up to China’s two biggest political meetings of the year in March. While the documents do not spell out why Chinese leaders waited six days to make their concerns public, the meetings may be one reason.“The imperatives for social stability, for not rocking the boat before these important Party congresses is pretty strong,” says Daniel Mattingly, a scholar of Chinese politics at Yale. “My guess is, they wanted to let it play out a little more and see what happened.”In response to the teleconference, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in Beijing initiated the highest-level emergency response internally, level one, on Jan. 15. It assigned top CDC leaders to 14 working groups tasked with getting funds, training health workers, collecting data, doing field investigations and supervising laboratories, an internal CDC notice shows. The memo directed Hubei province, where Wuhan is located, to begin temperature checks at airports, bus and train stations, and cut down on large public gatherings.The National Health Commission also distributed a 63-page set of instructions to provincial health officials, obtained by the AP. The instructions ordered health officials nationwide to identify suspected cases, hospitals to open fever clinics, and doctors and nurses to don protective gear. They were marked “internal” — “not to be spread on the internet,” “not to be publicly disclosed.”In public, however, officials continued to downplay the threat, pointing to the 41 cases public at the time.“We have reached the latest understanding that the risk of sustained human-to-human transmission is low,” Li Qun, the head of the China CDC’s emergency center, told Chinese state television on Jan. 15. That was the same day Li was appointed leader of a group preparing emergency plans for the level one response, a CDC notice shows.On Jan. 20, President Xi issued his first public comments on the virus, saying the outbreak “must be taken seriously” and every possible measure pursued. A leading Chinese epidemiologist, Zhong Nanshan, announced for the first time that the virus was transmissible from person to person on national television.If the public had been warned a week earlier to take actions such as social distancing, mask wearing and travel restrictions, cases could have been cut by up to two-thirds, one paper later found. An earlier warning could have saved lives, said Zhang, the doctor in Los Angeles.However, other health experts said the government took decisive action in private given the information available to them.“They may not have said the right thing, but they were doing the right thing,” said Ray Yip, the retired founding head of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control’s office in China. “On the 20th, they sounded the alarm for the whole country, which is not an unreasonable delay.”If health officials raise the alarm prematurely, it can damage their credibility — “like crying wolf” — and cripple their ability to mobilize the public, said Benjamin Cowley, an epidemiologist at the University of Hong Kong.The delay may support accusations by President Donald Trump that the Chinese government’s secrecy held back the world’s response to the virus. However, even the public announcement on Jan. 20 left the U.S. nearly two months to prepare for the pandemic.During those months, Trump ignored the warnings of his own staff and dismissed the disease as nothing to worry about, while the government failed to bolster medical supplies and deployed flawed testing kits. Leaders across the world turned a blind eye to the outbreak, with British prime minister Boris Johnson calling for a strategy of “herd immunity” — before falling ill himself. Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro sneered at what he called “a little cold.”The early story of the pandemic in China shows missed opportunities at every step, the documents and AP interviews reveal. Under Xi, China’s most authoritarian leader in decades, increasing political repression has made officials more hesitant to report cases without a clear green light from the top.“It really increased the stakes for officials, which made them reluctant to step out of line,” said Mattingly, the Yale professor. “It made it harder for people at the local level to report bad information.”Doctors and nurses in Wuhan told Chinese media there were plenty of signs that the coronavirus could be transmitted between people as early as late December. Patients who had never been to the suspected source of the virus, the Huanan Seafood Market, were infected. Medical workers started falling ill.But officials obstructed medical staff who tried to report such cases. They set tight criteria for confirming cases, where patients not only had to test positive, but samples had to be sent to Beijing and sequenced. They required staff to report to supervisors before sending information higher, Chinese media reports show. And they punished doctors for warning about the disease.As a result, no new cases were reported for almost two weeks from Jan. 5, even as officials gathered in Wuhan for Hubei province’s two biggest political meetings of the year, internal China CDC bulletins confirm.During this period, teams of experts dispatched to Wuhan by Beijing said they failed to find clear signs of danger and human-to-human transmission.“China has many years of disease control, there’s absolutely no chance that this will spread widely because of Spring Festival travel,” the head of the first expert team, Xu Jianguo, told Takungpao, a Hong Kong paper, on Jan. 6. He added there was “no evidence of human-to-human transmission” and that the threat from the virus was low.The second expert team, dispatched on Jan. 8, similarly failed to unearth any clear signs of human-to-human transmission. Yet during their stay, more than half a dozen doctors and nurses had already fallen ill with the virus, a retrospective China CDC study published in the New England Journal of Medicine would later show.The teams looked for patients with severe pneumonia, missing those with milder symptoms. They also narrowed the search to those who had visited the seafood market — which was in retrospect a mistake, said Cowling, the Hong Kong epidemiologist, who flew to Beijing to review the cases in late January.In the weeks after the severity of the epidemic became clear, some experts accused Wuhan officials of intentionally hiding cases.“I always suspected it was human-to-human transmissible,” said Wang Guangfa, the leader of the second expert team, in a Mar. 15 post on Weibo, the Chinese social media platform. He fell ill with the virus soon after returning to Beijing on Jan. 16.Wuhan’s then-mayor, Zhou Xianwang, blamed national regulations for the secrecy.“As a local government official, I could disclose information only after being authorized,” Zhou told state media in late January. “A lot of people didn’t understand this.”As a result, top Chinese officials appear to have been left in the dark.“The CDC acted sluggishly, assuming all was fine,” said a state health expert, who declined to be named out of fear of retribution. “If we started to do something a week or two earlier, things could have been so much different.”It wasn’t just Wuhan. In Shenzhen in southern China, hundreds of miles away, a team led by microbiologist Yuen Kwok-yung used their own test kits to confirm that six members of a family of seven had the virus on Jan. 12. In an interview with Caixin, a respected Chinese finance magazine, Yuen said he informed CDC branches “of all levels,” including Beijing. But internal CDC numbers did not reflect Yuen’s report, the bulletins show.When the Thai case was reported, health authorities finally drew up an internal plan to systematically identify, isolate, test, and treat all cases of the new coronavirus nationwide.Wuhan’s case count began to climb immediately — four on Jan. 17, then 17 the next day and 136 the day after. Across the country, dozens of cases began to surface, in some cases among patients who were infected earlier but had not yet been tested. In Zhejiang, for example, a man hospitalized on Jan. 4 was only isolated on Jan. 17 and confirmed positive on Jan. 21. In Shenzhen, the patients Yuen discovered on Jan. 12 were finally recorded as confirmed cases on Jan. 19.The elite Peking Union Medical College Hospital held an emergency meeting on Jan. 18, instructing staff to adopt stringent isolation — still before Xi’s public warning. A health expert told AP that on Jan. 19, she toured a hospital built after the SARS outbreak, where medical workers had furiously prepared an entire building with hundreds of beds for pneumonia patients.“Everybody in the country in the infectious disease field knew something was going on,” she said, declining to be named to avoid disrupting sensitive government consultations. “They were anticipating it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-china-didn-t-warn-public-of-likely-pandemic-for-6-key-days/story-S5iwNcFHTbSzFcTs7nhGhL.html
15-04-2020||World||China’s recent Covid-19 cases jump to 1,500 amid exodus of Chinese from Russia||China’s has reported 46 new coronavirus cases, including 10 domestic infections, with health experts saying that the increasing number of local transmissions in the country’s northeast bordering Russia remained a concern following the return of Chinese nationals from abroad.China’s National Health Commission (NHC) said on Wednesday that 46 new confirmed cases mostly from Chinese coming from abroad were reported on Tuesday taking the total number of recent cases to 1,500. This included 10 new local infections.Health experts said that the Suifenhe city at the China-Russia border might become another Wuhan amid sharp increase of Covid-19 cases following an exodus of Chinese nationals from Russia. Also on Tuesday, 57 new asymptomatic cases were reported taking their total to 1,023, the NHC said.Asymptomatic cases refer to people who are tested positive for the coronavirus but develop no symptoms such as fever, cough or sore throat. They are infectious and pose a risk of spreading to others.The total death toll in China went up on Tuesday to 3,342 with one death reported from the epicentre Hubei Province.The overall confirmed cases in China reached 82,295 by Tuesday. This included 3,342 people who died of Covid-19,1,137 patients still being treated and 77,816 people discharged after the treatment.Also, as of Tuesday 1,012 confirmed cases, including four deaths have been reported in Hong Kong, 45 in Macao and 393 in Taiwan including six deaths, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.Meanwhile, frontline Chinese health experts coping with soaring cases of Covid-19 at the China-Russia border in China’s Heilongjiang province and Suifenhe city which are facing increasing pressure of imported and local cases ruled out becoming China’s next Wuhan where virus was reported in December last year.Concerns were heightened as Heilongjiang province reported 79 new imported infections of Chinese coming from Russia on Monday through border city Suifenhe.It was the highest one-day rise in imported cases for the city with only 70,000 people, the Daily report said.Neither Suifenhe nor Harbin, cities near the Russian border, which are in midst of an escalating epidemic, will become the next Wuhan as there are no large-scale domestic cases in the two places and their impact on other regions is limited and under control, Yang Yanjie, deputy head of the expert group for epidemiological investigation of Covid-19 in Heilongjiang told state-run Global Times daily.Yu Kaijiang, head of the expert group for medical treatment in Suifenhe, said that the situation is stable and controllable, as the Suifenhe port remains closed. Heilongjiang province announced on Sunday the passenger channel of Suifenhe border port with Russia would remain closed.“It is normal to have resurgence after a great epidemic as a virus cannot be eliminated completely within a short time,” Yu noted. The current medical care situation is adequate to cover the current increase in imported cases, Yu said.“We are also preparing back-up designated hospitals, ensuring that more beds will be made available,” Yu said, noting that the testing capability is meeting the demand and reaching 1,000 people per day.Hao Jun, a researcher from the Heilongjiang authority, said on Tuesday that according to their epidemiological investigation, most of the 366 imported cases from Suifenhe port were infected at the Lyublino Market and Sadavod Market in Moscow, where they worked. Hao said as returnees from Russia share an enclosed space for a long time during their journeys and have close contact, the risk of infection increased.He suggested that overseas Chinese in Russia enhance self-protection and not enter China through Suifenhe to avoid the risk of being infected during the journey.Suifenhe city has 1,479 people under collective quarantine. Local officials said Monday that 15-20 percent of the people may test positive, the Global Times report said. China has rushed specialised medical teams to border city to deal with an increasing number of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-recent-covid-19-cases-jump-to-1-500-amid-exodus-of-chinese-from-russia/story-vwJEl11SP6Q5VICu3pNHIP.html
15-04-2020||World||Covid-19: Pak clerics to resume congregational prayers in mosques despite ban||In clear defiance of the government directives, hardline clerics in Pakistan on Tuesday announced to resume congregational prayers in mosques, even as the coronavirus cases in the country rose to nearly 6,000.The government has banned prayer congregations of more than five people as part of its measures to curb the spread of the deadly coronavirus.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Despite the government’s pleas to observe social distancing, a group of hardline clerics held a meeting in Karachi to discuss the issue of ban on such prayers and made the announcement before media at the Karachi Press Club.Mufti Taqi Usmani, a religious scholar and former judge of the Federal Sharia Court, who was part of consultation, said it was decided that five time prayers as well Friday prayer would be held in mosques.He, however, said that the “precautionary measures of the government would be taken to avoid the spread of the coronavirus”.The clerics’ decision came as the government announced to extend the lockdown for another two weeks until April 30. Those present at a press conference after the meeting included representatives from the Jamiat-e-ulema Islam, Jamiat-e-ulema Pakistan, Jamaat-i-Islami and Tanzeem-e-Islami among other religious parties. The decision came despite announcement by Prime Minister Imran Khan to meet the clerics in order to discuss the issue of gathering in mosques in the holy month of Ramazan which will start from April 25.On Monday, over 53 senior clerics of Rawalpindi and Islamabad belonging to the Wafaqul Madaris al Arabia held a meeting in Jamia Darul Uloom Zakria here to discuss the ban on prayer congregations, the Dawn News reported.The Monday meeting -- attended by clerics representing various seminaries, banned groups, proscribed persons and political and non-political parties -- warned the authorities against the ban and said government leaders should abide by religious norms and seek forgiveness.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The warning came before the government could come up with a plan to curb the spread of COVID-19 during the holy month of Ramazan.Pir Azizur Rehman Hazarvi, president of the Jamia Darul Uloom Zakaria in Islamabad, said, “The closure of mosques, shutting down Friday prayers and Taraweeh is unacceptable to the countrymen.” Hazarvi, who is also the patron of Jamiat Ulema Islam-Fazl (JUI-F), insisted that in order to get rid of the virus, it was imperative to seek forgiveness from Allah and increase the populace in mosques. A video clip released by the clerics on Tuesday showed leaders of various political and non-political organisations -- including JUI-F, Aalmi Tanzeem Khatam-i-Nabuwat, seminaries such as Taleem ul Quran Raja Bazar and a representative of banned group Ahle Sunnat Wal Jamaat -- sitting in close proximity of each other. The meeting did not acknowledge the official directives of a maximum of five persons inside mosques for the collective prayers as the clerics said that the testing times demanded more time for prayers and announced that apart from the five times prayers, Friday and Taraweeh congregations will continue. The clerics, however, agreed to take precautionary measures like use of hand sanitisers, removal of rugs and carpets, washing of floors, cleaning of hands with soaps and social distancing. Hazarvi said, “The senior clerics have noted that all efforts will be made to avoid clash and confrontations with the government and the state institutions.” Lal Masjid’s cleric Maulana Abdul Aziz also continued to challenge the authority of Islamabad Capital Territoty (ICT) administration by openly flouting the stipulated precautionary measures, the report said Every week, Aziz releases footages of huge congregations gathered for Friday prayers, denouncing the restrictions imposed by the government. As a result, the number of mosques organising large Friday congregations is increasing in Islamabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pak-clerics-to-resume-congregational-prayers-in-mosques-despite-ban/story-wyHUbKXeRbq6qf7XZBHNLM.html
15-04-2020||World||Record single-day Covid-19 death toll in US, Trump puts WHO funding on hold||US coronavirus deaths rose by 2,228 in a single-day record on Tuesday as President Donald Trump escalated his feud with the World Health Organization announcing a hold on US funding for it in a move widely seen as an attempt to deflect mounting criticism of his administration’s missteps in handling the outbreak.More than 25,980 people had died of the coronavirus in the United States till Tuesday evening, according to the Johns Hopkins tracker and 608,377 had been infected - almost a third of the total number of cases in the world, which was close to 2 million; the toll worldwide was 126,557.Tuesday was the worst the United States had seen yet, overtaking the previous single-day record of 2,069, last Friday.  Public health officials had warned before that this week and the one before would be the most painful yet, with comparisons to pivotal events in US history such as the Pearl Harbor attacks in 1941 and the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Reuters news agency reported the real toll was far in excess as it did not include the 3,700 deaths in New York City that had been presumed to be coronavirus-related but had not been tested.The surge in cases and deaths came amidst growing optimism that the country may be nearing the peak after which these numbers will begin to go down. Officials have cited the flattening of the curve in some hotspots such as New York and New Jersey, among signs that give them hope.The Trump administration has been pushing for reopening the country, the society and the economy. The president announced Tuesday bipartisan groups of advisers he will be consulting to shortly determine the way forward. The decision to end or continue social-distancing and other mitigation efforts would rest ultimately with state governors.The president acknowledged as much at the daily briefing Tuesday, dialling down an escalating feud with governors, some of whom have publicly pushed back against his claims of “total” authority in deciding when to end the mitigation measures and threatened to defy him if he persisted.But the president predictably dialled up his spat with the World Health Organization, which is in the middle of leading a global response to the epidemic that had hit nearly 160 countries, killed more than quarter of a million people and infected close to two million people.“We have not been treated properly,” Trump said, as he announced the suspension of the US funding, which is around $450 million, for a period of 60 to 90 days.During the duration of the hold, the president said, the United States will conduct a review to “assess the World Health Organization’s role and severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus”.The president accused the WHO of not alerting the world about the critical significance of the outbreak, opposing his administration’s ban on foreigners travelling from China and then for siding with China and helping it conceal the true extent of its outbreak; a list of complaints he has aired before.The president has come under mounting criticism for his administration’s delayed and botched response to the outbreak, stemming in part from his own reluctance to acknowledge the seriousness of the impending crisis and delaying mitigation efforts till much after the first cases and fatalities.Trump’s criticism of the WHO of its response to the outbreak and then papering over China’s suppression of numbers run counter to his own praise for both the world body and China. “CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) & World Health have been working hard and very smart,” he tweeted in February. And he has praised China often in tweets and remarks.President Trump has severe US ties with a number of world bodies or scaled them down now: the Paris Accord on climate change (2017), UNESCO (2017), Iran deal (2018) and UNHCR (2018). The president has complained about US contributions to world bodies such as the United Nations.In another development, the Washington Post reported that President Trump’s name will be printed on cheques the US treasury will be sending to American families as part of the $2.2 trillion stimulus package. This has been called an unprecedented move intended to derive political capital from what was actually a bipartisan effort, supported by both parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/record-single-day-covid-19-death-toll-in-us-trump-puts-who-funding-on-hold/story-ylCHmVVaDAuTUO1BuVVRqM.html
15-04-2020||World||Covid-19: US records highest one-day toll of 2,129, over 6 lakh Americans infected||The coronavirus death toll in the United States crossed 25,000 on Tuesday with the country witnessing the highest single-day tally of 2,129. As of Tuesday, more than 6,05,000 Americans had tested positive for the novel coronavirus -- more than the other top three countries taken together -- according to Johns Hopkins University. A record number of 2,129 of Americans died in one single day, the previous highest being 2,074 on April 10. New York has become the epicentre of the country’s outbreak with 2,03,020 confirmed cases and 10,842 deaths so far. In total, 25,981 Americans have died due to the deadly virus, Johns Hopkins University said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  “The United States is continuing to make substantial progress in our war against the virus. We grieve at every precious life that has been lost to the invisible enemy, but through the darkness, we can see the rays of light,” US President Donald Trump told reporters during his daily White House news conference on the pandemic. “We see that tunnel, and at the end of that tunnel, we see light. We are starting to see it more than ever before. We have held our numbers, everything we have done we have been very, very strong on it and very powerful on it,” he said. Trump said the United States has far more ICU beds per capita than any other nation. “We have 34.7 ICU beds per 100,000 people, which is the best there is compared with roughly 12.5 beds per 100,000 in Italy, 11.6 beds in France, 9.7 beds in Spain,” he said.There are more than 16,000 ventilators at hospitals and other healthcare facilities that are not in use at this moment, he said referring to the steps he has taken to fight coronavirus in the country. The US Food and Drug Administration, he said, has now authorized the first test developed by researchers from Rutgers University that can use saliva from patients.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  “It is the first one. These test can be self-administered by patients in healthcare settings, which will reduce exposure for medical workers and save personal protective equipment. Rutgers will begin processing 10,000 test daily,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-us-records-highest-one-day-toll-of-2-129-over-6-lakh-americans-infected/story-sustYXZprzjNL0y2JTJc7M.html
15-04-2020||World||Covid-19 update: No blanket extension of any non-immigrant visas, says US on H-1B visas||The extension of non-immigrant visa holders, who are facing challenges as a direct result of the Covid-19 national emergency, might be provided special consideration or expedited processing on a case-by-case basis, the US said on Tuesday.In the Indian context, non-immigrant visas prominently includes B-1 and B-2 visas for business or travel purposes, F-1 visas for students, J-1 visas for exchange visitors mainly research scholars and physicians, H-1B for IT professionals and L1 for intra company transferees in managerial or executive position.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) on Tuesday said that has taken steps to help individuals, employers and others address some of the immigration-related challenges they face as a direct result of the Covid-19 national emergency.“For those in the United States in need of an extension of their nonimmigrant stay, the USCIS may extend their stay depending on the circumstances,” a USCIS spokesperson told PTI.“We may also provide special consideration or expedited processing for those who may need it on a case-by-case basis,” the official said.The response from the USCIS, when asked about H-1B visas, indicated that there is no blanket extension of any non-immigrant visas during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic crisis and that an individual needs to apply for the visa extension or stay in the US explaining their circumstances.“When requested, the USCIS may provide special support to individuals who may be affected by the circumstances beyond their control,” the spokesperson said.The USCIS, the spokesperson said, continues to analyse issues and other possible steps the agency may take to further address some of these challenges and will consider the public’s recommendations.“We will continue to communicate any changes we make across multiple platforms to ensure the public is fully informed of the steps USCIS is taking to address the challenges resulting from this national emergency,” the spokesperson said.The Department of Homeland Security earlier said it recognises that there are immigration-related challenges as a direct result of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.“We continue to carefully analyse these issues and to leverage our resources to effectively address these challenges within our existing authorities. The DHS also continues to take action to protect the American people and our communities and is considering a number of policies and procedures to improve the employment opportunities of US workers during this pandemic,” it said.“Generally, non-immigrants must depart the United States before their authorised period of admission expires. However, we recognise that non-immigrants may unexpectedly remain in the United States beyond their authorised period of stay due to Covid-19,” the notification said, adding that people could apply for a visa extension.If applicants put in their forms within the specified time frame, their presence will not be taken as “unlawful” and where applicable, “employment authorisation with the same employer, subject to the same terms and conditions of the prior approval, is automatically extended for up to 240 days when an extension of stay request is filed on time,” the notification said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The US Citizen and Immigration Services (USCIS) added it “reminds petitioners and applicants that it can consider delays caused by the COVID-19 pandemic when deciding whether to excuse delays in filing documents based on extraordinary circumstances.” According to rules, if an employer terminates the contract of an H-1B holder, the employee needs to find new employment within 60 days, in order to retain the visa status. Indian IT workers have been seeking an extension of this 60 day grace period to 180 days.According to the USCIS, Indians are the biggest beneficiaries of the H-1B visa programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/extension-of-non-immigrant-visa-holders-in-us-on-case-by-case-basis-uscis/story-sG0jCWrfwIP9rs1hFU75oK.html
15-04-2020||World||Stranded Canadians returning home to face strict action on not following self-isolation||Even as the seventh special flight bringing Canadians stranded in India back to the country departed on Tuesday, Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had a stern warning for those returning from abroad – if they don’t have a viable self-isolation plan in place, the Government may place them in a facility other than their residences for the mandatory 14-day period in the view of coronavirus crisis.The Canadian Government had put in place those mandatory self-isolation rules on March 25 but they have now been strengthened under the Quarantine Act. On their arrival in Canada, the returning travellers will have to convince authorities they have a suitable place to self-isolate for two weeks. “We now have the authority to require them to self-isolate for two weeks in a quarantine location, like a hotel,” Trudeau said during his daily media briefing related to the Covid-19 crisis.A residence may also be found unsuitable if it also houses those who may be vulnerable to the coronavirus like “elderly family members” or if the returnees do have a “set destination,” Trudeau said.Law enforcement has been tasked with conducting periodic checks like verifying that such returnees are following the self-isolation rules. Canada has barred foreign nationals from the country, except for Americans, and is only allowing in citizens, permanent residents or their immediate relatives.More stringent measures may have been necessitated by the attitude of some of those returning to Canada. As the country’s Chief Public Health Officer Dr Theresa Tam said, “We do every day find people who haven’t answered our phone calls and have to be chased down.”So far, seven flights have left from India after the lockdown was announced. The latest departed from Amritsar. Other flights, chartered to repatriate Canadians, took off from Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore.Trudeau had even earlier flagged concerns over those returning to the country. As he said earlier this month, “They pose a real risk, not just to their neighbours and their loved ones, but to our entire country. We need to ensure and we will ensure that those people are properly isolated.”Violating the Quarantine Act in Canada could attract penalties ranging from CA $750,000 to CA $1 million and between six months to three years in prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-stranded-canadians-returning-home-to-face-strict-action-on-not-following-self-isolation/story-mppUgPXq98xv9BlzlWid4K.html
15-04-2020||World||Covid-19 update- Stranded foreign students can apply for off campus work authorisation: US||Stranded international students in the US facing economic hardships due to the coronavirus pandemic can apply for off-campus work authorisation, a federal agency said on Tuesday.Such an announcement from the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is seen as a major relief to hundreds and thousands of international students, including those from India, who have been facing a tough situation for the past several weeks now.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “If you experience severe economic hardship because of unforeseen circumstances beyond your control, you may request employment authorisation to work off-campus (if you meet certain regulatory requirements),” the USCIS said in a statement.All applications are subject to approval in a case-by-case basis, it said.Examples of unforeseen circumstances include, but are not limited to, loss of financial aid or on-campus employment through no fault of their own; substantial fluctuations in currency value or exchange rate; and inordinate increases in tuition or living costs.Unexpected changes in the financial condition of the source of support; and medical bills have also been listed by the USCIS as unforeseen circumstances.A large number of international students, including those from India, have been left stranded and in many cases are facing financial distress after their education institutions were shut down after the announcement of social mitigation measures by the White House on March 13.Also read| ‘Need to review WHO’s role in mismanaging Covid-19 spread’: Trump halts fundingThe students were also asked to vacate their dorms for the rest of the academic session. The academic session only begins in late August.There are an estimated 250,000 Indian students in the US.Many of them were able to get back home before India shut down its airspace on March 22. However, hundreds of Indian students, many with meager resources, have been left stranded.Indian-American hotel owners have come to their rescue by offering them free accommodation and free meals in many cases.The USCIS said that their off-campus work authorisation application, which would allow them to work anywhere in the US, must be signed by their educational institution.Under normal circumstances, international students are allowed to work within the university campus and that too for a limited number of hours per month.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Your Form I-20 (application) must include the employment page completed by your Designated School Official, certifying your eligibility for off-campus employment due to severe economic hardships caused by unforeseen circumstances beyond your control.“If your request is approved, you may be able to work off-campus in one-year intervals up to the expected date of completion of your current course of study,” the USCIS said.It said that Special Student Relief is the suspension of certain regulatory requirements by the secretary of Homeland Security for F 1 students from parts of the world that are experiencing emergent circumstances.Examples of emergent circumstances include natural catastrophe, war and military conflicts, and national or international financial crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-stranded-foreign-students-can-apply-for-off-campus-work-authorisation-us/story-U4Pd2JBfPyRsPxRG4TAd3J.html
15-04-2020||World||Covid-19 update: Health care workers are 10%-20% of US coronavirus cases, says officials||Between 10% and 20% of US coronavirus cases are health care workers, though they tended to be hospitalized at lower rates than other patients, officials reported Tuesday.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported the first national data on how the pandemic is hitting doctors, nurses and other health care professionals.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The data is important new information but not necessarily surprising, said Dr. Anne Schuchat, who is running the federal agency’s response to the outbreak. Medical staff have also been hit hard in other countries, including Italy and Spain.As of the middle of last week, the CDC had reports of more than 315,000 cases in the US The new report focused on about 49,000 for which researchers had data on whether or not they worked in health care. About 9,300, or 19%, of them were medical professionals. That included 27 who died.But the data varied in how complete it was, researchers said. In 12 states that did a better job reporting on whether patients worked in medicine, around 11% of cases were health care workers.Compared with US cases overall, larger proportions of diagnosed health care workers were women, were white, and were young or middle-aged adults. That’s consistent with the demographics of who works in health care, researchers said.About 10% of the health care workers were hospitalized with symptoms, compared with 21% to 31% of overall cases. That may reflect the younger age of the workers, as well as prioritization of testing for health care employees, the report said.Slightly more than half of a group of infected health care workers studied said their only known exposure to the virus was at work, but researchers say it’s hard to know for sure how different people caught the bug.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage A second report released Tuesday looked at three health care workers who became infected after treating a patient in Solano County, California, in what was one of the first instances of disease spread to medical personnel in the US Workers didn’t initially know the patient was infected with the coronavirus. All three did not wear eye protection or some other forms of protective equipment at least part of the time they were caring for the person, researchers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-health-care-workers-are-10-20-of-us-coronavirus-cases-says-officials/story-AOblnVARRcspgthTw3QR2L.html
15-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update: Candian PM Justin Trudeau says ‘Weeks before economy can restart’||Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Tuesday it will still be weeks before Canada can start reopening the economy and the country’s most populous province announced that all nonessential businesses will be closed until at least May 12 amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Ontario extended its state of emergency for another 28 days. Ontario premier Doug Ford said Ontario’s schools will not reopen on May 4 as it is too soon to relax measures as the province continues to fight the new coronavirus.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  “Everyone is very interested to know when things are going to get back to normal, when they’ll be able to go back to work,” Trudeau said. “The reality is, it is going to be weeks still. We recognize that it is going to be important to get our economy going and we will have to do it in phases.” Canada has more than 26,880 confirmed cases including 898 deaths. More than half the deaths in the country have occurred in long-term care homes.For most people, the new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia and death. Trudeau also said that anyone returning from overseas without a credible isolation plan will be required to quarantine in a hotel.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  The new rule begins at midnight. Trudeau said an inadequate plan includes those who plan stay with many elderly family members. The federal government will pay the costs. The US-Canada border remains closed to all nonessential travel. Canada is still receiving repatriation flights for Canadians who have been stranded abroad. Trudeau said travel restrictions will remain for many weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-candian-pm-justin-trudeau-says-weeks-before-economy-can-restart/story-Y2fyWy32ctiZbymYYbZThJ.html
15-04-2020||World||New figures suggest UK death toll higher than 12,000||New figures released on Tuesday based on death certificates suggest the death toll from coronavirus in the UK is nearly 15 per cent higher than that announced daily on the basis of deaths in hospitals alone, as officials saw a 35% drop in GDP in Q2.The higher figures relate to those passing away in private homes, care homes and hospices – a sector that campaigners allege has been ‘air-brushed’ in the daily discourse. The Office for National Statistics (ONS) says the virus was mentioned on 3,475 death certificates in the week ending April 3.ONS statistician Nick Strike said: “When looking at data for England, this is 15% higher than the NHS numbers as they include all mentions of Covid-19 on the death certificate, including suspected Covid-19, as well as deaths in the community.”The cumulative figures from hospitals on Tuesday were 12,107 dead and 93,873 cases. Campaigners called for similar daily release of figures from care homes and retirement villages.Foreign secretary Dominic Raab chaired another core meeting in Downing Street on Tuesday; he is likely to announce a date on Thursday until when the current restrictions would continue. The Office of Budget responsibility put the impact of current lockdown at a 35% GDP drop in the second quarter.Groups such as Age UK, Marie Curie, Care England, Independent Age and the Alzheimer’s Society have written to health secretary Matt Hancock, demanding a care package to support social care through the pandemic, besides a daily update on deaths in the care system.According to Age UK, coronavirus is “running wild” in care homes for the elderly, while Care England estimates nearly 1,000 deaths from the virus in care homes. Nearly 4.1 lakh people live in 11,300 care homes in the UK.Meanwhile. Heathrow airport announced that in March passenger numbers shrunk by 52% compared to the same time last year. The situation is expected to continue as initial forecasts show passenger demand in April is set to decrease by over 90%, with lasting and significant industry-wide effects predicted. It is operating on a single runway.Heathrow CEO John Holland-Kaye said: “Heathrow continues to serve the nation by keeping vital supply lines open, and helping people get home. Now is the time to agree a common international standard for healthcare screening in airports so that when this crisis recedes, people can travel with confidence and we can get the British economy moving again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-figures-suggest-uk-death-toll-higher-than-12-000/story-cgv4AjEjOvhs8HzcDaOlyI.html
15-04-2020||World||‘Not the time’ to reduce WHO resources, says UN chief||United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said on Tuesday it was “not the time” to reduce resources for the World Health Organization after President Donald Trump halted US funding over the body’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic.Guterres said in a statement it was “not the time to reduce the resources for the operations of the World Health Organization or any other humanitarian organization in the fight against the virus.”“Now is the time for unity and for the international community to work together in solidarity to stop this virus and its shattering consequences,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-the-time-to-reduce-who-resources-says-un-chief/story-8Qx5IdoeqeJmPwPwKLh6kK.html
15-04-2020||World||‘Aren’t any particularly big’: US downplays North Korea’s suspected missile launches||The US military’s top general played down North Korea’s fresh batch of suspected missile launches on Tuesday, saying the Pentagon did not see them as threatening. “These were short range. These aren’t any particularly big, big missiles,” Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Mark Milley said. While the Pentagon was still analysing its data, “I don’t think it’s particularly provocative or threatening to us,” Milley said. “It may be tied to some celebrations that are happening inside North Korea, as opposed to any deliberate provocation against us.” South Korea’s Joint Chiefs said the North earlier Tuesday fired what were believed to be short-range cruise missiles from Munchon into the sea, one day before Seoul holds parliamentary elections. The firing also came a day before the nuclear-armed North marks the 108th anniversary of the birth of founder Kim Il Sung, grandfather of the current leader Kim Jong Un.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aren-t-any-particularly-big-us-downplays-north-korea-s-suspected-missile-launches/story-YQejWGKXXd0am9KtE7DSBI.html
15-04-2020||World||99-year-old WWII vet beats coronavirus in Brazil||A 99-year-old World War II veteran in Brazil was released from hospital with military honours Tuesday after recovering from Covid-19. Second Lieutenant Ermando Piveta, who served in the Brazilian artillery in Africa during World War II, was brought out of the Armed Forces Hospital in Brasilia to a burst of trumpet music and applause. Wearing an army-green side cap, he raised his arms in the air as he left the hospital after eight days as a patient. “He won another battle, this time against the new coronavirus. He was released from hospital the same day Brazil is commemorating the 75th anniversary of its troops’ successful campaign in the Battle of Montese in Italy during World War II,” the army said in a statement. Piveta served in the army’s fourth artillery regiment, which trained in Dakar in 1942, soon after Brazil entered the war on the side of the Allies, the army said.He then returned to Brazil with his regiment to defend the country from an Axis invasion that never came to be. Brazil is the hardest-hit country in Latin America in the coronavirus pandemic, with 1,532 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/99-year-old-wwii-vet-beats-coronavirus-in-brazil/story-SjNdmkdCv5uWWTstXxG4cM.html
15-04-2020||World||World grapples with Covid-19 as number of cases nears 2 million||The coronavirus has infected nearly 2 million people around the world, nearing a grim milestone that exposes the difficulty of trying to contain the pathogen. Covid-19 has already claimed more than 123,000 lives worldwide.What began as a mysterious pneumonia-like illness in Wuhan, China, late last year has morphed into a global health crisis that has threatened health systems and economies alike.It took about four months for the virus to infect 1 million people, on April 3, and just over a week for that number to almost double. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday the coronavirus is 10 times more deadly than swine flu. “We know that it spreads fast, and we know that it is deadly, 10 times deadlier than the 2009 pandemic,” he said.In Canada, where the outbreak made a slow start, the death toll has now surpassed the worst-case scenario presented by the government last week.China has reportedly approved two new potential vaccines for human trials, adding that one more vaccine developed by military scientists was allowed on Tuesday to proceed to the second stage of clinical trials. The two new vaccines are being developed by a Beijing-based unit of Nasdaq-listed Sinovac Biotech, and by the Wuhan Institute of Biological Products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-grapples-with-covid-19-as-death-toll-nears-2-million/story-IsWEzdopxyJZUCP0j3xC5H.html
15-04-2020||World||On-off social distancing may be needed until 2022: Harvard study||A one-time lockdown won’t halt the novel coronavirus and repeated periods of social distancing may be required into 2022 to prevent hospitals from being overwhelmed, Harvard scientists who modeled the pandemic’s trajectory said Tuesday.Their study comes as the US enters the peak of its Covid-19 caseload and states eye an eventual easing of tough lockdown measures.The Harvard team’s computer simulation, which was published in a paper in the journal Science, assumed that Covid-19 will become seasonal, like closely related coronaviruses that cause the common cold, with higher transmission rates in colder months.But much remains unknown, including the level of immunity acquired by previous infection and how long it lasts, the authors said.“We found that one-time social distancing measures are likely to be insufficient to maintain the incidence of SARS-CoV-2 within the limits of critical care capacity in the United States,” lead author Stephen Kissler said in a call with reporters. “What seems to be necessary in the absence of other sorts of treatments are intermittent social distancing periods,” he added.Widespread viral testing would be required in order to determine when the thresholds to re-trigger distancing are crossed, said the authors.The duration and intensity of lockdowns can be relaxed as treatments and vaccines become available. But in their absence, on and then off distancing would give hospitals time to increase critical care capacity to cater for the surge in cases that would occur when the measures are eased.“By permitting periods of transmission that reach higher prevalence than otherwise would be possible, they allow an accelerated acquisition of herd immunity,” said co-author Marc Lipsitch.Conversely, too much social distancing without respite can be a bad thing. Under one modeled scenario “the social distancing was so effective that virtually no population immunity is built,” the paper said, hence the need for an intermittent approach.The authors acknowledged a major drawback in their model is how little we currently know about how strong a previously infected person’s immunity is and how long it lasts.- Virus likely here to stay -At present the best guesses based on closely-related coronaviruses are that it will confer some immunity, for up to about a year. There might also be some cross-protective immunity against Covid-19 if a person is infected by a common cold-causing betacoronavirus.One thing however is almost certain: the virus is here to stay. The team said it was highly unlikely that immunity will be strong enough and last long enough that Covid-19 will die out after an initial wave, as was the case with the SARS outbreak of 2002-2003.Antibody tests that have just entered the market and look for whether a person has been previously infected will be crucial in answering these vital questions about immunity, they argued, and a vaccine remains the ultimate weapon.Outside experts praised the paper even as they emphasized how much remained unknown.“This is an excellent study that uses mathematical models to explore the dynamics of Covid-19 over a period of several years, in contrast to previously published studies that have focused on the coming weeks or months,” Mark Woolhouse, an infectious disease epidemiologist at the University of Edinburgh said.“It is important to recognize that it is a model; it is consistent with current data but is nonetheless based on a series of assumptions -- for example about acquired immunity -- that are yet to be confirmed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-off-social-distancing-may-be-needed-until-2022-harvard-study/story-yZmQYN9dshD24fnelIgZhO.html
15-04-2020||World||‘US doesn’t have a king’: NY Guv’s comeback to Trump’s total authority remark||New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on Tuesday hit back at US President Donald Trump for his comment on having “total authority” over states, saying America does not have a “king”.Cuomo was responding to the comments made by Trump during the White House briefing on Monday when he said that the President has total authority over when the restrictions imposed across the country due to coronavirus can be lifted.“The federal-state relationship is central to our democracy. We have to remember today that the balance between the state and the federal articulated in the constitution is the essence of our democracy.“We don’t a have a king in this country, we didn’t want a king so we have a constitution and we elect the president,” Cuomo said in his daily coronavirus briefing.Trump had said that when somebody is the President of the United States, the authority is total and that is the way it has got to be.Also read| ‘Need to review WHO’s role in mismanaging Covid-19 spread’: Trump halts funding“The authority of the President of the United States having to do with the subject we’re talking about is total,” he had said, adding that “They can’t do anything without the approval of the President of the United States”.Cuomo said the President’s comment that he has total authority for determining how and when states reopen “is not an accurate statement in my opinion.” He said Trump’s remarks that he has total authority over the states and the nation “cannot go uncorrected. It’s just a factual statement that is factually wrong.” “That statement cannot stand. It is not only violative of the constitution, it is violative of the very concept of democracy,” he said.Cuomo said the total number of hospitalisations continues to go down and remains flat, a good sign “we think we are at the apex on the plateau.” New York state recorded 778 more deaths on April 13, taking the death toll to 10,834.“You look at the past few days and the number of lives lost, it’s basically flat at a devastating level of pain and grief,” he said, adding that other evidence suggests that the state is seeing a flattening of the curve.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageCuomo said in his briefing on Monday that the “President was clearly unhappy.” The Governor also referred to a number of tweets by Trump attacking him and state governors.“Cuomo’s been calling daily, even hourly, begging for everything, most of which should have been the state’s responsibility, such as new hospitals, beds, ventilators, etc. I got it all done for him, and everyone else, and now he seems to want Independence! That won’t happen!” a tweet by Trump read.Another tweet said: “Tell the Democrat Governors that ‘Mutiny On The Bounty’ was one of my all time favorite movies. A good old fashioned mutiny every now and then is an exciting and invigorating thing to watch, especially when the mutineers need so much from the Captain. Too easy!” Cuomo said he did not follow the exact meaning of the tweet but added that he understood that Trump was not happy with Governors.“The President is clearly spoiling for a fight on this issue. The worst thing we can do in all of this is start with political division and start with partisanship.Also read: US nears Covid-19 peak, Trump feuds with governors on reopening“The best thing we have done throughout this past 44 days is we work together and we haven’t raised political flags,” Cuomo said, adding that even though this is an election year, “we said not here, not in this. This is too important for anyone to play politics.” Cuomo recalled that he had seen a poster in his grade school which had the message “suppose they gave a war and nobody came”, meaning that “what would happen if people just refused to engage, refused to fight.” He said sometimes it is better to walk away from a fight than engage in it.“Sometimes it takes more strength frankly to walk away from a fight than engage in it. The President will have no fight with me. I will not engage in it,” Cuomo said, adding that he has been clear “this is not about me, it’s about we.” The Governor said this is no time for politics and no time to fight.“I put my hand out in total partnership and cooperation with the President. If he wants a fight, he is not going to get it from me. Period,” he said.Cuomo warned that there is a real challenge ahead and just because the curve appears to be flattening, it does not mean one can relax.“We are not out of the woods. In this reopening, we could lose all the progress we made in one week if we do it wrong,” he said.The Governors of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Delaware have joined forces to coordinate a regional plan for restoring the economy ravaged by the COVID-19 pandemic and getting people back to work, Cuomo said, adding that the “worst is over” for the state.Cuomo along with New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy, Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont, Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf, Delaware Governor John Carney and Rhode Island Governor Gina Raimondo on Monday announced the creation of a multi-state council.The coordinating group will comprise one health expert, an economic development expert and the respective Chief of Staff from each state and will work together to develop a fully integrated regional framework to gradually lift the states’ stay at home orders while minimising the risk of increased spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-us-doesn-t-have-a-king-ny-guv-s-comeback-to-trump-s-total-authority-remark/story-YuRT1IrO0dMcEFAKuKvbFI.html
15-04-2020||World||‘Need to review WHO’s role in mismanaging Covid-19 spread’: Trump halts funding||President Donald Trump announced Tuesday a suspension of US funding to the World Health Organization because he said it had covered up the seriousness of the Covid-19 outbreak in China before it spread around the world. Trump told a press conference he was instructing his administration to halt funding while “a review is conducted to assess the World Health Organization’s role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus.” According to Trump, the WHO prevented transparency over the outbreak and the United States -- the UN body’s biggest funder which provided USD 400 million last year -- will now “discuss what to do with all that money that goes to the WHO.” “With the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have deep concerns whether America’s generosity has been put to the best use possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-announces-funding-halt-to-world-health-organization/story-AYWoZ4A3BautHQI22HuU3N.html
