25-04-2020||World||Singapore reports 618 new coronavirus cases; total infections at 12,693||Singapore on Saturday reported 618 new cases of the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of infections to 12,693 with 12 deaths in the country. A majority of the new cases -- 597 -- are among the work permit holders residing in dormitories for foreign workers, including Indian nationals, who work in the labour-intensive construction sector. Another 12 are work permit holders living outside of dormitories, said the Health Ministry. Seven of the cases are Singaporeans (citizens) or permanent residents (foreigners) with two on work passes or long-term visit passes (foreigners). The Northpoint City shopping mall has been declared a virus cluster, taking the total count to seven. A cluster is considered a place which spreads the killer disease. Thousands of people across the island-nation on Saturday sang and cheered essential service providers and migrant workers, reported The Straits Times. Singing residents waved torchlights at their windows and balconies, largely from the public housing estates mostly built by foreign workers as it has been widely acknowledged here. The cheering and applause was broadcast on SPH Radio, Mediacorp TV channels and social media platforms in the evening. The performance was led by local composer Dick Lee, singers Rahimah Rahim, Shabir and Taufik Batisah, a 900-strong choir from non-profit arts group Voices of Singapore, as well as other artists. Meanwhile, Manpower Minister Josphine Teo explained Singapore’s difficult decision to suspend all construction work. Singapore is currently in a “circuit breaker” period to stem the spread of Covid-19. The period was at first scheduled to end on May 4 but will now last until June 1. All non-essential work places have been ordered to stay closed and residents are barred from leaving the house except to buy food and groceries or to exercise alone in the neighbourhood, Channel News Asia reported. In a Facebook post, Teo said, “If we act fast, we’re aware there’s little time for employers to adjust. If we act too slowly, there is risk of wider transmission. “This is the difficult trade-off,” The Straits Times had the minister saying in the post. Her explanation comes in the wake of social media posts and text messages that had circulated over the last two days highlighting the frustrations of some employers. The tighter measures, which kicked in on April 22, mean that migrant workers will not be allowed to step out of all dormitories for any purpose including going to work. The measures will apply to all companies, even those that had earlier obtained licences to operate. Stay-home notices have been given to all 1,80,000 construction work permit and S Pass holders and their dependants. “But without it, they could still be out and about. Should we have avoided this move? Should more time have been given? We will never really know, but time is not on our side. “Given how quickly and widely the virus spreads, can we afford to wait? If there’s anything we have learnt about the virus, taking action sooner is probably better than later,” Teo was quoted as saying. A total of 25 dormitories, housing foreign workers, have been gazetted as isolation areas. The coronavirus has so far infected more than 2.8 million people and killed nearly 2,00,000 globally. The US is the worst hit with over 51,000 deaths and more than 905,000 cases, according to Johns Hopkins University.In Singapore, the total number of cases are 12,693 with 12 deaths due to the deadly infection, The Straits Times reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-reports-618-new-coronavirus-cases-total-infections-at-12-693/story-pplB9GrPvIYHJ0PRnls8qJ.html
25-04-2020||World||Iran reports 5,650 deaths, 89,328 cases due to Covid-19||The number of Covid-19 cases in Iran is approaching 90,000, Health Ministry spokesman Kianush Jahanpur said on Saturday.“In the last 24 hours, 1,134 new coronavirus cases have been detected. Thus, a total of 89,328 cases have been detected (since February 19),” Jahanpur said on the Islamic Republic of Iran News Network TV channel.He added that 76 people have died from Covid-19 bringing the death toll to 5,650. So far, almost 68,200 patients have fully recovered.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-reports-5-650-deaths-89-328-cases-due-to-covid-19/story-eKWtrCkT90P73eMF1sDgoN.html
25-04-2020||World||US regulator allows self-collection testing kit for Covid-19||The US drug regulator has given emergency-use authorization to a testing kit for Covid-19 that allows for the first time self-collection of sample by users at home, which can then be mailed for analysis.Called Pixel by LabCorp, these kits are expected to cost $119 a piece and will be first made available only to healthcare workers and first responders who are at a greater risk of infection or have been infected.The company has said it plans to make the kits more general available to consumers in a few weeks.The kit can be bought online after going through a short health screening survey to determine the buyer’s risk of contracting the disease. The kit comes by mail with easy-to-use instructions — the sample will be a nasal swab.The buyer is required to drop off the sample in pre-addressed insulated package at a FedEx collection drop-off box before the last pick-up scheduled for the day.The test result will be conveyed by email, the company has said.“Throughout this pandemic we have been facilitating test development to ensure patients access to accurate diagnostics, which includes supporting the development of reliable and accurate at-home sample collection options,” said Stephen M. Hahn, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-regulator-allows-self-collection-testing-kit-for-covid-19/story-ELfBp9IyrISRxzGGGlHfqJ.html
25-04-2020||World||US coronavirus death toll tops 50,000 as some Georgia businesses reopen||Gyms, hair salons and tattoo parlours had a green light to reopen Friday in the state of Georgia as the United States surpassed the grim milestone of 50,000 deaths from the coronavirus pandemic.As the southern state lifted restrictions on a list of businesses that also included nail salons and bowling alleys, President Donald Trump warned that Governor Brian Kemp may be moving too fast.“Spas, beauty salons, tattoo parlours, & barber shops should take a little slower path,” Trump tweeted.At the same time, Trump said he had told Kemp, a Republican ally, “to do what is right for the great people of Georgia (& USA)!”The mixed messaging was the latest from a president whose remarks from the White House podium have frequently raised eyebrows, including most recently a suggestion that disinfectant could be injected to treat patients with Covid-19.Trump sought to walk back his disinfectant comments on Friday, claiming somewhat unconvincingly that he had been speaking “sarcastically.”With much of the country on lockdown for a month, customers showed up early at several Georgia shops.Chris Edwards, owner of the Peachtree Battle Barber Shop, saw his first customers in line at 7:00 am.He said he was “happy” about being allowed to reopen his store in an Atlanta strip mall, where most establishments remained closed.“I’m a small businessman,” Edwards told AFP as he gave a trim to a middle-aged man.“If I don’t cut hair I don’t make money,” Edwards said. “We’re being safe, we’re being clean, it’s all you can do.”Edwards was wearing a mask, but the customer was not.Other shops followed more rigid rules. One Atlanta hair salon tested everyone’s temperature as they entered, while a nail boutique northwest of the city required clients to sign waivers before receiving manicures.Kemp’s reopening plan has met with criticism from some business owners and residents in the Peach State who voiced fears it is too soon.Several businesses with permission to open, including some fitness centers and hair salons, remained shuttered in Atlanta Friday.“Believe in Science, Not Kemp,” said a sign displayed by a person who honked repeatedly while driving past the governor’s mansion. “Stay Home, Stay Safe,” read another.Eden Lio, a restaurant hostess and bookbinder who lost both her jobs in the crisis, was nonetheless participating in the rolling protest.“We’re going to get more sick if we open today,” the 20-year-old said through her cloth mask. “We’re not ready at all.”Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms echoed that sentiment and urged residents of the capital city to stay home.With the state’s infection numbers and deaths rising, she said it was “irresponsible” to allow businesses to open now.“There is nothing essential about going to a bowling alley or giving a manicure in the middle of a pandemic,” she told ABC News in a denunciation of Kemp’s order.Some in Atlanta, however, cherished the opportunity to re-engage with society.“I actually had a great time, a beaming Tili Banks, 41, said as she and a friend emerged from one of the few bowling allies that opened Friday.“I was just so happy to be out that I didn’t even realize I had these people’s bowling shoes on when I walked outside,” she said.The United States is the country hardest-hit by the virus, with more than 890,000 confirmed cases and 51,017 deaths as of late Friday, according to a toll by Johns Hopkins University.- 22,000 Georgia cases -Georgia’s bid to jumpstart thousands of teetering businesses is the most aggressive return-to-normalcy effort in the nation.Restaurants, theatres and private social clubs can open from Monday, provided social distancing and mask-wearing guidelines are in place.But there is concern that easing shelter-in-place orders too early could trigger new outbreaks.Georgia’s coronavirus figures are far lower than those in New York, the US epicenter, but they are substantial.The state has more than 22,400 confirmed cases with 899 deaths, its health department said Friday.With the Trump administration pressing for a return to some form of economic stability, several states have taken steps to ease lockdowns.“We’re opening our country. It’s very exciting to see,” Trump said.In Michigan, Governor Gretchen Whitmer extended her stay-at-home order until May 15, but she eased some restrictions by allowing landscapers and bike mechanics to return to work, and ended prohibitions against golfing and motorboating.Whitmer, a Democrat, had been criticized for imposing limitations seen by many Michiganders as too restrictive.The northern state has recorded more than 3,000 Covid-19 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-death-toll-tops-50-000-as-some-georgia-businesses-reopen/story-oTwcxVoi2hMQyXSLl2b3pN.html
25-04-2020||World||Boeing scraps $4.2 billion deal to buy Embraer commercial division||Boeing announced Saturday it was pulling out of a $4.2 billion deal to acquire the commercial plane division of its Brazilian rival Embraer.The companies had planned to form a joint venture in which Boeing would take an 80 percent stake in that division. The deal had been due to be finalized no later than Friday.But Boeing said Saturday it was exercising its right to pull out of a preliminary deal reached in July 2018. It said in a statement, “Embraer did not satisfy the necessary conditions.”“Boeing has worked diligently over more than two years to finalize its transaction with Embraer,” said Marc Allen, the Boeing executive who led the joint venture plan.He said that over the past several months the companies held extensive talks on what he terms unsatisfied conditions in the initial accord. “We all aimed to resolve those by the initial termination date, but it didn’t happen,” Allen said, without explaining what the unresolved issues were.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-scraps-4-2-billion-deal-to-buy-embraer-commercial-division/story-VHPO8d73sxwN46DPwnQ73L.html
25-04-2020||World||Italy to ease Covid-19 lockdown on May 4, give free masks||Italy will start distributing free protective masks to nursing homes, many of which have been devastated by coronavirus infections and deaths.Domenico Arcuri, the government’s commissioner for the pandemic, says doing so is a “gesture of solidarity and nearness and support to these places ever more at the epicenter of this great crisis.” Arcuri says free masks also will be distributed to public officials, transport workers and police. Millions of Italians will be allowed to return to workplaces starting on May 4, when lockdown restrictions will be considerably eased.Italy, with some 26,000 reported deaths, most of them of elderly persons, has Europe’s highest toll from COVID-19. In Lombardy, Italy’s most stricken region, prosecutors are investigating about two dozen homes, including one in Milan where some 200 residents died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-to-ease-covid-19-lockdown-on-may-4-give-free-masks/story-Z9tKNJW7ULhkpFIXPiCAVJ.html
25-04-2020||World||UK Covid-19 toll crosses 20,000 as robots, drones deployed||The UK-wide death toll crossed the grim milestone of 20,000 deaths on Saturday, as practices and plans for greater use of robots and drones to deliver essential supplies were fast-tracked, particularly for the benefit of health professionals dealing with the pandemic.Figures released on Saturday show 20,319 deaths and 148,377 cases, bringing into sharp focus the March 17 claim of the chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance that deaths below 20,000 would be “horrible”, but a “good outcome”. There were little signs of the toll limiting around that figure.Drones and robots have been pressed into service in some areas of England. Robots have been used in the town of Milton Keynes for nearly two years to deliver groceries, but more have been deployed to deliver supplies to health professionals who have less time to shop.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageTransport secretary Grant Shapps announced trial from Monday to deliver essential medical supplies by drone from the mainland to the Isle of Wight on the south coast of England. It involves a drone with a payload of up to 100 kg and distance capability of more than 1,000 km.The drone with space similar to that in a car boot will takeoff from Southampton or Portsmouth and deliver supplies to the St Mary’s Hospital near Newport on the Isle of Wight. The project is likely to rolled out in other remote places.In Milton Keynes, Starship, the company that produces delivery robots, has seen a surge in demand for robots carrying items within a 6km radius. Parcels, groceries and food are directly delivered from stores, at the time that the customer requests via a mobile app. Once ordered the robots’ entire journey and location is monitored on a smartphone.Henry Harris-Burland of Starship told the media: “Right now we are offering free delivery to all NHS workers within the community. We want to make life a little bit easier for these people in these very, very stressful times”.“Lots of them are doing ... 80-hour weeks and they don’t have time to go to the local grocery store, so they use our robots for their shopping. We’re honoured that we can be part of that solution.”Noting the challenge of ferrying supplies to the Isle of Wight, Maggie Oldham of the local NHS Trust said: “This work (drone trial) has the potential to significantly improve services for our local community by reducing waiting times for test results and speeding up the transfer of important, possibly life-saving medication.”Various types of unmanned aircraft are to be trialled to see how they could improve the movement of medical supplies between the three hospitals in Hampshire – Southampton General Hospital, Queen Alexandra Hospital in Portsmouth and St Mary’s Hospital on the Isle of Wight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/robots-drones-deployed-as-uk-covid-19-death-toll-set-to-cross-20-000/story-5JveUOxiyuk8Uyivr9kIQN.html
25-04-2020||World||Boris Johnson aide attended key science meetings on coronavirus, sparks row||Britain’s government on Saturday defended the independence of the scientists advising it on coronavirus after it emerged that Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s controversial chief aide had attended meetings of the group.Criticism of Johnson’s Conservative government is mounting as the U.K.’s Covid-19 death toll rises and a nationwide lockdown imposed a month ago drags on. The confirmed number of coronavirus-related hospital deaths is likely to reach 20,000 this weekend.After a report in The Guardian, the government confirmed that Johnson adviser Dominic Cummings had attended several meetings of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, or SAGE, and listened to discussions. But it denied the Guardian’s claim that Cummings — who is not a scientist — was a member of the group.Cummings is a contentious figure, a self-styled political disruptor who was appointed to a key role by Johnson after masterminding the victorious “leave” campaign during Britain’s 2016 referendum on European Union membership.The government said “SAGE provides independent scientific advice to the government. Political advisers have no role in this.”SAGE is a usually little-known group headed by Chief Scientific Adviser Patrick Vallance and Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty. The government has declined to publish its full membership, saying that could leave the scientists open to lobbying or other pressure.David King, a former government chief scientific adviser, told The Guardian he was “shocked” to learn political advisers were involved in SAGE meetings. But other scientists who have advised the government said it was usual for political aides to attend, though only as observers.The main opposition Labour Party said Cummings’ attendance raised questions about the credibility of government decision-making.“The best way to clear all of this up is for the government to be completely transparent with us and publish the minutes of the SAGE committee,” said Labour health spokesman Jonathan Ashworth.The government says its response to the pandemic has been guided by scientific advice. That advice is under increasing scrutiny by critics who accuse the government of being slow to respond to the outbreak. Britain imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 23, later than in many other European countries. The measures have been extended until at least May 7.As of Friday, 19,506 people with the coronavirus had died in British hospitals. The figure does not include deaths in nursing homes, which are likely to number in the thousands.Scientists say the U.K. has reached the peak of the pandemic but is not yet out of danger. The number of people hospitalized with COVID-19 is declining, and the number of daily deaths peaked on April 8.As fears recede that the health system will be overwhelmed, opponents are stepping up their attacks on Johnson’s Conservative government over shortages of protective equipment for medical workers and a lack of testing for the virus.Meanwhile, health authorities urged Britons not to ignore symptoms of conditions other than the coronavirus, amid fears that cancer and other illnesses are going untreated.Public Health England said visits to hospital emergency departments have fallen by almost 50% in April from the same month last year. The charity Cancer Research UK estimated that 2,250 new cases of the disease could be going undetected each week, partly because people are reluctant to go to hospitals for fear of catching the virus or overburdening the system.The National Health Service encouraged people to seek urgent help if needed and to continue to attend services such as cancer screening and maternity appointments.NHS chief executive Simon Stevens said “ignoring problems can have serious consequences — now or in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-aide-attended-key-science-meetings-on-coronavirus-sparks-row/story-BrOmCjHEBKpuiNfmaRr0pO.html
25-04-2020||World||Saudi Arabia abolishes flogging||Saudi Arabia has abolished flogging as a punishment, the supreme court announced, hailing the latest in a series of “human rights advances” made by the king and his powerful son.Court-ordered floggings in Saudi Arabia -- sometimes extending to hundreds of lashes -- have long drawn condemnation from human rights groups.But they say the headline legal reforms overseen by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman have brought no let-up in the conservative Islamic kingdom’s crushing of dissent, including through the use of the death penalty.The Saudi supreme court said the latest reform was intended to “bring the kingdom into line with international human rights norms against corporal punishment”.Previously the courts could order the flogging of convicts found guilty of offences ranging from extramarital sex and breach of the peace to murder.In future, judges will have to choose between fines and/or jail sentences, or non-custodial alternatives like community service, the court said in a statement seen by AFP on Saturday.The most high-profile instance of flogging in recent years was the case of Saudi blogger Raif Badawi who was sentenced to 10 years in prison and 1,000 lashes in 2014 for “insulting” Islam.He was awarded the European parliament’s Sakharov human rights prize the following year.The abolition of corporal punishment in Saudi Arabia comes just days after the kingdom’s human rights record was again in the spotlight following news of the death from a stroke in custody of leading activist Abullah al-Hamid, 69.Hamid was a founding member of the Saudi Civil and Political Rights Association (ACPRA) and was sentenced to 11 years in jail in March 2013, campaigners said.He was convicted on multiple charges, including “breaking allegiance” to the Saudi ruler, “inciting disorder” and seeking to disrupt state security, Amnesty International said.Criticism of Saudi Arabia’s human rights record has grown since King Salman named his son Prince Mohammed crown prince and heir to the throne in June 2017.The October 2018 murder of vocal critic Jamal Khashoggi inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul and the increased repression of dissidents at home have overshadowed the prince’s pledge to modernise the economy and society. (AFP) MRJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-abolishes-flogging/story-asy1J7seY931V8KmEoo80L.html
25-04-2020||World||‘Tehran watches US closely, but won’t start conflict’: Iran president Hassan Rouhani||Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said on Saturday that Tehran was closely following US activities, but would never initiate a conflict in the region.Rouhani’s comments, which come at a time of rising tension between Washington and Tehran, were made during a telephone call to Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, Iranian state media reported.“The Islamic Republic of Iran follows America’s activities and movements closely, but it will never be the one that starts conflict and tension in the region,” Rouhani was quoted as saying during the call, held due to the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.US President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he had instructed the US Navy to fire on any Iranian ships that harass it at sea.Earlier this month, the US military said 11 Revolutionary Guards naval vessels came close to US Navy and Coast Guard ships in the Gulf, calling the moves “dangerous and provocative”.Tehran blamed its long-time adversary for the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tehran-watches-us-closely-but-won-t-start-conflict-iran-president-hassan-rouhani/story-KW1cwIZ3dCKGjFxmQxTATK.html
25-04-2020||World||She survived Spanish Flu in 1918, now 107-year-old beat Covid-19||We may have all heard that miracles do happen, but sadly not all of us have the chance to witness them in our daily lives, especially during a pandemic today which brings the world to a standstill.Citing a similar story of survival, The Olive Press, a Spain-based English newspaper, reported that it was 1918, when Ana del Valle, a kid then, suffered and recovered from the Spanish Flu - an unusually deadly influenza pandemic which lasting for almost 36 months (from January 1918 to December 1920) and it infected as many as 500 million people - about a third of the world’s population at the time.And now, 102 years later, the old grandmother has miraculously beaten the coronavirus pandemic to the joy of her family in Ronda.The media reported that Valle lived at a nursing home in Alcala del Valle, where she contracted the virus along with 60 other residents.She was then transferred to a hospital in La Linea and was discharged a few days ago, as she had overcome the contagion.Ana was born in October 1913 and in less than six months she will turn 107. That makes her the oldest survivor of the pandemic outbreaks in Spain, along with one of the oldest worldwide, behind the likes of 107-year-old Dutch survivor, Cornelia Ras.Her daughter-in-law, Paqui Sanchez was further quoted by Malaga Hoy, another local media source, that her family was very grateful for everything the hospital staff had done. But, she said that authorities were taking it slow and being cautious with her mother-in-law’s health, due to her old age.“Her doctors tell us that she has very good results, but you have to be very careful,” she told the Malaga-based news paper.“She eats alone, some days more and other days less”“She also goes on short walks with her walker,” she said further.According to other media reports, two other 101-year-old women have also recovered from disease in Spain.There have been a total of 22,524 official Covid-19-related fatalities since the pandemic hit Spain, while 92,355 patients have recovered from the illness and have been discharged from hospital.However, the health ministry reported on Friday that the tally of daily Covid-19- related deaths was registered at 367, which is the lowest number since March 21, when there were 324 fatalities.As per the data cited by US-based Johns Hopkins University, more than 195,000 people have died due to the pandemic, with 2.7 million infected globally, out of whom almost some 781,000 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/she-survived-spanish-flu-in-1918-now-107-year-old-beat-covid-19/story-Z3KGjde5bY8cDgCOZpTzIK.html
25-04-2020||World||WHO says you may catch coronavirus more than once, warns against idea of ‘immunity passports’||Catching Covid-19 once may not protect you from getting it again, according to the World Health Organization.“There is currently no evidence that people who have recovered from Covid-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection,” the United Nations agency said in an April 24 statement.The WHO guidance came after some governments suggested that people who have antibodies to the coronavirus could be issued an “immunity passport” or “risk-free certificate” that would allow them to travel or return to work, based on the assumption that they were safe from re-infection, according to the statement. People issued such a certificate could ignore public-health guidance, increasing the risk of the disease spreading further.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhile many countries are currently testing for antibodies, these studies aren’t designed to determine whether people recovered from the disease acquire immunity, the WHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-you-may-catch-coronavirus-more-than-once/story-MH5AzOomCBgUPme3s9mrgK.html
25-04-2020||World||Covid-19: Nikki Haley launches ‘Stop Communist China’ campaign||Asserting that China’s Communist government needs to be held accountable for “lying” about the coronavirus pandemic, top Indian-American Republican politician Nikki Haley has launched an online petition urging the US Congress to act.More than 40,000 people have signed the ‘Stop Communist China’ petition by Friday night, hours after being launched by the former governor of South Carolina who has set a goal of getting 100,000 signatures.“China’s Communist government needs to be held accountable for their role in lying about the Coronavirus pandemic, and the US Congress needs to respond – now,” said 48-year-old Haley, a former US Ambassador to the United Nations. “Join us in our fight to stop China from gaining influence in America and around the world. Sign this petition and please share with your friends,” she added. “Sign our petition to stop the Chinese Communist government’s deception and manipulation. We need Congress to act NOW to prevent China’s growing influence,” the petition said. Among other things, the petition urges members of Congress to probe whether China covered up the coronavirus outbreak, end the United States’ reliance on China for critical medical supplies and pharmaceuticals, make China pay its fair share to the United Nations, back Taiwan against China’s bullying, and mandate all US colleges to disclose Chinese funding. Early this week, she called for an emergency Security Council meeting on China’s involvement and knowledge of the virus. Haley has been a fierce critic of China. “As soon as the UN opens again, the US should call for an emergency Security Council meeting on China’s involvement and knowledge of the virus. When did they know & decisions made. If ever the was a time to have a world discussion, it would be following this pandemic,” Haley said in a tweet. Responding to her tweet, the Chinese Ambassador to the UN Zhang Jun asserted that his country has nothing to hide. “All the facts are on the table. Epidemics may occur anywhere. The most important thing is to defeat the virus and save lives. China has done its job and is now working hard in helping others. Attempts of scapegoating or stigma go nowhere,” Zhang said. If that is the case, Haley argued than China would have no problem in a Security Council meeting on the coronavirus pandemic. “I’m assuming you would have no problem expressing that in a Security Council meeting. Other countries including the US have some questions we would like answered,” Haley said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-nikki-haley-launches-stop-communist-china-campaign/story-wP25pdxMpqpMKEc8CbiVMN.html
25-04-2020||World||Trump’s temporary Green Card ban aims to ‘turn off the faucet’ of new immigrant labour: Report||President Donald Trump’s executive order to temporarily halt issuance of green cards aims to “turn off the faucet” of new immigrant labour and is the beginning of a broader strategy to reduce the flow of foreigners into the US, architect of Trump’s immigration agenda Stephen Miller has said.President Trump signed the executive order on Wednesday to suspend certain types of immigration into the US for 60 days to protect the jobs of Americans laid off due to the Covid-19 pandemic that has ravaged the country’s economy.According to a report in The Washington Post, Miller spoke to a group of Trump surrogates on Thursday in an off-the-record call about the new executive order and told them that the president’s new executive order curbing immigration will usher in the broader long-term changes to immigration into America.Miller told the group that subsequent measures were under consideration that would restrict guest worker programmes, but the executive order turns the faucet off of new immigrant labour coming into the country.“The first and most important thing is to turn off the faucet of new immigrant labour — mission accomplished — with signing that executive order,” he said, according to a recording obtained by the leading American daily.The report said that Miller indicated that the strategy was part of a long-term vision and not seen only as a stopgap.“As a numerical proposition, when you suspend the entry of a new immigrant from abroad, you’re also reducing immigration further because the chains of follow-on migration that are disrupted,” said Miller, one of the executive order’s main authors.“So the benefit to American workers compounds with time,” he said.The report also said that the Trump administration had been trying for years to scrap the family-based US immigration model, which Miller has called “chain migration” that enables US citizens and the Green Card holders to bring in parents, adult children and siblings into the US. Last year, the State Department issued about 460,000 immigrant visas, and more than half were in the categories the order halts. Instead, the White House favours a more restrictive system based on job skills and US labour market demands.“Miller has been the leading proponent of the argument that immigrants compete for jobs with US workers and depress their wages. The argument is anathema to many economists and pro-business Republicans who argue that immigration fuels long-term US growth and keeps US industries competitive,” the report said. Immigration was one of the main promises Trump made to his supporters while running for the US President. Ken Cuccinelli, who serves as acting deputy homeland security secretary and joined Miller on the call, said Trump had been considering an immigration freeze long before his tweet Monday night announcing his plans to “temporarily suspend immigration into the United States!” “This is something the president has been looking at himself since the economic effects of the Covid-19 virus began. We’ve had numerous conversations with him. And so what you saw yesterday was a continuation of his own thinking,” said Cuccinelli, who spoke less than Miller during the 23-minute call.The report added that Miller was involved in crafting and selling the executive order, working quietly without many others in the administration knowing. Senior White House officials said the memo had not been vetted by lawyers or top officials before the president tweeted that he would be signing it.“All around the country, Americans of every political stripe will rally behind an initiative to make sure that they, their children, their parents, their husbands, wives, sons, uncles, nephews, cousins can be the first to get a job when it opens up, to get her old job back when they rehire or to keep their job if they already have one.“Those individuals have a right and an expectation to get their jobs back and not to be replaced by foreign workers. That’s the action the president took, it is historic. It is vital, it is necessary, it is patriotic and it deserves the full-throated support of everybody on this call,” ,” Miller said during the call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-temporary-green-card-ban-aims-to-turn-off-the-faucet-of-new-immigrant-labour-report/story-UJ0cETwYO69JEu1nDusR8K.html
25-04-2020||World||US states begin easing Covid-19 lockdowns||The US states of Georgia, Oklahoma and Alaska began loosening lockdown orders on their pandemic-wounded businesses, even as the confirmed US death toll from the coronavirus soared past 50,000 and despite warnings from health experts that such steps may be coming too early.The news came as the outbreak appeared to continue to subside in much of Asia. In China, where the virus was first detected late last year, authorities on Saturday reported no new deaths for the 10th straight day, along with just 12 new cases, 11 of them brought from overseas and one local transmission in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang bordering Russia, according to the National Health Commission.Just 838 people remain hospitalized in China with Covid-19 while another 1,000 are undergoing isolation and monitoring for being either suspected cases or having tested positive for the virus while showing no symptoms. China has reported a total of 4,632 deaths among 82,816 cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSouth Korea reported 10 fresh cases, the eighth day in a row its daily jump came below 20. There were no new deaths for the second straight day.India announced the easing of a stringent lockdown for 1.3 billion people with the reopening of neighborhood and standalone shops. India has reported more than 24,500 cases and 775 deaths. Last week, it allowed resumption of manufacturing and farming activities in rural areas as millions of daily wage earners were left without work.In France, the government is leaving families to decide whether to keep children at home or send them back to class when the nationwide lockdown, in place since March 17, starts to be lifted on May 11.As in many countries, the tourism industry in France has been ravaged by the pandemic and a French hotel executive predicted his business will remain “catastrophic” for the rest of this year.“Zero percent (occupancy) in April, probably in May and probably in June,” Serge Cachan, president of the Astotel chain of Paris hotels, told The Associated Press. With estimated losses this year of 60-70%, Cachan said he is counting on government help to survive.Click here for Covid-19 updatesBelgium announced that after May 3, hospitals will progressively open to some non-essential tasks and textile shops also will be allowed to reopen as the country begins relaxing safeguards. Denmark has reopened schools for the youngest grads, while in Spain, parents face the decision of whether to let kids get their first fresh air in weeks when the country on Sunday starts to ease the total ban on letting them outside.Britain was still holding off on changes to its lockdown as the coronavirus-related death toll in hospitals fast approaches 20,000. It’s the fourth highest in Europe, behind Italy, Spain and France, each of which has reported more than 20,000 deaths.In the U.S., Republican governors in Georgia and Oklahoma allowed salons, spas and barbershops to reopen, while Alaska opened the way for restaurants to resume dine-in service and retail shops and other businesses to open their doors, all with limitations. Some Alaska municipalities chose to maintain stricter rules.Though limited in scope, and subject to social-distancing restrictions, the reopenings marked a symbolic milestone in the debate raging in the United States and beyond as to how quickly political leaders should lift economically devestating lockdown orders.During a White House press briefing Friday, President Donald Trump spoke optimistically of the economy but also asked people to continue social distancing and using face coverings. The same day, Trump signed a $484 billion bill to aid employers and hospitals under stress from the pandemic. Over the past five weeks, roughly 26 million people have filed for jobless aid, or about 1 in 6 US workers.Trump also said his widely criticized comments suggesting people can ingest or inject disinfectant to fight Covid-19 was an attempt at sarcasm.The coronavirus has killed more than 190,000 people worldwide, including — as of Friday — more than 50,000 in the United States, according to a tally compiled by John Hopkins University from government figures. The actual death toll is believed to be far higher.Amy Pembrook and her husband, Mike, reopened their hair salon in the northwest Oklahoma town of Fairview after it had been shuttered for about a month.“We’re super excited about going back, but we have caught a little flak from people who say it’s too early,” Amy Pembrook said. “We just said we can live in fear for a long time or we can trust that everything is going to be OK.”Without a tried-and-tested action plan for how to pull countries out of coronavirus lockdown, the world is seeing a patchwork of approaches. Schools reopen in one country, stay closed in others; face masks are mandatory in some places, a recommendation elsewhere.Meanwhile, testing continues to lag across the United States. To date, according to data compiled by the COVID Tracking Project, just under 4.7 million people have been tested in the country of 330 million. Researchers at Harvard University have estimated a minimum of 500,000 daily tests are needed, and possibly much more, in order to safely reopen the economy.In Florida, Gov. Ron DeSantis said his administration plans to let pharmacists administer virus tests to reach a broader range of people, including those with no symptoms who believe they may have been exposed.In Michigan, Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer lengthened her stay-at-home order through May 15, while lifting restrictions so some businesses can reopen and the public can participate in outdoor activities such as golf and motorized boating. Michigan has nearly 3,000 deaths related to Covid-19, behind only New York and New Jersey.New York reported its lowest number of daily Covid-19 deaths in weeks on Friday. The state recorded 422 deaths as of the day before — the fewest since March 31, when it recorded 391 deaths. More than 16,000 people have died in the state from the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-states-begin-easing-covid-19-lockdowns/story-SoO5YLLihzFg5bSdK9mCZN.html
25-04-2020||World||Body of guide of missing Koreans found in Himalayas||Search teams looking for the bodies of four South Koreans killed in a Himalayas avalanche have found the frozen corpse of their Nepali guide, police said Saturday.A wall of snow hit the trekkers at about 3,230 metres (10,600 feet) near the Annapurna base camp in Nepal on January 17. But avalanches and more snowfall since have made it too dangerous to launch a proper hunt. Police returned to the area on Friday after thawing snow revealed a bag. “Our team then found the body as the snow melted,” Kaski district police chief Dan Bahadur Karki, told AFP. Karki said that no decision has been taken yet whether to resume a full search for the South Koreans. “The snow is still very deep in the area where we suspect the bodies are. We are still discussing what to do next,” he said.Nepal has also been in a coronavirus lockdown for the past month with all trekking permits suspended.Thousands of trekkers visit Nepal every year for its stunning views of the Himalayas and routes lined with picturesque villages. The Annapurna region is particularly popular, with more than 170,000 visitors in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/body-of-guide-of-missing-koreans-found-in-himalayas/story-38LhBwWXqXeYuzHJ5yjBaN.html
25-04-2020||World||Farmer’s selfless act of donating mask wells up New York governor’s eyes||Help has poured into New York from many places as the coronavirus has killed thousands, but the most humble of gifts — a single N-95 mask — brought a mist to the eyes of the state’s governor.A retired farmer in Kansas mailed the mask to Gov. Andrew Cuomo, saying the couple hoped it could be used by a doctor or nurse.Cuomo read the entire letter at his daily briefing as an example of courage and generosity in dark times.“I am a retired farmer hunkered down in NE Kansas with my wife who has but one lung and occasional problems with her remaining lung,” read the hand-written letter from Dennis Ruhnke, also signed by his wife, Sharon. “We are in our 70s now and frankly I am afraid for her.”Nevertheless, Ruhnke wrote, the couple had five masks and wished to give one to help New York’s battle against the virus.I received this letter from a farmer in northeast Kansas. His wife is ill and he is aging. He sent me 1 of 5 N95 masks he has from farming to pass on to a doctor or nurse in New York.This is humanity at its best. I share his letter as inspiration. pic.twitter.com/Fa4h5LH9rL“Enclosed find a solitary N-95 mask left over from my farming days. It has never been used” the letter said. “If you could, could you please give this mask to a nurse or a doctor in your city.”Cuomo’s eyes misted as he brandished the mask at his daily briefing.“You want to talk about a snapshot of humanity,” Cuomo said. “You have five masks, what do you do? Do you keep all five? Do you hide the five masks, do you keep them for yourself or others? No, you send one mask. You send one mask to New York for a doctor or nurse. How beautiful is that? How selfless is that? How giving is that?”“It’s that love, that courage, that generosity of spirit that makes this country so beautiful,” Cuomo said. “And it’s that generosity for me makes up for all the ugliness that you see. Take one mask, I’ll keep four.”Reached by telephone, Dennis Ruhnke said he was surprised at the public attention.“Simply watching the news, and day after day after day the death was rising. And they were pushing the N-95 thing so much. I thought I had some masks somewhere. I went back to the farm, dug around in some masks and lo and behold they were there,” he said, adding that he looked up the governor’s address online to send the letter.Ruhnke said he would like to know who ultimately receives the mask.“I would have felt terrible if I threw it away, but it made me feel pretty good to send it on to somebody who might be able to use it,” he said. “They sounded almost desperate for masks. So I thought, it was just one little gesture. But maybe if you get enough of these little gestures, it will all come out for the better in the end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/farmer-s-selfless-act-of-donating-mask-wells-up-new-york-governor-s-eyes/story-hrsHPQM8kP2D0I4ucwbxNJ.html
25-04-2020||World||With 51,000 fatalities, US records over one fourth of global Covid-19 deaths||The United States accounts for more than one fourth of the global Covid-19 deaths and over one-third of the total number of people infected with the deadly virus, latest figures revealed on Friday. The coronavirus pandemic that started from Wuhan City in China in November, 2019 has so far killed more than 195,000 people across the world and infected more than 27 lakh. The United States, which has been the worst hit by coronavirus alone accounts the highest number so far; wherein more than 9.2 lakh Americans have tested positive for Covid-19 and the fatalities count on Friday stood at 51,000, according to the Johns Hopkins University.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  In fact, the number of Covid-19 cases in the US is more than the next six countries taken together: Spain (219,764), Italy (192,994), France (159,495), Germany (154,545), United Kingdom (144,635) and Turkey (104,912). Despite accounting for the largest number of fatalities, the death rate, however, in the US is much lower than other countries, according to Johns Hopkins University. So far, 51,000 people have died due to COVID-19 in US, followed by Italy (25,969), Spain (22,524), France (22,245), and United Kingdom (19,506). In the United States, New York accounts for the largest number of fatalities (17,671) with 271,890 confirmed cases.Also read| Daily US Covid-19 death toll down sharply to 1,258, lowest in 3 weeks: Report However, the US seems to be past its peak. “Nationwide the per cent of tests that come back positive has declined very significantly,” President Donald Trump told reporters at his daily White House news conference on coronavirus. Last week, roughly 38 per cent of the tests in New York were positive; this week that number is down to 28 percent. New cases in New York are down 50 per cent compared to a week ago, and fatalities are down 40 per cent over the same period, he said. In Louisiana, the rate of positive test result declined from 25 per cent down to 15 per cent in the last seven days alone. As many as 18 states now show a decline in a number of positive tests in the last seven days which is a very, very significant progress, Trump said. As a result, half of all Americans live in states that have now taken steps to open their economies, Trump said, a day earlier California, Minnesota, and Tennessee announced additional plans to restart certain sectors. “We ask every American to maintain vigilance and hygiene, social distancing, and voluntary use of face coverings. We are opening our country. It’s very exciting to see,” he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today Trump said that he spoke to Tim Cook of Apple and that they have a good sense of the market. “He feels it’s going to be a V. The V is sharply upward later on as we actually get it fully open,” he said. Earlier in the day, Trump signed a Paycheck Protection Program and Healthcare Enhancement Act providing $320 billion to keep American workers on the payroll. Of this $30 billion of the Paycheck Protection funds will be reserved for small financial institutions, including those that serve minority and distressed communities, extending vital relief to thousands of African American and Hispanic American small-business owners and their employees. More than 80 million Americans have already received their payment $3400 for a typical family of four. The CARES Act requires that the federal government send out a notice of what benefits Americans are receiving; to fulfil the requirement the Treasury Department is mailing a letter to him. “It will include the amount of their economic impact payment, how it will arrive direct deposit, check or prepaid debit card as well as a message to the nation letting each American know that we are getting through this challenge together as one American family and that is what has been happening,” Trump said. Observing that 184 countries have been hit by coronavirus, the president said that they are all watching the US. “They are all watching, and they’re calling, and they respect what we are doing so much. I spoke with the leaders of numerous countries today; they are asking if we can send them ventilators, and I am agreeing to do it,” he said. Federal government has over 10,000 ventilators and is helping Mexico, Honduras, Indonesia, France. “We are sending (ventilators) to France, we are sending to Spain, we’re sending to Italy, and we will probably be spending to Germany should they need them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-with-51-000-fatalities-us-records-over-one-fourth-of-global-covid-19-deaths/story-h99XfXNb22p1JS4blSTFVM.html
25-04-2020||World||China sent team including medical experts to advise on Kim Jong Un: Report||China has dispatched a team to North Korea including medical experts to advise on North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, according to three people familiar with the situation.The trip by the Chinese doctors and officials comes amid conflicting reports about the health of the North Korean leader. Reuters was unable to immediately determine what the trip by the Chinese team signaled in terms of Kim’s health.A delegation led by a senior member of the Chinese Communist Party’s International Liaison Department left Beijing for North Korea on Thursday, two of the people said. The department is the main Chinese body dealing with neighbouring North Korea.Also Read: Kim Jong-un’s heart care centre has imported machines, doctors trained abroadThe sources declined to be identified given the sensitivity of the matter.The Liaison Department could not be reached by Reuters for comment late on Friday. China’s foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment late on Friday.Daily NK, a Seoul-based website, reported earlier this week that Kim was recovering after undergoing a cardiovascular procedure on April 12. It cited one unnamed source in North Korea.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSouth Korean government officials and a Chinese official with the Liaison Department challenged subsequent reports suggesting that Kim was in grave danger after surgery. South Korean officials said they had detected no signs of unusual activity in North Korea.On Thursday, US President Donald Trump also downplayed earlier reports that Kim was gravely ill. “I think the report was incorrect,” Trump told reporters, but he declined to say if he had been in touch with North Korean officials.Also Read: Trump rejects ‘incorrect’ reports on North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s healthOn Friday, a South Korean source told Reuters their intelligence was that Kim was alive and would likely make an appearance soon. The person said he did not have any comment on Kim’s current condition or any Chinese involvement.An official familiar with U.S. intelligence said that Kim was known to have health problems but they had no reason to conclude he was seriously ill or unable eventually to reappear in public.A U.S. State department spokeswoman had no comment. U.S. Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, when asked about Kim’s health on Fox News after Trump spoke said, “I don’t have anything I can share with you tonight, but the American people should know we’re watching the situation very keenly.”North Korea is one of the world’s most isolated and secretive countries, and the health of its leaders is treated as a matter of state security. Reuters has not been able to independently confirm any details on Kim’s whereabouts or condition.North Korea’s state media last reported on Kim’s whereabouts when he presided over a meeting on April 11. State media did not report that he was in attendance at an event to mark the birthday of his grandfather, Kim Il Sung, on April 15, an important anniversary in North Korea.Kim, believed to be 36, has disappeared from coverage in North Korean state media before. In 2014, he vanished for more than a month and North Korean state TV later showed him walking with a limp. Speculation about his health has been fanned by his heavy smoking, apparent weight gain since taking power and family history of cardiovascular problems.When Kim Jong Un’s father, Kim Jong Il, suffered a stroke in 2008, South Korean media reported at the time that Chinese doctors were involved in his treatment along with French physicians.Last year, Chinese President Xi Jinping made the first state visit in 14 years by a Chinese leader to North Korea, an impoverished state that depends on Beijing for economic and diplomatic support.China is North Korea’s chief ally and the economic lifeline for a country hard-hit by U.N. sanctions, and has a keen interest in the stability of the country with which it shares a long, porous border.Kim is a third-generation hereditary leader who came to power after his father Kim Jong Il died in 2011 from a heart attack. He has visited China four times since 2018.Trump held unprecedented summits with Kim in 2018 and 2019 as part of a bid to persuade him to give up North Korea’s nuclear arsenal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sent-team-including-medical-experts-to-advise-on-kim-jung-un-report/story-ZpvisufvkwTehcKZhOAv0O.html
25-04-2020||World||Saudi Arabia to end flogging as form of punishment||Saudi Arabia is ending flogging as a form of punishment, according to a document from the kingdom’s top court seen by Reuters on Friday.The decision by the General Commission for the Supreme Court, taken sometime this month, will see the punishment replaced by prison sentences or fines, or a mixture of both.“The decision is an extension of the human rights reforms introduced under the direction of King Salman and the direct supervision of Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman,” the document said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicFlogging has been applied to punish a variety of crimes in Saudi Arabia. Without a codified system of law to go with the texts making up sharia, or Islamic law, individual judges have the latitude to interpret religious texts and come up with their own sentences.Rights groups have documented past cases in which Saudi judges have sentenced criminals to flogging for a range of offences, including public intoxication and harassment.Also Read: West Asia is staring at an economic crisis. India has to be prepared | Opinion“This reform is a momentous step forward in Saudi Arabia’s human rights agenda, and merely one of many recent reforms in the Kingdom,” the president of the state-backed Human Rights Commission (HRC) Awwad Alawwad told Reuters.Other forms of corporal punishment, such as amputation for theft or beheading for murder and terrorism offences, have not yet been outlawed.“This is a welcome change but it should have happened years ago,” said Adam Coogle, Deputy Director of the Middle East and North Africa Division at Human Rights Watch. “There’s nothing now standing in the way of Saudi Arabia reforming its unfair judicial system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-to-end-flogging-as-form-of-punishment/story-pvQTAW432aqO2TinM500oL.html
25-04-2020||World||US may never restore WHO funds: Mike Pompeo||US secretary of state Mike Pompeo has said the Covid-19 pandemic shows the need to overhaul the World Health Organization, warning that Washington may never restore WHO funding. Pompeo told Fox News late on Wednesday there needed to be “a structural fix of the WHO” to correct its “shortcomings.” Asked if he was urging a change in leadership of the WHO, Pompeo replied: “Even more than that, it may be the case that the United States can never return to underwriting, having US taxpayer dollars go to the WHO.”‘US trying to get virus sample from China’Pompeo also said that the US is still trying to get an “actual sample” of the novel coronavirus from China as several questions related to the infection remains unanswered. “Frankly we are still trying to get an actual sample of the virus (from China). They have given us the breakdown of it,” Pompeo said. agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-may-never-restore-who-funds-mike-pompeo/story-m4JWgw96tm8jJiMdT1I6dP.html
25-04-2020||World||Devotees begin a quiet Ramzan in lockdowns||Muslims worldwide began Ramzan on Friday with dawn-to-dusk fasting, but many will have to forgo the communal prayers and family gatherings that make the holy month special, as authorities maintain lockdowns aimed at slowing the coronavirus pandemic.“This is too sad to be remembered in history,” said Belm Febriansyah, a resident in the capital of Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim nation.Jakarta is the epicentre of the outbreak in the country, which has reported more than 8,200 infections and 689 deaths. Passenger flights and rail services have been suspended, and private cars are banned from leaving the city.Mosques in Indonesia’s deeply conservative Aceh province were packed, however, after its top clerical body ruled that it is not a “red zone” area and that prayers could continue. The province is governed by Islamic law under an autonomy agreement.Muslim-majority countries began imposing widespread restrictions in mid-March, with many cancelling Friday prayers and shuttering holy sites. Saudi Arabia has largely locked down Mecca and Medina and halted the year-round umrah pilgrimage.Muslim-majority Malaysia extended its own lockdown by two more weeks to May 12, although its daily virus cases have dropped significantly in the past week. The country now has 5,603 cases, including 95 deaths.Malaysia, along with neighbouring Singapore and Brunei, has banned popular Ramzan bazaars, where food, drinks and clothing are sold in congested open-air markets or roadside stalls. The bazaars are a key source of income for many small traders, some of whom have shifted their businesses online.In Pakistan, Prime Minister Imran Khan has bowed to pressure from the country’s powerful clerical establishment and allowed mosques to remain open, even as the number of new cases has recently doubled to between 600 and 700 every day.Some clerics have ordered their followers to pack into mosques, saying their faith will protect them.In Turkey, where cases have recently crossed 100,000, authorities have banned the tradition of setting up tents and outdoor tables to provide free meals to the poor.Countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Libya, Tunisia and Algeria have partially eased the lockdown but Morocco has announced a night-time curfew for Ramzan as it steps up emergency measures to combat the virus. The North African nation’s Council of Oulemas, the official religious body, called for confinement to be respected during Ramzan.In Bangladesh, the fundamentalist Hefazat-e-Islam group criticised government moves to restrict access to more than 300,000 nationwide mosques and to ban iftar parties. “Quotas on prayer attendance are against Islam,” Mojibur Rahman Hamidi, a Hefazat official, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/devotees-begin-a-quiet-ramzan-in-lockdowns/story-eOa2hboXGI9hzZVcaJeRHK.html
25-04-2020||World||White House could alter virus briefings to limit Trump role||For the first time, President Donald Trump cut off his daily coronavirus task force briefing on Friday without taking any questions from reporters. It may not be the last time.There have been discussions within the White House about changing the format of the briefings to curtail the president’s role, according to four White House officials and Republicans close to the White House who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The briefings often stretch well beyond an hour and feature combative exchanges between Trump and reporters.Trump was angry after a day of punishing headlines Friday, largely about his comment at the previous evening’s briefing wondering if it would be helpful to inject disinfectant into people to fight the coronavirus. That idea drew loud warnings from health experts who said the idea was dangerous and sharp criticism from Democrats.Trump did answer questions from reporters earlier Friday and claimed that his suggestion about disinfectant had been “sarcastic.” That doesn’t square with a transcript of his remarks.For weeks, advisers have been urging the president to scale back his appearances at the briefings, saying that he should come before the cameras only when there is major news or a positive development to discuss, according to the officials. Otherwise, they suggested, he should leave it to Vice President Mike Pence and health officials to take the lead.Trump has been reluctant to cede the spotlight at the briefings, which are the closest thing he currently has to his beloved political rallies. He has talked up their robust television ratings and his ability to dominate the news cycle and drown out his likely general election opponent, Democrat Joe Biden.But advisers have argued that while the briefings may appeal to his most loyal base of supporters, they could be alienating some viewers, including senior citizens worried about their health. Officials at Trump’s reelection campaign have also noted a slip in Trump’s support in some battleground states and have expressed concerns that the briefings, which often contain inaccurate information, may be playing a role.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said the president had taken “countless questions” earlier in the day from reporters in the Oval Office. “The accessibility and transparency of this President is unprecedented,” she said.Trump, who is known for changing his mind, has not committed to any permanent change in the briefing format, the officials said.It was unclear if Trump’s decision not to take questions on Friday was connected to a kerfuffle in the briefing room moments before the task force presentation began. A White House official had asked that two reporters switch seats, which would have sent the CNN correspondent farther back in the room. CNN is a frequent target of Trump’s criticism.The reporters declined to move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-could-alter-virus-briefings-to-limit-trump-role/story-V3JHea6RWlHzQemykGhVuK.html
25-04-2020||World||‘United we can fight’: UN’s global push to fast-track Covid-19 vaccine production||The UN on Friday joined forces with world leaders and the private sector on an initiative to speed up development of Covid-19 vaccines and treatments, and ensure equal access for all.“This is a landmark collaboration to accelerate the development, production and equitable distribution of vaccines, diagnostics, and therapeutics for Covid-19,” World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a virtual briefing.“Our shared commitment is to ensure all people have access to all the tools to defeat Covid-19,” he said. “United we can fight this virus.”Also read| Month of lockdown impedes virus, a long battle lies aheadThe event was co-hosted by French President Emmanuel Macron, European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen and Melinda Gates of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.It included UN chief Antonio Guterres as a speaker, as well as global leaders like German Chancellor Angela Merkel and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa.Conspicuously absent were leaders from China, where the novel coronavirus first surfaced late last year, and from the United States -- the country currently hardest-hit by the pandemic, with nearly 50,000 dead and close to 900,000 infected.Worldwide, more than 190,000 people have died in the pandemic and more than 2.7 million have been infected, according to an AFP tally based on official sources.‘Threat to people everywhere’“We face a global public enemy like no other,” Guterres told the briefing. “A world free of COVID-19 requires the most massive public health effort in history.”He stressed the need to ensure that any diagnostic tests developed to detect the new virus, any drugs produced to treat it, and any vaccine made to prevent it should be provided to all of those in need.“The world needs the development, production and equitable delivery of safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics,” Guterres said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“Not a vaccine or treatments for one country or one region or one-half of the world, but a vaccine and treatment that are affordable, safe, effective, easily-administered and universally available, for everyone, everywhere,” he said.“None of us is safe until all of us are safe... COVID-19 anywhere is a threat to people everywhere.”There were few concrete details divulged during the event on how the wide range of partners would roll out the initiative.Von der Leyen, however, announced that the EU and its partners were preparing to organise a “worldwide pledging marathon” with an event on May 4 aimed at raising 7.5 billion euros ($8.1 billion) for initial funding for developing diagnostics, treatments and vaccines against Covid-19.“We need to develop as soon as possible a vaccine, produce it and deploy it to every single corner of the world,” she said, also stressing the need to “ramp up work on prevention, diagnostics and treatment.”“The response to this pandemic can only be global.” ‘Leave no one behind’Macron also called for making any vaccine developed “accessible everywhere, including in the most vulnerable countries,” insisting “that is what will allow us to return to normal life as quickly as possible.”Ramaphosa, who serves as chair of the African Union, meanwhile stressed the precarious situation of that continent, which is home to many poor nations, with weak health systems. “Africa is extremely vulnerable to the ravages of this virus and is in need of every possible support and assistance,” he said.Seth Berkley, head of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, acknowledged that it was likely that “without a vaccine we will never defeat this pandemic.”“What this means is that we will need to devise and deliver a vaccine programme to get billions of doses out at a speed and scale never before contemplated, let alone achieved -- the most rapid vaccine deployment in history,” he said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Peter Sands, head of the Global Fund, meanwhile stressed that developing new tools against Covid-19 like vaccines “is essential but not enough. We must make sure that the people who need them get them.” “The lessons from AIDS must be learned,” he said, pointing to the many millions who had died before anti-retroviral drugs were made widely accessible.“We must leave no one behind.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-united-we-can-fight-un-s-global-push-to-speed-up-covid-19-vaccine-production/story-3usLUqzRRoVTsTuZwqMwaJ.html
25-04-2020||World||New study shows Covid-19 infections in Italy began in January||The first Covid-19 infections in Italy date back to January, according to a scientific study presented on Friday, shedding new light on the origins of the outbreak in one of the world’s worst-affected countries.Italy began testing people after diagnosing its first local patient on February 21 in Codogno, a small town in Lombardy region. Cases and deaths immediately surged, with scientists soon suspecting that the virus had been around, unnoticed, for weeks.Stefano Merler, of the Bruno Kessler Foundation, told a news conference with Italy’s top health authorities that his institute had looked at the first known cases and drawn clear conclusions from the subsequent pace of contagion. “We realised that there were a lot of infected people in Lombardy well before February 20, which means the epidemic had started much earlier,” he saidItaly is set to ease its coronavirus lockdown, the toughest and longest in Europe, over the next four weeks, the Corriere della Sera daily reported on Friday, although there was no official confirmation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-study-shows-covid-19-infections-in-italy-began-in-january/story-wRNRjYvRnrKcWirig4bkUN.html
25-04-2020||World||Daily US Covid-19 death toll down sharply to 1,258, lowest in 3 weeks: Report||The United States recorded 1,258 coronavirus deaths on Friday, the lowest daily toll in the country in nearly three weeks, according to a tracker maintained by Johns Hopkins University.The fatalities, recorded in the 24 hours up to 8:30 pm (0030 GMT Saturday), bring the overall US death toll to 51,017, according to the Baltimore-based university.The United States is by far the hardest-hit country in the global pandemic, in terms of both confirmed infections and deaths.Despite the sharp drop in the death toll, down from 3,176 on Thursday, health experts have said confirmation of a downward trend in the country’s outbreak would require a sustained decline in cases and deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/daily-us-covid-19-death-toll-down-sharply-to-1-258-lowest-in-3-weeks-report/story-g3QQMHSzIzjIaieC4skXYM.html
25-04-2020||World||US regulator FDA warns of heart risks with Trump-promoted malaria drug hydroxychloroquine||The U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Friday warned doctors against prescribing a malaria drug touted by President Donald Trump for treating the new coronavirus except in hospitals and research studies.In an alert, regulators flagged reports of sometimes fatal heart side effects among coronavirus patients taking hydroxychloroquine or the related drug chloroquine. The decades-old drugs, also prescribed for lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, can cause a number of side effects, including heart rhythm problems, severely low blood pressure and muscle or nerve damage.The warning comes as doctors at a New York hospital published a report that heart rhythm abnormalities developed in most of 84 coronavirus patients treated with hydroxychloroquine and the antibiotic azithromycin, a combo Trump has promoted.Both drugs are known to sometimes alter the heartbeat in dangerous ways, and their safety or ability to help people with COVID-19 is unknown. A National Institutes of Health experts panel earlier this week recommended against taking that drug combo except in a formal study because of the side effects potential.Last month, the FDA authorized limited use of the malaria drugs for hospitalized patients with COVID-19 who aren’t enrolled in ongoing research. The FDA said the drugs’ risks are manageable when patients are carefully screened and monitored by doctors. A number of studies are testing hydroxychloroquine as a treatment or for prevention of COVID-19.Also Read: ICMR study shows side effects of HCQ in health care staffRegulators said they are now investigating dangerous side effects and deaths reported with the malaria drugs to poison control centers and other health authorities.“It is important that health care providers are aware of the risks of serious and potentially life-threatening heart rhythm problems that can occur with these drugs,” the FDA said in a statement. The agency did not specify the number of reports it has received of side effects or deaths.Calls to U.S. poison control centers about the malaria drugs increased last month to 79, compared to 52 in March 2019, according to Dr. Christopher Hoyte of the Rocky Mountain Poison Center in Denver, Colorado. The problems reported include abnormal heart rhythms, seizures, nausea and vomiting, Hoyte said.Trump has repeatedly touted hydroxychloroquine during his regular coronavirus briefings, suggesting its skeptics would be proven wrong. He has offered patient testimonials that the drug is a lifesaver.But a number of early coronavirus studies have suggested problems or no benefit.In Friday’s report in the journal Nature Medicine, doctors at New York University and NYU Langone Health found a significant prolonging of what’s called the heart’s QT interval two to five days after coronavirus patients were given usual doses of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin. The drugs can alter the QT interval, or the time it takes the heart to charge between beats. When that time is too long, it can trigger a rhythm problem that can lead to sudden death.Nine of the 84 patients had severe prolongation of this interval. Four patients died from organ failure but there was no evidence heart problems contributed. Severe disease or other health problems may play a role in whether the heartbeat abnormality develops, the researchers speculated.The results show how important it is that these drugs only be used in a study where patients are closely tracked, said one independent expert, Dr. Rais Vohra, an emergency medicine specialist at the Fresno branch of the University of California, San Francisco.“That combination really sets you up for having a problem with the heart,” he said. “My colleagues and I are concerned. People are self-medicating and coming down with very predictable side effects on the heart.”Another recent analysis involving 368 patients in U.S. veterans hospitals found no benefit from hydroxychloroquine — and more deaths. The report was not a rigorous test of the drug and results have not yet been reviewed by other scientists but are the largest so far of its use in COVID-19 patients.Last month, the federal government accepted more than 30 million doses of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine donated to the strategic national stockpile by drugmakers Sandoz and Bayer. Since then, more than 14 million doses have been distributed to state and local health officials, according to the Department of Health and Human Services.Accepting the donation required sign off by both the FDA and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, or BARDA, a unit of HHS tasked with procuring treatments to combat bioterrorism and infectious diseases.Earlier this week, former BARDA director, Rick Bright, said he was demoted from his job leading the agency because he resisted political pressure to allow widespread use of hydroxychloroquine. He has called for a federal investigation and reinstatement to his original job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-regulator-fda-warns-of-heart-risks-with-trump-promoted-malaria-drug-hydroxychloroquine/story-4vCusXEAhJJk18offuizNN.html
25-04-2020||World||‘Knocks the virus out in one minute’: Trump’s disinfectant claims baffle citizens||Top White House coronavirus advisor Deborah Birx shrank in horror and around the nation comedians sharpened their pens: President Donald Trump had just asked if virus victims couldn’t be injected with disinfectant.Even as a new poll shows most Americans wish the former real estate magnate would leave science to the experts, Trump on Thursday evening hit a new high in the annals of amateur presidential doctoring.Encouraged by tentative findings that summer weather may dampen the novel coronavirus, Trump used his daily live national press briefing to ask whether light could become a medical treatment.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Supposing we hit the body with a tremendous -- whether it’s ultraviolet or just very powerful light,” Trump said. “Supposing you brought the light inside the body, which you can do either through the skin or in some other way.”Birx and another government medical expert looked on warily. The president wasn’t finished.“Then I see the disinfectant, where it knocks (the virus) out in a minute. One minute. And is there a way we can do something like that, by injection inside or almost a cleaning? Because you see it gets in the lungs and it does a tremendous number on the lungs.”Birx winced and turned her eyes from the president to the floor.Trump sought to walk back his comments Friday saying he’d been talking “sarcastically” to the journalists, but in fact he was clearly addressing the government officials and there was no sign of sarcasm in his tone.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakAfter 24 hours of controversy, the president attended a short media briefing Friday evening but left without taking any questions -- a rarity.Seeking silver bulletThe novel coronavirus has already killed more than 50,000 Americans, trashed the economy and thrown Trump’s previously strong march to reelection this November into jeopardy.With some predicting a need for drawn-out social distancing and only a slow return to economic health, Trump appears to be in search of a silver bullet.For weeks he has aggressively pushed for use of the malaria treatments chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine against the novel coronavirus, even if evidence for their effectiveness is flimsy at best.Also Read: US regulator FDA warns of heart risks with Trump-promoted malaria drug hydroxychloroquineRick Bright, who until this week was head of the US agency trying to develop a real vaccine, says he was fired because he opposed the “misguided” chloroquine crusade.Now the government’s preliminary findings on the effects of sunlight and the approaching summer season have Trump excited.Where the unorthodox idea for sanitizers comes from is less clear -- although the briefing did touch upon the effects of disinfectant chemicals.Trump’s suggestion was quickly savaged in memes and jokes -- as well as by Joe Biden, his presumptive Democratic challenger in November’s election.“I can’t believe I have to say this, but please don’t drink bleach,” tweeted the former vice president. I can’t believe I have to say this, but please don’t drink bleach.Reckitt Benckiser, the British-based manufacturer of Lysol and Dettol, felt compelled to put out a statement setting the record absolutely straight: “Under no circumstances should our disinfectant products be administered into the human body (through injection, ingestion or any other route.”‘Super genius’A poll published Thursday showed that most Americans -- and a crushing majority of Democrats -- don’t believe Trump when it comes to the medical emergency facing the country.Only 28 percent prefer Trump to their state and local governments for information on the virus, the AP-NORC poll found. Only 23 percent said they have quite a bit or more trust in the information he gives on the coronavirus.Sixty percent say he should listen to the experts more.Brett McGurk, a veteran diplomat and outspoken Trump opponent who resigned over disagreements on Syria, said Trump won’t change and his aides will never escape the confusion.“On any issue, the crazy will catch up to you,” he wrote on Twitter. “There’s no policy: You’re always a Tweet away from all going sideways.” Watching this clip of Dr. Birx, five of my own observations after serving in the Trump administration:  1. You can’t stay above crazy: On any issue, the crazy will catch up to you2. There’s no policy: You’re always a Tweet away from all going sideways https://t.co/GmWvO5PkzsNew White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany called the disinfectant headlines nonsense, saying Trump has always told Americans to “consult with medical doctors regarding coronavirus treatment.”“Leave it to the media to irresponsibly take President Trump out of context.”As for Trump, there’s no questioning his self-belief.“I like this stuff. I really get it,” he said in March, early in the crisis, about preparations to fight the virus.Trump said doctors keep asking him “How do you know so much?”“Maybe I have a natural ability,” he mused, recalling that he had an uncle whom he describes as a “great super genius.”“Maybe I should have done that instead of running for president.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/knocks-the-virus-out-in-one-minute-trump-s-disinfectant-claims-baffle-citizens/story-NxKqtVOX38LTD86iZfa6ZP.html
25-04-2020||World||Brazil becoming Covid-19 hotspot as hospitals, morgues, cemeteries struggle to cope||Cases of the new coronavirus are overwhelming hospitals, morgues and cemeteries across Brazil as Latin America’s largest nation veers closer to becoming one of the world’s pandemic hot spots.Medical officials in Rio de Janeiro and at least four other major cities have warned that their hospital systems are on the verge of collapse, or already too overwhelmed to take any more patients.Health experts expect the number of infections in the country of 211 million people will be much higher than what has been reported because of insufficient, delayed testing.Meanwhile, President Jair Bolsonaro has shown no sign of wavering from his insistence that COVID-19 is a relatively minor disease and that broad social-distancing measures are not needed to stop it. He has said only Brazilians at high risk should be isolated.In Manaus, the biggest city in the Amazon, officials said a cemetery has been forced to dig mass graves because there have been so many deaths. Workers have been burying 100 corpses a day — triple the pre- virus average of burials.Ytalo Rodrigues, a 20-year-old driver for a funerary service provider in Manaus, said he had retrieved one body after another for more than 36 hours, without a break. There were so many deaths, his employer had to add a second hearse, Rodrigues said.So far, the health ministry has confirmed nearly 53,000 COVID-19 cases and more than 3,600 deaths. By official counts, the country had its worst day yet on Thursday, with about 3,700 new cases and more than 400 deaths, and Friday was nearly as grim.Experts warned that paltry testing means the true number of infections is far greater. And because it can take more than weeks for tests to be processed, the current numbers actually reflect deaths that happened one or two weeks ago, said Domingos Alves, adjunct professor of social medicine at the University of Sao Paulo who is involved in the project.“We are looking at a photo of the past,” Alves said in an interview last week. “The number of cases in Brazil is therefore probably even greater than what we are predicting.”Scientists from the University of Sao Paulo, University of Brasilia and other institutions say the true number of people infected with the virus as of this week is probably as much as 587,000 to 1.1 million people.The health ministry said in a report earlier this month that it has the capacity to test 6,700 people per day — a far cry from the roughly 40,000 it will need when the virus peaks.“We should do many more tests than we’re doing, but the laboratory here is working at full steam,” said Keny Colares, an infectious disease specialist at the Hospital Sao Jose in northeastern Ceara state who has been advising state officials on pandemic response.Meanwhile, health care workers can barely handle the cases they have.In Rio state, all but one of seven public hospitals equipped to treat COVID-19 are full and can only accept new patients once others have either recovered or died, according to the press office of the health secretariat. The sole facility with vacancy is located a two-hour drive from the capital’s center.At the mouth of the Amazon, the city of Belem’s intensive-care beds are all occupied, according to online media outlet G1. As the number of cases rises in the capital of Para state, its health secretary said this week that at least 200 medical staff had been infected, and it is actively seeking to hire more doctors, G1 reported.On Saturday, the city of Rio plans to open its first field hospital, with 200 beds, half reserved for intensive care. Another hospital erected beside the historic Maracana football stadium will offer 400 beds starting next month.In Ceara’s capital, Fortaleza, state officials said Friday that intensive care units for COVID-19 patients were 92% full, after reaching capacity a week ago. Health experts and officials are particularly worried about the virus spreading into the poorest neighborhoods, or favelas, where people depend on public health care.Edenir Bessa, a 65-year-old retiree from Rio’s working-class Mangueira favela, sought medical attention on April 20; she was turned away from two full urgent care units before gaining admission to a third located 40 kilometers (25 miles) away.Hours later, she was transferred by ambulance almost all the way back, to the Ronaldo Gazzola hospital, according to her son, Rodrigo Bessa. Still, she died overnight, and he had to enter the hospital to identify her body.“I saw a lot of bodies also suspected of COVID-19 in the hospital’s basement,” said Bessa, a nurse at a hospital in another state.The hospital released Edenir’s body with a diagnosis of suspected COVID-19, meaning that her death — like so many others — doesn’t figure into the government’s official tally. A small group of family members gathered for her burial on Wednesday, wearing face masks.“People need to believe that this is serious, that it kills,” Bessa said.Bolsonaro has continued to dismiss health officials’ dire predictions about the virus’s spread in the country. Last week, the president fired a health minister who had supported tough anti-virus measures and replaced him with an advocate for reopening the economy.Bolsonaro’s stance largely echoes that of his counterpart and ally U.S. President Donald Trump, who has been stressing the need to put people back to work as unemployment figures reach Depression-era levels. Unlike Bolsonaro, however, Trump has moderated his skepticism about the virus.The fight to reopen business “is a risk that I run,” Bolsonaro said at the swearing-in of his newly appointed health minister, Nelson Teich. If the pandemic escalates, Bolsonaro said, “it lands on my lap.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-becoming-covid-19-hotspot-as-hospitals-morgues-cemeteries-struggle-to-cope/story-gt9jrcQmFFMvqLVJpRy8nJ.html
25-04-2020||World||3 states ease lockdowns; US Covid-19 toll passes 50,000||Even as the confirmed US death toll from the coronavirus soared past 50,000, Georgia, Oklahoma and Alaska began loosening lockdown orders Friday on their pandemic-wounded businesses, despite warnings from health experts that the gradual steps toward normalcy might be happening too soon.Republican governors in Georgia and Oklahoma allowed salons, spas and barbershops to reopen, while Alaska opened the way for restaurants to resume dine-in service and retail shops and other businesses to open their doors, all with limitations. Some Alaska municipalities chose to maintain stricter rules.Though limited in scope, and subject to social-distancing restrictions, the reopenings marked a symbolic milestone in the debate raging in the United States — and the world — as to how quickly political leaders should lift economically damaging lockdown orders.Similar scenarios have been playing out worldwide and will soon proliferate in the US as other governors wrestle with conflicting priorities. Their economies have been battered by weeks of quarantine-fueled job losses and soaring unemployment claims, yet health officials warn that lifting stay-at-home orders now could spark a resurgence of Covid-19.During a White House press briefing Friday, President Donald Trump spoke optimistically of the economy but also asked people to continue social distancing and using face coverings.“We’re opening our country. It’s very exciting to see,” Trump said.The coronavirus has killed more than 190,000 people worldwide, including — as of Friday — more than 50,000 in the United States, according to a tally compiled by John Hopkins University from government figures. The actual death toll is believed to be far higher.New cases are surging in Africa and Latin America as outbreaks subside in some places that were hit earlier.In Oklahoma, Gov. Kevin Stitt authorized personal-care businesses to open, citing a decline in the number of people being hospitalized for Covid-19. Those businesses were directed to maintain social distancing, require masks and frequently sanitize equipment.Still, some of the state’s largest cities, including Norman, Oklahoma City and Tulsa, were opting to keep their bans in place until at least the end of April.Amy Pembrook and her husband, Mike, reopened their hair salon in the northwest Oklahoma town of Fairview after it had been shuttered for about a month.“We’re super excited about going back, but we have caught a little flak from people who say it’s too early,” Amy Pembrook said. “We just said we can live in fear for a long time or we can trust that everything is going to be OK.”With deaths and infections still rising in Georgia, many business owners planned to stay closed despite Gov. Brian Kemp’s assurance that hospital visits and new cases have leveled off enough for barbers, tattoo artists, massage therapists and personal trainers to return to work with restrictions.Kemp’s timeline to restart the economy proved too ambitious even for Trump, who said he disagrees with the fellow Republican’s plan.On Friday, Trump signed a $484 billion bill to aid employers and hospitals under stress from the pandemic — the latest federal effort to help keep afloat businesses that have had to close or scale down. Over the past five weeks, roughly 26 million people have filed for jobless aid, or about 1 in 6 US workers.Without a tried-and-tested action plan for how to pull countries out of coronavirus lockdown, the world is seeing a patchwork of approaches. Schools reopen in one country, stay closed in others; face masks are mandatory in some places, a recommendation elsewhere.Kids still attend soccer practice in Sweden while they are not even allowed outside in Spain. As governments and scientists struggle with so many unknowns, individuals are being left to take potentially life-affecting decisions.In Georgia, David Huynh had 60 clients booked for appointments at his nail salon in Savannah, but a clothing store, jewelry shop and chocolatier that share a street corner with his downtown business, Envy Nail Bar, remained closed.“The phone’s been ... ringing off the hook,” Huynh said. “We’ve probably gotten hundreds of calls in the last hour.”Four women clutching face masks were waiting outside when the salon opened for the first time since March 26.“Yes, I am ready to get my nails fixed,” said Alina Davis, a police officer for the local school system, who kept working throughout the crisis.Meanwhile, Nikki Thomas is overdue for a visit to her hair stylist, but she’s barely ventured outside her house in the six weeks since she’s been working from home. She had no plans to change that now just because of Kemp’s decision.“It’s obviously extremely stupid and I’m simultaneously exhausted and so angry I can barely see straight,” Thomas, 40, said in a phone interview.The gradual reopenings come as coronavirus testing continues to lag across the United States. To date, according to data compiled by the Covid Tracking Project, just under 4.7 million people have been tested in the country of 330 million people.A lack of tests and supplies has hampered the US effort from the beginning. About 193,000 people were tested on Thursday. That’s an increase from the two-week daily average of 163,000, but far less than what public health experts estimate is needed to get a handle on the virus.Researchers at Harvard have estimated a minimum of 500,000 daily tests are needed, and possibly much more, in order to safely reopen the economy.In Michigan, Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer lengthened her stay-at-home order through May 15, while lifting restrictions so some businesses can reopen and the public can participate in outdoor activities such as golf and motorized boating.Michigan has nearly 3,000 deaths related to Covid-19, behind only New York and New Jersey among US states.New York reported its lowest number of daily Covid-19 deaths in weeks on Friday. The state recorded 422 deaths as of the day before — the fewest since March 31, when it recorded 391 deaths. More than 16,000 people have died in the state from the outbreak.In Denver, Mayor Michael Hancock extended the city’s stay-at-home order and nonessential business closures through May 8 just as Colorado Gov. Jared Polis, a fellow Democrat, prepared to relax some statewide restrictions next week.Health officials in Colorado ordered the immediate closure of a Walmart in Aurora, a Denver suburb, after three people connected to the store died after being infected with the coronavirus and at least six employees tested positive.In France, the government is leaving families to decide whether to keep children at home or send them back to class when the nationwide lockdown, in place since March 17, starts to be lifted on May 11.In Spain, parents face a similarly knotty decision: whether to let kids get their first fresh air in weeks when the country starts Sunday to ease the total ban on letting them outside.The slowing of Spain’s outbreak, which has killed more than 22,500 people, made the prospect of letting kids out feasible. For the first time Friday, Spanish health authorities counted more people recovering from the disease in a 24-hour span than new infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-states-ease-lockdowns-us-covid-19-toll-passes-50-000/story-LaH2jkGeER3AHRtFYTxzSK.html
25-04-2020||World||Covid-19: After nearly 20,000 coronavirus deaths, UK to trial drones for delivering medicines||As the death toll from coronavirus approached the 20,000-figure across the United Kingdom, the Boris John government on Friday gave the approval for trials to use drones to deliver medicines initially on islands and remote places in the country.The death figure released on Friday was 19,506, with 143.464 cases. The figure refers to deaths in hospitals, not in private homes, care homes and hospices, prompting concerns that the real figure may have crossed 20,000, making the UK one of the worst affected in Europe.Releasing figures and details in the daily Downing Street briefing, transport secretary Grant Shapps announced the trial of drones to deliver medicines, as the UK’s health authorities continue to grapple with the scale of the pandemic amidst reports that several errors were initially made.Shapps said: “I have…given the green light to trials of drones delivering medical supplies. Earlier this year, we awarded £28 million to Southampton and Portsmouth to develop a Future Transport Zone”.“As part of that initiative, £8 million was earmarked for testing drones, and how they might be used for delivering goods in the years and decades ahead. Of course, now we have an urgent need, so we’re making use of that testing programme as part of our response to Covid-19”.“As a result, I have fast-tracked trials to begin next week to carry medical supplies and equipment to St Mary’s Hospital, near Newport on the Isle of Wight”, he added.On demands that the government should announce conditions in which it would consider easing some lockdown restrictions, Shapps reiterated the five tests earlier set out by foreign secretary Dominic Raab, who is deputising for Prime Minister Boris Johnson.The five tests are: That the National Health Service can continue to cope; that the daily death rate falls sustainably and consistently; that the rate of infection is falling; that the operational challenges have been met’ and most importantly, that there is no risk of a second peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-after-nearly-20-000-coronavirus-deaths-uk-to-trial-drones-for-delivering-medicines/story-WWcR80AvGfCKyKY1oXtrGO.html
25-04-2020||World||US Covid-19 death toll doubles in 10 days to more than 50,000||The US death toll from the novel coronavirus reached 50,000 on Friday, having doubled in 10 days, according to a Reuters tally.More than 875,000 Americans have contracted the highly contagious respiratory illness Covid-19 caused by the virus, and on average about 2,000 have died every day this month, according to a Reuters tally.The true number of cases is thought to be higher, with state public health officials cautioning that shortages of trained workers and materials have limited testing capacity.Deaths are also likely higher, as most states only count hospital and nursing home victims and not those who died at home. About 40% of the deaths have occurred in New York state, the epicenter of the US outbreak, followed by New Jersey, Michigan and Massachusetts. US coronavirus deaths, the highest in the world, now exceed the total number of Americans killed in the 1950-53 Korean War - 36,516. Coronavirus has also killed more people in the United States than the seasonal flu in seven out of nine recent seasons, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Flu deaths range from a low of 12,000 in 2011-2012 to a high of 61,000 lives lost in the 2017-2018 season.Coronavirus deaths in the United States fall far short of the Spanish flu, which began in 1918 and killed 675,000 Americans, according to the CDC. Globally, coronavirus has claimed more than 190,000 lives since the outbreak began in China late last year. The United States, with the world’s third-largest population, has twice as many deaths as the next hardest-hit countries of Italy, Spain and France. Of the top 20 most severely affected countries, the United States ranks ninth based on deaths per capita, according to a Reuters tally. The United States has 1.5 deaths per 10,000 people. Belgium ranks first at over five deaths per 10,000 people, followed by Spain, Italy, France and the United Kingdom. Unprecedented stay-at-home orders issued to try to curb the spread of the virus have hammered the economy, with the number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits over the last five weeks soaring to 26.5 million.While some states have said they plan to begin reopening their economies over the coming weeks, health experts and some governors have warned that a premature easing of restrictions on movement could trigger a surge in new cases. A Reuters/Ipsos survey this month found that a bipartisan majority of Americans want to continue to shelter in place to protect themselves from the coronavirus, despite the impact on the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-covid-19-death-toll-doubles-in-10-days-to-more-than-50-000-reuters-tally/story-fSEZH8pIIMtOOo0oyNAP4N.html
25-04-2020||World||This Pakistani pilot urges the world to always stay united||Mahipal Ladher, a pilot working at Pakistan International Airlines, has been flying people stranded due to the lockdown, desperate to head home. Mahipal is the first pilot from Tharparkar, a poverty stricken district of Sindh province with a population of 1.6 millon people. The Tharparkar desert lies along the Pakistan-India border.When Mahipal was a little boy, his town didn’t have a single paved road connecting it to any other town. It would take almost 12 hours to reach the nearest town, barely 70 km away. While growing up, Mahipal grazed cattle and at times, walked for a few kilometers to fetch water for his home, like other children of his town. But every time little Mahipal saw an aircraft show up in the sky, his heart would skip a beat. The boy would run after the plane, chasing the contrails, dreaming he would be flying one such aircraft someday.Tharparkar has always been an example of Hindu-Muslims unity where the two communities draw strength from a shared heritage and history, and perhaps that’s the reason why Mahipal holds the values of co-existence so dear to his heart.Studying initially in a government school and later an army-run school, Mahipal came to Karachi for higher education and training. “I have been living in Karachi for the past 17 years and thanks to its diversified culture, the two things I have learned here are invigoration and charity. People here just don’t stop living and giving!,” he says.With COVID19 pandemic being so dangerously contagious, his country is also locked down like other parts of the world. “Like many others, I played my role by raising money for the needy from home. I also had to do my duty. There were people who were stranded and needed to reach home, specifically in the Northern areas of Pakistan where one relies upon the air mode of transport as the roads are covered with snow most of the time. PIA never stopped flying to such areas. I take pride to be a part of the crew that takes such people home and brings a smile on the faces of their loved ones,” he says.Talking of family, he says the COVID-19 pandemic has made us realise that the whole world is connected, like a family. “Sadly, the only time we start acting like one is when we face such a crisis. Having said that, it is still a positive sign that we are all in this together. We have become the best version of ourselves, trying to help each other in every way possible. All I truly want and hope is that this sense of belonging stays even when this pandemic is over,” he says.While there is gloom everywhere and we have lost so many lives to the virus, it’s certainly not the end of the world, unless we bring it upon ourselves deliberately, says Mahipal. “In 1918, when the world wasn’t this advanced, people fought the Spanish Flu pandemic simply by following the rules spelt out by experts. We need to do the same and we will get out of it for a fact. We have to rise above and we will, it’s the aftermath we need to look out for. The recession is going to hit the world pretty bad and we will have to change the way we live. The world needs its rich to help the poor,” he says.Mahipal urges everyone to hold on to optimism. “Mother Nature works in mysterious ways. We’re being pulled back so as to bounce back, finding better versions of ourselves. There may be delay but there’ll definitely be a better future tomorrow”.Among the heartwarming videos and posts showing people helping each other, there’s one that Mahipal particularly likes. “So there’s this poor old woman who was being offered a ration bag and she refused to take it saying that she already has few days’ ration at home and that there might be many more needy people out there. Such a generous, honest and caring gesture! This is all we need in this difficult time,” he says.And it’s not just about just providing for the needy. “Not everyone is blessed enough to donate monetarily. The least we can do is to stay home, not endanger our own lives and others. Like the saying goes in Urdu — Miley toh phir shayed zindah nahin reh saken.. zindaa rahey to phir zaroor milengey.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/this-pakistani-pilot-urges-the-world-to-always-stay-united/story-accog6PDTcmnATjMM0TNgL.html
