01-03-2021||First Edit||Long poll process, too many phases||Another high stakes election season has set in with the announcement of the poll schedule for assembly elections in five states in the East, the North-East and the South. According to the schedule, there will be an eight-phase polling in West Bengal starting from March 27, a three-phase polling in Assam from the same date and single day polling in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on April 6. The results will be announced on May 2. With the code of conduct coming into force immediately, all the states have plunged into the poll mood and normal governance will be in suspension for two months. The inordinately extended schedule brings up several questions which have a bearing on the conduct of elections, politics and governance. Even for states where there is one-day polling, there are 35 days of preparing for the elections and waiting for the results. The southern states and Assam will have to wait for about a month to get their results after polling. But the worst feature of the process is the multiplicity of phases without a convincing need for them. The Election Commission (EC) has of late started going in for longer periods of poll process and an increased number of phases which are not in the interest of fair conduct of elections. Constituencies in the later phases of elections will have a longer campaign period though technically they may only have the same duration of campaign. Candidates, party workers and others will go through greater stress and strain. The cost of campaigning goes up. This creates an uneven electoral field in which the more resourceful parties and candidates will have greater advantage than others. The code of conduct has to be enforced and the voting machines have to be kept in safe custody for a longer period.  Doubts have also been raised over the motives of the Election Commission in deciding on an eight-phase polling in West Bengal. The proffered reason is the possibility of violence during the election. West Bengal may be violence-prone but eight phases are too many. The EC’s decision is seen as a measure to aid the BJP.  There are three phases in a district which is a stronghold of the Trinamool Congress. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has openly accused the Commission of taking the decision at the behest of the BJP. Others have also expressed these apprehensions. During the last Lok Sabha elections, the Commission had invited criticism for deciding on a long poll schedule which would help Prime Minister Narendra Modi to do maximum campaigning. The case for a long poll process and too many phases is weak when the physical and human infrastructure, logistics and communications have vastly improved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/long-poll-process-too-many-phases-956598.html
01-03-2021||In Perspective||Will Centre go for farm laws amendment?||The farmers protest continued into the third month despite the violence of January 26. The rioting gave the police an opportunity to bring more forces and restrict the approach routes to Delhi’s Singhu and Ghazipur border.  Though four farm Unions quit the agitation, the core agitating group remained intact and resolute. Thus, the stalemate continues after efforts of the government and the Supreme Court to bring together a mutually acceptable settlement did not bear fruit, with the protesting farmers refusing to play ball.  The farmers have received both public sympathy and apathy. They have dominated prime time news for the past few months. But the attempts to enforce a countrywide bandh evoked lukewarm response, outside Punjab and Haryana on both occasions. They have received support from all opposition parties but most academicians and agriculture experts have by and large supported farm reforms. They have huge support from the significant Punjabi population, but other residents of the capital are indifferent to the agitation. The social media is vertically split, with camps supporting and opposing the laws equally vociferous. Looking at 2022 state elections: The protesting farmers are looking for a repeal of the three farm laws. They want status quo with the 2,500 agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) mandis handling agriculture procurement with minimum support price (MSP) protection.  It means protection to the existing players in the farm markets and barring of corporates. It also means no new markets. They have added supplementary demands like free electricity, water, farm loan waiver, right to burn ‘parali’ that espouses other farmer causes. They are ready to stay put for the whole year with 30,000 plus kisans on the rote occupying the three borders of Delhi. Few major tractor blockades will be done in the coming months.  Over 60,000 registered Arathiyas (middlemen) of Punjab and Haryana, who earn commissions of over Rs 2,000 crore annually from the APMC mandis are said to be funding the protest. So, prolonging it till Gandhi Jayanti when the electoral alliance will be announced is not an issue. The protests give the farm leaders high visibility for the state elections.  Though farmers leaders Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and others lost deposits in the 2019 parliamentary elections, they believe prolonging farm protests can help them reverse their electoral fortunes.  They plan to keep the capital unsettled for over a year till the Punjab and UP elections arrive. Arvind Kejriwal rose from street protests but swept the Delhi elections repeatedly. Maybe the farm leaders at the Delhi borders can also succeed in electoral politics under a new ‘Samyukt Kisan Morcha’ with support from the combined opposition. The BJP knows this. Yet they are unfazed. They know that as the stalemate continues, they can spread the message across the country how reforms are being stopped by an intransigent opposition.  Even if they lose some votes in north India, they will gain support in other states for their attempt to open up markets and modernise farming. Rice and wheat of Rs 80,000 crore is procured from the APMC mandis of Punjab and Haryana annually, despite excess stocks with the Food Corporation of India (FCI).  The poor farmers of poor states like Bihar and West Bengal who do not have the mandi infrastructure get left out. The APMC mandis of Nashik and Lasalgaon are already infamous for hoarding onions and making the housewife weep every year. In ‘mandis’ versus ‘free markets’ battle, they believe that the urban voter and youth will support reforms. Will farm gate buying and food processing materialise?: It is true that the government pushed through the bill without widespread consultation. But this is not new. This happens every time when one political party has a brute majority.  In this parliament session, the BJP will offer to discuss the bills belatedly and hopefully make amendments to remove the shortcomings. Maybe they will stay it in the 13 states that have APMC mandi infrastructure and implement it in the other 16 states. But no rollback is expected. The BJP, however, needs to understand that bringing laws is not enough. The government which is pushing forward the farm reforms needs to get down to the real-time execution.  They must make the three dozen food parks across the country operational and buzzing with life, to show that they can walk the talk. These food parks were supposed to have the cold chains and the processing and packaging units that the farm bill brings to the table. However, only four projects have been completed in the last six years.  For reforms to succeed, one must prove that the farm gate buying concept can yield great results and really improve the lives of farmers. Only then will the farmer and the voter could be convinced. (The writer is a journalist and author of three books on economic governance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/will-centre-go-for-farm-laws-amendment-956601.html
01-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||The Lead: Quarries in Chitradurga pose threat to dwellings||In this episode of the Lead, get to know how quarries in Chitradurga pose a threat to structures.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to another episode of the Lead. DH series Mayhem in Mines has highlighted the issue about mining activity in the state of Karnataka. today, we will look at the district of Chitradurga, where quarrying activity is not just affected the forests but also the places where humans dwell. To talk about it we are joined by our correspondent Nrupathunga S K.  Hi Nrupathunga and welcome to DH Radio. Nrupathunga S K: Hi, Ahmed. Ahmed: My first question to you is how is the mining situation in Chitradurga? Nrupathunga: LEt me tell you that Chitradurga is a hot terrain region. It's known for having draught and received less rainfall. And mining activities are prominent in few taluks of the district... To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/the-lead-quarries-in-chitradurga-pose-threat-to-dwellings-956689.html
01-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mahadayi water diversion: Jarkiholi allays fears of people from North Karnataka||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi allayed fears of people from North Karnataka regarding a Supreme Court ordering joint inspection by superintendent engineers from Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra after Goa alleged that waters of river Mahadayi were being diverted into the river Malaprabha. Jarkiholi said that the apex court sees all states equivalently and has asked for a joint inspection by Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra regarding allegations of water diversion made by Goa to bring facts to the fore.   He told reporters in Belagavi on Monday that there was no need for people to fear the court ordering a joint inspection. "Goa has made false allegations against us and facts from the joint investigation will leave Goa exposed," he said. "Waters of river Mahadayi were flowing at a lower level and the canal was at an upper level. We need a dam to pump the waters towards our side into river Malaprabha. Retaining the wall constructed as per earlier SC orders too was intact. During the next hearing, allegations will be laid to rest. We have also deputed our superintendent engineer for the joint inspection as per the orders of the Supreme Court which shows we are fair and have not violated earlier orders," he added.   Regarding works not taking off despite getting clearance from Forest and Environment Department, Jarkiholi said, "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had allocated Rs 500 crore in the previous budget after getting clearance, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, work could not take off. As it is an inter-state project, we need Central Water Commission (CWC) clearance too. We have been taking up the issue with CWC and after getting its clearance, work will begin." After the by-elections, Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat will convene a meeting of all three states to resolve the water-sharing issues. In a federal set up, neighbouring states cannot keep on fighting and have to live with harmony. Jarkiholi denied reacting to statements by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Spokesperson and MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar that she would contest the coming assembly election from Gokak if her party asks her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mahadayi-water-diversion-jarkiholi-allays-fears-of-people-from-north-karnataka-956745.html
01-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||2 buried alive in Belagavi village as earth caves in||Two persons were buried alive while cutting hillock to extract soil for their own work at Biranholi village in Hukkeri taluk on Monday.  As per the primary information available, the hillock had earlier been cut to excavate soil for Pune-Bengaluru national highway works. Halappa Gurav and Yallappa Harijan residents of Biranholi village had been attempting to cut the same portion and were buried alive after the earth caved on them. The incident took place between 9 am to 9.30 am.  Yamakanamaradi police have visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-buried-alive-in-belagavi-village-as-earth-caves-in-956772.html
01-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man dies by suicide in Mysuru||A 24-year-old man allegedly killed himself due to family dispute in the city on Monday. He has been identified as Umesh. He had married a minor girl one and a half year back and the couple had a child. According to the police, Umesh's wife had returned to her native in T Narasipur as Umesh failed to take responsibility of his family. She had quarrelled with Umesh on Saturday. According to Alanahalli Police, Umesh took the extreme step due to depression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-dies-by-suicide-in-mysuru-956794.html
01-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah tried to break JD(S) during Mayor polls in Mysuru, alleges H D Deve Gowda||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Monday alleged that Congress leader Siddaramaiah tried to break JD(S) and poach the party's corporaters to make Congress the party with the majority in the Mysuru Corporation. "In 2018, Siddaramaiah tried to break the JD(S). Later we came to an understanding with Congress and shared the power. This time also, I told my leaders to give the Mayor post to Congress if Siddaramaiah insisted and in the remaining two years JD(S) could enjoy the power. However, instead of asking us, Siddaramaiah tried to poach our corporaters by breaking the party,"  Gowda told reporters. "Despite Congress having 18 corporators, Siddaramaiah tried to break our party and poach our corporator M K Somashekar, which we prevented," Gowda said. "Kumaraswamy stayed in Mysuru and successfully prevented all attempt to break the JD(S). Siddaramaiah could have spoken to us. At least he could have spoken to me or Kumaraswamy or Sa. Ra. Mahesh. But, he did not approach us," he said. Gowda blamed Congress for the election for Legislative Council chairman post. "Had Congress took firm shand and spoke to JD(S) current situation would not arise," he said. "Basaraj Horatti becoming Chairman of Legislative Council with BJP is support is a personal setback for me as well," Gowda said. Gowda added, "A leader like Siddaramaiah is required by Rahul Gandhi at the national level. There is a dearth of tall leaders like him in Congress. Since a section of leaders is rebelling against the Gandhi family, leaders like Siddaramaiah can strengthen Rahul Gandhi," Gowda said ironically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-tried-to-break-jds-during-mayor-polls-in-mysuru-alleges-h-d-deve-gowda-956799.html
01-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yatnal in no mood to relent, calls Yediyurappa 'junior'||BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Monday dubbed Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa as “junior” in the first salvo he fired after returning from New Delhi where he was reportedly asked by the BJP leadership to fall in line.  “I was only the third BJP leader from Karnataka who became a (union) minister. Going by this, all these people, including Yediyurappa, are juniors,” Yatnal said while making a speech at the protest site of the Panchamasali Lingayats who are seeking a revision in their quota.  The Bijapur City MLA once again predicted Yediyurappa’s removal as the chief minister. “Our community shouldn’t break its head. Who knows which CM will come when. Can’t you wait for another 2.5 years? It can happen in the next two months also,” he said. Accusing the Yediyurappa administration of rampant corruption, Yatnal said: “There are many police personnel from Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Haveri and that region deployed in Vidhana Soudha. They ask me when I will become the CM. They lament that even a constable’s salary is being looted.” Yatnal was in New Delhi the past couple of days amid speculation that he had been summoned by the BJP top brass over his repeated censure of the Yediyurappa government. Yatnal, however, denied being summoned and said he was there for some other work. Yatnal was also given a show-cause notice.  “I worked as a minister under a noble sage Atal Bihari Vajpayee. That’s enough for me. I don’t fall at the feet of others like these people do to become minister,” Yatnal said to his detractors. He also attacked BJP vice-president and Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra.  The Panchamasali Lingayats are staging a protest demanding Category 2A reservation in the state quota. “Our own people tried to derail our movement,” Yatnal said. At present, the Veerashaiva-Lingayats, including the Panchamasalis, come under Category 3B that has 5% quota. In Category 2A, they will get a share in 15% quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yatnal-in-no-mood-to-relent-calls-yediyurappa-junior-956893.html
01-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP will win by-elections: B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa exuded confidence that BJP would emerge victorious in by-elections in four constituencies. The election commission is likely to announce dates of elections in four days. Speaking to media persons, on Monday, he said by-elections in Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency, Maski, Basava Kalyana, Sindhagi assembly constituencies will be held shortly. The party has appointed leaders to be in-charge of by-elections. The candidates would be announced after the election commission reveals the dates. He would start election campaign after presenting the budget on March 8, he added. The Chief Minister visited various temples in the city including Kote Seetharamanjaneya, Kote Marikamba, Lakshmi Venkataramana of Gowda Saraswatha Community after laying foundation stone for Veerashaiva hostel building. Later, he visited Meenakshia Bhavan hotel on B H Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-will-win-by-elections-b-s-yediyurappa-956913.html
01-03-2021||Main Article||V-shaped Growth Recovery | A reality check||The Global Economic Prospects (2021) published by the World Bank have provided a comprehensive analysis of the economic growth patterns during the post Covid-19 pandemic period. The analysis gave four different scenarios for the evolution of growth, namely, (i) baseline, (ii) downside, (iii) severe downside and (iv) upside. The variation in the growth pattern is based upon the assumptions such as Covid-19 caseloads, roll out of vaccination, social distancing measures by the households, the effectiveness of the pandemic-control policies of the governments, and financial market stress built primarily in the Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) model.  The report cautioned by saying that “unless there are substantial and effective reforms, the global economy is heading for a decade of disappointing growth outcomes as the pandemic is expected to leave long-lasting adverse effects on global economic activity and per capita incomes”. It highlighted that “the pandemic has had a devastating impact on South Asia (SAR), leading to an estimated 6.7% output contraction in 2020”. However, it noted that overall the SAR has “less total cases on a per capita basis than other emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs) and advanced economies”. Set in this backdrop, it is necessary to examine the claims of the Union government’s forecast about the V-shaped growth recovery pattern. The Economic Survey 2020-21 states that since March-April, 2020 “several high frequency indicators have demonstrated a V-shaped recovery”. The basic idea behind the V-shaped recession is a sharp decline followed by a quick revival of growth.  The correlation between the growth rates in two consecutive phases of economic activities is depends upon whether it is for “expansion and subsequent recession” or for “recession and subsequent expansion” was developed on the basis of Milton Friedman’s “plucking model”. According to this model, the strength of economic recovery is related to the severity of the recession; after reaching a more mature phase and the economy is uncorrelated with the severity of the preceding recession.  Let us apply this model to the India’s growth trajectory to ascertain the recovery pattern and its trend in the short and long run.  The Survey has mentioned that the V-shaped recovery can be traced on the basis of the performance of the high frequency indicators such as power demand, E-way bills, GST collection, steel consumption, etc. It is a fact that the increase in power demand reflects the signs for the kick start of various business activities in this particular sector.  However, this model is insufficient to capture the inter and intra sectoral variations within a given sector. To illustrate, agriculture is projected as a silver lining even during the crisis time; the fact is that most of the agricultural labourers have lost the livelihood thereby affecting the sectoral growth contribution to the GDP. The supply chain disruptions caused in the agriculture has contributed food inflation.  The payment of ebills, GST collection indicators do not reflect the real picture of the variables such as consumption, income and wages of households. It is a well-known fact that, India is an informal led economy with more than 90% of workers are employed in the unorgansied sectors. The high frequency indicators that were used to project the V shaped recovery has failed in totally accounting the impact of the Covid on the informal sector. A robust estimation of the loss accrued to the informal sector would have been provided a somewhat realistic estimation so as to enable the government to come up with related public policies.  Services sector The services sector, which accounts for 54% of the economy, is yet to attain the Q3 level of pre-Covid situation. According to the Action Aid India data, the unemployment rate within the services sector rose to 76.32% from 72.72% during post and pre lockdown periods, respectively. The hotels and restaurants, transport and storage sectors have faced the biggest losses along with tourism. Most of the workers in these sectors have lost jobs and still searching or not joined the workforce even in the month of December 2020.  The rise in prices of essential commodities during the lockdown and the aftermath of the same have not come down implying the constraints of consumer demand. The levels of consumption have just begun showing an increasing and an optimistic trend. However, it will be too early to forecast the sustainability of the same in the wake of non-return of the large number of informal workers to the cities.  The private investments and the household consumption are not showing real recovery trends. To increase the levels of consumption and demand for non-essential goods, there is a need for appropriate policy measures. An Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme along with the Universal Basic Income (UBI) for targeted groups, especially informal workers on a pilot basis might be starters to increase the purchasing power of the individuals. These steps will infuse the confidence among the workforce to join the labour market and positively promote a conducive ecosystem to revive the economic growth.  The foregoing analysis indicates that the macro economic variables and the sectoral performances have not yet reached a mature phase. The recovery shown by the high frequency indicators reflects the nascent phase and requires some more time to validate the said the recovery growth pattern. It must be noted that only larger firms are showing the signs of quick revival while others are pretty much sluggish in terms of recovery. The formal sectors are coming back on the track though slowly and steadily; this need to be supplemented by the robust economic policies to uplift the informal sector too.  Until and unless this is being done along with effective implementation of the Covid vaccination programme, assuming the V-shaped growth recovery, though desirable, but remains distantly realistic as the Covid recession has left a severe and deep impact on the economy. The rise in the debt to GDP ratio is a cause of concern.There is a need to create the necessary secured environment for the private investments by removing the uncertainties around the same.  (The writer is PhD Fellow & Guest Faculty, Institute for Social and Economic Change, and University Law College, Bangalore University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/v-shaped-growth-recovery-a-reality-check-956600.html
01-03-2021||National||Mamata will be out of power on May 2: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asserted on Sunday that the BJP will win the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, and Mamata Banerjee will lose her chief ministership on May 2 -- the day the votes will be counted. Offering puja at the Dakshineswar Temple on the banks of the Hooghly on the northern fringes of Kolkata, Chouhan said he prayed for a violence-free Bengal. "After the misrule by Congress and CPI(M), resulting in Bengal's decline over the years, the state of affairs touched a new bottom with cut money and corruption culture during Trinamool Congress's rule. People of the state want a change and will bring BJP to power this time," he told reporters. "On May 2, Didi (Mamata Banerjee) will be out of power and BJP will replace her," he added. Accompanied by a few BJP leaders, Chouhan visited the 19th-century temple around 11 am. "This place is associated with Ramakrishna Paramahamsa and Maa Sarada. This is also the land of Swami Vivekananda. Visiting this place brings in a divine feeling," the Madhya Pradesh chief minister said. Chouhan alleged that 130 BJP activists were killed in the state in the last few years. "Their sacrifices will not go in vain," he said. Chouhan, like several other BJP chief ministers and Union ministers, was visiting the state to campaign for the party ahead of the upcoming assembly elections. The Trinamool Congress slammed Chouhan's comments, stating that they were baseless allegations. "Can you imagine someone visiting the temple of Maa Kali to make a political statement? This is only possible for the BJP," state minister and senior TMC leader Firhad Hakim said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-will-be-out-of-power-on-may-2-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-956560.html
01-03-2021||National||Congress, AIUDF are like Mughals, need to be defeated: BJYM chief Tejasvi Surya in Assam||Likening the opposition Congress and the AIUDF to the Mughals, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) national president Tejasvi Surya on Sunday claimed that the two parties need to be defeated in the upcoming assembly polls to save the language, culture and heritage of Assam. The Congress has formed an alliance with Lok Sabha MP Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and other parties against the BJP-led coalition in the state. "The Congress has become a follower of Badruddin Ajmal. The Congress and the AIUDF cannot save the Assamese culture. Today, the Congress or Badruddin's party represent only the Mughals. They don't represent us," Surya said at a meeting of the BJYM, the youth wing of the BJP. "We have to resolve that to save the language, culture and heritage of Assam and to strengthen the pillar of Hindutva, we have to defeat all these Mughals. The way Lachit Borphukan defeated the Mughals, all the BJYM members have to defeat and throw these Mughals out," the BJP MP said. In the Battle of Saraighat in 1671, Ahom general Lachit Borphukan defeated the Mughal force led by Raja Ramsingh-I. The BJP had termed the 2016 Assembly polls as the "last battle of Saraighat" to defeat the former chief minister Tarun Gogoi-led Congress government. Surya claimed that the Congress does not have any policy at this moment to protect the state's culture, language and heritage. According to the 2011 Census, Assam has a total Muslim population of 1.07 crore, which is 34.22 per cent of the total 3.12 crore residents in the state. The number of Hindus is 1.92 crore, which is 61.47 per cent of the population. Elections to the northeastern state will be conducted in three phases - on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-aiudf-are-like-mughals-need-to-be-defeated-bjym-chief-tejasvi-surya-in-assam-956563.html
01-03-2021||National||Body of 15-year-old girl found in village in UP's Fatehpur; family alleges murder, rape||The body of a 15-year-old girl was recovered from a village in Khaga Police Station area here on Sunday, an officer said. "Acting on a tip-off, police recovered the body and it was sent for post-mortem examination," SHO Santosh Kumar Sharma said. In a complaint to the police, the girl's father said she had gone to relieve herself in the forest on Saturday evening but did not return, the SHO said. Sharma said the family members of the girl have alleged murder after rape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/body-of-15-year-old-girl-found-in-village-in-ups-fatehpur-family-alleges-murder-rape-956566.html
01-03-2021||National||Three labourers killed after wall falls on them in UP||Three labourers died on Sunday evening when the wall of an under-construction house fell on them in Kotwali police station area here, police said. SHO Anoop Kumar Dubey said that the incident took place at around 8 pm in Kiratsagar area when the wall of an under-construction a house collapsed and it fell on the three labourers, who died. The identity of the deceased is yet to be ascertained but they are in the age group of 30-35 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-labourers-killed-after-wall-falls-on-them-in-up-956580.html
01-03-2021||National||India, US reaffirm strategic partnership at bilateral meeting of UN envoys||India and the US reaffirmed their strategic partnership and efforts to strengthen multilateralism, during a meeting between the UN envoys of the two democracies on Sunday, as Washington praised New Delhi for supplying critical Covid-19 vaccines across the world. US Ambassador to the UN, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, held a series of bilateral meetings with her UN Security Council counterparts. India's Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador T S Tirumurti, on Twitter, wrote that during the meeting with Thomas-Greenfield the two sides reaffirmed their strategic partnership. "Pleasure to meet new @USAmbUN Permanent Representative @LindaT_G and discuss priorities of US Presidency of @UN #SecurityCouncil," Tirumurti tweeted. “We reaffirmed our strategic partnership. India's vaccine contribution was welcomed. We'll work together to strengthen multilateralism,” he tweeted. Beginning its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the powerful 15-nation council in January, India had said it comes into the Security Council as the largest democracy in the world, representing one-sixth of humanity and "with a strong commitment to reformed multilateralism, rule of law, fair and equitable international system, peace, security and development." Thomas-Greenfield, who formally presented her credentials to UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres last week, asserted that "multilateralism is back, and diplomacy is back, and America is back, and we're ready to get to work." Ahead of the US assuming the Security Council presidency on March 1 for the month, Thomas-Greenfield held meetings with all 14 of the Permanent Representatives to the UN on the Security Council. "In meetings with the Permanent Representatives to the United Nations from Estonia, India, Kenya, Mexico, Niger, Tunisia, and Vietnam, Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield discussed the upcoming US presidency of the UN Security Council and conveyed the Biden administration's commitment to renewed engagement with the international community," United States Mission Spokesperson Olivia Dalton said in a statement. In her discussions, Thomas-Greenfield raised issues of mutual interest and concern, including US policy on regional issues, opportunities for future cooperation at the UN, shared priorities in the UN Security Council, and the humanitarian crisis in the Tigray region of Ethiopia, Dalton said in the statement. India's efforts and contribution towards providing critical supplies of the COVID-19 vaccines around the world are being widely applauded, with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres hailing India for being a “global leader in pandemic response efforts”. India has provided coronavirus vaccines, critical medicines, diagnostic kits, ventilators and personal protective equipment to more than 150 countries. India has also announced a gift of 200,000 COVID-19 vaccine doses for UN Peacekeepers, ensuring that it will be possible to administer the required double doses of COVID-19 vaccines to the 94,484-UN Peacekeepers across the 12 missions. Under the initiative 'Vaccine Maitri' -- translates to 'Vaccine Friendship' -- India is providing immunisation doses to the world. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had told the Security Council last week that India is a significant contributor to the international vaccine alliance, COVAX, and that it was also directly sending vaccines to friends and partners. "Starting with our immediate neighbours, 25 nations across the world have already received 'Made in India' vaccines. Forty-nine more countries will be supplied in the coming days, ranging from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean to Africa, South-East Asia and the Pacific Islands,” Jaishankar had said. Guterres had said that efforts by India in developing and manufacturing one of the two vaccines currently granted 'Emergency Use Listing' by the World Health Organisation brought “much-needed supply to the global vaccine market”. Two versions of the AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine were given the WHO's 'Emergency Use Listing'. The versions of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, produced by AstraZeneca-SK Bioscience (AZ-SKBio) and the Serum Institute of India (AZ-SII), are now available for global rollout through the COVAX Facility. Addressing reporters at the Security Council stakeout, after presenting her credentials to Guterres, Thomas-Greenfield had said that the United Nations is the world's "most important forum" for bringing people and countries together. She said the administration of President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris knows that "when America is at the table and acting in accordance with our values, the United States is an indispensable institution" for the advancement of peace, security, and collective well-being. “We're clear-eyed about the difficult work that needs to be done, from elevating human rights to reforming the UN itself, to addressing conflicts old and new around the world, and we look forward to engaging our allies and our partners to get it done. After all, we're stronger when we are working together," she had said in her brief remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-reaffirm-strategic-partnership-at-bilateral-meeting-of-un-envoys-956581.html
01-03-2021||National||Many mobile games violent, explicit, addictive; PUBG just one example: Javadekar||Many mobile games are "violent, explicit and addictive", and PUBG was just one example, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said Sunday, announcing a government plan to set up a center of excellence in gaming and other related areas to promote Indian cultural ethos. PUBG was among over 100 China-origin mobile applications banned by the government last year. The Minister for Information and Broadcasting said his ministry has decided to form a gaming centre to teach courses related to VFX, gaming and animation so that new games are developed that promote Indian cultural ethos. Addressing the opening ceremony of virtual exhibition and prize Announcement of 'Khel Khel Mein -- A Pan Maharashtra Toy/Game/ Project Design Competition' -- the minister said the courses will commence this year itself. “Happy to announce that Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in collaboration with IIT Bombay has decided to form a Center of Excellence in gaming and other related areas. We are at an advanced stage of preparation and this will come into effect as the new session begins in 2021. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is passionate about preserving and perpetuating Indian values, heritage and cultural ethos and is putting in immense effort so that the children and youth of our country are made aware of our rich culture and tradition," the minister said. "We can also introduce those values via modern technology and put it to optimum use," he said. He said many games played on mobile and other gadgets are "violent, explicit, addictive and tend to create a complex in the mind of children". "PUBG was just one example of it, but criticising those games is not the solution. The solution is to create our own games and apps in line with #MakeInIndia for the world so that these are adopted world over for their basic values that are an integral part of our Indian ethos," Javadekar said. He said this effort by Modi government will fructify and lead the nation into creating new games that promote Indian cultural ethos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-mobile-games-violent-explicit-addictive-pubg-just-one-example-javadekar-956582.html
01-03-2021||National||Science should be solution-based, people-centric: Harsh Vardhan||Fundamental and translational science is important but it has to be solution-based and people-centric, Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion of National Science Day, Vardhan said it is the problems of the people that should be guiding the intellectual acumen while pursuing research.   "We have to make sure that the science that we do…of course, the fundamental science is important, translational science is important (but) it has to be solution-based science. It has to be people-centric," Vardhan said in a virtual address. The National Science Day is celebrated on this day to mark the anniversary of Raman Effect, the discovery made by Indian physicist Sir C V Raman.   Vardhan also lauded the scientific community for its contribution during the coronavirus pandemic and also developing vaccines to fight the infection. "Because of the contribution of the scientific community, everybody has been able to enjoy the benefits of the vaccine which has brought a great name to the country. "It is only the COVID warriors and frontline workers who have already received the vaccine in the last one-and-half month but from tomorrow everybody above 60 years of age in this country are going to get vaccine which has been developed by the scientific community, of course, aided by the industry and other relevant partners," Vardhan said. The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people above 60 years and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities will begin from March 1 and registration on the Co-WIN2.0 portal will open at 9 am on Monday. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Arogya Setu. Elaborating on the budgetary allocations for this sector in 2021-22, Vardhan said there has been a hike of 30 per cent for all the scientific ministries. Projects like Deep Ocean Mission, with an outlay of Rs 4,000 crore over the next five years, are also being launched, he said.          The minister also released the first-ever National S&T Database on S&T Awards in India and Indian origin academicians abroad. Speaking at the event, Department of Science and Technology Secretary Ashutosh Sharma stressed on the need of inter-disciplinary research. He said inter-disciplinary research is the foundation of science and it is also the future. "We talk of being inter-disciplinary only because we have created water-tight disciplines. But problems are multi-dimensional," he said.   Sharma said the future is built on data information and Industry 4.0 is all about it. Earlier industries, he noted, were built into controlling the flow of materials and energy. The important aspects of the future of science and technology are diversity, inclusion and equity, he said. The future problems need a shared perspective with regards to gender, people from different geographical locations and transcending the barriers of age, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/science-should-be-solution-based-people-centric-harsh-vardhan-956584.html
01-03-2021||National||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi praises Odisha man who trains youths to join armed forces for free||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised Odisha's "Naik Sir" for his selfless service in training youths to join the armed forces and the police. Modi thanked 28-year-old Silu Nayak of Jagatsinghpur in his 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme. "There is a gentleman at Arakhuda in Odisha Nayak Sir. As such his name is Silu Nayak. He is a man on a mission. He imparts free training to the youths who want to join the army. The name of Nayak Sir's organisation is Mahaguru Battalion," the prime minister said in the programme. "You will be surprised to know that the people this organisation has trained, have secured their places in uniformed forces such as the Army, Navy, Air Force, CRPF and BSF," said Modi. The PM said that it is amazing that Nayak had himself tried to get recruited in Odisha Police, but could not succeed. Despite this, on the basis of his own training, he has made many youths worthy of national service. "Come, let us all wish Nayak Sir greater success for preparing more heroes for our country," Modi said. For the last five years, Nayak has been training youths interested in joining the armed forces. He imparts the training at the dry Devi river bed at Arakhuda. He has so far trained around 300 youths and 70 of them have been recruited in the armed forces. "It is really a matter of pride to be named by the prime minister. It gives pleasure to get recognition for your service," Nayak told reporters. "After completing my graduation from a college at Naugaan in Jagatsinghpur, I prepared hard for the physical fitness and written tests," he said adding that it has helped him in training the youths. Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi too praised Nayak saying that his efforts will inspire more youths of Odisha to join the Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-praises-odisha-man-who-trains-youths-to-join-armed-forces-for-free-956592.html
01-03-2021||National||Pune woman's death: Complaint filed against Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod||Trouble seems to be mounting for Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod, with the police here saying that a complaint has been submitted to them against him and two others in connection with the death of a woman earlier this month. Earlier on Sunday, Rathod resigned from the state cabinet amid allegations of complicity in the death of Puja Chavan (23), a resident of Beed district, who was found dead in Pune on February 8, apparently after falling off from the building in which she lived. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone V) Namrata Patil said one Shanta Rathod from Beed, claiming to be Chavan's grandmother, approached Wanawadi police station and submitted a complaint application in which she sought an offence to be registered in connection with the death. When asked whether the woman has named anyone in her complaint, Patil said she has sought action against three people, including minister Sanjay Rathod. "On the basis of some audio clips that are being circulated on social media, the woman has sought an FIR against the trio," Patil added. The DCP, however, also said that Chavan's parents have told the police that they do not have any links with the complainant woman. "Probe is being carried out from all angles," Patil said. Talking to reporters, the complainant said that the police have admitted her complaint. "The police told us that they will investigate the facts before registering an offence against the suspects. But in order to press for our demand for early filing of the case, I staged a protest with activist Trupti Desai outside the police station," she said. However, the police officials later told them not to protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pune-womans-death-complaint-filed-against-maharashtra-minister-sanjay-rathod-956594.html
01-03-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi leads the way, takes first Covid-19 shot as mass rollout begins||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Union ministers, chief ministers and senior political leaders received their first shot of Covid-19 vaccines on Monday as the second phase of the vaccination drive began. The prime minister drove to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) early Monday morning where he was administered the first shot of home-grown Covaxin and issued an appeal to all those eligible to get vaccinated. Modi’s brief visit to AIIMS was full of symbolism – both on healthcare and political fronts. By getting vaccinated using Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, the prime minister also sought to put at rest doubts over the safety of the home-grown vaccine. Took my first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against COVID-19. “Now, the vaccine hesitancy issue should be buried once for all,” Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said. The first day of the expanded vaccination drive also saw some glitches with patients being turned away due to issues in registering on the Co-WIN software. Modi also tried to send a message to voters in poll-bound states by sporting an Assamese 'gamosa' to AIIMS where he was administered the vaccine by P Niveda, a nurse from Puducherry with assistance from Rosamma Anil from Kerala. “Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against Covid-19,” Modi tweeted after taking the vaccine shot. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said the prime minister took the shot around 6.30 am and was kept under observation for half-and-hour as per protocol. His second dose is due after 28 days India expanded its Covid-19 vaccine coverage on Monday by including everyone over 60 and those aged between 45-59 who have co-morbidities in the net. Modi also used humour to put at ease the medical staff during the inoculation and asked the nurses whether they were planning to use some special thick needle as politicians were known to be “very thick-skinned”. Besides the prime minister, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Home Minister Amit Shah, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, NCP chief Sharad Pawar also took their first shots of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-leads-the-way-takes-first-covid-19-shot-as-mass-rollout-begins-956606.html
01-03-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Build an online army of people who easily get offended'||The government on Thursday announced new rules to regulate digital content to create a 'level playing field' for all stakeholders, with a Code of Ethics and a three-tier grievance redressal framework for news websites and OTT platforms. Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said these rules will empower social media users while bringing in a first-of-its-kind code, which prescribes how digital platforms will regulate themselves to fall in line with Indian laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-build-an-online-army-of-people-who-easily-get-offended-956608.html
01-03-2021||National||Study suggests Chinese cyber campaign targeted India's power grid after Galwan Valley clash||Early last summer, Chinese and Indian troops clashed in a surprise border battle in the remote Galwan Valley, bashing each other to death with rocks and clubs. Four months later and more than 1,500 miles away in Mumbai, India, trains shut down and the stock market closed as the power went out in a city of 20 million people. Hospitals had to switch to emergency generators to keep ventilators running amid a coronavirus outbreak that was among India’s worst. Now, a new study lends weight to the idea that those two events may have been connected — as part of a broad Chinese cyber campaign against India’s power grid, timed to send a message that if India pressed its claims too hard, the lights could go out across the country. The study shows that as the battles raged in the Himalayas, taking at least two dozen lives, Chinese malware was flowing into the control systems that manage electricity supply across India, along with a high-voltage transmission substation and a coal-fired power plant. The flow of malware was pieced together by Recorded Future, a Somerville, Massachusetts, company that studies the use of the internet by state actors. It found that most of the malware was never activated. And because Recorded Future could not get inside India’s power systems, it could not examine the details of the code itself, which was placed in strategic power-distribution systems across the country. While it has notified Indian authorities, so far they are not reporting what they have found. Stuart Solomon, Recorded Future’s chief operating officer, said that the Chinese state-sponsored group, which the firm named Red Echo, “has been seen to systematically utilize advanced cyber intrusion techniques to quietly gain a foothold in nearly a dozen critical nodes across the Indian power generation and transmission infrastructure.” The discovery raises the question about whether an outage that struck on Oct. 13 in Mumbai, one of the country’s busiest business hubs, was meant as a message from Beijing about what might happen if India pushed its border claims too vigorously. News reports at the time quoted Indian officials as saying that the cause was a Chinese-origin cyberattack on a nearby electricity load-management centre. Authorities began a formal investigation, which is due to report in the coming weeks. Since then, Indian officials have gone silent about the Chinese code, whether it set off the Mumbai blackout and the evidence provided to them by Recorded Future that many elements of the nation’s electric grid were the target of a sophisticated Chinese hacking effort. It is possible the Indians are still searching for the code. But acknowledging its insertion, one former Indian diplomat noted, could complicate the diplomacy in recent days between China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, and his Indian counterpart, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, in an effort to ease the border tensions. The investigators who wrote the Recorded Future study, which is set to be published Monday, said that “the alleged link between the outage and the discovery of the unspecified malware” in the system “remains unsubstantiated.” But they noted that “additional evidence suggested the coordinated targeting of the Indian load dispatch centers,” which balance the electrical demands across regions of the country. The discovery is the latest example of how the conspicuous placement of malware in an adversary’s electric grid or other critical infrastructure has become the newest form of both aggression and deterrence — a warning that if things are pushed too far, millions could suffer. “I think the signalling is being done” by China to indicate “that we can and we have the capability to do this in times of a crisis,” said retired Lt. Gen. D.S. Hooda, a cyber expert who oversaw India’s borders with Pakistan and China. “It’s like sending a warning to India that this capability exists with us.” Both India and China maintain medium-sized nuclear arsenals, which have traditionally been seen as the ultimate deterrent. But neither side believes that the other would risk a nuclear exchange in response to bloody disputes over the Line of Actual Control, an ill-defined border demarcation where long-running disputes have escalated into deadly conflicts by increasingly nationalistic governments. Cyberattacks give them another option — less devastating than a nuclear attack, but capable of giving a country a strategic and psychological edge. Russia was a pioneer in using this technique when it turned the power off twice in Ukraine several years ago. And the United States has engaged in similar signalling. After the Department of Homeland Security announced publicly that the American power grid was littered with code inserted by Russian hackers, the United States put code into Russia’s grid in a warning to President Vladimir Putin. Now the Biden administration is promising that within weeks it will respond to another intrusion — it will not yet call it an attack — from Russia, one that penetrated at least nine government agencies and more than 100 corporations. So far, the evidence suggests that the SolarWinds hack, named for the company that made network-management software that was hijacked to insert the code, was chiefly about stealing information. But it also created the capability for far more destructive attacks — and among the companies that downloaded the Russian code were several American utilities. They maintain that the incursions were managed, and that there was no risk to their operations. Until recent years, China’s focus had been on information theft. But Beijing has been increasingly active in placing code into infrastructure systems, knowing that when it is discovered, the fear of an attack can be as powerful a tool as an attack itself. In the Indian case, Recorded Future sent its findings to India’s Computer Emergency Response Team, or CERT-In, a kind of investigative and early-warning agency most nations maintain to keep track of threats to critical infrastructure. Twice the centre has acknowledged receipt of the information, but said nothing about whether it, too, found the code in the electric grid. Repeated efforts by The New York Times to seek comment from the centre and several of its officials over the past two weeks yielded no response. The Chinese government, which did not respond to questions about the code in the Indian grid, could argue that India started the cyberaggression. In India, a patchwork of state-backed hackers were caught using coronavirus-themed phishing emails to target Chinese organizations in Wuhan last February. A Chinese security company, 360 Security Technology, accused state-backed Indian hackers of targeting hospitals and medical research organizations with phishing emails, in an espionage campaign. Four months later, as tensions rose between the two countries on the border, Chinese hackers unleashed a swarm of 40,300 hacking attempts on India’s technology and banking infrastructure in just five days. Some of the incursions were so-called denial-of-service attacks that knocked these systems offline; others were phishing attacks, according to the police in the Indian state of Maharashtra, home to Mumbai. By December, security experts at the Cyber Peace Foundation, an Indian nonprofit that follows hacking efforts, reported a new wave of Chinese attacks, in which hackers sent phishing emails to Indians related to the Indian holidays in October and November. Researchers tied the attacks to domains registered in China’s Guangdong and Henan provinces, to an organization called Fang Xiao Qing. The aim, the foundation said, was to obtain a beachhead in Indians’ devices, possibly for future attacks. “One of the intentions seems to be power projection,” said Vineet Kumar, president of the Cyber Peace Foundation. The foundation has also documented a surge of malware directed at India’s power sector, from petroleum refineries to a nuclear power plant, since last year. Because it is impossible for the foundation or Recorded Future to examine the code, it is unclear whether they are looking at the same attacks, but the timing is the same. Yet except for the Mumbai blackout, the attacks have not disrupted the provision of energy, officials said. And even there, officials have gone quiet after initially determining that the code was most likely Chinese. Yashasvi Yadav, a police official in charge of Maharashtra’s cyber-intelligence unit, said authorities found “suspicious activity” that suggested the intervention of a state actor. But Yadav declined to elaborate, saying the investigation’s full report would be released in early March. Nitin Raut, a state government minister quoted in local reports in November blaming sabotage for the Mumbai outage, did not respond to questions about the blackout. Military experts in India have renewed calls for the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to replace the Chinese-made hardware for India’s power sector and its critical rail system. “The issue is we still haven’t been able to get rid of our dependence on foreign hardware and foreign software,” Hooda said. Indian government authorities have said a review is underway of India’s information technology contracts, including with Chinese companies. But the reality is that ripping out existing infrastructure is expensive and difficult.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-suggests-chinese-cyber-campaign-targeted-indias-power-grid-after-galwan-valley-clash-956614.html
01-03-2021||National||Here's how you can register for Covid-19 vaccine on Co-WIN 2.0 portal||As India begins the next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive today, registration on the Co-WIN 2.0 portal is set to open at 9 am. In this phase, people above 60 years and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities will be prioritised.  On February 26, 2021, the Union Health Ministry disclosed that those willing to take the Covid-19 vaccine would have to follow one of the three routes to get the jab — one being the Co-WIN 2.0 app where beneficiaries will be able to self-register in advance. Here is how to register for Covid-19 vaccine on the Co-WIN 2.0 portal: 2. Citizens above 60 years are eligible for the vaccine while those between 45-59 years will have to produce a certificate from a registered doctor if they have any of the specified 20 comorbidities. The cut-off date for calculating the age is January 1, 2021.  3. Appointments for any date for a Covid vaccination centre will be closed at 3 pm on that day for which the slots were opened. For example, for March 1 the slots will be open from 9 am till 3 pm and the appointments can be booked anytime before that. 4. However, on March 1, an appointment can also be booked for any future date for which vaccination slots are available. 5. A slot for the second dose will also be booked at the same Covid vaccination centre on the 29th day of the date of appointment of the 1st dose. If a beneficiary cancels a first dose appointment, then the appointment of both doses will be cancelled. 6. The eligible persons will be able to register at the Co-WIN 2.0 portal through their mobile number, through a step by step process. With one mobile number, a person can register as many as four beneficiaries. However, all those registered on one mobile number will have nothing in common except for the mobile number. 7. The photo ID card number for each such beneficiary must be different. Either of the following photo identity documents can be used by citizens for availing of online registration — Aadhaar Card/Letter, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), passport, driving license, PAN Card, NPR Smart Card or Pension Document with a photograph. 8. The healthcare and frontline workers who had missed out on their vaccination schedule can also get the shots if they produce a letter from their employer or an ID card as proof of their profession. 9. All beneficiaries would be captured on Co-WIN 2.0 platform and issued a digital QR Code based provisional (on receiving the first dose) and final (on receiving the second dose) certificates. 10. The vaccination certificates can be downloaded from the link shown in the SMS the beneficiary shall receive after the vaccination. Print outs of these certificates can also be taken from the vaccination centres. What are specified co-morbidities for the age group of 45-59 years? The ministry specified 20 co-morbidities within the 45-59 years age group including heart failure with hospital admission in past one year, moderate or severe valvular heart disease, coronary artery disease, CT/ MRI documented stroke, diabetes ( >10 years or with complications) and hypertension on treatment, end-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis, diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after 2000 or currently on any cancer therapy for which one will have to submit a medical certificate. How much will the vaccines cost? All vaccines provided to beneficiaries at the government health facilities will be entirely free of cost, while private facilities cannot charge the beneficiary a sum above Rs 250 per person per dose (Rs 150 for vaccines and Rs 100 as operational charges).   Private hospitals will have to remit the cost of vaccine doses allotted to them in a designated account of the National Health Authority (NHA). The payment gateway for the same is being enabled by the NHA on their website. What are the other options? Those who cannot self-register in advance, have the option to register on-site, allowing them to walk into the identified CVC and get vaccinated. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-you-can-register-for-covid-19-vaccine-on-co-win-20-portal-956618.html
01-03-2021||National||Full list of private hospitals where Covid-19 vaccine is administered||India will launch the world’s biggest Covid vaccination drive on Monday, aiming to inoculate 27 crore people of age 45 and above in an effort to break the virus’s chain of transmission and end the pandemic in the country. The registration for the vaccination in the Co-WIN 2.0 software will open at 9 am, and the slots for booking at more than 8,600 central government empanelled government and private hospitals will remain open till 3 pm. The recipients, however, will not have a choice in selecting the vaccine as they will have to settle for the jabs offered by the hospitals. "States can use 10,000 hospitals under AB-PMJAY and 687 hospitals under CGHS as Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs), who may recover a charge subject to a ceiling of ₹250 per person per dose," the Union health ministry said in a statement. Private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 per dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday as India prepares to vaccinate people aged above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities from March 1. Here is a full list of private hospitals where you can get your Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/full-list-of-private-hospitals-where-covid-19-vaccine-is-administered-956619.html
01-03-2021||National||India sees 15,510 new Covid-19 cases, 106 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally surpassed 1.11 crore on Monday with 15,510 new infections, while the active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day and were recorded at 1,68,627, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases reached 1,11,12,241 in the country, while the death toll rose to 1,57,157 with 106 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am on Monday showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,86,457, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.07 per cent, it stated. The case fatality rate has dropped to 1.41 per cent. The active cases further increased to 1,68,627, which comprises 1.52 per cent of the total infections, as per the data. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 21,68,58,774 samples have been tested for coronavirus till February 28, with 6,27,668 samples being tested on Sunday. The 106 new fatalities include 62 from Maharashtra, 15 from Kerala, seven from Punjab and five from Karnataka. A total of 1,57,157 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,154 from Maharashtra, 12,496 from Tamil Nadu, 12,331 from Karnataka, 10,910 from Delhi, 10,268 from West Bengal, 8,725 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-15510-new-covid-19-cases-106-deaths-956629.html
01-03-2021||National||Leading from the front: How netizens reacted to PM Modi taking Covid-19 vaccine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS Delhi on Monday.  "Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against Covid-19," he said in a tweet and appealed to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine and make India free of Covid-19. Netizens and politicians were quick to react to the Prime Minister taking his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. BJP's Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi tweeted, "Action speak louder than words, Let us make India 🇮🇳 COVID-19 free👍🙏🤲" Rajya Sabha MP and Shiv Sena deputy leader, Priyanka Chaturvedi said that it was heartening that the PM took a dose of Covaxin. Union minister Pralhad Joshi, tweeted, "Under PM Shri @NarendraModi ji, the nation is vaccinating its citizens & also sending supplies to other countries." Union minister Prakash Javadekar, said, "The Prime Minister @narendramodi took the first shot of the vaccine at AIIMS today following the rules." Twitter user @meggi_07 tweeted, "He led the way in #AatmanirbharBharat drive by taking a dose of locally developed Bharat Biotech's #Covaxin." Another user, @AmitsharmaGRENO, tweeted, "Just like a common man, he waited for his turn. That's called true leadership."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leading-from-the-front-how-netizens-reacted-to-pm-modi-taking-covid-19-vaccine-956633.html
01-03-2021||National||Election FAQs: What is NOTA?||Many among the 18 crore voters to exercise their franchise are likely to be new voters. For them, the ECI has provided a facility to apply for a voter ID online, allowing them to bypass the hassle of going to offices. But what choice do the voters have in choosing between the candidates placed by the various parties? In the process of voting, apart from all the parties that are listed on the EVMs, there is another option called ‘NOTA’. What is NOTA? In India, if a voter does not support any of the candidates contesting in a particular election, but has to vote for something, then they can select the ‘None of the above’ (NOTA) option. This option empowers the voter to reject all the candidates listed on the electronic voting machine (EVM). When was it first used? NOTA was used for the first time in the 2013 assembly elections in five states - Chhattisgarh, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh - and later in the 2014 General Elections. It was introduced into the electoral process following the 2013 Supreme Court directive in PUCL versus Union of India case. The Supreme Court reasoned that the NOTA option would allow voters to express their discontent with the political parties and the candidates they put up and thus, help cleanse the political system. Does it have any impact on the results? NOTA has no electoral value in the Indian system. Even if the maximum votes are given in favour of NOTA, the candidate with the largest number of votes, which could theoretically even be just one, will still be declared elected. What purpose does it serve? Despite NOTA not having an electoral value, it is still a very significant tool for voters to express their discontent which will in turn, it hopes, cleanse the system. It is also seen as a tool for the marginalised groups to highlight their issues that would not otherwise find space in the mainstream electoral discourse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-faqs-what-is-nota-956644.html
01-03-2021||National||BJP MP Subramanian Swamy wants PM Modi to get his name removed from stadium||Stating that rechristening of the Ahmedabad cricket stadium after Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an "ill omen", BJP MP Subramanian Swamy urged that must remove his name and restore Sardar Patel’s name. "My research so far shows only two: Saddam Hussein and Gadafi. That is an ill omen. Did Nehru, Mao or Idi Amin? Modi must demand that his name be removed and Sardar Patel’s name restored," the Union Cabinet Minister tweeted on February 27. PTs is there any leader of a nation allowing a stadium to be named after himself ? My research so far shows only two: Saddam Hussein and Gadafi. That is an ill omen. Did Nehru, Mao or Idi Amin? Modi must demand that his name be removed and Sardar Patel’s name restored While inaugurating the stadium, President Kovind said, "It is a matter of pride for us that the Narendra Modi Cricket Stadium has become the world’s largest cricket stadium with a capacity of 1.32 lakh spectators." (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-subramanian-swamy-wants-pm-modi-to-get-his-name-removed-from-stadium-956656.html
01-03-2021||National||'Laga bhi di, pata hi nahi chala': PM Modi after being administered Covid-19 vaccine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was administered the first shot of the homegrown Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine on Monday as India began the second phase vaccination drive against Covid-19. The Prime Minister was administered the vaccine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences early Monday morning, developed by Bharat Biotech, by nurses P Niveda from Puducherry and Rosamma Ali from Kerala. "Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against Covid-19," he said in a tweet and appealed to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine and make India free of Covid-19. Took my first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against COVID-19. Sister P Niveda, who inoculated PM Modi today, later said that after PM Modi was administered the vaccine, he asked them where they were from. He further added that "Laga bhi di, pata hi nahi chala" (the vaccine was administered and I did not even know).  "Sir (PM Modi) has been administered the first dose of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, the second dose will be given in 28 days. He asked us where do we belong to & after vaccination he said, "Laga bhi di, pata hi nahi chala"," P Niveda told ANI. Sir (PM Modi) has been administered first dose of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, second dose will be given in 28 days. He asked us where do we belong to & after vaccination he said, "Laga bhi di, pata hi nahi chala": Sister P Niveda who inoculated PM Modi today. Modi’s brief visit to AIIMS was heavily laden with messages to address the doubts over Covaxin and messages to poll-bound states of Assam, Puducherry and Kerala. The prime minister sported an Assamese 'gamosa' on his visit to AIIMS while the nurses were from poll-bound states of Kerala and Puducherry. India is expanding its Covid-19 vaccination drive from Monday to cover senior citizens above the age of 60 years and those above 45 with co-morbidities as few states witnessed a surge in fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/laga-bhi-di-pata-hi-nahi-chala-pm-modi-after-being-administered-covid-19-vaccine-956659.html
01-03-2021||National||Election FAQs: What are Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs)?||With the Election Commission of India (ECI) announcing the Assembly poll dates for Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry, voting for the five assembly elections is set to begin from March 27. Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), familiar to voters who have voted in either the Lok Sabha Polls or any State Assembly polls, has often been under scrutiny as allegations are that it can be tampered. But what is an EVM and how does it work? Who makes it? Here's a handy guide on everything related to EVMs: What is an EVM? An EVM is an electronic device to record votes. It consists of two Units – a Control Unit and a Balloting Unit – joined by a five-meter cable. The Control Unit is placed with the Presiding Officer or a Polling Officer and the Balloting Unit is placed inside the voting compartment. Instead of issuing a ballot paper, the officer-in-charge of the Control Unit will release a ballot by pressing the Ballot Button on the Control Unit. This will enable the voter to cast their vote by pressing the blue button on the Balloting Unit. Who designs/manufactures EVMs? EVMs are devised and designed by the Technical Experts Committee of the ECI in collaboration with two public sector undertakings: Bharat Electronics Ltd., Bangalore and Electronic Corporation of India Ltd., Hyderabad. The EVMs are also manufactured by those two undertakings. What are the benefits of using EVMs? EVMs eliminate the possibility of casting 'Invalid Votes', which during the paper ballot regime was noticed in large numbers during each election. In the past, the number of 'Invalid Votes' exceeded the winning margin many times, leading to numerous complaints and litigations. EVMs remove that issue and enable a more authentic and accurate reflection of the choice of the electorate. EVMs help save an enormous amount of money and resources by dispensing individual ballot papers with just one per polling station, which is controlled by the officer-in-charge of the Control Unit.  The counting process is very quick and the result can be declared within 3 to 5 hours as compared to an average of 30-40 hours using ballot papers. How many candidates can EVMs cater to? In the case of M2 EVMs (2006-10), EVMs can cater to a maximum of 64 candidates including NOTA. There is a provision for 16 candidates in a Balloting Unit. If the total number of candidates exceeds 16, more balloting units can be attached up to a maximum of 64 candidates by connecting 4 Balloting Units. In the case of M3 EVMs (Post-2013), EVMs can cater to a maximum of 384 candidates including NOTA by connecting 24 Balloting Units. How many votes can be cast in an EVM? An EVM can record a maximum of 2,000 votes. What happens if the EVM in a particular polling station goes out of order? If an EVM of a particular polling station goes out of order, the same is replaced with a new one. The votes recorded until the stage when the EVM went out of order remains safe in the memory of the Control Unit and it is perfectly fine to proceed with the polling after replacing the EVM with a new one and there is no need to start the poll from the beginning. On the counting day, votes recorded in both Control Units are counted to give the aggregate result of that polling station. How can EVMs be used in areas where there is no electricity?  EVMs do not require electricity as they run on an ordinary battery. The design also ensures that there is no possibility of getting an electric shock as there is no external power connection to the devices. As many as 18.68 crore voters will be eligible to cast their votes at 2.7 lakh polling stations for 824 assembly seats across Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Votes for the polls in the four states and one union territory will be counted on May 2.   The elections for the five assemblies are expected to witness a determined attempt by the BJP to put a strong show, including in Assam where it is already in power, as well as in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry where the saffron party has been pushing hard in recent years.  (With inputs from PTI, ECI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-faqs-what-are-electronic-voting-machines-evms-956662.html
01-03-2021||National||Register for vaccine on Co-WIN portal, not app, clarifies Health Ministry as mass rollout begins||The Union Health Ministry said on Monday that the Co-WIN app on Play Store is meant for use only by administrators, and that registration and booking for appointment for COVID-19 vaccination has to be done through the portal. This was clarified by the ministry amid reported glitches in doing registrations as India opened up vaccination for senior citizens and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities. "Registration and booking for appointment for #COVID19 vaccination is to be done through #CoWIN Portal: www.cowin.gov.in. There is NO #CoWIN App for beneficiary registration. The App on Play Store is for administrators only," the ministry tweeted. The government had announced on Wednesday that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get COVID-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. Citizens can register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal www.cowin.gov.in or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu. There is also a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at the nearby session site to get vaccinated, it said. The eligible beneficiaries can choose the centre of their choice and book an appointment based on the slots available. All citizens that are aged or will attain the age of 60 or more as on January 1, 2022, are eligible to register, in addition to all such citizens that are aged or will attain the age of 45 to 59 years as on January 1, 2022, and have any of the specified 20 comorbidities. Citizens can register at the Co-WIN portal through their mobile number, said the ministry as it also released a user manual to handhold the citizens to register and schedule an appointment for vaccination, according to a guidance document issued by ministry. A one time password (OTP) verification will be done prior to registration to ensure veracity of the mobile number and after registration, an account will be created on Co-WIN for the person. The person can access (login) account on Co-WIN using the mobile phone number used at the time of registration. Features for adding beneficiaries, editing their details and for booking appointment(s) will be available in the citizen's account, the document stated. The citizen can delete only beneficiaries as have been added by him/her. "If one out of the four beneficiaries registered in an account is vaccinated, only three registrations are left, and so on. "Till the time of vaccination, all the records of registration and appointment can be edited/deleted by the person making the registration. Only when a person gets vaccinated, the record is locked and cannot be edited/deleted," the document stated. A beneficiary then has to select the ID card type and provide ID card number. The photo ID card number for each such beneficiary must be different. Either of the following photo identity documents can be used by citizens for availing of online registration - Aadhaar card/letter, electoral photo identity card (EPIC), passport, driving license, PAN Card, NPR smart card or pension document with a photograph. If the age of the beneficiary is from 45 to 59 years, the beneficiary will be prompted to confirm if he/she has any specified comorbidity. In such cases, the beneficiary will also be advised to bring the comorbidity certificate signed by a Registered Medical Practitioner. Once all the necessary details are recorded by the beneficiary, registration is completed and an acknowledgement (registration slip/token) will be sent to beneficiary on his registered mobile number.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/register-for-vaccine-on-co-win-portal-not-app-clarifies-health-ministry-as-mass-rollout-begins-956668.html
01-03-2021||National||NHAI creates world record by constructing 25.54 km highway in 18 hours||The National Highways Authority of India will enter the Limca Book of Records soon! Yes, you read it right, the government agency has recently completed the development of a 25.54 km single-lane stretch road in a record time of just 18 hours. The construction has been done at the Solapur-Vijaypur highway. The highway is a part of the Bengaluru-Vijayapura-Aurangabad-Gwalior corridor and this would reduce the time of travellers significantly. Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari shared this achievement on his social media and congratulated the employees who worked for this, he said, “500 employees of the contractor company have worked hard for this. I congratulate the project directors, officers, contractor company representatives and project officials of the National Highways Authority, including those employees.” “Currently 110 km of Solapur-Vijapur highway is in progress which will be completed by October 2021,” Gadkari added. Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol lauded NHAI’s feat. He said that it would set a ‘benchmark In the ongoing and upcoming projects. “I congratulate the entire team on completing the 25.54-km lane asphalting in 18 hours. The work was launched when Ramesh Jigajinagi was the union minister of state,” Karjol tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-creates-world-record-by-constructing-2554-km-highway-in-18-hours-956680.html
01-03-2021||National||PM Modi says India needs food processing revolution through PPP mode||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said there is a need to bring a food processing revolution in the country through public-private partnership. Addressing a webinar on budget provisions for the farm sector, he highlighted the various initiatives taken by the government in the Budget for the next fiscal, including increasing the target of agriculture credit to Rs 16.5 lakh crore from Rs 15 lakh crore in the current financial year. He emphasised on effective implementation of the Budget provisions. Modi said the government has taken various decisions for the benefit of 12 crore small and marginal farmers. These small and marginal farmers would become the driving force of the rural economy, he added. With the country's foodgrains production increasing, Modi said: "There is a need for post harvest revolution or food processing revolution, and value additions." He said it would have been better if food processing was given attention 2-3 decades earlier. Modi said the food processing sector needs to be developed at a faster pace. For the food processing revolution, he said, participation of farmers as well as public private partnerships need to be increased. The Prime Minister said that public sector has mainly contributed towards R&D in the agriculture sector, and now the time has come to increase private sector's participation in it. He also stressed that farmers should be given alternatives so that they do not remain limited to growing wheat and paddy. The country's agriculture sector must be expanded to global processed food market, he added. Modi stressed on increasing the number of agro-industries cluster along the villages so that rural population can get employment related to farming.  He also talked about the need to encourage agri startups, saying they have performed well during the pandemic period. The Prime Minister also emphasised on establishing network for soil testing at village level and also on accessibility of technology for farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-india-needs-food-processing-revolution-through-ppp-mode-956687.html
01-03-2021||National||'I have two daughters', says Babul Supriyo after 'sexist' tweet on Mamata Banerjee||As the war of words between the Bhartiya Janata Party and Trinamool Congress intensifies ahead of the Assembly elections, Union Minister Babul Supriyo, on Monday, drew flak for his tweet against Mamata Banerjee. Supriyo had mocked TMC’s poll slogan by sharing a meme featuring Amit Shah’s photo with a quote saying “beti paraya dhan hoti hai, iss baar vida kar denge” (a daughter is someone else’s wealth, will send her off this time). The tweet also had Mamata’s photo with a quote saying “Mai Bengal ki beti hu” (I am the daughter of Bengal). Responding to this tweet, the Trinamool Congress leader expressed her shock and rebuked BJP for sharing ‘sexist’ remarks. She tweeted, “I am extremely worried about the state of women's affairs in this country if public representatives like you endorse such chauvinist views. STUNNED and SHOCKED to see how deep and wide sexism runs in @BJP4India leaders!” However, after the tweet triggered a controversy, Supriyo took it down and said that he 'didn’t have to learn the definition of misogyny from any political party’. He posted his statement on Facebook saying, “This meme is neither made by me nor the statement is made by me. I have two daughters so I don't have to learn the definition of misogyny from any other 'political' party (be it TMC or Left-Congress).” আমার পেজ থেকে করা একটি পোস্ট নিয়ে জলঘোলা করার চেষ্টা হচ্ছে !! এটুকুই বলব যে এটি একটি বহুল-প্রচারিত meme.. বেশ কয়েকদিন... TMC last week had unveiled a poll slogan "Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chaye" (Bengal wants its own daughter), portraying Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee mascot with a focus on women voters and Bengali sub-nationalism. Bengal’s ruling party has been engaged in a bitter political fight with the BJP, pitching the opposition party's leaders as outsiders who are on "election tourism" to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-have-two-daughters-says-babul-supriyo-after-sexist-tweet-on-mamata-banerjee-956688.html
01-03-2021||National||Mumbai court issues bailable warrant against actor Kangana Ranaut||A Mumbai court on Monday issued a bailable warrant against actor Kangana Ranaut after she failed to appear before it in connection with a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court issued a summons to Ranaut on February 1, directing her to appear before it on March 1. However, Ranaut failed to appear on Monday following which Magistrate R R Khan issued a bailable warrant against her and posted the matter for further hearing on March 26. A lawyer in the case had earlier informed March 22 as the next date of hearing. Ranaut's advocate Rizwan Siddiquee argued in the court that the summons and process were issued against Ranaut without following the procedure laid down in law and hence, were "bad in law". Siddiquee said a petition would be filed in the Bombay High Court challenging the process issued by the magistrate. Akhtar's advocate Vrinda Grover, however, argued that even if the process is being challenged, Ranaut has to appear before the court as directed, in the absence of any stay on the summons by a higher court. "It is the accused's right to appeal against the order, or even challenge the proceedings, that no one can deny and no one can stop, not even this court. However, she (Ranaut) has failed to comply with the order of this court and there is also no stay obtained from a higher court,"the lawyer argued. Grover then filed an application seeking a non-bailable warrant to be issued against the actor. This was opposed by Siddiquee. Magistrate Khan observed that Ranaut was at the liberty to approach a higher court to challenge the process issued against her, but that would not absolve her from appearing before this court. The court issued a bailable warrant against Ranaut and posted the matter for hearing on March 26. Last month, the Mumbai police submitted a report to the court, saying an offence of defamation was made out against the actor. Akhtar filed the complaint against Ranaut in November last year for allegedly making baseless and false statements against him which, according to him, damaged his reputation. In his complaint, the lyricist claimed Ranaut had made defamatory comments against him in an interview by dragging his name while referring to a "coterie" existing in Bollywood, following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. Akhtar in his plea claimed the baseless comments made by Ranaut had caused damage to his reputation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-court-issues-bailable-warrant-against-actor-kangana-ranaut-956702.html
01-03-2021||National||Kolkata drug seizure case: BJP leader's aide arrested||An aide of BJP leader Rakesh Singh has been arrested here in connection with the New Alipore drug seizure case, a senior police officer said on Monday. With the fresh arrest, six persons, including two BJP leaders have been held so far in connection with the case. The accused was nabbed from a shed beside Adi Ganga canal near Orphangunge market in Watgunge police station area late on Sunday night, the officer said. "He was instructed by Rakesh Singh to wait near Kidderpore Post Office with a scooter. Amrit Singh, who is wanted in the case, escaped from the post office on that scooter," the IPS officer said, adding the vehicle has been seized. The arrested person will be produced before the Alipore Court during the day. Police had arrested BJP youth wing leader Pamela Goswami and two of her associates after seizing 90 gm cocaine from the car the trio was travelling in. Following her accusation that she was "framed" by party colleague and BJP state committee member Rakesh Singh, Kolkata Police nabbed him and another person in Galsi in Purba Barddhaman district while they were trying to escape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-drug-seizure-case-bjp-leaders-aide-arrested-956706.html
01-03-2021||National||PM Modi greets Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on 70th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended birthday greetings to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar who turned 70 on Monday. "Best wishes to Bihar CM @NitishKumarji on his birthday. Under his leadership the NDA government in Bihar is taking numerous steps for developing the state. Praying for his long and healthy life," Modi tweeted. In Bihar, where his Janata Dal (United) is organising state-wide celebrations and observing the day as 'Vikas Divas', greetings poured in from all sides for Kumar who has been the Bihar chief minister for a decade-and-a-half. Governor Phagu Chauhan came out with a message greeting the chief minister while Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha read out a statement on the floor of the House. Kumar was also greeted, on behalf of the opposition, by RJD MLA and chief spokesman Bhai Virendra. The leader of the opposition, Tejashwi Yadav, who is away canvassing for the RJD in poll-bound Assam and West Bengal, also came out with a tweet greeting the chief minister on his birthday. Several programmes are being held by JD(U) leaders to celebrate Kumar's birthday. A huge cake weighing 70 pounds is to be cut at the party's state headquarters here. Kumar's close aide and minister Ashok Choudhary has planned the plantation of 70 saplings at his official residence, as a mark of respect for the chief minister's enthusiasm for environmental preservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-on-70th-birthday-956717.html
01-03-2021||National||Election FAQs: Who are service voters?||About 18.68 crore electors will cast their votes in these states and union territory. Among voters that are supposed to vote during the elections, there’s a category called ‘service voters’. Who are service voters? Service voters are those who have a service qualification. Someone who is either a member of the Armed Forces of the Union, Armed Police Force of a State, or someone who is merely employed under the Government of India. Service voters can cast their votes either through postal ballot or through a proxy voter duly appointed to them. A voter who opts to vote through a proxy is called a Classified Service Voter. How is a service voter different from an ordinary elector? According to the Election Commission of India, While an ordinary elector is registered in the electoral roll of the constituency in which his place of ordinary residence is located, a person having service qualification can get enrolled as a ‘service voter’ at his native place even though he actually may be residing at a different place (of posting). He has, however, an option to get himself enrolled as a general elector at the place of his posting where he factually, at the point of time, is residing ordinarily with his family for a sufficient span of time. Is the wife or son/daughter of a service voter also enrolled as a service voter? If the wife is ordinally residing with the service voter, then he/she shall be eligible to be enrolled as a Service Voters in the constituency concerned. However, this facility is not available for husbands of female service voters under the existing law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-faqs-who-are-service-voters-956718.html
01-03-2021||National||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan hopes to get Covid-19 vaccine tomorrow||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that he will register for the Covid-19 vaccine today and get vaccinated tomorrow. He appealed to all citizens who are above 60 years of age, those above 45 years with comorbidities, all MPs-MLAs to get vaccinated. Expressing gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for taking Bharat Biotech's Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine, he said that he has been saying from the beginning that both the vaccines are safe and perfect as far as immunogenicity is concerned. "He (PM Modi) took Covaxin, against which a lot of misinformation was spread even when it was scientifically perfect. I think PM has given a clear message to the country. All misinformation and hesitancy should be buried once and for all," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-harsh-vardhan-hopes-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-tomorrow-956719.html
01-03-2021||National||Explained | What is VVPAT and how it functions||What are VVPATs?  VVPAT stands for Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail. As the name suggests, the machine helps to keep a paper audit trail of the votes cast. This machine from the Election Commission of India prints a paper slip of the candidate a person votes for with the name, serial number and symbol of the party. The machine has a transparent window through which the printed slip is displayed to the voter for seven seconds. The machine is meant to be used as a verification for the voter to make sure that the person’s vote has indeed been taken into account for the right candidate. After the printed slip is displayed to the voter, it falls into a sealed ballot compartment within the machine. These VVPAT machines can only be accessed by polling officers. What is the process of counting VVPAT slips?  The Election Commission (EC) does not count and verify each VVPAT with the EVM vote but carries out the process based on a random sample.  In the 2019 elections, the Supreme Court ordered the EC to check one in five EVM-VVPATs per assembly segment. The EC decided that the counting of VVPATs would be done in chronological order.  The verification of VVPAT slips is conducted inside a secured VVPAT counting booth in the counting hall, and only authorised personnel have access to this counting booth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-what-is-vvpat-and-how-it-functions-956724.html
01-03-2021||National||PM's move to get inoculated would instil confidence among people, remove hesitancy: Guleria||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's move to take the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on the very first day of India opening up the inoculation drive for senior citizens and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities should eliminate any hesitancy from the minds of people about the vaccine, AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria said on Monday. Modi received the indigenously developed Covaxin jab by Bharat Biotech on Monday morning. AIIMS was intimated about the prime minister's visit to the hospital to take the vaccine late Sunday night and as such no special arrangement was made for him, Guleria told PTI. "As it was a weekday, he chose to come early in the morning so as not to cause any inconvenience to patients at the hospital," Guleria said. "The prime minister taking the jab on the very first day would instill confidence among public and remove any hesitancy and doubts that they might have about the vaccine. People should come forward to get themselves inoculated and get India rid of the disease," he said. Guleria said that Sister P Niveda, from Puducherry who administered the Covaxin jab to the prime minister, was informed about her high-profile task only in the morning. The AIIMS director said that Modi took the shot at around 6.30 AM after which he was kept under observation for half-and-hour as per protocol, after which he left. "He is fine after taking the vaccine," Guleria said. Modi on Monday took his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS Delhi and appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated. "Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against Covid-19," Modi tweeted after taking the vaccine shot. "I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India Covid-19 free!" he said. Nurse Niveda later told reporters that the prime minister, after being administered the vaccine shot, remarked "Laga bhi diya, pata bhi nahin chala (Already done? I didn't even feel it)." The government had announced on Wednesday last that everyone above 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal -"http://www.cowin.gov.in"www.cowin.gov.in or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu. There is also a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at the nearby session site to get vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-move-to-get-inoculated-would-instil-confidence-among-people-remove-hesitancy-guleria-956734.html
01-03-2021||National||M K Stalin turns 68; Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi extend birthday greetings||DMK President M K Stalin on Monday turned 68, with a host of leaders including Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi and Kamal Haasan extending their birthday greetings to the Tamil Nadu Leader of Opposition. "A very happy birthday to DMK President Shri MK Stalin. Wishing you good health and much happiness," Gandhi said in tweet. The DMK launched a campaign song coinciding with its chief's birthday, ahead of the April 6 Assembly elections in the state, which the party is keen to win and return to power after a gap of a decade. Titled "Stalin dan vaararu, vidiyal thara poraru" (Stalin is going to come and ensure dawn), the song was released by senior DMK leader Duraimurugan. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh greeted Stalin over the phone, a DMK tweet said. BJP leader Khushbu Sundar and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan and TNCC president KS Alagiri were among those who greeted Stalin. Stalin earlier paid tributes at the memorials of his father M Karunanidhi and Dravidian stalwarts CN Annadurai and rationalist leader EVR Periyar, and later met supporters at the party headquarters Anna Arivalayam. He later celebrated his birthday with differently-abled students of a special school here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-k-stalin-turns-68-manmohan-singh-rahul-gandhi-extend-birthday-greetings-956740.html
01-03-2021||National||Six states show surge in Covid-19 cases; India's total active cases reach 1,68,627||Covid-19 cases have surged in six states – Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat which now contribute 87.25 per cent of 15,510 fresh infections reported in a day. According to the Health Ministry, Maharashtra alone accounts for 46.39 per cent of India's total active cases, followed by Kerala with 29.49 per cent. “A total of 15 states and union territories have registered more than 1,000 active cases. Kerala and Maharashtra are the two states with over 10,000 active cases, while the rest of the 13 states and UTs have between 1,000-10,000 active cases,” the ministry said. India’s total number of active Covid-19 cases now stands at 1,68,627, the ministry said. The total number of cases with the UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of SARS-CoV-2 in the country as on date has reached 213, the ministry said. Of the total 15,510 new cases registered in 24 hours ending 8:00 a.m. on Monday, Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 8,293, followed by Kerala with 3,254 cases while Punjab has reported 579 new cases. States and UTs have been advised to maintain a continued rigorous vigil for containing the spread of Covid-19. Need for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts are strongly emphasised, the ministry said. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,333 newly-recovered cases. A total of 3,753 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours, followed by 490 in Tamil Nadu. Besides, 106 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Five states account for 86.79 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties of 62 deaths. Kerala followed with 15 daily deaths and Punjab has reported seven fatalities in a span of 24 hours. A total of 20 states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Assam, Manipur, Sikkim, Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Lakshadweep, Meghalaya, Ladakh (UT), Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Uttarakhand and Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-states-show-surge-in-covid-19-cases-indias-total-active-cases-reach-168627-956755.html
01-03-2021||National||Farmers should get more avenues to sell crops: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday emphasised on farmers getting more avenues to sell crops and said a food processing revolution was needed in the country for value addition to farm produce and to realise better prices. Addressing a webinar on effective implementation of Budget provisions regarding the Agriculture Ministry, he underlined the need for increased participation of private players in the farm sector, including in research and development (R&D) work. Without making any direct reference to the three new farm reform laws or to the three-month-old agitation by farmers, Modi said there is a need for expanding options for the country's farming community to sell agri produce. "Today the need of the hour is that farmers of the country get more and more options to sell their produce," he said. Restrictions had a negative impact on the sector, he added.  While the Modi government says the three laws give farmers alternate options to sell their produce, thousands of farmers from Punjab and other states have been protesting at Delhi borders against the laws which they see will end the government procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP). Highlighting various provisions for agriculture in the Union Budget, the prime minister said agriculture credit target has been hiked to Rs 16.5 lakh crore with priority to animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries sector. He said Rural Infrastructure Fund has been increased to Rs 40,000 crore and allocation for micro irrigation has been doubled. Scope of Operation Green Scheme has been expanded to 22 perishable products and 1,000 more mandis with e-NAM will be linked, Modi highlighted. The prime minister laid emphasis on the effective and timely implementation of these budget provisions so that benefits reach to maximum people. "There is a need for post harvest revolution or food processing revolution and value addition in the country in the 21st century, amidst ever-increasing agricultural production," he said. It would have been very good for the country if this work was done two-three decades ago, Modi said. The prime minister strongly emphasised on developing processing facilities in every agriculture related sectors such as foodgrains, vegetables, fruits, fisheries etc. For this, it is critical that farmers should have the storage facilities near their villages, he said, adding that there was a need to improve the system for taking agri produces from farm land to processing units. For food processing revolution, the public-private partnerships and cooperative sectors will have to come forward with full strength along with the farming community, Modi said. He highlighted various initiatives by the government keeping small farmers at the core and said empowerment of these small farmers will greatly help in ridding Indian agriculture from many problems. Modi called for the improvement of the system of taking the produce from the fields to processing units and emphasised that hand holding of these units be done by the Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs). "We have to expand our country’s agriculture sector into the global market for processed food. We must increase the number of agro-industry clusters near the village so that the people of the village can get employment related to farming in the village itself," he said. The prime minister said organic clusters and export clusters will also play a major role in this. "We have to move towards a scenario where agro-based products move from the village to the cities and industrial products reach villages from cities," Modi said, and added that there was a need to explore ways to leverage One District, One Product scheme to take agri products to the global markets. The prime minister lamented that even though India is one of the world's major fish producers and exporters, the country's presence in processed fish in the international market was very limited. To change this scenario, in addition to the reforms, the government has announced production linked incentives worth about Rs 11,000 crore to encourage products such as ready to eat, ready to cook, processed fruits and vegetables, processed seafood and Mozzarella cheese, he said. Modi talked of Operation Greens, under which the 50 per cent subsidy is being given for the transportation of all fruits and vegetables. He said in the last 6 months alone, about 350 Kisan Rails were operated and about 1,00,000 metric tonnes of fruits and vegetables have been transported through these trains. Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign, the prime minister said that emphasis is being laid on creating clusters for fruits and vegetables processing in the districts across the country. Micro food processing units are also being set up, he added. Modi stressed on the need for using modern technology to help small farmers with cheap and effective options for hourly rental of tractors, straw machines or other farm machinery. Talking about soil health cards, he said increased awareness of farmers about soil’s health would improve crop production and called for creating soil testing network at village level. The prime minister stressed on the need for more private sector contribution towards R&D in the agriculture sector. Modi said there is a need for crop diversification. "We now have to give such options to farmers in which they are not limited to growing wheat and rice. We can try from organic food to salad-related vegetables, there are several crops," he said. He stressed on the need to tap the market for seaweed and beeswax and said seaweed farming and beeswax would generate an additional revenue stream for fishermen and bee farmers. Stating that contract farming has been present in India in some form or the other for a very long time, Modi said there is a need to ensure that contract farming doesn't remain just a business concept but it should fulfil responsibility towards the land. The prime minister said there should be concerted efforts to find a comprehensive technological solution for agri and allied activities. Modi said there is a need to promote startups associated with the agriculture sector and connect the youth. He highlighted that the Kisan Credit Card facility has been extended to farmers, cattle ranchers and fishermen. More than 1.80 crore farmers have been given Kisan Credit Cards in the last one year. The provision of credit has also been more than doubled compared to 6-7 years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-should-get-more-avenues-to-sell-crops-pm-modi-956779.html
01-03-2021||National||Chinese hackers target SII, Bharat Biotech, says security firm||A Chinese state-backed hacking group has in recent weeks targeted the IT systems of two Indian vaccine makers whose coronavirus shots are being used in the country's immunisation campaign, cyber intelligence firm Cyfirma told Reuters. Rivals China and India have both sold or gifted Covid-19 shots to many countries. India produces more than 60% of all vaccines sold in the world. Goldman Sachs-backed Cyfirma, based in Singapore and Tokyo, said Chinese hacking group APT10, also known as Stone Panda, had identified gaps and vulnerabilities in the IT infrastructure and supply chain software of Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine maker. "The real motivation here is actually exfiltrating intellectual property and getting competitive advantage over Indian pharmaceutical companies," said Cyfirma Chief Executive Kumar Ritesh, formerly a top cyber official with British foreign intelligence agency MI6. He said APT10 was actively targeting SII, which is making the AstraZeneca vaccine for many countries and will soon start bulk-manufacturing Novavax shots. "In the case of Serum Institute, they have found a number of their public servers running weak web servers, these are vulnerable web servers," Ritesh said, referring to the hackers. "They have spoken about weak web application, they are also talking about weak content-management system. It's quite alarming." China's foreign ministry did not immediately reply to a request for comment. SII and Bharat Biotech declined to comment. The government-run Indian Computer Emergency Response Team, with whom Cyfirma said it had shared its findings, had no immediate comment. Ritesh, whose firm follows the activities of some 750 cyber criminals and monitors nearly 2,000 hacking campaigns using a tool called decipher, said it was not yet clear what vaccine-related information APT10 may have accessed from the Indian companies. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin shot, developed with the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research, will be exported to many countries, including Brazil. US drugmaker Pfizer Inc and its German partner BioNTech SE said in December that documents related to development of their Covid-19 vaccine had been "unlawfully accessed" in a cyberattack on Europe's medicines regulator. Relations between nuclear-armed neighbours China and India soured last June when 20 Indian and four Chinese soldiers were killed in a Himalayan border fight. Recent talks have eased tension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-hackers-target-sii-bharat-biotech-says-security-firm-956783.html
01-03-2021||National||Power Ministry says no impact on any functionalities of POSOCO due to malware attack||With the US cyber firm claiming Chinese government linked RedECho tried to criple the Indian power installations amid heightened border tensions between the two nations, the Centre on Monday said that there was no data breach due to the malware attack. Admitting that there was an attempt to attack electricity grid system in the country, the Ministry of Power in a statement said, "An email was received from CERT-In on 19th November, 2020 on the threat of malware called Shadow Pad at some control centres of POSOCO. Accordingly, action has been taken to address these threats." "There is no impact on any of the functionalities carried out by Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO) due to the referred threat. No data breach/ data loss has been detected due to these incidents," said the statement. "Prompt actions are being taken by the CISOs (chief information security officers) at all these control centres under operation by POSOCO for any incident/advisory received from various agencies like CERT-in, NCIIPC, CERT-Trans etc," the statement said. However, China on Monday denied the reports on its alleged involvement in cyber attack on Indian power system. As a staunch defender of cyber security, China firmly opposes and cracks down on all forms of cyber attacks, Wang Wenbin, spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement. "Speculation and fabrication have no role to play on the issue of cyber attacks, as it is very difficult to trace the origin of a cyber attack. It is highly irresponsible to accuse a particular party when there is no sufficient evidence around,. China is firmly opposed to such irresponsible and ill-intentioned practice," the statement added. The CERT-in (Indian Computer Emergency Response Team) is the nodal agency to deal with cyber security threats like hacking and phishing. The NCIIPC (National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) oversees India’ cybersecurity operations in critical sectors. The ministry was responding to a study report conducted by Recorded Future, a Massachusetts-based company, which suggested that a Chinese government linked group targeted India's power grid system through malware, a software designed to cause damage to a computer network. The study raised suspicion that if last year''s massive power outage in Mumbai was a result of the online intrusion. However, the ministry did not mention the Mumbai outage in its statement. On October 12, a grid failure in Mumbai resulted in massive power outages, stopping trains on tracks, hampering those working from home amidst the Covid-19 pandemic and hitting the economic activity hard. It took two hours for the power supply to resume essential services, prompting Maharashtra government to launch a probe into the incident. The incident further fuelled concerns that the country’s power infrastructure could be the next target for crippling India’s economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-ministry-says-no-impact-on-any-functionalities-of-posoco-due-to-malware-attack-956796.html
01-03-2021||National||Highways construction touches record 33 km a day: Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday said highway building has achieved a new feat, with the construction touching record 30 km a day. The feat could be achieved after the construction of 11,035 kilometres of national highways this fiscal so far, Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari said while talking to reporters here. "We have built 11,035 km of highways till date this year. This comes to 32.85 km a day of highway building, which is a record," Gadkari said. The minister also said that by March 31, it may reach 40 km a day. He said the achievement was remarkable as it could be achieved despite constraints posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. The feat, he said, comes close on the heels of a world record in the construction of a stretch of the Mumbai-Delhi Expressway. The minister said that when he took over the charge of the ministry, the highway building pace was just 2 km a day, with 406 stalled projects entailing an investment of Rs 3.85 lakh crore. It was a slew of steps that saved Indian banks from Rs 3 lakh crore of non-performing assets (NPAs), he said. Gadkari said massive initiatives to resolve the deadlocks and accelerate the pace of highway building, including termination of projects worth Rs 40,000 crore, resulted in fast-tracking of the road building. "Now, the ministry is targeting 40 km a day by March-end, given the pace of execution," he added The government envisages building 34,800 km of highways at a cost of about Rs 5.35 lakh crore under the ambitious Bharatmala Pariyojna. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), he said, has also made a world record by laying down 12,500 cubic metres of concrete on a stretch of 2.54 km. NHAI contractor Patel Infrastructure had created a world record by laying the highest quantity of concrete on a four-lane highway in 24 hours recently. The feat by contractor Patel Infrastructure Ltd was recognised by the India Book of Records and Golden Book of World Records. It had laid a four-lane highway of 2,580 metres length within 24 hours totalling about 10.32 lane km. The highway is part of the greenfield Delhi-Vadodara-Mumbai 8-lane Expressway project and was carried out by the world's largest fully automatic ultra-modern concrete paver machine. In total, projects of 8,948 km of roads were awarded in 2019-20, while 10,237 km of roads were constructed. The achievement assumes significance given the fact that the first two months of the current financial year were lost due to the nationwide lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The ministry has taken several initiatives to increase the pace of construction. The pace of construction is expected to increase further in the remaining months of the current financial year, which are conducive for construction activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highways-construction-touches-record-33-km-a-day-nitin-gadkari-956812.html
01-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: PM Modi administered Covaxin; Plea in SC against 8-phase Assembly poll in West Bengal||In your evening news brief, Prime Minister Narendra Modi administered Covaxin; Plea in Supreme Court against 8-phase Assembly poll in West Bengal and Pope Francis to visit Iraq. Here are the top news of March 1, 2021: The prime minister appealed to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. The registration for the vaccination in the Co-WIN 2.0 software will open at 9 am, and the slots for booking at more than 8,600 central government empanelled government and private hospitals will remain open till 3 pm. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu. Several leaders including VP Venkaiah Naidu, NCP’s Sharad Pawar and Supriya Sule too took the vaccine. A plea challenging the Election Commission’s decision to conduct assembly elections over eight phases in West Bengal was filed in the Supreme Court on Monday. The plea, filed by lawyer M L Sharma, seeks the apex court’s direction to the poll panel to stop it from conducting eight-phase elections in the state as it violates Article 14 and Article 21 of the Constitution. Pope Francis is to arrive Friday for the first-ever papal visit to conflict-torn Iraq, aiming to encourage the dwindling Christian community to remain in their ancient homeland, and broaden his outreach to Islam. Among the most extraordinary moments of the trip will be his one-on-one meeting with Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani, the highly reclusive cleric, who is a top religious authority for many of the world's Shiite Muslims. Source: DHNS/ PTI/AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-modi-administered-covaxin-plea-in-sc-against-8-phase-assembly-poll-in-west-bengal-956818.html
01-03-2021||National||Supreme Court to examine plea against CBI probe in West Bengal coal mining scam||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine an appeal filed by a key accused, Anup Majee against the Calcutta High Court's order allowing CBI probe into the illegal coal mining scam around Railways sidings, “without the state’s consent”.  The wife of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is also being probed in the scam and has been served a notice.  Accused Majee, is the director of the coal trading company facing the charges. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah decided to examine Majee's petition, which contended the CBI lacked jurisdiction to probe the matter and register the FIR as the West Bengal government had in 2018 withdrawn general consent to CBI for probing cases in the state. The court put the matter for consideration on March 10. The top court had on February 22 issued notice to the Centre, and the CBI on Majee's petition, challenging validity of the High Court's order. The petitioner had then sought to quash the FIR and the subsequent investigation as being ultra vires of Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946. The High Court, in its order on February 3, stated that the FIR was validly lodged and the CBI was authorised to continue its investigations in respect of the alleged offences FIR within the "Railway areas" situated in West Bengal. However, the High Court's division bench on February 12 stayed the single bench order which restricted the probe to the Railways area and declined to provide any protection to Majee. It had noted the case pertained to illegal mining and transportation of coal through railways in connivance with officers of the Eastern Coalfield Limited, the CISF and some individuals, including petitioner Majee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-examine-plea-against-cbi-probe-in-west-bengal-coal-mining-scam-956824.html
01-03-2021||National||LPG price hiked again by Rs 25; jet fuel price up 6.5%||Cooking gas LPG price was on Monday hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder across all categories, including subsidised fuel and those availed by Ujjwala scheme beneficiaries - the fourth increase in rates in a month's time. LPG prices have gone up by Rs 125 per 14.2-kg cylinder since the beginning of February, price data from state-owned oil marketing companies showed. Also, jet fuel prices were hiked by a steep 6.5 per cent on the back of a rally in international oil prices. A 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi now costs Rs 819 as against Rs 794 at which they were supplied on Sunday. The increase is applicable across all categories, including subsidised and non-subsidised users. LPG is available only at one rate, market price, across the country. The government, however, gives a small subsidy to select customers. However, this subsidy has been eliminated in metros and major cities through successive price increases over the past couple of years. So, in places like Delhi, there is no subsidy paid to customers since May 2020 and all LPG users pay the market price, which currently is Rs 819. An oil company official said a small subsidy is paid to customers in remote and far-flung areas to make up for the higher price arising from freight charges. LPG prices were hiked first by Rs 25 per cylinder on February 4, followed by a Rs 50 per cylinder increase on February 15 and Rs 25 raise on February 25. Prices have been on the rise since December and rates have cumulatively gone up by Rs 175 per cylinder. Simultaneously, aviation turbine fuel or ATF price was hiked by Rs 3,663 per kilolitre, or 6.5 per cent, to Rs 59,400.91 per kl in the national capital, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This is the third increase in jet fuel prices since February. Rates were increased by 3.6 per cent on February 16, and by Rs 3,246.75 per kl on February 1. The increase in rates will add to the margin woes of airlines who continue to operate flights at less than capacity, amid pandemic-driven travel restrictions. Brent crude oil prices on Monday rose to $65.49 per barrel - the highest in more than a year - on optimism in the global economy and on hopes for improving oil demand as vaccines are being rolled out. Meanwhile, petrol and diesel prices were unchanged for the second day in a row after hitting an all-time high. Petrol is priced at Rs 91.17 per litre in Delhi and at Rs 97.57 in Mumbai. Diesel comes for Rs 81.47 a litre in the national capital and for Rs 88.60 in Mumbai. The rates of regular petrol had last month crossed Rs 100-mark at a few places in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, which levy the highest VAT on the fuel in the country. Price of branded/premium or additive mixed petrol in Mumbai crossed Rs 100 mark on Saturday. It comes for Rs 100.35 a litre now. Higher taxes are levied on branded or premium grade petrol and diesel. In Delhi, the same grade fuel costs Rs 94 a litre. While petrol and diesel prices are revised on a daily basis, ATF and LPG rates are revised on the 1st and 16th of every month. Sometimes, LPG rates have seen mid-month revisions as well. Petrol price has gone up by Rs 4.87 per litre in the last two months. Diesel rates have increased by Rs 4.99 during the same period. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 a litre on diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lpg-price-hiked-again-by-rs-25-jet-fuel-price-up-65-956827.html
01-03-2021||National||CICSE announces dates for class 10, 12 board exams||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CICSE) will conduct board exams for classes 10 and 12 from May 5 and April 8 respectively, officials said on Monday. "The Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE), which is class 10 exam, will be conducted from May 5 to June 7. The Indian School Certificate Examination (ISC), which is class 12 exam, will be conducted from April 8 to June 16," said Gerry Arathoon, the CICSE Chief Executive and Secretary. The board said the class 12 exams will begin on April 8 with Computer Science (Practical)-Planning Session, which will be a 90-minutes paper, instead of three hours scheduled for other subjects starting April 9. "The results will be issued through the convenors to the heads of schools by July· The results will not be available from office of council in New Delhi and no queries will be entertained from candidates, parents or guardians," Arathoon added. Usually, the CICSE board exams are conducted in February-March. However, the exams have been delayed this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Central board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which conducts board exams around the same time every year, has also deferred its exams to May-June this year. Last year, the CICSE had to cancel its pending exams because of the spike in COVID-19 cases and the result was declared on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme decided by the board. As per the scheme, candidates were assessed based on the best three percentage marks obtained in subjects for which board exams were conducted and the marks of their internal assessment as well as project work was taken into account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cicse-announces-dates-for-class-10-12-board-exams-956836.html
01-03-2021||National||India, US reaffirm strategic partnership at bilateral meeting of UN envoys||India and the US have reaffirmed their strategic partnership and agreed to work together to strengthen multilateralism during a meeting between the top UN diplomats of the two countries here. Newly appointed US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield met India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti as part of a series of bilateral meetings with her UN Security Council counterparts. "Pleasure to meet new @USAmbUN Permanent Representative @LindaT_G and discuss priorities of US Presidency of @UN #SecurityCouncil," Tirumurti tweeted on Sunday. "We reaffirmed our strategic partnership. India's vaccine contribution was welcomed. We'll work together to strengthen multilateralism," he tweeted. Beginning its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the powerful 15-nation council in January, India had said it comes into the Security Council as the largest democracy in the world, representing one-sixth of humanity and "with a strong commitment to reformed multilateralism, rule of law, fair and equitable international system, peace, security and development." Thomas-Greenfield, who formally presented her credentials to UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres last week, asserted that "multilateralism is back, and diplomacy is back, and America is back, and we're ready to get to work." Ahead of the US assuming the Security Council presidency on March 1 for the month, Thomas-Greenfield held meetings with all 14 of the Permanent Representatives to the UN on the Security Council. "In meetings with the Permanent Representatives to the United Nations from Estonia, India, Kenya, Mexico, Niger, Tunisia, and Vietnam, Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield discussed the upcoming US presidency of the UN Security Council and conveyed the Biden administration's commitment to renewed engagement with the international community," United States Mission Spokesperson Olivia Dalton said in a statement. In her discussions, Thomas-Greenfield raised issues of mutual interest and concern, including US policy on regional issues, opportunities for future cooperation at the UN, shared priorities in the UN Security Council, and the humanitarian crisis in the Tigray region of Ethiopia, Dalton said in the statement. India's efforts and contribution towards providing critical supplies of the Covid-19 vaccines around the world are being widely applauded, with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres hailing India for being a "global leader in pandemic response efforts". India has provided coronavirus vaccines, critical medicines, diagnostic kits, ventilators and personal protective equipment to more than 150 countries. Addressing reporters at the Security Council stakeout after presenting her credentials to Guterres, Thomas-Greenfield had said that the United Nations is the world's "most important forum" for bringing people and countries together. She said the administration of President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris knows that "when America is at the table and acting in accordance with our values, the United States is an indispensable institution" for the advancement of peace, security, and collective well-being. "We're clear-eyed about the difficult work that needs to be done, from elevating human rights to reforming the UN itself, to addressing conflicts old and new around the world, and we look forward to engaging our allies and our partners to get it done. After all, we're stronger when we are working together," she had said in her brief remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-reaffirm-strategic-partnership-at-bilateral-meeting-of-un-envoys-956837.html
01-03-2021||National||Mandatory FASTag to help save Rs 20,000 crore worth of fuel per year: Nitin Gadkari||The adaptation of mandatory FASTag has helped to reduce the average waiting time of vehicles at toll plazas to 150 seconds this year against 464 seconds last year, Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Monday. "The reduction in waiting is likely to save fuel worth Rs 20,000 crore for the country. Besides, this is expected to reduce carbon emission by 5 lakh tonnes per month," Gadkari said. He was speaking after launching a live monitoring system of toll plazas across the national highways to study waiting time and traffic queue on a real-time basis. "Since the implementation of the FASTag mechanism, national highway toll plazas alone have crossed 6 million transactions worth Rs 100 crore. In addition, there is a 10%  growth in the number of transactions on a weekly basis," he said. The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways made FASTags mandatory from February 15. According to the Ministry, vehicles without having functional FASTags will have to pay double road user charges at toll plazas. Gadkari said that India is moving towards a toll-booth free mechanism, and the Centre's income has increased by Rs 10,000 crore due to the implementation of mandatory FASTag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandatory-fastag-to-help-save-rs-20000-crore-worth-of-fuel-per-year-nitin-gadkari-956841.html
01-03-2021||National||Can't access CoWIN? Here's how you can still get Covid-19 vaccine||As the Centre began second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive across the country on March 1, the head of the Empowered Panel on Covid-19 vaccine said that people can opt for walk-in vaccination facility in case they are unable to register on CoWIN. "Those who couldn’t get registered on CoWIN and are not able to access the internet can go to any centre and opt for walk-in vaccination facility. They just have to carry their identity proof with them," R S Sharma, Head, Empowered Panel on Covid-19 vaccine said, according to ANI. He also said that a provisional certificate will be given after the first shot, followed by a final certificate after the second dose. The certificate will also be available digitally on the Aarogya Setu app and digital locker, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-access-cowin-heres-how-you-can-still-get-covid-19-vaccine-956847.html
01-03-2021||National||Can sexual intimacy between live-in couple be termed rape? SC asks||The Supreme Court on Monday sought to know whether sexual intercourse between a live-in couple can be termed as rape. “If a couple is living together as man and wife…husband may be brutal, but could the sexual intercourse between couple, who are living together, be termed as rape?” a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian wondered. The court was examining the issue of consent for sexual relationship between a couple living together. A person accused of rape by a woman, who had been in a live-in relationship with him for over two years, approached the court as the woman had filed an FIR for rape after the man married another woman. Senior advocate Vibha Dutta Makhija, representing the accused, submitted before the bench that the couple used to work together, and they were in a live-in relationship for over two years. To this, the bench said making a false promise for marriage is wrong.    According to the complainant, who was represented by advocate Aditya Vashisth, the couple was in a romantic relationship, but she had clearly refused to get into a sexual intimacy before marriage. Vashisth argued that his client’s consent was obtained by fraud.  The top court was informed that the couple had gone to Manali, where they participated in a marriage ritual. The petitioner denied that any marriage took place, instead, he was a live-in relationship where they had a consensual intimacy.  In 2019, the Allahabad High Court had declined to entertain a plea by the petitioner to quash the FIR against him. The petitioner, through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, moved the top court challenging this order. The woman’s counsel highlighted that the petitioner had also assaulted his client when they were living together and emphasised that consent for the sexual act was obtained by fraud after she was made to believe that the marriage was real. To this, the bench said, “No one should falsely promise marriage and break off. But that is different from saying the act of sexual intercourse is rape.” The bench noted that it had settled this matter in its earlier verdicts.  On the aspect of the petitioner beating up the complainant, the bench queried her counsel asking, “Why don’t you file a case for assault and marital cruelty? Why file a rape case?" Makhija contended that the complainant had filed such complaints earlier too. "It's a habitual act of this lady. She did the same with two others in the office," she added. The petitioner’s wife was also made an accused in the matter, as a co-conspirator.  The court ordered a stay of arrest for eight weeks and asked the petitioners to approach the trial court for relief. The UP government said the petitioner's wife has not been chargesheeted by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-sexual-intimacy-between-live-in-couple-be-termed-rape-sc-asks-956850.html
01-03-2021||National||Bhima Koregaon Case: Activist Navlakha moves SC against denial of bail||Activist Gautam Navlakha has approached the Supreme Court against rejection of his statutory bail in the Bhima Koregaon case, despite failure of the National Investigation Agency to file charge sheet within the stipulated time of 90 days. A bench presided over by Justice U U Lalit and comprising Justices Indira Banerjee and K M Joseph would hear the matter on March 3. Navlakha challenged the Bombay High Court's order of February 8, which contended that the accused's plea of alleged illegal detention can't be considered to compute 90 days time. On March 16, 2020, the top court had declined anticipatory bail to Navlakha and told him to surrender within three weeks before the NIA.  On April 8, 2020, it gave him one more week to surrender in the case of their alleged link to banned Maoist outfit, allegedly emerged after the Bhima Koregaon violence. An event 'Elgar Parishad' was held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly led to caste violence on January 1, 2018. Several prominent activists have already been arrested in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhima-koregaon-case-activist-navlakha-moves-sc-against-denial-of-bail-956862.html
01-03-2021||National||Toolkit case: Nikita Jacob moves Delhi court for anticipatory bail||Nikita Jacob, who is accused along with Disha Ravi in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest, Monday moved a Delhi court seeking anticipatory bail. The application moved by Jacob, who is charged with the case of sedition, is likely to come up for hearing Tuesday before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. She had got transit anticipatory bail from Bombay High Court on February 17 for three weeks with direction to approach the court concerned in Delhi, where the case is lodged. The court on February 23 had granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi who was arrested by the Delhi Police from Bengaluru. The sessions court in Delhi on February 25 granted protection from arrest to another co-accused, Shantanu Muluk, till March 9, when it will hear his anticipatory bail application. Muluk was granted transit anticipatory bail from Aurangabad Bench on February 16 for 10 days. He approached Delhi court on February 23. Ravi, Muluk and Jacob were booked for alleged sedition and other charges. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-nikita-jacob-moves-delhi-court-for-anticipatory-bail-956866.html
01-03-2021||National||PM Modi's Covid-19 vaccine shot powerful message to Indians to shed hesitancy: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), the maker of Covaxin which was administered to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the gesture has “set a powerful example for all Indians to follow.” The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme, set in motion on 16 January, is from Monday onwards catering to the common public, and will first cover senior citizens and those of 45 years and above with co-morbid conditions. The Hyderabad based biotech firm has said that the PM's move “will go a long way in reducing vaccine hesitancy.” Last year, BBIL developed BBV152 or Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology. The indigenously developed inactivated, two-dose SARS-CoV2 vaccine is included in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme in the country.  Covaxin was given the emergency use authorization by the central drug authorities in early January even as it was in Phase-3 trials, and amid uncertainty over its efficacy. Covishield, developed by Oxford University- AstraZeneca, and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Pune is also part of the ongoing vaccination drive. However, PM Modi chose to take the first dose of the homegrown vaccine on Monday at AIIMS, New Delhi, to mark the beginning of the Phase-2 Covid-19 immunization programme. Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman & Managing Director, Bharat Biotech said, “We express our sincere gratitude to the Prime Minister for reposing his trust in the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, COVAXIN. We urge all fellow citizens to not hesitate from taking part in the immunization programme so that the country can bring an end to this public health crisis.” “We thank Prime Minister Modi for taking the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine himself. We are deeply appreciative of the gesture which has set a powerful example for all Indians to follow. This would go a long way in reducing vaccine hesitancy and building confidence in immunization against the ongoing pandemic,” Ella further said. BBIL said that it is partnering with various countries on Covaxin supply, including a deal reached last week to ship 20 million doses to Brazil. BBV152 (COVAXIN) contains a whole virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, which is produced in Vero cells. The vaccine is stable at +2°C to +8°C (refrigerated) and is shipped in a ready-to-use liquid formulation that permits distribution using existing vaccine supply chain channels, the company said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-covid-19-vaccine-shot-powerful-message-to-indians-to-shed-hesitancy-bharat-biotech-956874.html
01-03-2021||National||SC rejects plea against Centre's power on transfer, deputation of IPS officers||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to entertain a plea for quashing of Rule 6(1) of Indian Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, which conferred powers on the Centre to override decisions of state governments on transfer and deputation of IPS officers.   A Bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat dismissed the plea by West Bengal-based Supreme Court lawyer Abu Sohel, who contended this rule is violative of different fundamental rights and against the interests of public policy and Centre-state relationship.  According to the plea, Rule 6(1) says: "A cadre officer may, with the concurrence of the state government or the state governments concerned and the central government, be deputed for service under the central government or another state government or under a company, association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not which is wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the central government or by another state government.”  The rule added, provided that in case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government or state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the Central government.  Citing the rule, the petitioner stressed that the unique dichotomy in the prevalent laws is itself self-contradictory and violative of Article 14. He claimed that this rule has created havoc in the law-and-order situation and in the administrative structure of the concerned state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-against-centres-power-on-transfer-deputation-of-ips-officers-956875.html
01-03-2021||National Politics||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine as the state government launched the third phase of the inoculation drive for elderly people and those with comorbidities in the age group of 45-59, officials said. The 74-year-old BJD supremo came down to the Vidhan Sabha dispensary to receive the Covaxin jab, they said. Sharing a picture of him getting inoculated, Patnaik tweeted, "Happy to share that I took my first dose of #COVID19 vaccine today. Grateful to our scientists, health workers for their race against time to deliver the vaccine to people. Appeal to all eligible people to come forward and get the vaccine for a #COVIFFreeOdisha."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-956694.html
01-03-2021||National Politics||Plea in SC challenges EC's decision to hold West Bengal polls in 8 phases||The plea, filed by lawyer M L Sharma, seeks the apex court’s direction to the poll panel to stop it from conducting eight-phase elections in the state as it violates Article 14 (right to life) and Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. On February 26, the Election Commission announced the schedule for assembly elections to be held in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. While the Trinamool Congress Party-led West Bengal will have elections over eight rounds from March 27-April 29, polling in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry will be held in one phase on April 6 and in Assam over three phases. The plea, which may come up for hearing in a few days, also seeks a direction to the CBI to register an FIR into the alleged chanting of religious slogans during electioneering in West Bengal. The chanting of "Jai Shri Ram, other religious slogans are creating disharmony" and is an offence under the IPC and the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the plea said. "Whether using a provocative religious slogan 'Jai Shri Ram' is for electoral benefits as well as others is not violated S.123(3) & 125 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951," reads the legal question raised in the plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/plea-in-sc-challenges-ecs-decision-to-hold-west-bengal-polls-in-8-phases-956705.html
01-03-2021||National Politics||'We are not part of it', says Veerappa Moily, distancing himself from G-23 Jammu meet||Distancing himself from the Jammu meet of G-23 leaders, senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Monday virtually expressed concern over internal differences in the party spilling out into the open and backed Rahul Gandhi's return as president of the outfit. The former union minister was one of the group of 23 leaders who wrote to the interim President Sonia Gandhi in August last year urging her to ensure "full-time" and "visible" leadership.It has since come to be known as G-23. Referring to the rally on Saturday at Jammu by some of the 'G-23' leaders ostensibly to felicitate Ghulam Nabi Azad on his retirement from the Rajya Sabha -- seen as a show of strength, Moily said it has been misread as a 'dissident' meeting. "It is not a dissident meeting. We (some of the 'G-23' leaders) are not part of it," he told PTI. In a public show of dissent, the leaders, including Azad, Anand Sharma and Kapil Sibal gathered on one stage in Jammu on Saturday, saying the party is weakening and they have come together to strengthen it. Moily, who had also served as chief minister of Karnataka, said the purpose of the August letter was to improve the party, for effective reformation and organisational elections at all levels. "It's not against the leadership of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi. We are all with the leadership, we are with the Congress. We are not against them becoming President", he said. Moily noted that Congress chief Sonia Gandhi promised to effect changes in the organisation and hold elections. "I don't think we regret", he said when asked whether he regretted signing the August letter. "We should not pursue (with our letter). That (G-23) is not meant to be a dissident organisation and will not be. Once the memorandum (the letter) is given, the purpose is over. It's not (correct) every day... to rake up that issue", Moily said. Rebuilding the party is an ongoing, day-to-day process, and not a one-time activity, he pointed out. "To that extent, the purpose (of the August letter) is served". On the growing clamour in the party for the return of Rahul Gandhi as President, Moily said: "We also want him to come back as Soniaji is not well". Rahul Gandhi was already active in the field, "going around the country, everywhere", he said, adding the former may return to the top position through the election process. On some Congress leaders stating that the party is weakening, Moily said when the Congress starts winning, the BJP would look weak; it's always so. "The Congress has the potential and inherent power to bounce back (electorally)", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-are-not-part-of-it-says-veerappa-moily-distancing-himself-from-g-23-jammu-meet-956781.html
01-03-2021||National Politics||Politicians are known to be thick-skinned: PM's light-hearted poser to nurses at vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the nurses administering the COVID-19 vaccine to him on Monday whether they were planning to use some special thick needle as politicians are known to be "very thick-skinned", drawing laughter from the medical staff who immediately felt at ease. Prime Minister Modi took his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS here. Nurse P Niveda, who hails from Puducherry, administered Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN to the prime minister, sources said. Another nurse, Rosamma Anil, was also there to assist in the vaccine administering process. "When Prime Minister Modi arrived early in the morning, it was natural that the medical staff at AIIMS was perhaps a bit overawed by the situation," a source said. Realising this, the prime minister instantly struck a conversation with them, asking their names and about their native places to put them at ease, they said. Then to lighten up the atmosphere, he asked the nurses whether they would use a needle meant for veterinary purposes. The nurses said no but did not fully understand the question. Politicians are known to be "very thick-skinned", PM Modi quipped and asked if they were planning to use some special thick needle for him, according to the sources. On hearing this, the nurses not only laughed but were also put at ease, the sources said. The prime minister also posted a picture of himself taking the first dose of the vaccine with a smile on his face. Nurses Niveda and Rosamma Anil from Kerala can be seen in the picture. The two nurses are also seen in other pictures released. In one of them, they are seen standing next to the prime minister posing for the photograph. In another picture, while Niveda is seen injecting the vaccine, the other nurse is seen helping in the process. Nurse Niveda later told reporters that the prime minister, after being administered the vaccine shot, remarked "Laga bhi diya, pata bhi nahin chala (Already done? I didn't even feel it)." Niveda said she has been working with the AIIMS here for three years and is currently posted at the vaccine centre. "We found out PM sir is coming for vaccination this morning. When I came here only then I got to know that sir is coming. It was really nice to meet sir," she said. He has been administered the first dose of Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN and will need his second dose in 28 days, the nurse said. "He talked with us, asked us from where we belong," she said. Rosamma Anil, the nurse from Kerala, said it was very nice to meet the prime minister and added that he was "very comfortable". "Today is the happiest day of my life because our Prime Minister Modi ji came to our AIIMS hospital to get a vaccine. He greeted us with folded hands, saying 'vanakkam'," she said. "He (Modi) was under observation for 30 minutes after taking the COVAXIN injection. Sir had no complications. He was very happy," Rosamma Anil said. "Before leaving the hospital after half an hour, sir came to us again with folded hands, saying thank you and vanakkam," she said. AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria said Prime Minister Modi's move to take the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on the very first day of India opening up the inoculation drive for senior citizens and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities should eliminate any hesitancy from the minds of people about the vaccine. The government had announced on Wednesday that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get the COVID-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politicians-are-known-to-be-thick-skinned-pms-light-hearted-poser-to-nurses-at-vaccination-956804.html
01-03-2021||National Politics||Saradha scam: ED summons TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh||Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing the money laundering aspect of the Saradha chit fund scam, has summoned TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh for questioning. Sources in the agency said the former Rajya Sabha MP has been asked to reach the CGO Complex office of the ED at Salt Lake area of the city by 11 am on Tuesday. Ghosh, who is out on bail in the Saradha case, was suspended from the TMC in 2013 for alleged anti-party activities. He was later reinstated as the party spokesperson. The former MP headed a TV channel and a daily, which was funded by the now-defunct Saradha group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/saradha-scam-ed-summons-tmc-spokesperson-kunal-ghosh-956823.html
01-03-2021||National Politics||Tejashwi tells Biharis living in Bengal to back Mamata, prefers silence on alliance||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday urged the people from Bihar settled in Bengal to vote en-mass for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and extended support to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Speaking to journalists at the State Secretariat after a meeting with the chief minister, Yadav said that the top priority of the RJD in Bengal is to stop BJP in the state. “The key aim of our party in Bengal is to extend full support to Mamata Banerjee and strengthen her hands in the fight against the BJP. The Assembly elections in Bengal will not just be about winning seats but also about saving democratic values,” said Yadav. However, he avoided a direct reply when asked whether RJD would file candidates in the West Bengal Assembly elections. The Chief Minister said that there was a “mutual respect” between her and RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav. “We are together in this fight. When we are fighting, Tejashwi is also fighting,” said Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tejashwi-tells-biharis-living-in-bengal-to-back-mamata-prefers-silence-on-alliance-956844.html
01-03-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah takes first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday took the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, officials said. Doctors from the Medanta hospital administered the vaccine to Shah, a Home Ministry official said. On August 2 last year, Shah, 56, had said on Twitter that he tested positive for Covid-19. He underwent treatment at Medanta Hospital and was discharged after he tested negative for the virus.  He was later admitted to the AIIMS for post-Covid treatment. The government had announced on Wednesday that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-takes-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-956861.html
01-03-2021||National Politics||Anil Vij explains why he won't take the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Monday said that he did not need vaccination against coronavirus as he has a "high antibody count". His comments came as the next phase of the Covid-19 vaccine drive was rolled out in the country for those above 60 years of age and above 45 years with comorbidities. "Today coronavirus vaccination drive is beginning for the general public. Everyone should get it without any hesitation. "I cannot receive the vaccine because after being infected my antibody count is currently 300, which is quite high. Maybe the trial vaccine I had taken also had a role to play. I do not need the vaccine at this moment," Vij said in a tweet in Hindi. The minister had voluntarily taken a dose of Bharat Biotech's vaccine 'Covaxin' at a hospital in Ambala on November 20 last year. He had offered to be the first volunteer for the third phase trial of Covaxin, which had started in Haryana. Antibodies in the human body develop only after 14 days of getting the second dose However, after the jab he tested positive for coronavirus on December 5 last year and was hospitalised.   He had later clarified that he had received only the first shot of the two-dose Covaxin. Meanwhile, Vij launched the next phase of Covid-19 vaccination in the state on Monday. He said that in this phase the vaccine will be administered in 386 private hospitals empanelled under state government and the Ayushman Bharat Yojana.  The Covid-19 vaccine will be administered free of cost in all government hospitals of the state, while its cost will be Rs 250 in the said private hospitals, Vij said The cost of Rs 250 includes Rs 150 as charges for the vaccine and Rs 100 as service charges of hospitals, he said.  The minister on Monday addressed all civil surgeons, directors of private hospitals on the panel through video-conferencing, an official release said here.  He directed the civil surgeons to carefully monitor the maintenance of cold chains in all hospitals. Besides, Vij asked them to ensure that private hospitals are adhering to the price fixed by the central government and these hospitals refrain from overcharging so that the beneficiaries are administered the vaccine on time at the prescribed rate.  He said that so far about 70 per cent of health workers and more than 50 per cent of frontline workers have been already been vaccinated in the state.  Along with this, frontline workers like employees of urban local bodies, sanitation workers, police personnel, civil defence workers, jail staff, panchayati raj institutions and staff of revenue department are being administered the vaccine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anil-vij-explains-why-he-wont-take-the-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-956894.html
01-03-2021||National Politics||Cannot be selective in fighting communalists: Anand Sharma hits out at Congress over ISF tie-up||“Dissenter” Anand Sharma on Monday hit out at the Congress over pre-poll alliance with Abbas Siddiqui of Indian Secular Front (ISF) for West Bengal Assembly election, saying that the party “cannot be selective in fighting communalists”. Sharma’s attack came a day after West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury shared the stage with Siddiqui and Left Front leaders in Kolkata. “Congress’ alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC,” Sharma said. आईएसएफ और ऐसे अन्य दलों से साथ कांग्रेस का गठबंधन पार्टी की मूल विचारधारा, गांधीवाद और नेहरूवादी धर्मनिरपेक्षता के खिलाफ है, जो कांग्रेस पार्टी की आत्मा है। इन मुद्दों को कांग्रेस कार्य समिति पर चर्चा होनी चाहिए थी। He said that Congress cannot be selective in fighting communalists but must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. “The presence and endorsement of West Bengal PCC President is painful and shameful, he must clarify,” said Sharma, the deputy leader of Congress in the Rajya Sabha. Chowdhury hit back at Sharma saying no decision was taken without any permission. “We are in charge of a state & do not take any decision on our own without any permission,” he told reporters in Kolkata. A senior Congress leader from West Bengal said ISF is an outfit that represents a cross-section of the society including SC/ST, Hindus, Brahmins, not just Muslims alone. "The ISF leader hails from a family of Pirs and should not be seen as communal," the senior leader said. He also said that the ISF had initially entered into a tie-up with the Left Front and later Congress was asked to join the alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cannot-be-selective-in-fighting-communalists-anand-sharma-hits-out-at-congress-over-isf-tie-up-956931.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Body of teenage girl found in field in UP; irate villagers clash with police||The body of a 16-year-old Dalit girl was found in a field in the Akrabad area here, following which villagers clashed with police and indulged in stone-pelting, police said on Monday. The girl had gone to the fields Sunday afternoon to collect fodder for cattle but did not return. Later, her body was found in a field when her family members started searching for her, they said Police said that prima facie it appeared that she was strangled. As the news spread, irate villagers pelted stones at a police party that was trying to take the body for post-mortem, they said. Inspector Pranendra Kumar was injured in the attack, police added. Senior Superintendent of Police Muniraj G told reporters late Sunday night that senior police officials rushed to the spot and pacified the villagers who then handed over the body to policemen. He said allegations that the victim was sexually assaulted are being probed. Everything will be clear when the post-mortem report is received, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-teenage-girl-found-in-field-in-up-irate-villagers-clash-with-police-956653.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Teenager rapes 7-year-old girl in Chitrakoot||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a teenager in a village in Raipura area, police said on Monday The incident took place on Saturday when the class 12 student took the girl to his house and raped her, SHO, Raipura, Sushil Chandra Sharma said. The accused was held on Sunday from the village, he added. An FIR was registered by the family members of the victim, when she told them about the incident, he said. The girl has been sent for medical examination and a probe is on in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenager-rapes-7-year-old-girl-in-chitrakoot-956657.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||UP man shares video of raping girl on social media, arrested||A man was arrested for allegedly raping a teenage girl and filming the act and sharing it on social media, police said on Monday. Chandrama Rajbhar, 24, was arrested on Sunday for repeatedly raping the 17-year-old girl for the past one year, Station House Officer, Sukhpura, Virendra Yadav said. The accused also filmed the act and shared it on Facebook, he added. An FIR under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IT Act was registered against Rajbhar after the girl filed on a complaint with the police against him, Yadav said. The girl, in her complaint, has said the accused raped her several times in the past year and threatened her dire consequences if she reported the matter to anyone. The girl has been sent for medical examination, police said, adding a probe is on in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-shares-video-of-raping-girl-on-social-media-arrested-956666.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Miss India Delhi 2019 Mansi Sehgal joins AAP||Former Miss India Delhi Mansi Sehgal joined the Aam Aadmi Party in the presence of party leader Raghav Chadha, the AAP said in a statement on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, Sehgal, Miss India Delhi 2019, said she was "inspired by the honest governance of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal" and therefore chose to join the AAP. For any nation to prosper, health and education are the two main pillars and there has been a "tremendous change" in these fields in the last few years under the leadership of Kejriwal, she said. "Inspired by the honest governance of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and the hard work of MLA Raghav Chadha, I chose to join the Aam Aadmi Party, and I feel that through clean politics, we can bring about a substantial change in the world that we live in," Sehgal stated. Chadha inducted Sehgal into the AAP at Naraina Vihar Club in the presence of several residents.  "I am delighted that the Aam Aadmi Party and Arvind Kejriwal instil confidence in young people to join politics and serve the people, and the AAP family is growing leaps and bounds with each passing day. I welcome Mansi into the AAP family," Chadha said. Sehgal is also a TedX speaker, trained engineer and entrepreneur with her own startup, the party statement said. Calling upon youth and women to be an active part of politics and to join the AAP, Sehgal said, "I would urge our youth and particularly our women to come and join us, and bring about the change that we all wish to see."  Chadha said several eminent persons from Naraina in his constituency inspired by Kejriwal's "pro-people" governance model have joined the AAP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/miss-india-delhi-2019-mansi-sehgal-joins-aap-956696.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||SAD MLAs shout slogans during governor's address to Punjab Assembly||Shiromani Akali Dal legislators raised slogans during the governor's address to the Punjab Assembly on the first day of the Budget Session on Monday, protesting against the Centre's three farm laws. As Governor V P Singh Badnore started his address to the House, SAD MLAs led by Bikram Singh Majithia shouted slogans. They rushed to the Well of the House and even threw some papers in the air.  They questioned the governor for not sending the amendment bills to the President. The Punjab Assembly had last year passed the amendment bills to negate the Central farm laws.  Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party legislators came on bicycles to the Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-mlas-shout-slogans-during-governors-address-to-punjab-assembly-956709.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Elderly queue up for Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi as mass rollout begins||The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive began on Monday in the national capital as elderly people received their first shots of the vaccine, officials said. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been vaccinated in Delhi. On Monday, the drive began to give jabs to persons aged 60 and above, and those in the 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities. "A total of 15 senior citizens have been given vaccine shots at our centre till late morning, many of them came supported with a walking stick. It is heartening to see elderly people getting vaccinated as they are a vulnerable population," a senior official of the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (RGSS) Hospital said. The official said the drive was to start around 12 noon but many elderly people had started queuing up by 10:30 am only, so it was started a bit early than the scheduled time. Nine persons also received their second shots till late morning, the official said. Arun Kumar Gupta, 66, who retired as a manager of a PSU bank, said he waited for almost three hours to get the vaccine shot. "A policeman came to us and took our registration numbers. We kept waiting for our turns. I received the vaccine around 11.45 am. I was never tested for Covid-19 and I am not scared of the vaccine," Gupta said. At Delhi government hospitals doctors and other medical staff were upbeat about the exercise, the first phase of which has covered healthcare and frontline workers. Inder Pal, 68, a resident of Jagatpuri who retired from the education department of the Delhi government, claimed that he was the "first of the senior citizens" who received the vaccine at RGSSH. "My son registered my name online. I came here today morning and showed them the registration paper. There was some technical issue with the portal. I received the vaccine around 11.15 am. I have not felt any side affects till now," he said. The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive is slated to span 192 health facilities, including 136 private hospitals in the national capital on Monday, officials said on Sunday. The vaccines will be administered free of cost at government hospitals and health centres, while up to Rs 250 per dose will be charged at private health facilities. "The vaccination drive will begin from 12 noon on Monday. People aged 60 years or more as on January 1, 2022, and those with comorbidities who are in the age group of 45-59 years as on January 1, 2022, are eligible for vaccination," a senior government officer had said. Delhi government's Family Welfare directorate had also tweeted on Sunday, "Tomorrow Delhi will be entering the much-awaited phase of Covid vaccination for 60 plus population and those having comorbidities in the age group of 45-59 years at 192 Delhi Health Facilities out of which 136 are paid private facilities and 56 are free government facilities." Appointment for vaccination can be booked through the Co-WIN 2.0 portal. A mobile number cannot be used for making more than four registrations, they had said. People opting for vaccination at private hospitals will have to pay up to Rs 250 per dose, including Rs 100 service charge per dose, they said. As per official estimates, there are around 43 lakh people in the specified priority category of 60 years or above and those within 45-59 years with comorbidities in Delhi. People within the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities are required to produce a comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. A total of 20 comorbidities have been specified for the purpose of vaccination, the officials said. People eligible for vaccination also have to carry their photo identity cards, including Aadhaar card and voter card.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elderly-queue-up-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-delhi-as-mass-rollout-begins-956725.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Minor Dalit girl in Aligarh found dead; family alleges rape||A minor dalit girl was found dead in a forested area near a village in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh district, about 400 kilometres from Lucknow. The family of the deceased alleged that the girl appeared to have to been raped before being murdered. The police, however, said that the post-mortem report of the deceased was yet to be received and whether she was raped could be confirmed only after the report was seen. According to police sources, the minor, a resident of Akrabad area in the district, had gone to nearby forests to fetch fodder for the cattle on Sunday evening, when she went missing. The family members launched a search for her and after a few hours, her body was found in a field a few hundred metres from the village. Eye-witness accounts said that her clothes were torn and it appeared that she had been raped before being killed. The residents of the village clashed with the cops, when the latter tried to shift the body to the district hospital for autopsy, sources said. The villagers resorted to heavy stone pelting in which several police personnel, including an inspector, suffered injuries. Some vehicles of the police were also torched, sources said. It took several hours and efforts from the senior officials to persuade the villagers to allow the body to be taken to the mortuary. ''We have formed five teams to investigate the matter and nab the culprits,'' a senior district police official said. He said that prima facie, it appeared that the girl was strangled.  Cases of crimes against women have risen sharply in the past few months in the state triggering widespread outrage. The opposition parties have accused the state government of failing to ensure safety of women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-dalit-girl-in-aligarh-found-dead-family-alleges-rape-956727.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court dismisses plea against Siddaramaiah in 1997 land deal case||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea by RTI activist N Gangaraju against former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, alleging violation of regulations in the purchase of land in Mysuru in 1997 during his stint as deputy CM. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian declined to consider the plea against the High Court's order of October 23, 2020. The High Court had quashed the process issued by the trial court in 2019 in the matter, acting on a writ petition by Siddaramaiah and others.  Gangaraju had filed a private complaint before the trial court in Mysuru in June 2018 alleging that Siddaramaiah, with the other accused, had purchased 10 guntas of land and built a house, violating MUDA rules, at Hinkal in 1997.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-against-siddaramaiah-in-1997-land-deal-case-956747.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Kashmir schools open after a year's break due to Covid-19||Schools in Kashmir reopened on Monday after remaining closed for nearly one year due to the coronavirus pandemic. The students of classes 9 to 12 attended school for the first time since March 9, 2020. Only those students were allowed to attend school who had been granted permission in writing by their parents. Most private schools had sought no-objection certificates from parents, absolving the school management of any blame in case of any health issue arising due to conduct of physical classes. Several schools had asked students to bring along medical fitness certificates on the first day of school.   Schools across Kashmir were closed in the second week of March last year as a precautionary measure in view of the coronavirus pandemic across the globe. According to a government order, middle school level classes (6th to 8th standards) are scheduled to reopen on March 8 while the remaining classes are slated to reopen on March 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-schools-open-after-a-years-break-due-to-covid-19-956750.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab minister tests Covid-19 positive, negative in 3 days||A day after his Covid-19 test by the state health department came back positive, Punjab Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa tested negative for the disease at PGIMER here on Sunday, leaving him "surprised". A test at a private lab also found the minister negative for the contagion. It is mandatory for all MLAs and concerned Punjab Assembly officials to get themselves tested for Covid-19 ahead of the Budget Session starting from Monday. Randhawa's samples were collected by the state health department from the MLA Hostel here on February 25. Before the test report came, the minister again got himself tested at a private lab here on February 27. While the state health department test came back positive, the private lab found him negative for coronavirus on Saturday, Randhawa said. Later in the evening, he went to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for a third test, which also came back negative. Randhawa said he was "surprised" by the report of the test conducted by the health authorities as his other two tests came back negative. He said he has shared his reports with the state health minister and other senior officials. "Nobody has come to me for a retest till this morning. Even the civil surgeon has not called me yet," he rued. Randhawa further said that despite the first test coming back positive, the health authorities have so far not approached him regarding following Covid-19 related protocols. Asked if he will attend the assembly session, he said he would if he is allowed to. In August last year, Randhawa was among the first state ministers to contract the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-minister-tests-covid-19-positive-negative-in-3-days-956751.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Will you marry the girl? Supreme Court asks rape accused||The Supreme Court on Monday asked a government servant from Maharashtra, accused of repeatedly raping a girl, if he would marry her. "You should have thought before seducing and raping the young girl. You knew you are a government servant. If you marry her, we can help. If you don't, you lose your job and go to jail," Chief Justice S A Bobde-led bench told a counsel, appearing for Mohit Subhash Chavan. The court said it would stay the arrest for four weeks to enable him to join investigation and apply for regular bail, after his counsel said that the man was already married. The observations by the CJI spurred angry reactions in social media with some terming it as shocking and like a 'Khap Panchayat'. Earlier, during the hearing on his advance bail plea, a bench said, "We are not forcing you to marry. Let us know if you will. Otherwise you will say we are forcing you to marry her." The counsel sought time to take instructions in the matter. As he said the man had got married with some other girl, after the complainant refused, the court asked him to go for regular bail. 23-year-old petitioner, working with a state electricity company, challenged the Bombay High Court order of February 5, 2021 that cancelled the anticipatory bail granted to him by the sessions court on January 6, 2020. An FIR was lodged against the man in Jalgaon on December 17, 2019. The 18-year-old girl alleged that the accused used to stalk her when she was studying in 9th standard in the year 2014-2015. He, one day, entered her house and allegedly rape her. He also allegedly threatened her of dire consequences if the  incident was disclosed. He continued to allegedly exploit her since then and in June, 2018 when she went to police station to lodge the case, the accused, along with his mother, gave a written undertaking to marry her, according to the complainant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-you-marry-the-girl-supreme-court-asks-rape-accused-956752.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||You give birth, why should government bear expense? Uttar Pradesh BJP leader to women||BJP lawmaker in Uttar Pradesh Ramesh Diwaker courted controversy after he told a group of women, who approached him with requests of fee waiver of their children, that they (women) give birth and expect the government to bear the expenses incurred on their education. ''Bachche paida karen aap, aur kharcha uthaye sarkar?''(You give birth, why should government bear their expenses?), Diwaker remarked, when some women approached with applications for fee waiver of their children, who are students at a private school in Auraiya district in the state, about 150 kilometres from Lucknow. The remarks of Diwaker came during a 'jansunwai' (public interaction) program in Auraiya on Sunday. Diwaker is an MLA from the district. The BJP legislator also asked the women to send their children to government schools. ''No fee is charged in the government schools....you (women) should send your children there,'' he told the women. The matter came to light when someone shot a video of the MLA's remarks and posted it on social media. The video has gone viral on social media platforms. The Opposition leaders slammed Diwakar and said that the remarks reflect the 'anti-women' mindset of the saffron party. ''BJP leaders have no respect for the women,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/you-give-birth-why-should-government-bear-expense-uttar-pradesh-bjp-leader-to-women-956759.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||In Uttar Pradesh, exorcist tortures woman to cure infertility, kills her||A 33-year-old childless woman was allegedly tortured to death in a Shahjahanpur village by an exorcist who branded her body, including private parts, with a hot iron and beat her up with lathi to treat her infertility, police said on Monday. Victim Sharda Devi of the Kamhara village in the district was admitted to the hospital on February 27 and died on Sunday during treatment, Puwayan Circle Officer Navneet Naik said. Saharda was married to Sarvesh of Kamhara village but the couple did not have any child, said Naik, adding that on her husband’s insistence, she took the help of her brother-in-law Durvesh who also practised exorcism.  Durvesh convinced the family that Sharda was under the influence of a witch and needed to be beaten up to be rid of the evil spirit.  Accordingly, Durvesh allegedly first branded various parts of the woman’s body including private parts with hot iron tongs on February 24 and as she cried in pain, he brutally beat her up with lathi, saying all the pain is being inflicted on the witch, said police. Following the woman’s death, an FIR was lodged in Puwayan police station against five persons, including the exorcist, on the woman’s parents' complaint. Police is probing the matter and trying to arrest the accused, said Naik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-uttar-pradesh-exorcist-tortures-woman-to-cure-infertility-kills-her-956766.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at IGIMS||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday took the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine as the next phase of the vaccination drive for people above 60 years and those aged 45 years and above with comorbidities began in the state today. Nitish got the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine at the premier Government hospital Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in the State Capital. The vaccination will, however, be free at private hospitals of Bihar, even though the Centre has capped the cost of vaccines at private hospitals at Rs 250 per dose. On the eve of Bihar Assembly elections, the BJP had promised in its manifesto that coronavirus vaccine will be provided to everyone in the State for free if the NDA returned to power. It was against this backdrop that the Cabinet, chaired by Nitish, decided that vaccines will be provided free of cost even at private hospitals in Bihar. The State Government has identified 58 such private hospitals, apart from the government hospitals in the sate, where one can get free vaccination. “The Bihar Government will bear the cost of coronavirus vaccination even at private hospitals,” said Nitish, shortly after taking the first dose of vaccine. He was under observation of doctors for 30 minutes after vaccination. “I am absolutely fine after the vaccination. I will come again on March 31 to take the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine. I appeal to all those eligible to get themselves vaccinated,” the Chief Minister, flanked by Bihar’s Health Minister Mangal Pandey, said. Incidentally, it was Nitish’s 70 birthday too on Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav wished him in the morning, while JD (U) leaders cut a 70-pound cake on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-chief-minister-nitish-kumar-gets-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-at-igims-956798.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Recovery of 'sticky bombs' indicates initiation of new phase of terrorism in J&K: Officials||The recovery of 'sticky bombs' from Samba sector in this region last month has set alarm bells ringing within the security establishment in Jammu and Kashmir as this indicates the initiation of a new phase of terrorism in the union territory, officials said on Monday. The BSF had recovered the bombs dropped by a drone along the international border in the Samba sector of Jammu region on February 14, putting security agencies on high alert with an assumption that some of the IEDs could have already found their way to the Kashmir valley, the officials said. According to the officials, the drone-dropped consignment had six pistols and 14 Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) with inbuilt magnets, which could be used as 'sticky bombs' by sticking them on vehicles and controlling them using a timer and a remotely-held device. The consignment was meant for The Resistance Force (TRF), believed to be a shadow outfit of banned Lashker-e-Taiba terror group, they said. This definitely was the first such recovery of 'sticky bombs' which has found much use in Afghanistan and Iraq. In India, it was used by suspected Iranian terrorists in February 2012 by sticking a bomb on the car of an Israeli diplomat resulting in injury to his wife. The recovery is a cause of concern in Kashmir and the standard operating procedures for the movement of security forces' convoys need to be revised to eliminate this kind of a threat, a senior official said. The development comes two years after a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist carried out a sensational attack when he rammed an explosive-laden vehicle into a bus carrying security forces that left 40 CRPF personnel dead in 2019. In response, India had carried out an air strike on terror camps located across the border. Sticky bombs, which were also used by the British forces during World War II, can be put on any vehicle and detonated through a remote control or an in-built timer, the officials said. This is yet another significant recovery after security forces had found three Point Detonating (PD) fuzes, used by the Pakistani army in their 82 mm mortar shells, from a terrorist in North Kashmir. The three PDs were recovered by the Baramulla Police on the eve of New Year when the force intercepted a vehicle. Unaware of the material recovered, the police had declared it "unique grenade" which was later found to be the PD, used by the Pakistani army for the 82 MM mortar shells, they said. The PD could be used during the fabrication (manufacture) of an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) to increase its impact. It helps in super-quick detonation of explosives or at times can delay the impact mode for a bigger damage, the officials said. The December seizure of PDs was also meant for the TRF group and one terrorist, identified as Asif Gul, was arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovery-of-sticky-bombs-indicates-initiation-of-new-phase-of-terrorism-in-jk-officials-956810.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Kashmir situation peaceful as people want it to be so, not because of Covid impact: Top army commander||The past year has been one of the most peaceful in Kashmir with all parameters of violence on a decline as people want it to be so, a top army officer said on Monday, rejecting suggestions that the Covid-19 pandemic has led to the "quiet" situation. General Officer Commanding (GoC) of the Srinagar-based XV Corps, Lt Gen B S Raju also said the ceasefire agreement on the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan is a conscious call by both the countries and the task at hand is to make it successful. “The year 2020 has been one of the most peaceful times. The situation in the valley remains fairly normal. All the parameters of violence -- be it stone-pelting, agitations or bandhs -- have shown a dip,” Lt Gen Raju told reporters. Raju, who will take charge as the new Director General of Military Operations (DGMO), said while many people would want to believe that the situation in the valley was "quiet" due to the Covid pandemic, “it is not (the case)”. “It is quiet because people want it to be quiet. If something good is happening, it is because the people want it to be,” he said, adding, “We have lots of hopes from the year 2021”. Acknowledging that there have been isolated incidents, the GoC said there were elements who want to generate violence. “They get directions from within and across (the LoC) to attack. There was this Krishna Dhaba attack recently. It was only done to convey a message to the arriving EU delegation that the situation is not peaceful and that things are not normal. It was terrorism in a classic manner,” he said. The Army officer was referring to the February 17 attack on Akash Mehra – son of the owner of 'Krishna Dhaba' which is a popular eatery in the high-security Durganag area. The attack took place on the day a 24-member delegation of envoys had arrived on a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir. Mehra succumbed to injuries at a hospital here on Sunday. Lt Gen Raju welcomed the reiteration of the ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan, terming it a positive step and a conscious call by the two nations. “The ceasefire agreement is a positive step and a conscious call by both the countries. The task at hand is to make it successful,” he said. He, however, said that infiltration by militants from across the LoC was still a challenge. “Infiltration is still a challenge, but we are up to it. We will try to keep things under control and keep the population safe. We hope the situation along the borders remains calm,” he said. The GoC of the strategically located XV Corps added that the ceasefire helps to check infiltration. “Our ability to check and control infiltration improves when there is a ceasefire,” he said. Asked as to how the Indian Army would respond to any ceasefire violation from the Pakistani side, the Lt Gen said the Army was not trigger happy and would raise the issue through a proper mechanism. “We have an established mechanism both at the local level as well as in Delhi.  "Definitely, we will give it the best shot. We will not be trigger happy. In case there is some problem, in case there is an incident, we will tell the other side, we will speak to them,” he said. He said the ceasefire would have no major implication in the hinterland other than by helping check the infiltration. On Pakistan using new routes for infiltration of militants and arms, Lt Gen Raju said if the desire from the other side is there, it will keep pushing and finding new ways. “But, if they have done this (ceasefire agreement), then we will slowly disincentivise them from doing other things as well,” he added. To a question about the reports of Taliban-style 'sticky bombs', the Army officer said “inducting anything new available is an ongoing process in the valley and we will adopt a proper strategy to do our job”. The XV Corps Commander said the Army reduced its footprints in north Kashmir last year and it is an ongoing process. “When the violence goes down, the methodology changes,” he said. Asked about the emergence of new militant outfits, the GoC said "a militant is a militant" and the name of the outfit does not matter. “We are doing a lot of good work to stop recruitment even as there is continuous social media-based propaganda from the other side,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-situation-peaceful-as-people-want-it-to-be-so-not-because-of-covid-impact-top-army-commander-956845.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt suspends subsidy on Tata Nexon EV, panel to look into complaints||The Delhi government has removed the electric version of the Tata Nexon car from its subsidy scheme for electric vehicles till a committee looks into complaints that the model failed to meet the specified range on a single charge, officials said on Monday. Tata Motors, in a statement, termed the development as "unfortunate" and asserted that it will continue to "engage constructively" with relevant authorities to protect the interests of its customers. An order issued by the Delhi Transport department on Monday said that a three-member committee has been constituted to verify claims of the complainants and assertions of Tata Motors in support of the model. The committee will include a representative of Tata Motors. "The EV, Tata Nexon will not be eligible for EV subsidy till the committee gives a report and decision is taken accordingly," stated the Transport department order. Delhi Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday said several users had complained of the "sub-standard" driving range offered by the Nexon electric vehicle (EV). "The Delhi government has decided to suspend subsidy on an EV car model, pending final report of a Committee, due to complaints by multiple users of sub-standard range performance," Gahlot tweeted. "We are committed to support EVs, but not at the cost of trust & confidence of citizens in claims by manufacturers," he said. Last month, a show-cause notice was issued to Tata Motors by the transport department about a complaint from a user of Tata Nexon EV claiming it did not meet the promised range of 312 km on a single charge of its battery, officials said. The show-cause notice was issued after a complainant claimed that the model (Nexon EV) of the electric car purchased by him from a dealer at the Safdarjung Enclave and registered on December 3, 2020 had failed to provide the specified 312-km range on a single charge. The range of more than 200 km could never be achieved by the model, he had claimed. In reply to the Transport department's show-cause notice on February 8, a Tata Motors representative had appeared before a Transport department officer and furnished written submission. The Transport department order said that the reply furnished by Tata Motors was examined in detail and found to be "non-satisfactory". The Transport department order also cited another complainant Dr Manoj Sharma who "adversely" commented upon the model through a video tweeted by him. The order stated that major deficiencies in the EVs are likely to "adversely affect" the momentum of use of EVs in Delhi, which is picking up with the implementation of the Delhi electric vehicle policy. "In case, strict action is not taken, the general public may be discouraged to rely on the claim of the original equipment makers as regards the range of the vehicles, which is one of the major parameters while purchasing an e-vehicle," it said. Tata Motors in its statement claimed the Nexon EV is the only personal segment EV available in the market presently that meets the stringent FAME norms. "The range at single full charge (312 km) for the Nexon EV is on the basis of the certification received from the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), which is the official body that independently tests all mass-produced vehicles under standard test conditions before they can be offered to customers." The actual range achieved in EVs is dependent on AC usage, individual driving style and the actual conditions in which the vehicle is driven, it said. "The range achievement is also a function of familiarity with the new technology, and customers report improvements upwards of 10 percent within 4-6 weeks of familiarity," the statement said. "We are extremely confident about the value proposition of the Nexon EV, which since its launch a year ago, has consistently grown in popularity to become India's largest selling EV with thousands of families enjoying the pleasure of owning and driving it,” it added. Under the Delhi government's EV policy, a purchase incentive of Rs10,000 per KWh of battery capacity is provided on an electric four-wheeler (subject to a maximum incentive of Rs1,50,000 per vehicle) to the owners of the first 1000 e-cars to be registered in Delhi after the issuance of the policy. The policy was notified in August 2020. The vehicle model “Tata Nexon EV XZ+” manufactured by Tata Motors Ltd was approved under the eligibility of the Delhi EV Policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-suspends-subsidy-on-tata-nexon-ev-panel-to-look-into-complaints-956880.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Anti-conversion bill introduced in Madhya Pradesh assembly||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh on Monday introduced in the assembly a bill that replaced an ordinance brought to check religious conversions through marriage or by any other fraudulent means. The bill replaced the ordinance, cleared by the cabinet in December and promulgated in January, which had provisions of 10 years imprisonment in some cases and hefty fine for violators. Home Minister Narottam Mishra presented the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, in the House. This is the first stage (to enact new law). Now the bill would be taken up for consideration. "The House has allowed it to be introduced. Now it is a House property. Members can suggest amendments, they can study it for further action, said a senior official of the Assembly secretariat. Governor Anandiben Patel on January 9 gave assent to the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which penalised religious conversions through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage. The ordinance penalised religious conversions by misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or by any other fraudulent means. Last month, Home Minister Mishra had said as many as 23 cases were registered under the ordinance within a month of it coming into force. He had said the highest number of seven cases were reported in the Bhopal division followed by five in Indore, four each in Jabalpur and Rewa, and three in the Gwalior division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-conversion-bill-introduced-in-madhya-pradesh-assembly-956912.html
01-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab to introduce death penalty for fatality due to spurious liquour||Punjab government on Monday decided to amend its excise act, introducing the death penalty in cases where people die after consuming spurious liquor. The decision was taken by the Punjab Cabinet on Monday in the wake of a hooch tragedy in the districts of Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, where several lives were lost due to the consumption of spurious liquor in July last year. The Bill in this regard will be introduced in the ongoing Budget Session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, according to a government release, which said the aim is to instil fear of law among the offenders and impose stiff punishment. A new Section 61-A has been inserted in Punjab Excise Act, 1914, according to which in case of death, the guilty shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine which may extend up to Rs 20 lakh. In case of disability or grievous hurt, the guilty will be punished with imprisonment for at least six years extendable up to life imprisonment and with fine which may extend to Rs 10 lakh. Likewise, any other consequential injury is caused to a person, the guilty shall be punished with the imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and fine which may extend to Rs 5 lakh, and in case of no injury caused to a person, the guilty shall be punished with imprisonment, which may extend to six months and fine up to Rs 2.50 lakh. The Cabinet also made a provision to provide compensation to the kin of the victim by the manufacturer and seller of spurious liquor. According to the Section 61-A (2) (i), the court may order if it satisfied that death or injury has been caused to any person due to consumption of liquor sold in any place, order the manufacturer and seller, whether or not he is convicted of an offence, to pay by way of compensation, an amount not less than Rs 5 lakh to the legal representatives of each deceased or Rs 3 lakh to the person to whom grievous hurt has been caused, or Rs 50,000 to the person for any other consequential injury. Provided that where the liquor is sold in a licensed shop, the liability to pay the compensation under this section shall be on the licensee and further that no appeal can be filed by the accused unless the amount ordered to be paid under this section is deposited by him in the court. The Section 63 has also been amended to enhance the term of imprisonment in the existing provisions of the Act from one year to three years and amount of fine up to Rs 1,000 to 10,000 for the offence of alteration or attempt to alteration of denatured spirit. Likewise, the cabinet also gave approval to amend Section 61 (1) to enhance the term of imprisonment from three years to five years under the chapter 'Offences and Penalties' of the Act for unlawful import, export, transport, manufacture and possession etc. of any intoxicant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-to-introduce-death-penalty-for-fatality-due-to-spurious-liquour-956916.html
01-03-2021||Opinion||Off the record: March 1, 2021||New party  Once a blue-eyed boy of Rahul Gandhi, former Haryana Congress chief Ashok Tanwar, who quit the party ahead of the 2019 state assembly elections, has launched his own outfit. Tanwar, a former Lok Sabha member from Sirsa, launched the Apna Bharat Morcha and has been touring the state and targeting arch-rival former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Hooda is among the G-23 leaders who had written a letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi demanding a more active leadership for the party. Tanwar had dubbed G-23 as Gaddar-23. Tanwar hopes that being active in the state could pave the way for return to the Congress later when Rahul assumes the mantle of party chief. Brighter prospects?  Diving in the sea with fishermen off the Kerala coast and rustling up mushroom biryani in Tamil Nadu, Rahul Gandhi has focused his energies on the southern states where Congress stands a chance to put up a better performance. While Rahul continues to tour in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, his younger sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be visiting Assam for campaigning. Priyanka has been touring extensively in Uttar Pradesh, seeking to project Congress as the key challenger to the BJP. A victory in Tamil Nadu and a surprise performance in Kerala could brighten the prospects of Rahul’s return as Congress President in June.  Change in location  When J Jayalalithaa was alive, she used to seal alliances by receiving leaders from various political parties at her palatial bungalow in upscale Poes Garden in Chennai. After her demise, everyone thought the AIADMK would sign alliance agreements at the party headquarters. But, the current leadership has been sealing alliances at a five-star hotel. The luxurious property was where AIADMK’s alliance for Lok Sabha polls were signed. The venue has not undergone any change for the assembly polls. On Saturday, AIADMK and PMK signed the poll pact at the same star hotel. The same will be done for pacts with other parties too. Buzz is are these parties not willing to come to AIADMK HQ or the AIADMK leadership does not want them to invite to its office? Eventful day  On February 28, the Congress and its allies, including the Left, held a joint rally at the Brigade Ground, sounding the bugle for the electoral fight in West Bengal. One of the major faces to miss the rally was former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, thanks to his party’s Kerala unit which is uneasy about his presence along with the Left in Bengal. In Kerala, Congress hopes of a comeback by fighting the Left. Now, all eyes are moving to Brigade Ground once again on March 7, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold a rally. The political grapevine is that more Trinamool Congress MPs and MLAs may leave the party. A senior Congress leader summed up: that is the last day for the BJP to bring out whatever artillery they have in store and after that, it will be too late to be a factor. However, he adds, he is not going to believe or disbelieve the rumours but will wait. Mumbai zoo gets social! Opened during the British Raj, the Mumbai Zoo is one of the oldest zoos in India. However, in terms of size, it may not be the biggest. Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan and Zoo, popularly known as Byculla Zoo or RaniBaug – however, is very popular among Mumbaikars. However, to attract more crowds, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has taken it to social media. Accordingly, ‘The Mumbai Zoo’ has a presence now on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar recently inaugurated the social media pages. The social media platforms are live and are posting messages, updates and snippets on a regular basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-march-1-2021-956603.html
01-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Spring isn't far||Can spring be far behind? If winter comes can spring be far behind. The old order changeth, giving place to new. After all tomorrow is another day. Thus proclaimed the poets in the past giving hope to future man.  Covid-19, the deadly virus has destroyed the world as we knew it leaving behind fear and uncertainty across humanity. Loss of home and livelihood for the poor, overall loss of lives because of the pandemic have turned life topsy turvy, for some beyond recovery. The middle class, ever the backbone of any society has lost its verve for life, missing their celebrations of family reunions, festivals, resulting in stories of depression and mental stress as a result of loneliness with the curbs and protocols cutting into their resilient zest for life.  Many old habits like visiting friends, shopping for the pleasure of it, visiting movies have been banned and instead, social distancing, stay at home, have come to replace them. When the pandemic was at its worst, there was loss of the more vulnerable population and survival of the fittest seemed to be the scary writing on the wall. It was reported that in many countries the seniors succumbed to the virus because of age-related issues. If winter comes can spring be far behind? The earth despite the pandemic renews itself with new life, the sky goes from dark to cerulean blue, the birds and butterflies fill the air., new red leaves burst on trees. The old sap zings forth.   Smitten perhaps with spring fever one leader opined the other day, that a new world order is emerging, giving hope to the pandemic stricken earth. A young protégé of mine emails me urging me to shake off the blues and to embrace the new normal, to become creative and productive, enriched by the churning of the old order. “Being old is not to put yourself on a shelf, auntie,” she tries to inspire me via internet. Don’t forget the poet’s words, ‘Grow old along with me, the best is yet to be; the last of life for which the first was made.’ Picasso Sophocles, Shaw all of them produced their best work when they were ninety, the innocent points out. True, my dear girl, the pandemic has been a real churner, an extraordinary game changer.  But all that I am able to produce is this piece which you are reading now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/spring-isnt-far-956602.html
01-03-2021||Second Edit||India dimension in Pakistan-Sri Lanka ties||Sri Lanka-Pakistan relations are likely to strengthen following Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan’s two-day visit to Colombo. There were some apprehensions that Khan would roil bilateral relations by giving his Sri Lankan hosts some unsolicited advice on treatment of Muslims. He refrained from doing so. Consequently, his visit went off smoothly, with ruffling feathers in Colombo. Pakistan offered Sri Lanka a $50-million line of credit for defence purchases. Khan urged the Sri Lankans, who are already enthusiastic participants in China’s Belt and Road Initiative, to join the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. He invited Sri Lanka to use Gwadar port to transport goods to Central Asia. The two sides also signed five memorandums of understanding (MoUs) during Khan’s visit. These will deepen co-operation in the fields of investment, science and technology.   Sri Lanka and Pakistan have had strong relations for decades. Defence co-operation grew rapidly especially during the Sri Lankan conflict when Islamabad, like China and Iran, provided the Sri Lankan Army with weaponry to fight the LTTE. The India dimension of their relationship is hard to miss. There are times when Colombo has stood by Pakistan much to New Delhi’s concern. During the 1971 India-Pakistan war, for instance, Sri Lanka offered Pakistan Air Force jets with refuelling facilities in Colombo. India was the elephant in the room during Khan’s engagements with the Sri Lankans. Parallels were drawn between Pakistan’s defence LoC to Colombo and the LoCs India extended to Maldives and Mauritius a few days earlier. True to form, the Pakistan prime minister raised Kashmir in a speech in Colombo. And apparently, the Sri Lankan government retracted its invite to Khan to address the Sri Lankan parliament in order to avoid annoying Delhi. However, it is also likely that the Rajapaksa government was apprehensive that Khan would raise the plight of Sri Lankan Muslims in his speech to parliament. Alienation and anger among Sri Lankan Muslims is high and the government’s ban on burials to prevent the spread of the coronavirus has further riled the community. This decision has angered Muslims in other countries as well. Khan’s visit came at a difficult time for Colombo; it is under fire at the UN Human Rights Commission and is desperately mobilising international support for its position. Had Khan raised the issue of violation of Muslim rights in his speeches in Sri Lanka, it would have embarrassed his Sri Lankan hosts. His silence on that issue would have been appreciated by the Sri Lankan government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/india-dimension-in-pakistan-sri-lanka-ties-956597.html
01-03-2021||South||Tamil oldest languages in India, the sweet one: Amit Shah praises Tamil language and culture in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday spoke high of Tamil and its culture, calling it 'sweet', on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed regret about not being able to learn the old southern language. Addressing his party's 'Vijay Sankalp' rallies in Villupuram in Tamil Nadu and Karaikkal, an enclave of neighbouring Puducherry, ahead of the April 6 Assembly elections, Shah apologised to the crowd that he could not deliver his address in Tamil, although it "would have been nice" if he could do so. "First of all I want to say sorry that I am unable to talk in one of the oldest languages in the country, the sweet one," Shah said at the Villupuram public meeting. "Without the great Tamil culture, India's culture is incomplete," he added. Tamil Nadu had given "great people" who have done the country proud globally, Shah said, adding "the country respects Tamil and its culture." He also referred to Modi's statement on Sunday about the language. Shah's harping on Tamil came on a day when Modi, in his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' programme expressed regret over not being able to learn the "world's oldest language." "A few days ago Aparna Reddy ji of Hyderabad asked me one such question. She said 'You have been PM for so many years and were CM for so many years. Do you ever feel that something is missing?" Modi said. Noting that the question seemed simple but was difficult, he said, "I pondered this over and told myself that one of my shortcomings was that I could not make much effort to learn Tamil, the oldest language in the world; I could not make myself learn Tamil!" The prime minister, who had invoked Tamil poet Kanian Poongundanar in his UN General Assembly address in 2019, besides reciting from Tamil treatise Tirukkural during his recent public engagements in Tamil Nadu, also praised the Tamil language and its rich literature. "It is such a beautiful language, which is popular all over the world. Many people have told me a lot about the quality of Tamil literature and the depth of the poems written in it," he said. Shah, in his Karaikkal public meeting regretted that he could not address the crowd in the "great Tamil language." He also hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his recent support to jallikattu, which he witnessed in Madurai in January and said the party's election manifesto for the 2016 assembly polls batted for a ban against the bull taming sport. Jallikattu, the famous event held in Madurai during the harvest festival Pongal in January, has an emotional connect with the Tamil people and a major agitation was held in 2017 at the Marina here seeking revoking of an earlier ban against the conduct of the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-oldest-languages-in-india-the-sweet-one-amit-shah-praises-tamil-language-and-culture-in-tamil-nadu-puducherry-956564.html
01-03-2021||South||AIADMK leaders hold seat-sharing talks with Amit Shah||The AIADMK top leadership held seat-sharing talks with Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election. Chief Minister K Palaniswsami, who is the AIADMK joint coordinator, and his deputy O Panneerselvam, who is the party's coordinator, called on Shah at a star hotel in Chennai late on Sunday. The talks that started around 10 pm were on after two hours, a day after the AIADMK and the BJP initiated the parleys. The BJP has expectations of getting 60 seats that it had identified as "winnable".  Shah had earlier arrived in Tamil Nadu for an election rally. The AIADMK had earlier clinched its seat-sharing deal with ally PMK, allotting 23 seats to it. Single-phase elections are scheduled for April 6 in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-leaders-hold-seat-sharing-talks-with-amit-shah-956611.html
01-03-2021||South||Chandrababu Naidu detained at Tirupati airport, stages sit-in protest||Former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister, Chandrababu Naidu, staged a sit-in protest at the Tirupati airport lounge for several hours on Monday, after the state police detained him from going ahead to the temple town to lead protests organised by his party. The TDP planned a rally in Tirupati to protest the alleged repressive actions of the ruling side against their party contestants in the municipal polls fray.  Stating that the TDP protest was not permitted because of the model election code and Covid-19 pandemic, the police barred the opposition leader from exiting the airport on Monday morning. After the Panchayat polls held last month, where the YSRCP showed dominance, elections to 12 municipal corporations and 75 municipalities are scheduled to take place on March 10.  Naidu slammed the Jaganmohan Reddy government and said that the “fear-driven, state-sponsored vendetta' would not stop or silence the TDP from reaching out to the public.    TDP leaders alleged that the mobile phones of Naidu and his personal assistant were also snatched. "Why am I being unreasonably detained at the airport? Am I going to commit any murder? Do I not have fundamental rights …?” the opposition leader could be heard questioning in a video, before he squatted on the lounge floor.  The scene was reminiscent a similar episode in January 2017 when Naidu was the Chief Minister and Reddy was blocked by the police at the arrivals gate and denied entry into the Visakhapatnam airport. Reddy, then the opposition leader, was visiting the port city in solidarity with protests planned for AP's Special Category Status. Jagan had reportedly cautioned the police and Vizag airport personnel that he would become the CM in two years. After a brief sit-in protest near the tarmac, Jagan was sent back to Hyderabad on another flight. On Monday, Naidu continued with his protest for over eight hours and after 7 PM went back to Hyderabad. TDP leaders voiced their objections over the “ill-treatment” of their leader and held demonstrations in some places.  TDP General Secretary Nara Lokesh said that 'Jaganocracy' is in rule in AP “in total disregard for democracy and fundamental rights of the people.” The Tirupati airport incident occurred almost exactly one year after the Vizag airport incident when Naidu, on 27 February 2020, was detained by the police as he embarked his car to visit the areas where lands were allegedly encroached by the YSRCP leaders. Visakhapatnam airport premises had witnessed tense, disorderly scenes for a few hours as scores of men said to be YSRCP supporters jammed his convoy from moving out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chandrababu-naidu-detained-at-tirupati-airport-stages-sit-in-protest-956677.html
01-03-2021||South||Simplify inter-state tariffs to promote domestic tourism: Kerala Governor||Kerala Travel Mart (KTM), billed as the country's biggest tourism meet, has got off to a start with state Governor Arif Mohammed Khan inaugurating the event with a call to highlight domestic tourism for better collaboration among states and greater understanding between people. Khan, through video conferencing on Sunday, declared open the March 1-5 virtual summit that aims to revitalise the state's travel sector in the post-Covid scenario. "Abetter industry-level coordination in hospitality and transportation and an inter-state understanding to rationalise and simplify taxes and tariffs will help in leveraging the true potential of our domestic market in tourism," he said. Stressing the need to embrace the spirit of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) by treating domestic tourism as the mainstay for the industry when global air travel is facing restrictions, the Governor said,"Let tourism enable people of every part of India to understand and value each other so that we strengthen our cultural unity as a nation." Khan complimented Kerala's tourism projects aimed at making it a "complete and different destination with focus on cultural heritage." "We need to re-configure our business strategy by emphasising on safety and security so as to meet the post-pandemic global demands and aspirations," he added. This is the chief aim of the 11th KTM, with close to 500 international buyers and 650 domestic buyers, facilitating 15,000 meetings between the buyers and exhibitors. By striving to restore the pace of growth of tourism that has slid since the outbreak of the global pandemic, the event by KTM Society would exhibit the various products of the state's vital tourism sector. The summit is being attended by all members of the KTM Society, which is India's biggest organisation in the travel and tourism segment. Addressing the delegates, the Governor expressed the hope that the post-pandemic global consciousness would expect governments and communities to renew work to meet the United Nations' 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. "This is vital in tourism where the basic assets are nature and the tangible and intangible heritage of humanity. 'Green, clean and safe' should be the motto of all tourism activities,"he added at the function organised in adherence with Covid-19 protocols. Kerala Chief Secretary V P Joy, who chaired the ceremony, said the state's tourism is on a revival path, involving right from grassroots workers to top-level functionaries. He noted that the ongoing vaccination, which is to pick up in Kerala from March, would help the state get out of the pandemic to the benefit of its tourism. "Once we are through with Covid-19, the industry will be back on the rails," Joy added. Kerala Tourism Principal Secretary Rani George spoke about how new campaigns were helping the state resume tourism after the outbreak of Covid-19. Ayurveda can be an added attraction for the tourists arriving in the state, known for the ancient wellness system. Listing a set of new heritage products, George specially invited tourists to visit the state's northern parts that have been given a fresh focus. Kerala Tourism Director V R Krishna Teja said KTM 2021 gives deserving space to small and medium buyers, adding to the synergy of trade and tourism. India Tourism Regional Director (Chennai) D Venkatesan said several destinations, despite the Covid-induced issues, have begun to clock footfalls. "Kerala has done well in conserving nature and devising products while making strides in tourism," he noted. KTM Society President Baby Mathew Somatheeram, welcoming the gathering, said the virtual mart would show the world that Kerala is successfully fighting out the novel coronavirus. The event highlights the state's capability to bring in tourists amid a changed world order, he added. KTM Society former president E M Najeeb reiterated the need to review the quarantine for domestic tourists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/simplify-inter-state-tariffs-to-promote-domestic-tourism-kerala-governor-956691.html
01-03-2021||South||Madurai MP sends letter written in Hindi back to Centre||Accusing the PM Modi-led BJP government of imposing Sanskrit and Hindi on non-English speaking states, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan sent back a letter addressed to him to the Centre asking it "not to resort to such provocative measures in future." In a letter Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel in English, Venkatesan wrote, "I was fortunate enough to know the number of the letter since it is in numeral. I could not understand what are the contents of the letter. The format enclosed in it is in English. From that, I could assume the letter is for asking MPs to make recommendations for 'Gandhi Peace Prize'." கடந்த காலங்களில் இந்தி கடிதங்கள் அரசிடம் இருந்து வரப் பெற்றேன். இது கலாச்சார அமைச்சகத்தின் முறை போல. அமைச்சக அதிகாரிகள் சட்டத்தை மீறியது, அரசாங்கம் நீதிமன்றத்தின் முன்பு அளித்த உறுதி மொழியை மீறியது நீதி மன்ற அவமதிப்பு. The MP said that communications to Tamil Nadu ministers should not be in Hindi as it is a violation of the Official Language Implementation act. He argued that when he had approached the High Court regarding this matter, the Centre had assured that any future communications would be in English. "I wish to point out here that your ministry officials have violated the law of this land and assurance by your government to the court which amounts to contempt," he wrote. Adding that Tamil Nadu has a unique history of fighting attempts to impose Hindi, he said that he is ready to deal with it and would not let anyone weaken the resolve to uphold Tamil Nadu's identity and culture. "I doubt whether this kind of approach is deliberate on the part of the Government of India to implement their project of imposing Sanskrit and Hindi on the people of non-Hindi speaking states of India particularly, Tamil Nadu," Venkatesan wrote.  Ahead of the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, the BJP and the Congress are engaged in a word of wars over the Tamil language. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi recently said during a public address that Tamil Nadu should show the way to India in keeping away the forces that are inimical to language and culture and those projecting "one culture, one nation and one history" concept. Single-phase elections to 234 Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu are scheduled on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madurai-mp-sends-letter-written-in-hindi-back-to-centre-956698.html
01-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu should show the way to India in keeping out BJP: Rahul Gandhi||Tamil Nadu should show the way to India in keeping away the forces that are inimical to language and culture and those projecting "one culture, one nation and one history" concept, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Monday. History has shown that nobody can rule Tamil Nadu other than the Tamil people, he said during a public address here as part of his three-day tour of poll-bound Tamil Nadu. "This election will show the same thing that only a person who truly represents the Tamil people can be a chief minister of Tamil Nadu," he said addressing the huge crowd in Nagercoil, in the southern Kanyakumari district. "Tamil Nadu chief minister (K Palaniswami) who bows to Prime Minister Narendra Modi will never be able to do this. The chief minister should bow to the people of the state," he said. The RSS and Modi "insult Tamil language and culture", he said, adding the people should not to allow them to gain a foothold. Single-phase elections to 234 Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu are scheduled on April 6. The Congress is fighting the elections from the DMK-led alliance. Rahul further said, "Modi talks about one culture, one nation, one history and one leader." "Is Tamil not an Indian language? Is Bengali not an Indian language? Is Tamil culture not Indian culture? This is the battle that is being fought in this election, Gandhi said as the crowd cheered. "It is my duty to protect the Tamil language, culture and history just as it is my duty to protect all languages and religions in India," the Wayanad MP said. He accused the BJP-led government at the Centre as well as the Palaniswami government of not respecting the Tamil language, culture or tradition. "We have a chief minister here who submits to everything that Modi says. The chief minister represents what Modi wants to do but not the people of Tamil Nadu," he charged. Recalling the yeoman service of Congress senior and late parliamentarian H Vasantha Kumar, Gandhi said he always stood by the party values. Later, Rahul Gandhi laid a wreath at Vasantha Kumar's memorial at Kanyakumari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-should-show-the-way-to-india-in-keeping-out-bjp-rahul-gandhi-956710.html
01-03-2021||South||Emergency surgery performed on eel in Kerala zoo||A moray eel, which was fatally attacked and injured by another fish, was brought back to life through an emergency surgery at the zoo here, for probably the first time in any zoological park in the country. The 600 gm female eel had been kept along with two other eel in the same glass enclosure at the zoo aquarium. It was found critically injured on Saturday evening in the attack by a fellow eel. Its stomach was found severely bitten, flesh ripped apart and internal organs too, zoo sources said. They immediately sought the help of zoo veterinarian Jacob Alexander, who suggested an immediate surgery to give relief to the wounded fish. Chengannur-based veterinary surgeons-Tittu Abraham and Amritha Lakkshmi K U-, who had prior experience in performing similar procedures on fish, also rushed to the city to support the senior veterinarian. The most challenging thing for the veterinarians was to give anaesthesia to the wounded fish underwater in the nearly three-hour-long surgery. After the procedure, the eel, which has 30 stitches on its body, is now kept in a separate tank. The surgery was a success and the fish was doing well now but the 48 hours after the procedure was critical, the zoo authorities added. Alexander later said expert training should be given to veterinary students in performing such surgical procedures so that they could give some relief to even tiny creatures like fish in distress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/emergency-surgery-performed-on-eel-in-kerala-zoo-956714.html
01-03-2021||South||M K Stalin hits back at Amit Shah for 'corruption' charge; accuses BJP of siding with 'corrupt' AIADMK||DMK leader M K Stalin on Monday sought to make light of Union Home Minister Amit Shah's allegation of corruption against his party, saying it was the BJP that "stands by corruption" by aligning with the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu. Ridiculing Stalin for speaking on corruption issues, Shah had at a rally in Villupuram on Sunday asked him to "look within," asking "who did the 2G (spectrum allocation) scam" in which party MPs Kanimozhi and A Raja are accused. The DMK was part of the Congress-led government when the lead party did "Rs 12 lakh crore" worth scams, he had said. On Monday, Stalin told reporters that earlier Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier spoken on similar lines, "now Amit Shah has spoken and tomorrow all BJP leaders coming from the Centre will only say the same thing." "They held the hands of OPS (Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam) and EPS (CM K Palaniswami), who are steeped in corruption, commission and collection. That shows who stands by corruption," he said in an apparent reference to Modi holding the hands of the two leaders at a government function here last month. "Corruption, commission, collection" is an oft repeated statement by Stalin to target the ruling AIADMK over graft charges. Further, Stalin said seat-sharing talks in the DMK-led alliance have commenced from Sunday while the party manifesto was also getting ready. A 'special' meeting will be held on March 7 at Tiruchirappalli by the party where he will release a 10-year "vision document" to make Tamil Nadu numero uno in all sectors in a decade, Stalin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-hits-back-at-amit-shah-for-corruption-charge-accuses-bjp-of-siding-with-corrupt-aiadmk-956722.html
01-03-2021||South||Former judge, IPS officer join BJP in Kerala; BJP leader calls on church head||The BJP in Kerala continues to woo more and more high profile persons to its camp with the latest being a former judge of Kerala High Court, Justice P N Ravindran, and a former additional Director-General of Kerala Police, Venugopal K Nair, joining the party on Sunday. Another former judge of Kerala High Court, Justice V Chitambaresh, is also expected to join the party soon. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran called on Syro-Malabar Church Cardinal, George Alencherry, on Monday. Surendran said that it was just a private meeting even as it was considered an attempt to woo Christian vote banks. Earlier heads of prominent churches in Kerala had even called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Prime Minister assured favourable consideration of their various plights. Recently technocrat E Sreedhran, popularly known as 'Metro Man', and a retired director general of police Jacob Thomas had joined BJP. All of them are also likely to contest in the coming Assembly elections. Justice Ravindran, who retried from service in 2018, and Venugopal K Nair, who retired from service in 2012, were inducted into the party by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during a public ceremony at Thrippunithura in Kochi in connection with reception to 'Vijaya Yatra' (victory march) led by party state president K Surendran. Party sources said that Justice Chitambaresh was also expected to formally join the BJP on Sunday but he was out of town. Justice Chitambaresh, who retried in 2019, had earlier courted a controversy over his statement that Brahmins should always be at the helm of affairs and there should be deliberation whether reservation should be on the basis of community and caste alone. The state BJP leadership had already announced that many high profile persons would soon join the party in Kerala. The saffron party, which only has one seat in the Kerala Assembly is pinning high hopes in around 40 constituencies this time. Surendran said that the party would require only 35 to 40 seats in the 140-member Kerala Assembly to form a government in Kerala, which is an indirect hint that the party would try to woo MLAs from other parties as they did in many other states. Already many workers and local leaders for various political parties, including the ruling CPM, have joined the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-judge-ips-officer-join-bjp-in-kerala-bjp-leader-calls-on-church-head-956819.html
01-03-2021||South||Telangana polls: BJP, Congress contest TRS claims of 1.32 lakh government jobs in six years||The TRS, BJP and the Congress are engaged in a war of words over the creation of jobs in Telangana as they gear up for the Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahbubnagar and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam MLC graduate constituency polls on 14 March. Last week, the rulings party's working president KT Rama Rao (KTR) claimed that the TRS government has filled 1.32 lakh job vacancies in various departments over the past six years. The claims were contested by the opposition Congress and BJP. Congress leader Sravan Dasoju termed the figures as “fabricated” and demanded KTR for a debate on jobs at the Telangana Martyrs Memorial at Gun-Park opposite the state assembly on Friday. Sitting MLC and candidate for Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahabubnagar constituency Ramchander Rao challenged KTR to debate him on employment generation in Telangana, at the iconic Arts College building of the Osmania University on Monday morning. KTR abstained from both the proposed discussions. Instead, when Rao tweeted saying that he was at the OU venue and where KTR was, the TRS leader replied saying that he was, “busy gathering information on the 12 crore jobs (2 crore per year) & ₹15 lakhs in all Jandhan accounts promised by Hon’ble PM Shri Modi Ji. NDA is the answer so far N - No D - Data A – Available.” On Sunday, KTR who is also Telangana's IT, industries and investments minister wrote to union IT minister Ravo Shankar Prasad asking for a scheme/initiative for Hyderabad in the place of the lapsed Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) proposal, to ensure the city provides employment to the local youngsters. KTR said that numerous appeals were made during the past six years for sanction of funds for the ITIR in Hyderabad, but now “it is amply clear that the Union government is disinclined to continue the ITIR scheme.” “Lakhs of local youth have been deprived of employment due to the lackadaisical attitude of the centre,” the TRS minister stated in the letter. Attacking the Congress earlier, KTR, also the municipal administration minister, said that “during the ten-year tenure from 2004 to 14 in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, the Congress government managed to fill just 24,000 vacancies through the Public Service Commission, of which Telangana’s share was a mere 10,000.” A person who is a graduate or above is eligible to vote in the MLC graduate constituency elections. In a shift from the assembly polls, the poll campaign here is focussed on issues like education, jobs and development. The elected legislators represent their constituents in the legislative council, the upper house of the state legislature. For the Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahbubnagar seat, Ramchander Rao is the BJP candidate, while TRS has fielded former PM PV Narasimha Rao's daughter Surabhi Vani Devi. Veteran Congress leader and former minister Chinna Reddy is the Congress candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-polls-bjp-congress-contest-trs-claims-of-132-lakh-government-jobs-in-six-years-956854.html
01-03-2021||South||Kerala girl donates hair for Jayalalithaa’s statue at Marina memorial||Abhipriti, a 6-year-old girl hailing from Alappuzha district in Kerala, is eager to see the statue of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa at the Jayalalithaa memorial at Marina beach in Chennai as her hair has also become a part of the statue. Sajayan Madhavan, an Alappuzha-based sculptor, made 167 cm tall life-size statues of Jayalalithaa which were installed at the Amma memorial recently. Sajayan told DH that a child's hair were required for the statue and Abhiprithi's hair was used for the purpose. Sajayan came across Abhiprithi through her father Jibeesh, who is his friend. Sajayan discussed his requirement of hair for the statue and Jibeesh suggested his daughter's hair be used. It was found to be matching with the texture of Jayalalithaa's hair and hence, it was used. Remaining hair was bought from the market. Jibeesh, who is a Yuva Morch worker hailing from Thycattusserry on the suburbs of Alappuzha, said that Abhiprithi, who is a first-standard student, is now eager to see the statue and they plan to visit the memorial without much delay. The family was planning to donate hair for cancer patients. But when this suggestion came up, the family was quite happy to donate Abhipriti's hair, he said. Sajayan did many such works including statues at the Punjab war memorial museum. He said that Jayalalithaa's statues were made using the hyper realistic silicone technology. One of the statues was a remembrance of the popular free laptop distribution programme of Jayalalithaa, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-girl-donates-hair-for-jayalalithaa-s-statue-at-marina-memorial-956863.html
01-03-2021||South||DMK chief M K Stalin to unveil '10-year vision for Tamil Nadu' on March 7||With just about a month to go for April 6 assembly elections, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) President M K Stalin will unveil his “10-year vision for Tamil Nadu” at a public rally in Tiruchirappalli on March 7. Stalin will release the vision document which will talk about the ways and means to make Tamil Nadu no.1 in all sectors. The vision document is entirely different from the manifesto, which is likely to contain major announcements to woo the people ahead of the elections. The announcement of releasing the vision document coincided with Stalin's 68th birthday on Monday. Tiruchirappalli, the Central Tamil Nadu city which is a stronghold of the DMK, is considered lucky for the party. The DMK makes it a point to hold at least one mega rally in the city before it goes into elections. The party had planned a mega-conference in the second week of March but postponed it due to elections. “We have decided to organise a public rally in Tiruchirappalli on March 7 during which I released my vision document for the state for the next 10 years. The arrangements for the public meeting is being done by Principal Secretary K N Nehru. Work on preparing manifesto is also on,” Stalin told reporters here. He also said once the vision document is released, the DMK has planned to take it to 2 crore families through its cadres in 20 days. The DMK, which is out of power in Tamil Nadu since 2011, is making no stone unturned to capture power in the April 6 assembly elections. Stalin said the party has begun seat-sharing talks with alliance partners and expressed the hope the negotiations will be completed soon. Asked by reporters to respond to Union Home Minister Amit Shah's statement on DMK's corruption, Stalin said it has become a habit for BJP leaders to talk about the party without any basis. “It is the BJP which has aligned with corrupt AIADMK,” he said. Meanwhile, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress President Rahul Gandhi, actor Rajinikanth, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan and others wished Stalin on his birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-chief-m-k-stalin-to-unveil-10-year-vision-for-tamil-nadu-on-march-7-956867.html
01-03-2021||South||Fuel price: Vehicles to be off the road for 12 hours on March 2 in Kerala||A 12-hour vehicle strike against rising fuel prices in the country would be held in Kerala from 6 AM on March 2. All trade unions, except the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) which is affiliated with the BJP, would take part in the strike called for by the unions. The state-run KSRTC, private bus owners association and commercial vehicles would be off the road, a press release from the Samyukta Samara Samithi (joint protest committee) of the unions said here. The committee has requested all private vehicles also to stay off the road to express solidarity with the protest. "In 2014, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi first came to power, the petrol price was Rs 75 per litre and diesel Rs 57 for a litre. Now, the cost is above Rs 94 and Rs 89 respectively," the panel said. This is affecting the common man, it said. The SSLC, plus-two, among others, on March 2 has been rescheduled for March 8, the state government said. The APJ Abdul Kalam Technology University too has postponed the exams in view of the strike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fuel-price-vehicles-to-be-off-the-road-for-12-hours-on-march-2-in-kerala-956870.html
01-03-2021||South||Madras High Court to monitor CB-CID probe in sexual harassment case against top cop||Taking suo motu cognisance, the Madras High Court on Monday said that it will monitor the CB-CID probe into charges of sexual harassment levelled by a woman IPS officer against a Special DGP. Justice N Anand Venkatesh said he would monitor the investigation into the case periodically and opined that the case should not be politicised by anyone. During the course of argument, the judge expressed concern over the incident and said he is “deeply saddened.” The High Court took suo motu cognisance of the case a day after the CB-CID wing of Tamil Nadu police registered a case against the senior officer for allegedly sexually harassing the woman IPS officer. The case was registered following a complaint from the officer. Meanwhile, the accused officer argued before the court that as per the law, his name should not be used by the media. The woman officer in her complaint said that the then Special DGP (Law and Order), who was on a visit to her workplace, behaved inappropriately with her when they were travelling in the same car. A day after the incident, the woman officer rushed to Chennai to file a complaint with Home Secretary S K Prabhakar, and DGP J K Tripathy. However, the woman officer was stopped on the outskirts of Chennai by several policemen, allegedly on the instructions of the then Special DGP, in a bid to prevent her from filing a complaint. After the incident created a political uproar, the government formed a panel headed by seasoned bureaucrat Jayashree Raghunandan to launch a probe into the charges. The woman officer, sources added, went ahead reporting the incident despite pressure from her colleagues not to persist with the complaint. DMK MP Kanimozhi demanded that the case be shifted to the CBI for an “independent and fair inquiry” into this matter. “The officers involved need to be suspended and arrested immediately. Sources say that the woman IPS officer is receiving threats. This is shameful,” she wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-to-monitor-cb-cid-probe-in-sexual-harassment-case-against-top-cop-956890.html
01-03-2021||South||DMK signs pact with two parties for Tamil Nadu Assembly polls||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Monday finalised a seat-sharing pact with two parties – Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), and Manidhaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) – for the April 6 assembly polls. While IUML has been allotted 3 seats, the MMK will contest two seats in the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance. The DMK's rainbow coalition cobbled up for the 2019 elections is continuing for the assembly polls and the Dravidian outfit finalised the agreement with the two aforementioned parties on Monday, while it held the first round of talks with MDMK led by Vaiko, and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) of Thol. Thirumavalavan. “We sought five seats from the DMK this election but the party expressed its inability to allot the number of seats we asked for due to various reasons. One reason was that there are new parties that joined the alliance in 2019. We have accepted the three seats offered,” IUML President Prof. Khader Mohideen said. He said the IUML contest the elections in its own symbol of “ladder.” IUML contested five seats in 2016 but won only one. MMK chief Prof. M. H. Jawahirullah said the DMK wants to contest a maximum number of seats this election in the light of “recent developments” in the country where BJP tries to capture power in states where they do not win elections. “We have signed an agreement to get two seats in the DMK elections,” he said, adding that a decision on which symbol to contest will be taken soon. MDMK and VCK held the first round of talks with the DMK on Monday and they are likely to return for negotiations on Tuesday. MDMK leader Mallai Sathya, who led the negotiations, said the talks were progressing well and that the party will contest on its own symbol. The talks with Congress will resume on Wednesday and a deal is likely to be sealed on the same day, sources said. The DMK-Congress held the first round of talks on February 25 during which a “wide gap” between the seats demanded and given was noticed. However, party leaders said they are hopeful of signing a deal with the DMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-signs-pact-with-two-parties-for-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-956914.html
01-03-2021||State||Karnataka HC suggests RBI, ministry of Finance to relook into OTS Scheme||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday observed that it was appropriate for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Ministry of Finance to have a relook into the One Time Settlement (OTS) schemes by the financial institutions.  The petitioner had borrowed loan from Bank of Maharashtra during 2014. On default, the bank had brought the mortgaged property to auction. The owner of the property moved the court seeking direction to consider his representation for OTS in terms of “Maha Rahat Yojana 2020-21” and “Maha Samadhan Yojna 2020-21.” The petitioner claimed that once the OTS scheme was in place, borrower or guarantor was entitled to the benefit of the Scheme. The bank submitted that as and when a new OTS scheme was announced, the petitioner and the company gave an impression that the account would be settled, but indulged only in correspondence and approaching the courts.  The bank also submitted that the amount payable by the petitioner company was Rs 14.50 crore and said the petitioner owns properties worth more than Rs 50 crore in Bengaluru and Raichur. Justice P S Dinesh Kumar observed that the OTS being considered only on the ledger balance as on the date of Non Performing Assets (NPA) is anti-thesis of economic progress. “It is rather strange that banks lend money without proper tangible security and offer to receive a portion of it under the OTS Scheme. Logically, this is preposterous because, banks deal with money belonging to the depositors. Waiver of portion of money lent by whatever name it is called, directly results in inflation and shall have adverse impact on the economic health of the nation,” the court said. The court said though OTS is a policy matter and not under challenge, “it is appropriate for those concerned in the Ministry of Finance and RBI to have a re-look into the scheme.” The court dismissed the petition pointing out that while the bank had declared the account as NPA in 2016, the borrower and the guarantor have successfully stalled recovery of public money till date. The court also directed the petitioner to pay cost of Rs one lakh each to the bank and in the name of Registrar General of the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-suggests-rbi-ministry-of-finance-to-relook-into-ots-scheme-956882.html
01-03-2021||State||Quota rally: Karnataka HC seeks report on action against violators||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the state government to place on record action taken, if any, against violators of regulations regarding wearing masks and maintaining social distancing during the rally held on last Sunday. The rally was conducted by the Panchamasali community demanding reservation. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing PILs seeking direction for strict implementation of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The bench asked the government advocate on the action taken against the violators at the rally. “A memo shall be filed setting out the action taken against those who participated in the said rally in the city and violated the norms regarding use of masks and maintaining social distancing. We are informed that the rally was held demanding reservation for a particular class of society,” thebench said. Meanwhile, the state government submitted a copy of the amended Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. The court asked the government advocate whether the state government has framed any rules or regulations prescribing the fine as provided under the principal Act. In the previous hearings the court had pulled up the state government for not complying with the provisions under Section 5 of the Act. The court had stated that a proposal to amend the law is no ground for not implementing the provisions under the principal Act. The court had also ordered notice to the political parties directing them to submit before the court the preventive measures they propose to adopt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/quota-rally-karnataka-hc-seeks-report-on-action-against-violators-956884.html
01-03-2021||State||Govt banks on tech to weed out bogus BPL card holders||In a first, the government is attempting a data mining exercise to weed out bogus food subsidy beneficiaries even as Karnataka saw 26 lakh new households becoming poorer, going by the latest number of BPL cards that have been issued.  The B S Yediyurappa administration, which is looking to rationalise expenditure in the post-pandemic recovery period, is doggedly pursuing this to reduce the burden of subsidies.    Since 2017, the government has issued 26.87 lakh new BPL (ration) cards and another 77,000 applications are pending. The government has temporarily stopped receiving new applications due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mar 31 deadline “We’re seriously looking at (reducing) the burden of subsidies,” Additional Chief Secretary (Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs) B H Anil Kumar told DH. The government has set a March 31 deadline for ineligible beneficiaries to surrender their ration cards.  Since 2017, as many as 2.28 lakh bogus or ineligible cards have been deleted. Besides local-level identification of beneficiaries by officials, Kumar said his department had started using technology. “We have Aadhaar, BPL, motor vehicles, GST and Bhoomi (land) data. We’re looking at all of them to compare and see who comes under the exclusion criteria. Based on that, we’ll come out with a list,” he said.   Those employed in the government or any of its undertakings, taxpayers, those holding 3 hectares of dry or irrigated land in rural areas and owners of properties spread over 1,000 sqft or more in urban areas, those owning a 4-wheeler for personal use and those with an annual income of over Rs 1.2 lakh are considered ineligible to possess priority household ration cards. According to Kumar, there is a clamour for BPL cards. “There are 21 government schemes for which BPL is a requirement. That’s the incentive for people to get a BPL card,” he pointed out.  For example, every member of a BPL card household gets 5 kg rice and 2 kg wheat free of cost monthly under the Anna Bhagya scheme. Those who have an Antyodaya card get 35 kg rice free.  The government procures rice at Rs 3 per kg for 2,17,403 metric tonnes allocated to Karnataka every month under the Food Security Act. Beyond this, the government pays Rs 2,500 per quintal to the Food Corporation of India.  In the current 2020-21 fiscal, the government has earmarked Rs 3,257 crore for the Anna Bhagya scheme.  Ration meant for the poor find their way to the market where subsidised food grains are sold for a higher price. Between April and December 2020, authorities conducted 430 raids and 425 persons were arrested, leading to recovery of items worth Rs 9.7 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-banks-on-tech-to-weed-out-bogus-bpl-card-holders-956886.html
01-03-2021||State||1,576 senior citizens vaccinated in state||According to the State health department, as many as 1,576 senior citizens were administered the first dose of the Covid vaccine on Monday. As many as 938 elderly and people with comorbid conditions were vaccinated in BBMP limits, followed by Mysuru 285, Bangalore Urban 170, Ballari 168 and Uttara Kannada 120.  A total of 374 people with comorbidities were vaccinated. While the breakup for comorbid people is not available for BBMP limits, Raichur vaccinated 83, Bangalore Urban 75, Ballari 47, Bidar and Chikkballapur 19 each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/1576-senior-citizens-vaccinated-in-state-956901.html
01-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka forest dept loses its timber game after e-auction hurdles||The Forest Department has been losing its edge in the sale of timber, one of its oldest businesses, ever since the online auction system was implemented. As per a study by the Karnataka Evaluation Authority, the e-system has resulted in losses for the department. The conventional method of physical auctioning was abandoned from 2017-18 to bring in transparency and to put an end to allegations of corruption. The e-timber system, however, has posed new challenges to the department, which is dealing with unsold timber that loses its value and leads to losses. Each type of timber (teak, rosewood, acacia etc) is grouped into different ‘lots’ based on quality and size. The department fixes an upset value for lots based on the average amount of past three successful bids. Data showed that in the conventional method, when a Deputy Conservator of Forests sold the lots, up to 70% of timber on sale was auctioned. This has dropped to 38.5% in e-auction. This, the study said, was mainly due to the lack of discretionary power of officials to change the offset price. A ‘lot’ that remains unsold in the first round of auction starts losing its value in subsequent rounds. The sooner a lot is sold, the better the revenue. At Thithimathi depot, for example, rosewood that was put up on auction at a base price of Rs 2.86 lakh in 2014 was finally sold at Rs 26,000 in 2018. As many lots remained unsold, the price of timber fell almost every year though the inflation should have seen the prices increasing. The average rate of a cubic metre of rosewood fell from Rs 90,189 in 2015-16 (conventional sale) to Rs 77,835 in 2019-20 (e-auction); the price of a cubic metre of mathi came down from Rs 22,030 to Rs 21,614 during the same years. The other timber analysed included acacia, Nandi and teak. As a result, the study said, the department lost about Rs 71 crore (Rs 16.52%) on a turnover of Rs 426.06 crore in the last three years. “The Forest Department has been extracting and selling teak, rosewood and Nandi timbers, below the seigniorage rate (intrinsic value). It should also be noted that the bid rates are the rates received for extracted, converted and transported timber. The department spends substantial money on these processes as well,” it added. Sanjai Mohan, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, however, said the report was erroneous and the department as well as the government has rejected the same. “The report has been prepared by someone who doesn’t know how the system works. The data is not correct. We have rejected the report,” he said. However, sources said the report was prepared on request of the department which provided all the data. “It’s not a report against the e-auction. Rather, it is the much-needed introspection we need to prevent further losses,” the source said. Mohan, however, said the e-auction system was set for a reform. “We are opening a dedicated window for local bidders and taking steps to ensure faster sale of timber that doesn’t get bids in the first round. Steps are also being taken to rationalise the offset price based on the market value,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-forest-dept-loses-its-timber-game-after-e-auction-hurdles-956568.html
01-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC exams to begin from June 21||Karnataka Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Sureshkumar on Monday said that the SSLC examinations would be held from June 21 till July 5. Announcing the time-table in Dharwad on Monday, the minister said that the government had announced a temporary date to hold the exam and had invited objections from the public. As the one-month time to raise objections and also to give suggestions ended on February 26, the department has decided to hold the SSLC examination from June 21. The time-table is as follows: June 21-first language (Kannada, Telugu, Hindi, Marathi, Tamil, Urdu, English and Sanskrit), June 24-Mathematics, June 28- Science, June 30- third language (Hindi, Kannada, English, Arabic, Persian, Urdu, Sanskrit, Konkani and Tulu), July 2-Second language (English, Kannada), and on June 5-Social Studies. This time the examination will be different since the syllabus had to be shrunk as the schools could not be opened till January. To see that no pressure is mounted on students and simultaneously to ensure that the students are not deprived of knowledge, the chapters which are not linked to PUC first year have been dropped from the syllabus, the minister said. To conduct the examination and improve the passing percentage, headmasters workshop will be held in every district and best practices will be adopted, said Sureshkumar. On starting schools from first standard till fifth standard, the minister said that if everything had gone right, the primary schools should have started today. But, including Karnataka, there is a surge in Covid-19 positive cases in six other states. Thereby, the department has decided to take a final call in the next seven days on starting classes of first standard to fifth standard after consultation with the Health Department. The minister further added that the academic year 2021-22 will begin from July 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-exams-to-begin-from-june-21-956825.html
01-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||On day 1, 938 elderly, those with health conditions get vaccine in Bengaluru||A 102-year-old retired Indian army officer Subramanian K N, received the first shot of the Covid vaccine at Columbia Asia Hospital, Hebbal, here on Monday afternoon. He was among more than 80 people to get inoculated in Columbia Asia Referral Hospital, Yeshwantpur, and Columbia Asia Hospital, Hebbal. However, in many other hospitals in the city - government and private - vaccination never took off. In all, 938 in the city got vaccinated at 22 hospitals on day 1 of the vaccination drive for senior citizens' and people with health conditions.  The glitches in Co-WIN app forced many elderly to drop in at hospitals despite the fact that on-site registrations were not allowed as more and more crowds piled in in the hospital corridors Two large government hospitals did not conduct vaccination on Monday owing to Co-WIN snag - Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute and Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital. Only two were vaccinated at CV Raman General Hospital. At Jayanagar General Hospital 57 were vaccinated and the vaccination started only at 1.30 pm. Sujith Babu, a sales executive, had secured a vaccination slot at Columbia Asia, Whitefield, by booking on the Co-WIN portal for his 68-year-old mother. "When I spoke to the hospital authorities in the afternoon, they said they had neither received the vaccine nor the Co-WIN id/password. Customer care manager seemed to be clueless and said he will folllow up. By 5 pm, they had received the vaccine, but there was a technical issue in logging into the Co-WIN platform, and said the vaccination might happen tomorrow," Babu said. The 63-year-old Ganesh Kumar, a former CEO of a food company, had a similar experience but was in line to get vaccinated at Fortis Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, at 6.30 pm. The hospital authorities said it started the drive only at 5 pm after Co-WIN opened. "We could register on the Co-WIN platform with the OTP but did not get a vaccination slot at any centre. I wish the government had done the necessary debugging of the portal. It is not working beyond a point. I couldn't take an appointment for the entire month of March, April and May. There is something drastically wrong," Kumar said.  As many as 61 were vaccinated at MS Ramaiah Hospital. Only 48 of these had registered and 13 had walked in. Meanwhile, 28 walk-in citizens were requested to come on Tuesday. Dr Naresh Shetty, President, MS Ramaiah Hospital, said, "In all, 103 registered in the hospital today. Once the initial rush is over, we will call them."The hospital started vaccinating at 1.45 pm and closed at 6.45 pm. Portal hitches pertained till 5.15. It was smooth after that, maybe due to less load." While Apollo Jayanagar vaccinated 62, Apollo Bannerghatta Road did not undertake vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/on-day-1-938-elderly-those-with-health-conditions-get-vaccine-in-bengaluru-956881.html
01-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DSERT gets upgraded, advanced studio inaugurated||An upgraded and advanced studio of the Department of State Educational Research and Training (DSERT) was recently inaugurated by Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar. The Embassy Services Private Ltd (ESPL) has donated digital cameras, a video streaming studio, LED HD television, lights, microphones, an audio mixer, audio distribution amplifier and audio monitors.   The upgraded studio is expected to benefit about 41 lakh school kids across Karnataka who are presently tutored through an online medium in the form of a separate channel - Makkala Vaani. “The department of education has set up various online channels to ensure students do not lose touch with their schooling, especially those at government schools. The ESPL’s contribution will ensure infrastructure is in place to support such huge population of kids across Karnataka,” a statement from ESPL said.  Minister Suresh Kumar said, “The safety and health of our students is the utmost priority – we are extremely thankful to ESPL for their support. We will be able to utilise it to assist in teacher training and development.”  Pradeep Lala, managing director & CEO, ESPL, said, “We believe that education empowers the next generation. We have been working with government schools since 2012 and are very grateful to play a role in ensuring that the infrastructure is in place for students to continue their schooling.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dsert-gets-upgraded-advanced-studio-inaugurated-956889.html
01-03-2021||West||Sanjay Raut calls for UPA restructuring, says Pawar should lead alliance||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said there is a need to restructure the UPA, and the new alliance should be led by a senior leader like Sharad Pawar as many regional parties are not ready to work under the leadership of the Congress. The future of this alliance would depend on the sacrifice and liberality of the Congress, he said. He added that there was no National Democratic Alliance (NDA) left in the country as its allies have quit it, but similarly, the existence of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) is not visible as it has very few parties now. The Rajya Sabha member was speaking at the 'Jaybhim Festival' organised by a former corporator in Aurangabad. The programme began with Raut's interview. "The allies have left the NDA and there is no such alliance now. In the same way, there are a very few parties left with the UPA. Many regional parties are not ready to work under the Congress leadership in the UPA. Therefore, to create a group against the incumbent government, there is a need to go for the restructuring of the UPA," he said. "This new alliance should be led by a senior leader like Sharad Pawar. If that happens, then many more parties can join the alliance in future. But this is not possible without the consent of the Congress. This future of the (restructured) alliance will depend on the sacrifice and liberality of the Congress," Raut added. The Sena leader said that he has been witnessing a change in the political atmosphere of Delhi now. "Today, Delhi is deaf and dumb and there are no activities in the national capital. There are a few people who are speaking. The people of the party who are in majority have no freedom of speech. They don't have freedom to meet each other and they don't even smile after looking at us," he said. They fear that if they wave at us, the move might get captured on CCTV, he added. Raut said he feels that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should be in Delhi for national-level politics now. "I always tell this to Uddhav Thackeray that he should go to Delhi now. The nation is waiting for you and it needs you. Opposition parties, regional parties want a leadership and such a leadership can be seen in Maharashtra," he said. On Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar's death, he said, "His death is mysterious. I have spoken at least twice on this issue with CM Thackeray. He could have committed suicide at his home, but he came to Mumbai and this could be out of the faith he has in Mumbai police that they would investigate his death. There are names related to BJP in his suicide note."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-calls-for-upa-restructuring-says-pawar-should-lead-alliance-956610.html
01-03-2021||West||Gujarat: 2 firemen injured in blaze at Surat textile mill||Two firemen were injured in a fire that broke out in a textile mill in Gujarat's Surat city, an official said on Monday. The blaze erupted around 10 pm on Sunday in a unit located on the third floor of Prerna Mill in Pandesara industrial area here, divisional officer (fire), south zone, Raju Gaikwad said. Around 15 fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the flames were brought under control by 2 am on Monday, he said. "More than 12 workers who were inside the unit managed to come out to safety. Two of our staffers were injured due to a blast in a fire extinguisher," the official said. One of the injured personnel, who suffered a bone fracture, was admitted to the hospital, he said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-2-firemen-injured-in-blaze-at-surat-textile-mill-956654.html
01-03-2021||West||42 people test Covid-19 positive before Maharashtra Budget Session||Ahead of the Budget Session of the Maharashtra Assembly, a total of 42 people, including two journalists and 23 Police officers, have tested positive for Covid-19, according to JJ Hospital. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/42-people-test-covid-19-positive-before-maharashtra-budget-session-956672.html
01-03-2021||West||Bhagat Singh Koshyari says Maharashtra 'strongly presented its case' on border dispute||Maharashtra has strongly presented its case vis-a-vis the border dispute that it has with Karnataka, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said on Monday. “My government has strongly presented the case of Maharashtra in the original suit filed in the Supreme Court on Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute and henceforth will continue to present the same,” Koshyari said addressing the joint session on the opening day of the Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature. According to him, the government is committed to the cause of Marathi-speaking people of the border area and is committed to getting them justice. He also pointed out that the government has recently published a volume titled “Maharashtra Karnataka Seemavaad: Sangharsh aaani Sankalp” (Maharashtra-Karnataka Boundary Dispute: Struggle and Pledge) and copies of this book will be made available to the members of the State Legislature during the ongoing session. Maharashtra claims 814 villages along the borders in Belgaum, Karwar, Nippani, Bidar and wants them to be included in the state - as a large population here speaks Marathi. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government, backed by Opposition BJP, has called for a "time-bound resolution" of the issue and urged the Centre to declare the disputed areas as Union Territory till a final solution is reached.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhagat-singh-koshyari-says-maharashtra-strongly-presented-its-case-on-border-dispute-956712.html
01-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: New Chief Secretary Kunte meets Pawar, discusses state issues||Newly-appointed Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte met NCP president Sharad Pawar at the latter's residence here on Monday and discussed various issues pertaining to the state, including the Covid-19 situation. Kunte, a 1985-batch IAS officer who earlier also served as Mumbai municipal commissioner, was appointed chief secretary of the state on Saturday. After the meeting, Pawar in a tweet said, "Shri Sitaram Kunte, the newly appointed Chief Secretary of the Government of Maharashtra visited me today. We discussed various issues pertaining to Maharashtra, especially the Covid-19 pandemic situation and the vaccination program." "I wished him well for a successful tenure," added Pawar, whose party is an ally of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-new-chief-secretary-kunte-meets-pawar-discusses-state-issues-956731.html
01-03-2021||West||Maharashtra Governor speaks on GST dues, says Centre just paid Rs 6,140 crore||The Centre has just paid Rs 6,140 crore of Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues and gave Maharashtra a loan of Rs 11,520 crore against a whopping Rs 46,950 crore, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said this in his address to the joint session of Legislature on the opening day of the Budget Session. After the Covid-19 crisis broke out, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government leaders including Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance portfolio, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat have been requesting the Centre to clear GST dues. In his speech, Koshyari said: “By the end of February 2021, out of the Rs 46,950 crore due to my government as GST compensation, the Central government has paid just Rs 6,140 crore and Rs 11,520 crore as loan for GST compensation. GST compensation to the tune of Rs 29,290 crore is overdue from the Central Government. The Governor also said that the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown and natural calamities have slowed down the state’s economy. “Out of the revenue collection target of Rs 3,47,456 crore, the State has collected just Rs 1,88,542 crore at the end of January 2021. This is 35 per cent less than the budgetary estimate and 21 per cent lower than the collection in the same period in the previous year,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-speaks-on-gst-dues-says-centre-just-paid-rs-6140-crore-956756.html
01-03-2021||West||Overcrowding in court: Won't hear case, Bombay HC judge warns||Irked with overcrowding in the courtroom, a senior judge of Bombay High Court on Monday warned of not taking up any case for hearing if social distancing norms were not followed. A division bench headed by Justice S S Shinde, which hears criminal cases, after seeing the crowd in his courtroom, asked staff to tell police officers, advocates and litigants to wait outside. "Don't crowd in court....or else we will discharge the entire board and not hear any case," Justice Shinde said. He said overcrowding and not maintaining social distancing norms were in breach of the standard operating procedure laid down by HC at the time of resumption of physical hearing amid the Covid-19 pandemic. "Standard operating procedure and social distancing is for everyone's health and safety. We (judges) are sitting at a distance," Justice Shinde said. He referred to the incident of 60 advocates testing positive for Covid-19 at Amravati district in Maharashtra. "Fortunately, we have not had any untoward incident here. We are going in the right direction and we don't want to go back to hearing cases virtually," Justice Shinde said. He asked everyone, including lawyers, to wear masks at all times. Justice Gautam Patel of HC had last month issued a notice complaining of overcrowding in court and had directed everyone to strictly adhere to safety norms. Last week, Justice Prithviraj Chavan had refused to hear a case as the lawyer appearing in the matter had removed his mask. Amid the outbreak and lockdown, the HC had suspended physical hearings in April last year and began conducting hearings for urgent matters through video conferencing system. It subsequently began a combination of virtual and physical hearings, and in December last year, resumed physical hearing for almost all cases. Currently, all courts in HC function at full capacity, hearing cases physically from Monday to Thursday. On Fridays, some courts conduct virtual hearings for cases where the lawyers or parties are not based in Mumbai, or, if there is a specific request for such hearings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/overcrowding-in-court-wont-hear-case-bombay-hc-judge-warns-956775.html
01-03-2021||West||Cyber attack behind Mumbai power outage last year||The massive and unprecedented power outage in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) last year was caused by a cyber attack. The October 12, 2020, power outage in Mumbai-MMR comprising the financial capital and parts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts brought the suburban railway network of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) to a grinding halt even as industrial activity was badly hit. The incident took place at a time when the economy was being revived after it was hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Energy Minister Nitin Raut are expected to share details later in the evening. The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) and the Central Electricity Authority had set up separate committees to probe the cause of the power outage and their reports have been received.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyber-attack-behind-mumbai-power-outage-last-year-956842.html
01-03-2021||West||Bombay High Court slams Goa govt over seats reserved for women, ST community||In an embarrassment to the state government, the Bombay High Court bench in Goa on Monday slammed a top government official for reserving wards for women and Schedule Tribes communities in the upcoming municipal polls on his "whims and caprices", forcing the postponement of elections to five out of the 11 municipal councils, which were scheduled to go to polls on March 20. The Opposition has hailed the High Court order, with state Congress president Girish Chodankar even demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant for manipulating the municipal poll process. "The HC has quashed reservation notification in respect of five municipalities namely Sanguem, Margao, Mormugao, Mapusa and Quepem. HC has also said that the notification has to be issued as early as possible and fresh notification issuance, thereafter elections have to be conducted at the earliest. The dates have to be scheduled by the SEC," Goa Advocate General Devidas Pangam told reporters on Monday. Justices Bharati Dangre and Satish Sonak in their order highlighted several discrepancies in the reservation of wards for women and the ST community. "The constituency which has more than 30 per cent ST population has left unreserved and constituency which has only 1 (one) ST member corresponding to 0.23 per cent ST population is reserved for ST. The impugned order dated February 4, 2021, to the extent it reserves ward No.1 for ST, is vitiated by arbitrariness, unreasonableness, and non-application of mind," the order said referring to discrepancies in the constituency reservation schedule for the Sanguem municipality. The Court also faulted the procedure for reservation of seats for women in the Mormugao and the Mapusa municipalities. "There is no dispute and the record bears out that in Mormugao Municipal Council the total number of seats to be filled by direct election amounts to 25. Out of these, only 8 seats have been reserved for women. The reservation of only eight seats out of 25 seats certainly amounts to reservation of less than one-third of the total number of seats to be filled by direct election to the Mormugao Municipal Council," the order said. Reacting to the development, state Congress president Girish Chodankar said: "Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and the Minister for Municipal Administration Milind Naik should resign after this High Court order for trying to openly manipulate the election process".  State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that the Goa government would appeal in the Supreme Court against the HC order. "The government will appeal in the HC. Finally, decisions related to the reservation of wards are done by the Directorate of Municipal Administration. It is up to them," Tanavade said. The municipal elections are the last round of polls, ahead of the state assembly elections, which are scheduled to be held in early 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-slams-goa-govt-over-seats-reserved-for-women-st-community-956877.html
