02-03-2021||First Edit||New rules bid to curb digital news media||The government’s new rules to regulate digital news portals, social media and streaming entertainment services are seriously flawed, and overreach beyond their stated purpose. This is the government’s first major attempt to put in place a set of rules to regulate the working of social and digital media, though pressures and controls have been attempted and exercised in many ways in the past. It is also an effort to rein in ‘Big Tech’, which exercises huge influence and wields power, but it might affect the functional freedom of many legitimate players within the country. It is claimed by ministers that the government has adopted a “soft touch regulatory approach’’, but in effect, the rules have the potential to be used as a harsh weapon to curb free speech and to violate the right to privacy of citizens.   The rules wrongly put news media within the same regulatory bracket as social media and entertainment services. But the digital news media already follow existing regulations and conventions and exercise self-regulation. They are very different from social media, which is diffuse and spread out. All OTT and online news platforms will have to abide by an ethics code to be administered by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. While the need for self-regulation is stressed, there is a three-tier framework for regulation, with an oversight authority manned by government officials armed with suo moto powers at the top. This is likely to be restrictive and inhibiting and lead to bureaucratic control and censorship. There is also no justification for bringing news media under the Information Technology Act, 2000. Many of the proposals do not have legislative support and have not received any parliamentary scrutiny. No consultations have been held with stakeholders of digital news, either. The rules have also introduced a traceability framework for messaging platforms to identify the first originator of the information. This is likely to require breaking the end-to-end encryption of platforms such as WhatsApp, affecting the right to privacy. This, and many other rules, will have harmful consequences, especially in the absence of an effective data protection law. Restrictions on entertainment platforms can hurt creativity. Social media platforms have emerged as an important medium for self-expression, though they are also being misused. While they need to be accountable, the tendency of government is always to deal with them with a heavy hand. While content should not impact the country’s sovereignty and unity, many expressions can be interpreted arbitrarily and used against legitimate and genuine players of digital news media and users of social media, and that’s a danger for democracy and freedom of speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/new-rules-bid-to-curb-digital-news-media-956961.html
02-03-2021||In Perspective||Does the ‘G-23’ have a chance?||The political thrust demonstrated at Jammu by members of the ‘G-23’ in Congress is aimed at stirring the cauldron within the party. It indicates the start of a prolonged battle by the group to establish presence as a force capable of challenging the existing order, or the lack of it. Public pronouncements by the leaders at the rally underscored the basic theme that in the absence of an imaginative programme, the party is in a state of drift, with no perceivable attempt to correct course or to re-energise the party. While these are early days yet to predict the possible outcome of the stirrings the G-23 is attempting to create, there is a strong view in Congress that these manoeuvres are guided by political opponents who would benefit from the disquiet within, contrary to the letter the G23 wrote to the party leadership. The letter avowed that the group’s intention was to strengthen the party and its internal working by infusing greater democracy into the organisation. Having embarked on the path and earned some concessions in the form of organisational elections this summer, the G-23 decided to stay the course. The Jammu rally around Ghulam Nabi Azad, who retired from Rajya Sabha last month after a prolonged run, signals that more such rallies may be in the works. What will the group do? Where does it go from here? The natural course would be to wait for the organisational elections, build opinion inside the party, and secure places in the new set up. Will the group members and their followers be accommodated with honour or be kept out by dismissing them as acting out of their vaulting political ambitions? Will Congress witness another split? It is difficult to read the tea leaves now, but a peep into Congress history could have an answer. The Indian National Congress (INC) is no stranger to disagreements and dissent. In the past 50 years, INC has endured three major splits – in 1969, 1978 and 1994. Interestingly, in 1969, it was Indira Gandhi who effected the split, forming INC (Requisition), leaving the party seniors with the rump INC (Organisation). In the post-Nehru and Shastri era, a tussle over who would control the organisation triggered the split, with the old guard grappling to establish the primacy of the party over the government. The electoral reverses of 1967 and the old guard’s bid to rein in the decision-making powers of the government led to differences and Indira Gandhi was shown the door. She set up the INC-R and reaped success in the 1971 general elections, diminishing the stature of the old guard, also known as the ‘syndicate’. The second decisive break came in the backdrop of the post-Emergency electoral debacle and the traditionalists’ discomfort with the 1975-77 events. Indira Gandhi floated INC-Indira, or more popularly Congress (I), and swept back to power in 1980. The characteristics of another major split in 1994 were vastly different from the earlier two. The Congress under Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao had to contend with an authority outside the party in the form of Sonia Gandhi while his own political authority came under challenge in the wake of the 1992 developments at Ayodhya. Leading the charge was Arjun Singh, the wily Thakur from Madhya Pradesh, and Narayan Dutt Tiwari, the leader whose unexpected electoral defeat in 1991 allowed Rao to become Prime Minister. Having embarked on a path of confrontation, the Tiwari Congress formation became a fait accompli but faltered as it never earned the blessings of 10, Janpath. The common thread in all these splits or separations was that the party formed by Indira Gandhi remained in control as the real inheritor to the organisation that led the freedom struggle. In each case, the challenge to alter the existing order ended without leaving much of a mark on the political landscape. The Congress (O) was lost in the wilderness while Tiwari Congress made a Ghar Wapsi. The context of the current stirrings in Congress is vastly different. Congress has been out of power at the Centre for the last seven years and its presence in state governments, either its own or in coalition, is restricted to a handful of states. The political terrain is much harsher as the BJP is cruising along relentlessly in its Congress-mukt Bharat campaign. The inner working of the organisation remains an unclear arrangement, with interim president Sonia Gandhi holding fort while Rahul Gandhi’s stamp on key organisational posts is all too evident. Recent appointments in the party show that the current leadership is not willing to accommodate the G-23 letter writers in any manner or grant any concessions.   For the time being, the party has chosen to underplay the Jammu event, save for advising the G-23 to campaign in the coming Assembly elections in five states. Having bargained for time to hold organisational polls by June, the results of these Assembly elections would hold the key. If Congress is able to wrest control in any state, the current leadership would have reasons to consolidate its grip further and deny any space to G-23; a reversal would make the G-23’s case stronger. (The writer is a senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/does-the-g-23-have-a-chance-956963.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 16L being smuggled to Mangalore in suitcase bearings seized||Acting on a tip off, the Mangalore Air customs on Tuesday nabbed a person smuggling gold by in his trolley bag bearings. The arrested, Mohammed Awan, hails from Murudeshwar, in Uttara Kannada. He arrived at Mangalore International Airport from Dubai by an Air India flight. Gold weighing 350 grams valued at Rs16,52,000 was seized. Further investigation is in progress. The team was led by Deputy Commissioner Kapil  Gade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-16l-being-smuggled-to-mangalore-in-suitcase-bearings-seized-957128.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Third phase Covid-19 vaccination drive began in Dakshina Kannada||The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination was launched across Dakshina Kannada district on Monday. Thirty-nine beneficiaries queued up to receive the vaccine.Both government and private hospitals have been identified as vaccination sites. On Day 1, vaccination was administered only at Wenlock Hospital. From Tuesday, apart from Wenlock Hospital, the drive will be taken up in four taluk hospitals at Bantwal, Belthangady, Sullia and Puttur. The registration for the vaccination drive began from Monday. Sources said 39 people had registered till noon. They were vaccinated from 2.30 pm to 5.30 pm. A beneficiary had given wrong date of birth, which was realised during the verification. Many had given mobile phone numbers of their relatives which created problem while receiving OTP, officials said. The health officials have appealed to people to furnish their mobile phone numbers during registration. The cost of vaccine in private hospitals is Rs 250. The vaccinators are being trained from Monday. The private hospitals have sought two more days to launch the vaccination drive, Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) Officer Dr Rajesh said. More than 100 people had registered for the vaccination. The vaccination drive will begin at community health centres in future. It will be taken up on a full-fledged basis from March 7. Initially, the health department will only fix timings for the vaccination. Later, the private medical colleges will decide on it. A total of 1.16 lakh doses of vaccines were distributed to Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chikkamagaluru districts. About 10% of the population i.e, 2.3 lakh senior citizens are eligible for vaccination in Dakshina Kannada district. All those, above 60 years (born prior to January 1, 1960) and those suffering from co-morbidities (in the age of 45 to 59) are eligible for being vaccinated. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using Co-WIN 2.0 portal. The beneficiaries should produce a photo identity card (Aadhaar Card or Voter Identity Card) at the time of being vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/third-phase-covid-19-vaccination-drive-began-in-dakshina-kannada-957132.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Government to conduct survey of different abled in Karnataka||Minister for Muzrai and Backward Classes, Kota Srinivas Poojary, said the government is planning to conduct a survey of differently-abled people across Karnataka. The survey will not only help the government in estimating the population of differently abled in Karnataka but will also help the government chalk out programmes for their welfare. Already, depending on the percentage of the disability, a monthly pension is provided to the differently abled, the minister said after distributing benefits under various schemes to the beneficiaries. The programme was organised by Mangaluru City Corporation's (MCC) Poverty Alleviation Cell. Title deeds and keys of 32 houses constructed for civic workers under the Gruha Bhagya scheme was handed over to the beneficiaries on the occasion. The government is committed to the welfare of the civic workers. The civic workers play a pivotal role in keeping the city clean. The welfare schemes of the government should reach out to the last strata of society, Srinivas Poojary said. The funds under MLALAD are also utilised for the welfare schemes of people. This year, there was a delay in the release of MLALAD owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Financial assistance and necessary equipment worth Rs 45.09 lakh had been provided to 759 beneficiaries by the MCC poverty aleviation cell under the 24.10%, 7.25% and 5% funds reserved for welfare programmes. Under the 24.10% fund, 12 beneficiaries were given assistance of Rs 4,11,216 for the construction of pucca house, toilet construction, house repair and assistance for surgery. Six persons were given assistance of Rs 85,000 for toilet construction, two persons were given assistance of Rs 1,05,000 for pucca house construction, one person was given Rs 50000 for house-repair and three persons were given Rs 1,71,216 for surgery. A total of 59 benefiaciries were given benefits worth Rs 2,64,600 under 7.25 % fund. The benefits include construction of toilets, assistance for surgery, and LPG connections. Benefits worth Rs 38,33,705 were given to 688 beneficiaries under the 5% fund reserved for the welfare of the differently-abled persons. The benefits are two-wheeler with additional two wheels attached, wheelchairs, hearing aid, artificial limb, medical assistance. A total of 658 beneficiaries received stipends worth Rs 32,90,000 were also distributed on the occasion. MLAs Vedavyasa Kamath, Dr Y Bharath Shetty, Mayor Diwakar and others were present at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-to-conduct-survey-of-different-abled-in-karnataka-957158.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||New prison in Mangaluru will be ready in 2 years: DGP||Mangaluru DGP (Prisons) Alok Mohan said that the work on a new prison, located in Mudipu on city's outskirts, will be completed within two years. The work was initiated at a cost of Rs 100 crore. About 1,000 prisoners can be accommodated in the high security prison. Presently, those convicted of crimes are shifted to prisons in Shivamogga and other places. The present district prison will be upgraded to central jail wherein, prisoners who are remanded in judicial custody will be lodged, he told mediapersons at City Police Commissioner’s office on Tuesday. He said e-video conference was implemented in all prisons across Karnataka due to Covid-19 pandemic. With help of video conference, inmates of central and district prisons across state can interact with family members and friends. On the lines of zoom meet, a software was installed for e video conference. If the relatives submit an appeal, they will be allowed to send a link to contact the prisoner. As many as 170 people had availed the facility in Mangaluru in the past two months. In addition, the family members are allowed to speak to the undertrials over phone. Alok Mohan said measures were taken to check supply of marijuana, mobile phones inside the prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-prison-in-mangaluru-will-be-ready-in-2-years-dgp-957314.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Industry norms to be simplified, says Shettar||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said that there is no need for the entrepreneurs to wait for long durations to get approval for their projects in future. As per the new industrial policy, they can get government approval as early as possible. Speaking to reporters here, on Tuesday, he said, "No objection certificates and permission for extension of units will be given on priority. There is no need to visit government offices. The work can be started by submitting a self-declaration affidavit. Amendments will be brought to the norms and the entrepreneurs should make use of the opportunities." he said. A state-level meeting is being held every month, to resolve the issues faced by industrialists in Bengaluru. The deputy commissioner will be directed to hold similar meetings every month in the district-level. Industries will not be centralised in Bengaluru. Steps will be taken to establish them in Tier II and III cities, he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/industry-norms-to-be-simplified-says-shettar-957351.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC poll row: AICC observer Yashki meets Congress leaders||AICC secretary Madhu Goud Yashki visited the city on Tuesday, as observer, and met Congress leaders and corporators to submit a report on the developments that lead to the election of a JD(S) corporator as Mayor, recently. Yakshi is expected to return to Delhi on Wednesday. Earlier, Narasimharaja MLA Tanveer Sait and also Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah deposed before Yashki in Bengaluru. It has to be recalled that the Mysuru Mayor episode has caused heartburn for Siddaramaiah, who was opposed to a coalition with the JD(S). Rukmini Madegowda of JD(S) was elected as Mayor and Anwar Baig of the Congress was elected as her deputy, on February 24. KPCC working president R Dhruvanarayan said, "Yaskhi will speak to the corporators and party leaders in the city, on the turn of events that lead to the election of the JD(S) mayor, and will submit a report to the party high command." A senior Congress leader said, “Siddaramaiah has complained to the Congress high command on the JD(S)-Congress coalition, to elect the JD(S) mayor in Mysuru. Yaskhi is expected to submit the report to AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala.” Another senior Congress leader said, Siddaramaiah has taken the issue too personally and too seriously. “As Siddaramaiah is opposed to any understanding with H D Kumaraswamy of the JD(S), he is angry with those who forged the alliance. He is demanding the ouster of MLA Tanveer Sait. Sait is the only Congress MLA of Mysuru city. Thus, his ouster will be a setback for the party. However, Siddaramaiah is adamant,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-poll-row-aicc-observer-yashki-meets-congress-leaders-957354.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heli-tourism in Karnataka soon: Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara||Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara said, “Tourism in Karnataka would be developed on the lines of Gujarat and heli-tourism will be launched in Mysuru and also in  remaining three regions of the state -- Bengaluru, Belagavi and Kalaburagi -- shortly.” Speaking to media persons here, on Tuesday, he said, “The heli-rides will connect with neighbouring states too, to attract tourists from there. Heli-tourism in Mysuru is a long-cherished dream. The departments concerned have been asked to make arrangements to build a helicopter terminal in Mysuru. The heli-rides would be offered at affordable costs.” “In Mysuru, the hospitality sector, especially hotels, would be brought under the industrial sector from the present business sector, to extend the benefits from the government. This will also give a boost to tourism. The high rate of inter-state road tax, compared to neighbouring states, is a hindrance for the development of tourism in Mysuru. One nation-one tax would be implemented soon, to solve this problem. Taxes would be implemented on the Kerala model,” he said. “The Disneyland like project at KRS Dam is still alive. Just because it is a project of the JD(S)-Congress coalition government, it is not shelved. For us, development of tourism is priority, not the government that conceived the project. A decision on the project would be taken after holding a meeting with the Water Resources Minister,” Yogeeshwara said. Special provisions are expected in the state Budget, scheduled to be presented on March 8, for the development of tourism, he added. The minister later launched six Ambaris, double decker open buses on the lines of BigBus of London. The buses of the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation will operate in Mysuru as well as Hampi to give a tour of the respective places. The mention of the buses was made in the budget of 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heli-tourism-in-karnataka-soon-tourism-minister-c-p-yogeeshwara-957357.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Yogeeshwara hints at ‘exploiting’ dissent in Congress||Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara hinted at exploiting the dissent in the Congress, for the benefit of the BJP. Addressing BJP members at the party office here, on Tuesday, he said, “The state Congress is divided, under KPCC president D K Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, also a Mysurean. The BJP should take good advantage of this situation in the Congress.” He warned against an alliance with the JD(S). “On behalf of the BJP members, I will appeal to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and party high command, not to have any truck with the JD(S). JD(S) will be ever ready, to align with anybody, anywhere, for political gains. This will only hurt the interest of the BJP. This will only hinder the growth of the BJP,” he said. Yogeeshwara said, “The JD(S) gets the post of Chairman in the Legislative Council, by forming an alliance with the BJP. In Mysuru, they align with the Congress to get the Mayor’s post. How can we trust them? The BJP will be hurt badly, by the double game of the JD(S).” He visited Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivas Prasad at his Jayalakshmipuram residence. Replying to a query, he said that he had no complex against MLC A H Vishwanath and would meet him too, if he was available in the city. It has to be recalled that Vishwanath is opposed to Yogeeshwar and he had criticised Yogeeshwara’s appointment as minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yogeeshwara-hints-at-exploiting-dissent-in-congress-957359.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pothole-ridden rural roads between Mandya and Hassan need immediate attention||Pothole-ridden roads, connecting Mandya and Hassan districts are causing a lot of inconvenience to motorists. The roads in the villages, on the border of both districts, is not considered by either Mandya or Hassan district administration. Anegola village under Kikkeri hobli, is on the border of Mandya district. The roads have not seen asphaltation since over a decade. The potholes, on the state highway, connecting Srirangapatna to Arsikere in Hassan district, have turned the road unmotorable. The already worn out road has become worse due to rains a couple of months ago. Hundreds of government buses and private vehicles ply on the route. Besides, vehicles bound to Mysuru, Mumbai, Shivamogga, Hubballi-Dharwad, Vijayapura, Raichur, Gadag and Belagavi use the road. The road is narrow, but vehicular density is high, causing inconvenience to the people in the villages adjoining the road. Thousands of potholes are spotted from KR Pet to Channarayapatna. While the stretch turns dusty during summer, it is slushy during monsoon. The movement of heavy-load trucks, transporting sugarcane, gravel and stone dust have damaged the roads. Two-wheeler riders have to be extra cautious, negotiating both potholes and heavy trucks, posing a threat to their lives. Besides, unscientific road humps add to the woes of the public. There are no caution boards. The rural roads, connecting Holenarasipur are also in a pathetic condition. Commuters are covered with dust, before they reach Shravanabelagola. The roads have not seen any repair work, as funds have not been released by the Zilla Panchayat. Elected representatives should take steps to develop rural roads, urged Shivakumar, a resident of Kikkeri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pothole-ridden-rural-roads-between-mandya-and-hassan-need-immediate-attention-957364.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress to slap notice on ex-minister Tanveer Sait||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday said that the party will issue a show-cause notice to former minister Tanveer Sait, asking him to explain the turn of events in last week’s Mysuru mayoral election.   In the Mysuru mayoral election, the Congress was to get the top post as per its understanding with the JD(S). In a twist to the plot, the JD(S) bagged the mayor’s seat. This has left the Congress divided. Sait, who represents the Narasimharaja constituency in Mysuru, is in the dock on this issue.  “We are issuing a notice to (Sait) through our disciplinary committee,” Shivakumar told reporters. “The Congress should have bagged the mayor’s post. This was an order by (Congress Legislature Party leader) Siddaramaiah and me. But what happened and why, we’re asking (Sait) to explain,” he added.  Describing Congress as a party of discipline, Shivakumar said “whoever it may be”, no act of disrespect will be tolerated. The mayoral poll outcome is widely seen as an extension of factionalism within the Congress. Siddaramaiah is said to be especially hurt and angry with what happened.  On his part, Sait defended the poll result and said it was done to keep the BJP out of power. But the Congress having let go of the mayor’s post is seen as an act of indiscipline.  Earlier in the day, AICC secretary Madhu Goud Yaskhi arrived in the city to hold meeting with both Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar. Apparently, Siddaramaiah refused to take it lying down and demanded Yaskhi to initiate action against Sait Speaking to reporters, Yaskhi said the party’s disciplinary committee headed by former Union minister K Rahman Khan had been asked to take action against any violation of discipline. “Be it Tanveer Sait or someone else, any sloganeering against the CLP leader won’t be tolerated,” Yaskhi said. On Monday, pro-Congress Muslims staged a protest in Raichur against Siddaramaiah in support of Sait. “I came to know about the Raichur protest. We will deal with it strictly,” Yaskhi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-to-slap-notice-on-ex-minister-tanveer-sait-957268.html
02-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Still with JD(S), but may join Cong: Madhu Bangarappa||Former MLA and JD(S) leader Madhu Bangarappa has hinted that he may join the Congress party in the near future. Speaking to media persons after celebrating his birthday at his residence in Kallahalli in the Vinobnagar area in the City on Tuesday, he said, he is still with the JD(S), but he would take a call on joining the Congress after holding discussions with his well-wishers and followers. He also made it clear that he would announce his decision before the Zilla Panchayat polls. Madhu said that former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy groomed him politically and he has the highest regard for the JD(S) leader. He is finding it difficult to quit the JD(S) and embrace the Congress, he added. On reason for planning such a step, he said, he had not faced any problem in the JD(S) but he regretted that the party workers were not given prominent positions which they deserved when the party was in power. M Srikanth, who served as district JD(S) president for many years, could have been given a key position, but was denied such a position, Madhu Bangarappa said.  He stated that then Congress rebel candidate Veda Vijay Kumar was made vice-president of the Zilla Panchayat on some promises five years ago. But till today, they had not met each other. He had discussed it in the party forum, and even Kumaraswamy had admitted it openly, he noted. Many Congress leaders greeted him on his birthday. Zilla Panchayat Vice-President Veda Vijay Kumar, former Hopcoms president Vijay Kumar, Zilla Panchayat member Kalagodu Ratnakar, Congress leaders N Ramesh, S P Dinesh, and District Congress Committee President H S Sundaresh, and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/still-with-jds-but-may-join-cong-madhu-bangarappa-957378.html
02-03-2021||Main Article||The daunting deficit||The third-quarter data on India's GDP showed that it has come out of the recession. The data shows a substantial increase in consumer spending, by nearly 18% as compared to the previous quarter. This shows positive consumer sentiment. GDP growth has turned positive and the signs are for continued upward momentum during the fourth quarter as well. As we look at financial year 2021-22 (FY22), which has just begun, there is understandable optimism about a sharp V-shaped recovery and growth of nearly 11%. The Union Budget proposals have contributed greatly to reviving both consumer optimism as well as business confidence. But much of the high growth next year is a matter of the economy simply recovering ground lost during the pandemic year. As a result, after two years, the economic size of India will be barely 2-3% above what it was in 2019.  The high growth expected will depend quite a bit on the lead to be taken by the private sector, on strong consumer spending as well on industrial investment. The ratio of investment to GDP has to rise from the current 28% to nearly 36% for the economy to show a sustained growth rate of 8%. Fortunately, agriculture production is at a record level of 303 million tonnes this year. This is almost 10% more than the average for the previous five years. Some resolution to the impasse in the negotiations between the central government and farmers agitating against the new farm laws for more than four months now will go a long way in reviving growth optimism. It will also address the shortages that have arisen due to the blockade, and disruption in delivery of crucial inputs like coal, fertiliser and even transportation fuel to Punjab and adjoining states. One of the main reasons for the growth optimism comes from the fiscally expansionary stance adopted by the Finance Minister. Though the overall spending is budgeted to go up by only 1%, the expenditure on infrastructure will go up by nearly 25%. And the expenditure on healthcare, including vaccinations and sanitation, is up by nearly 100%.  Two noteworthy features of the Budget were, firstly, the transparency in disclosing all liabilities, and secondly, admitting a very large fiscal deficit. This large fiscal deficit of 6.8% for FY22, not only is far in excess of what is specified by India's own fiscal responsibility law but also cocks a snook at international rating agencies. There is an irreverent disdain towards the fear of a rating downgrade. A full chapter in the economic survey explains how international rating agencies have always been unfair to India despite the country’s track record of zero default and currently a high stock of foreign exchange. But this high-risk deficit, while bold and ambitious, should not make us complacent about the challenge of financing it. The gross borrowing requirement of the Centre alone is more than Rs 12 lakh crore, or over Rs 1 lakh crore every month. That is just about equal to the monthly GST collection. The total borrowing requirement will eat up the entire incremental deposit in the banking system, assuming an 8% growth in FY22. Actually, if the borrowing requirements of state governments is factored in, as well as those of public sector enterprises (PSEs), that number is above Rs 23 lakh crore. This huge borrowing cannot simply be met by the available pool of household savings in the country. If the private sector capacity expansion and investment requires another Rs 12 lakh crore, it will put pressure on interest rates, since there is not enough funding available to accommodate this huge borrowing requirement. It is here that the Reserve Bank of India has to step in. Of course, it cannot simply print money, because that would be tantamount to monetisation, which is explicitly prohibited by a 1997 agreement between the RBI and the Centre. Besides, direct monetisation could be inflationary. The RBI can do an indirect monetisation by buying all the bonds issued by the Government of India (GoI) in the secondary market. Indeed, it has been doing so for the last two years. When it buys the bonds against money that it has created, the RBI’s balance sheet expands. That balance sheet has grown by 50% in the past two years. And it will grow even further. But a huge volume of borrowing through the market process, i.e., sale of bonds, can put upward pressure on interest rates, as well as crowd out private investments, which too are seeking to borrow from the same banking system, and from the capital markets. One way to ease this pressure is for the RBI to do a direct deal with the Centre and give it a fixed term five-year loan at a low interest rate against a pledged asset. That pledged asset could be all the shares that GoI owns in PSEs. The combined value of all the shares owned by GoI today is more than Rs 20 lakh crore, thanks to the exuberant stock market. Such a bilateral sweetheart deal is technically not monetisation, nor does it disrupt the credit markets, and hopefully will take off the pressure on interest rates, too. Another source of financing for GoI is, of course, foreign funds. Thankfully, the inflow into the rupee-denominated government debt market has been quite strong and is expected to remain so over the year. The government may also consider floating an international dollar-denominated semi-sovereign bond through a proxy such as the State Bank of India. This, too, can garner funds equivalent to Rs 1-2 lakh crore. It is obvious that none of the required financing can depend on increasing the level of taxation at a time when the economy is coming out of recession. Thus, FY22 is going to be a difficult balancing task for RBI. On the one hand, to ensure adequate financing for the government and, on the other, to not let inflation or interest rates get out of hand, while also keeping the currency stable. Not an enviable job at all! (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-daunting-deficit-956962.html
02-03-2021||National||Non-cognisable case against Fadnavis for 'defaming' deceased woman||A non-cognisable case was registered on Monday against former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and five other leaders of the BJP in Washim district after a complaint was lodged against them for allegedly defaming the woman from Pune district whose death set off a political row leading to resignation of a minister. The offence was registered under sections 500 (Punishment for defamation) and 501 (Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code at Manora police station. Besides Fadnavis, who is the Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly, the complaint also named Leader of Opposition in Legislative Council Pravin Darekar, former ministers Sudhir Mungantiwar and Ashish Shelar, Mumbai MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar, and BJP leader Chitra Wagh. The complaint also named Prasad Lad, Shantabai Chavan, and woman activist Trupti Desai. The 23-year-old woman died in Hadapsar area of Pune in February. Her death triggered a huge political controversy with the BJP alleging link of Shiv Sena MLA Sanjay Rathod to the case. Rathod, a Banjara community leader, resigned as state Forest minister on Sunday but had denied all allegations raised against him. The complaint against Fadnavis and others was lodged by Shyam Sardar Rathod, who heads youth wing of the Rashtriya Banjara Parishad in Washim district, as per the copy of the complaint. Shyam Sardar Rathod also accused some news channels of defaming the deceased woman and the Banjara community. He also threatened to launch a protest if a strict action is not taken against the accused persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-cognisable-case-against-fadnavis-for-defaming-deceased-woman-956939.html
02-03-2021||National||BJP writes to ECI, accuses TMC ministers of violating model code of conduct||The BJP on Monday wrote to the Election Commission of India (ECI) alleging that two West Bengal ministers have promised certain benefits to voters in separate incidents after the model code of conduct (MCC) came into force on February 27, and urged the poll panel to debar them from contesting polls. The ruling Trinamool Congress denied that its leaders violated the MCC and accused the saffron party of trying to influence the ECI. A purported video clip showed minister Firhad Hakim "announcing favours for the minority community at a mosque and appealed to the gathering present to defeat BJP which he termed as sectarian," the letter said. "The incident took place on February 27 after the MCC was announced and shown live on a national TV channel. In the video clip you will kindly note that there is an admission by Firhad Hakim that this happened after the enforcement of the MCC," it read. The saffron party also alleged that video clippings and newspaper reports established "beyond doubt" that money was being distributed by a cooperative bank in Howrah under the direct supervision of a minister who is the local MLA on February 27. The TMC ministers had violated the MCC in the past and continue to do so, emboldened by the fact that no action was taken against them by the Commission, the letter written by BJP Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta and senior leaders Pratap Banerjee and Shishir Bajoria claimed. "Now in both incidents they have committed the violations in full public view and in front of camera. The BJP demands that the commission takes immediate cognisance and debars them from contesting elections and participating in the entire election process," the letter said. The BJP further urged the EC to immediately stop the TMC leaders from distributing money to voters with immediate effect. A senior TMC leader said BJP was levelling wild allegations against two ministers who did nothing which could be called flouting the MCC. BJP leaders are trying to influence the ECI to act against the TMC as they know that they do not have any support base in the state. "What about (BJP leader) Suvendu Adhikari visiting a Krishna temple of a Vaishnavite order the day after election dates were announced and speaking against the TMC and the state administration openly? Hakim did not do anything like that at any religious place," the leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-writes-to-eci-accuses-tmc-ministers-of-violating-model-code-of-conduct-956988.html
02-03-2021||National||BJP suggests to party ministers, leaders to get Covid vaccine shot||The BJP has suggested its ministers and leaders to get the coronavirus vaccine shot in their constituencies and preferably by paying from their own pocket, sources said on Monday. The suggestion was made after the Health Ministry permitted a number of private hospitals to carry out the vaccination exercise by charging Rs 250 per dose. In the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive launched on Monday, people aged more than 60 years will get the first dose of the vaccine, as will those who are aged 45 years and above, having co-morbidities. It has been conveyed to party leaders that it would be better if they get vaccinated next week preferably in their own constituency and by paying from their own pocket, sources in the party said. When contacted Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Navi said he had made an online registration to get vaccinated in Rampur on Tuesday and he would pay from his pocket. Sources close to senior party leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that the minister will also get vaccinated in the next few days. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS here and appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated. Apart from him, Home Minister Amit Shah, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and his Bihar counterpart Nitish Kumar, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and NCP president Sharad Pawar also took the jab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-suggests-to-party-ministers-leaders-to-get-covid-vaccine-shot-956998.html
02-03-2021||National||More women approaching NCW with complaints, Uttar Pradesh tops list||More and more women are approaching the National Commission for Women (NCW), with latest data showing a 50.86% rise in the number of complaints submitted in the first two months of 2021 compared to the same period last year. A total of 4,354 complaints have been filed with the NCW compared to 2,886 submitted in January and February during these two years. On Monday, 49 new complaints have been filed taking the total number of complaints this year to 4,403 cases. Of the 4,403 complaints, Uttar Pradesh tops the list with 2,285 cases or 51.89% of the total cases this year so far followed by Delhi (446), Maharashtra (235) and Haryana (225). Karnataka has 77 complaints -- 37 in January, 39 in February and one on March 1. Activists and officials point out that there is more reporting of cases with the NCW starting a WhatsApp number for filing complaints during the Covid-19 lockdown. Of the cases, complaints under the right to live with dignity, domestic violence and dowry harassment together accounted for 2,975 or 67% of the total cases. There were 1,196 complaints under Right to live with dignity so far as against 810 in January-February 2020. Last year, there were a total of 7,708 such complaints, the highest among 24 categories identified by the NCW, up from 4,694 in 2019 -- a 64% rise. Uttar Pradesh accounted for 679 complaints under the right to live with dignity while Delhi has 86, Maharashtra (71), Haryana (45) and Karnataka (38). When it comes to domestic violence, the number of complaints was 1,050 as against 573 in January-February 2020. In the whole of 2020, 5,294 complaints of domestic violence were registered compared to 2,960 in 2019, which was a whopping 79% rise. Uttar Pradesh had 345 complaints of domestic violence while Delhi had 222, Maharashtra (83), Haryana (79) and Karnataka (15). On harassment of married women, including dowry harassment, NCW statistics showed that there were 729 such complaints this year as against 488 in the first two months of 2020. The NCW had last year received a total of 3,784 complaints. Uttar Pradesh accounted for 508 complaints of dowry harassment while Delhi has 31, Maharashtra (24), Haryana (26) and Karnataka (5).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-women-approaching-ncw-with-complaints-uttar-pradesh-tops-list-957045.html
02-03-2021||National||DH Toon | PM Modi takes Covid-19 vaccine: 'Inspired. Book a photographer!'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Union ministers, chief ministers and senior political leaders received their first shot of Covid-19 vaccines on Monday as the second phase of the vaccination drive began.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pm-modi-takes-covid-19-vaccine-inspired-book-a-photographer-957059.html
02-03-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine rollout: Over 25 lakh beneficiaries registered to Co-WIN 2.0 on Day 1||The ministry added that a total of 1,28,630 beneficiaries over 60 years of age and 18,850 aged 45 and above with co-morbidities took the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with the inoculation of healthcare workers, while the vaccination of the frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2.  The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from Monday for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 1.47 crore on Monday, the ministry said. Out of this, 24.5 lakh are citizens and the rest are HCWs and FLWs. About 6.44 lakh appointments were booked by the citizen beneficiaries on Monday. "A total of 1,47,28,569 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till Monday at 7 pm. "These include 66,95,665 HCWs who have taken the 1st dose and 25,57,837 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 53,27,587 FLWs (1st dose), 1,28,630 beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 18,850 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities," the ministry said. It further said that 4,27,072 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm on Monday, the forty-fifth day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination.  Out of these, 3,25,485 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 1,01,587 HCWs received the second dose of the vaccine as per the provisional report, the ministry said, adding the final report would be completed for the day by late night. Vaccines provided at government health facilities are entirely free of cost, while private facilities cannot charge the beneficiary a sum above Rs 250 per person per dose (Rs 150 for vaccines and Rs 100 as operational charges). Citizens can register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal www.cowin.gov.in or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu. There is also a walk-in provision for beneficiaries to get themselves registered at the nearby session site to get vaccinated. The eligible beneficiaries can choose the centre of their choice and book an appointment based on the slots available.  Citizens can register at the Co-WIN portal through their mobile number, according to a guidance document issued by the ministry. An OTP verification will be done prior to registration to ensure the veracity of the mobile number and after registration, an account will be created on Co-WIN for the person.  The person can access (login) his/her account on Co-WIN using the mobile phone number used at the time of registration. Features for adding beneficiaries, editing their details and for booking an appointment(s) will be available in the citizen's account, the document stated. The citizen can delete only the beneficiaries as have been added by him/her. "If one out of the four beneficiaries registered in an account is vaccinated, only three registrations are left, and so on. "Till the time of vaccination, all the records of registration and appointment can be edited/deleted by the person making the registration. Only when a person gets vaccinated, the record is locked and cannot be edited/deleted," the document stated. The beneficiary then has to select the ID card type and provide an ID card number.  The photo ID card number for each such beneficiary must be different. Either of the following photo identity documents can be used by citizens for availing online registration -- Aadhaar card/letter, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), passport, driving license, PAN card, NPR smart card or pension document with a photograph. If the age of the beneficiary is from 45 years to 59 years, the beneficiary will be prompted to confirm if he/she has any specified comorbidity. In such cases, the beneficiary will also be advised to bring the comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. Once all the necessary details are recorded by the beneficiary, registration is completed and an acknowledgement (registration slip/token) is sent to the beneficiary on his registered mobile number. The facility for downloading and printing etc. has also been made available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-rollout-over-25-lakh-beneficiaries-registered-to-co-win-20-on-day-1-957071.html
02-03-2021||National||High petrol, diesel prices, infections erode India's fuel demand recovery||By Debjit Chakraborty Sales of fuel in India, used by millions for personal transport, faltered as high pump prices and a still rising infection count weighed on demand. Fuel sales last month fell 2% from a year earlier, according to people familiar with preliminary data from the country’s three biggest retailers. This is the first decline since August. While fuel had staged a healthy rebound as more commuters opt for personal cars over public transport like buses and trains, a fresh wave of infections are prompting some people to continue working from home, and leading others to reduce social interactions and leisure activities. Record pump prices are also adding to lower sales as people turn judicious spenders amid job losses and salary cuts as the pandemic and strict restrictions ravaged the Indian economy. The sale of diesel -- the country’s most-used fuel and a proxy for economic health -- dropped 8.6% in February from a year earlier, according to the people. Liquefied petroleum gas was the only fuel that saw a year-on-year rise, with use of the cooking fuel surging 7.6% from the same month in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-petrol-diesel-prices-infections-erode-indias-fuel-demand-recovery-957078.html
02-03-2021||National||Khandwa BJP MP Nand Kumar Chauhan passes away||Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan, BJP Lok Sabha member from Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh, died at a Gurugram hospital, family sources said on Tuesday. The 69-year-old six-term MP had tested coronavirus positive and was airlifted to the hospital in Gurugram last month in a critical condition. Chauhan, who died late Monday night, is survived by wife, a son and two daughters. The last rites will take place at his ancestral place Shahpur in Burhanpur district. Starting his political career in 1978 from the Shahpur Municipal Council, Chauhan was elected as member of the Madhya Pradesh Assembly and was an MLA during 1985-96. He was elected to the Lok Sabha in 1996 and won again in 1998, 1999, 2004, 2014 and 2019 polls. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his anguish at Chauhan's demise, and said the former Madhya Pradesh party president will be remembered for his contributions to parliamentary proceedings and organisational skills. Other top BJP leaders, including Home Minister Amit Shah and its national president J P Nadda, also expressed their condolences. "Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP from Khandwa Shri Nandkumar Singh Chauhan Ji. He will be remembered for his contributions to parliamentary proceedings, organisational skills and efforts to strengthen the BJP across Madhya Pradesh. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted. Shah said Chauhan's entire life was dedicated to serving people and Nadda also echoed similar views. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu condoled the death of Chauhan, saying the latter always championed the cause of the farmers, poor and the downtrodden. "Deeply saddened to learn about the demise of Lok Sabha MP Shri Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan. He was a popular leader from Madhya Pradesh and always championed the cause of the farmers, poor and downtrodden," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed grief over the BJP MP's death. लोकप्रिय जननेता नंदू भैया, हम सबको छोड़कर चले गये। हमारे सब प्रयास विफल हुए। Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Uma Bharti and Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath also condoled the death of the parliamentarian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khandwa-bjp-mp-nand-kumar-chauhan-passes-away-957079.html
02-03-2021||National||India reports 12,286 new Covid-19 cases, 94 deaths||India's Covid-19 cases rose to 1,11,24,527 with 12,286 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,07,98,921, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,57,248 with 91 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,98,921 which translates into a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.07 per cent, while the case fatality rate has dropped 1.41 per cent. The active caseload was recorded at 1,68,358 which accounts for 1.51 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 21,76,18,057 samples have been tested up to March 1, of which 7,59,283 were done on Monday. The 91 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 18 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. A total of 1,57,248 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,184 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,501 from Tamil Nadu, 12,336 from Karnataka, 10,911 from Delhi, 10,268 from West Bengal, 8,727 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-12286-new-covid-19-cases-94-deaths-957085.html
02-03-2021||National||As board exams approach, Punjab teachers take to waking students up to study: Report||All government school students, mainly those in board classes, are getting wake-up calls from their teachers, so that they get to studying early in the morning, the report said. “Our teachers have been working very hard ever since the pandemic began. Now, they even call us in the morning and re-check whether we are studying or sleeping,” class 10 student Amanpreet Kaur, who is among the students getting a wake-up call at 5 am, told the publication. English mentor Chander Shekhar from Jalandar said that he wakes up every day at 4:30 am to wake his students to study and asks them to get back to him if they have any doubts. "It is our duty to develop this early morning studying habit among our students ahead of the Board exams because students mostly studied online this academic session. We do not want that a little laxity causes a negative impact on students, ” he told the news organisation. State officials said that the wake-up calls are being sent by teachers and mentors voluntarily. These wake-up calls to students and parents to motivate them for the upcoming Boards have been started under “Mission Shat Pratishat”. Mission Shat Pratishat was kickstarted by the CM and that’s why it had assumed much significance, District Education Officer (Secondary Education) Jagjit Singh told the publication. The State Education Department said that it has just been playing the role of a catalyst and motivating officials and teachers to emulate this practice, and that there are no orders in force to this effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-board-exams-approach-punjab-teachers-take-to-waking-students-up-to-study-report-957092.html
02-03-2021||National||Cooler summer days likely in southern India: IMD||Southern India is expected to experience below normal day temperatures this summer season, the weather office said in the summer forecast issued on Monday. However, northern parts of the country are likely to experience warmer than usual temperatures in March, April and May, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Summer nights were expected to be slightly on the warmer side than usual for most parts of the country, except parts of eastern and central India. “Above normal seasonal minimum (night) temperatures are likely over most of the subdivisions of north India along the foot hills of Himalayas, northeast India, western part of central India and southern part of peninsular India,” the weather office said. The weather office said moderate La Niña conditions were prevailing over the equatorial Pacific and sea surface temperatures (SSTs) are below normal over the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean. “The latest model forecast indicates that La Niña conditions are likely to sustain during the upcoming hot weather season (March to May),” it added. La Nina often has an impact on the weather of the Indian subcontinent. The IMD last month had said the minimum temperature recorded in the country in January was the warmest for the month in 62 years. South India was particularly warm. The month was the warmest in 121 years, with 22.33 degrees Celsius in south India, followed by 22.14 degrees Celsius in 1919 and 21.93 degrees Celsius in 2020 as the second and third warmest months. Central India was also the warmest (14.82 degrees Celsius) in the last 38 years after 1982 (14.92 degrees Celsius), while 1958 with 15.06 degrees Celsius was the warmest in the 1901-2021 period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cooler-summer-days-likely-in-southern-india-imd-957093.html
02-03-2021||National||Above normal summer temperatures likely across country except South, central India: IMD||Day temperatures are likely to be above normal in north, northeast, parts of east and west India, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Monday in its summer forecast for March to May. "During the upcoming hot weather season (March to May), above normal seasonal maximum (day) temperatures are likely over most of the subdivisions of north, northwest and northeast India, few subdivisions from eastern and western parts of central India and few coastal subdivisions of north peninsular India," the forecast said. There is a probability forecast for above maximum temperatures in Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Gujarat, coastal Maharashtra, Goa and coastal Andhra Pradesh. IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said over the Indo-Gangetic plains -- from Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, east UP, west UP, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand to Odisha -- the temperature is expected to be above normal by more than 0.5 degree Celsius during March to May. There is a high probability with more than 75 per cent of above normal temperature over Chhattisgarh and Odisha where mercury will be above normal. He said in these two states, temperature is likely to be above normal by 0.86 degree Celsius and 0.66 degree Celsius respectively. "There is also a 60 per cent probability of above normal temperature over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi by 0.5 degree Celsius," he said. There is likely to be some relief in parts of south India. "Below normal seasonal maximum temperatures are likely over most of the subdivisions of south peninsula and adjoining central India," the summer forecast added. It said above normal seasonal minimum (night) temperatures are likely over most of the of north India along the foot hills of Himalayas, northeast India, western part of central India and southern part of peninsular India. "However, below normal season minimum temperatures are likely over most of the subdivisions of eastern part of the central India and few subdivisions of extreme northern part of the country," the IMD added. The IMD added that moderate La Niña conditions are prevailing over the equatorial Pacific and sea surface temperatures (SSTs) are below normal over the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean. The latest model forecast indicates that La Niña conditions are likely to sustain during the upcoming hot weather season (March to May), it added. La Nina is associated with the cooling of the Pacific waters and El Nino is its anthesis. The phenomenon has a impact on the weather of the Indian sub-continent. The IMD said it will release the second summer forecast for April to June in April. The IMD last month had said the minimum temperature recorded in the country in January was the warmest for the month in 62 years. South India was particularly warm. The month was the warmest in 121 years, with 22.33 degrees Celsius in south India, followed by 22.14 degrees Celsius in 1919 and 21.93 degrees Celsius in 2020 as the second and third warmest months. Central India was also the warmest (14.82 degrees Celsius) in the last 38 years after 1982 (14.92 degrees Celsius), while 1958 with 15.06 degrees Celsius was the warmest in the 1901-2021 period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/above-normal-summer-temperatures-likely-across-country-except-south-central-india-imd-957097.html
02-03-2021||National||Former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta granted bail by Bombay HC in TRP scam||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted bail to former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO Partho Dasgupta, accused in the TRP scam. Justice P D Naik granted bail to Dasgupta (55) on a personal bond of Rs 2 lakh and two solvent sureties of the same amount. Dasgupta approached the HC in January this year after a sessions court rejected his bail plea while noting that he had played a vital role in the scam and was the alleged "mastermind". He was accused of having misused his official position and conniving with ARG Outlier Media, the company that runs all Republic TV channels, and with Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, to manipulate TRPs. Republic TV has denied any wrongdoing. He was arrested by the crime branch of the Mumbai Police on December 24 last year. The Mumbai police while opposing Dasgupta's bail plea had said he played a direct role in the manipulation of TRPs for TV news channels. The police had relied on Dasgupta's chats with Goswami where they discussed the manipulation of TRPs. Dasgupta's counsel Ponda earlier urged the HC to grant him bail, saying the police had already filed their charge sheet in the case and his custodial interrogation was not required any more. Ponda had also told the HC that Dasgupta's WhatsApp chats, including his chats with co-accused Goswami, were merely "lose talks". On January 16, Dasgupta was rushed to the state-run J J Hospital from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, after his blood sugar levels went up and he fell unconscious. He was admitted to the ICU of the J J Hospital and was discharged on January 22. Following his discharge, his lawyers had moved the HC seeking an urgent hearing of his bail plea. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-barc-ceo-partho-dasgupta-granted-bail-by-bombay-hc-in-trp-scam-957104.html
02-03-2021||National||Chinese hackers target India's power grid, vaccine companies: 10 things to know||Here's what you need to know about these attempts: 1. Recorded Future, a Massachusetts-based company which studies the use of the internet by state actors, in its recent report details the campaign conducted by a China-linked threat activity group RedEcho targeting the Indian power sector. 2. Since early 2020, Recorded Future’s Insikt Group observed a large increase in suspected targeted intrusion activity against Indian organisations from the Chinese state-sponsored group. 3. Ten distinct Indian power sector organisations, including four of the five Regional Load Despatch Centres responsible for operation of the power grid through balancing electricity supply and demand, have been identified as targets in a concerted campaign against India’s critical infrastructure. 4. Recorded Future said in the lead-up to the May 2020 border skirmishes, it observed a noticeable increase in the provisioning of PlugX malware C2 infrastructure, much of which was subsequently used in intrusion activity targeting Indian organisations. 5. According to the Recorded Future report, from mid-2020 onwards, Recorded Future’s midpoint collection revealed a steep rise in the use of infrastructure tracked as AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE, which encompasses ShadowPad command and control (C2) servers, to target a large swathe of India’s power sector. 6. Goldman Sachs-backed Cyfirma, based in Singapore and Tokyo, said Chinese hacking group APT10, also known as Stone Panda, had identified gaps and vulnerabilities in the IT infrastructure and supply chain software of Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine maker. 8. "The real motivation here is actually exfiltrating intellectual property and getting competitive advantage over Indian pharmaceutical companies," said Cyfirma Chief Executive Kumar Ritesh, formerly a top cyber official with British foreign intelligence agency MI6. 9. Ritesh, whose firm follows the activities of some 750 cyber criminals and monitors nearly 2,000 hacking campaigns using a tool called decipher, said it was not yet clear what vaccine-related information APT10 may have accessed from the Indian companies. 10. Rivals China and India have both sold or gifted Covid-19 shots to many countries. India produces more than 60% of all vaccines sold in the world. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-hackers-target-indias-power-grid-vaccine-companies-10-things-to-know-957109.html
02-03-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan, his wife take first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and his wife took the first dose of indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin at the Delhi Heart and Lung Institute on Tuesday. India opened up vaccination for those over 60 years and within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specified co-morbidities from March 1. The minister's wife Nutan Goel first took the jab after which Vardhan received the vaccine shot at the Delhi Heart and Lung Institute, which is a private facility. They paid Rs 250 each for the vaccine jab. Completing the observation period of half-and-hour after taking the first dose of the vaccine, Vardhan addressed the media and appealed to eligible people to get vaccinated. "Today I and my wife took the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Delhi Heart and Lung Hospital around half-and-hour ago. The observation time of half-and-hour is completed. Hospital authorities have informed me that I and my wife have been given Covaxin. In the last half-and-hour, I and my wife did not face any kind of difficulty," he told reporters. "On this occasion, I would like to urge all the citizens of this country whose age is above 60 or if they are in the age bracket of 45-59 having specified co-morbidities to take the vaccine," he said. Stating that the Indian government has made the vaccine available for its citizens in thousands of private as well as government hospitals, Vardhan said that in the fight against Covid-19, this vaccine will act as a "sanjeevani" for the people. "I and my wife paid Rs 250 each for our doses. I would like to appeal to people that those who can afford vaccine in our country can visit the nearest hospital and get the dose." He asked the citizens to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and stressed the need for observing vaccine-appropriate behaviour as well. "I urge the citizens of this nation to get the first dose of vaccine and after 28 days of it, get the second dose of vaccine. If someone develops any kind of side effects or face difficulties, do not fear and inform your doctor," he said. He told people not to have any doubts about the vaccine underlining no death has occurred till now due to the anti-coronavirus vaccination in the country. Vardhan said that if any death occurs a few days after receiving the jab, it cannot be linked to vaccination because each such death is being scientifically probed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-his-wife-take-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-957112.html
02-03-2021||National||India's working women still contend with strongest gender bias across Asia Pacific countries: Report||Gender equality might have improved over the years but India's working women still contend with the strongest gender bias across Asia Pacific countries, says a report. According to the LinkedIn Opportunity Index 2021, more women in India have experienced the impact of gender on career development when compared to the APAC region. "In India, more than 4 in 5 working women (85 per cent) claim to have missed out on a raise, promotion, or work offer because of their gender, compared to the regional average of 60 per cent," the report said. The report showed that even though 66 per cent of people in India feel that gender equality has improved compared to their parents' age, more than 7 in 10 working women and working mothers feel that managing familial responsibilities often comes in their way of career development. In fact, about two-thirds of working women (63 per cent) and working mothers (69 per cent) said they have faced discrimination at work because of familial and household responsibilities. LinkedIn commissioned independent market research firm GfK to conduct a research between January 26-31, 2021. The online survey was conducted among 18 to 65 year olds. There were more than 10,000 respondents across the Asia Pacific region, from Australia, China, India, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines and Singapore. The survey covered 2,285 respondents in India, 1,223 of whom were males and 1,053 were females. "Gender inequality at work and added domestic responsibilities amid the pandemic have collectively made women's jobs more vulnerable at this time," said Ruchee Anand, Director, Talent and Learning Solutions, India at LinkedIn. According to Anand, it is the need of the hour for organisations to re-imagine their diversity practices and offer greater flexibility to caregivers in order to increase female participation in the workforce. "Reduced and flexible schedules, more sabbaticals, and new opportunities to upskill and learn are critical offerings that can help organisations attract, hire, and retain more female talent," Anand said. More than 4 in 5 (86 per cent) Indians stated that they were negatively impacted by the pandemic while 9 in 10 said they were affected by Covid-19 in terms of job retrenchment, pay cuts, and reduced working hours. Indian professionals remain resilient towards recovery as 65 per cent of the professionals expect the economy to improve by June 2021. Learning and upskilling is seen as imperative to future-proof their careers in this current climate. About 57 per cent Indians are actively looking to learn new hard skills such as Artificial Intelligence, Cloud Computing, and Business Analytics, and soft skills such as Creative Thinking, Problem Solving, and Time Management, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-working-women-still-contend-with-strongest-gender-bias-across-asia-pacific-countries-report-957117.html
02-03-2021||National||Indigo flight makes emergency landing in Karachi due to medical emergency onboard||An IndiGo flight from Sharjah to Lucknow made an emergency landing at the Karachi airport in Pakistan on Tuesday morning after a passenger on board fell sick and later died. "The passenger unfortunately expired on the plane even though the Indian aircraft was given permission to land at the Karachi airport," the official said. In a statement, IndiGo said the passenger who had the medical emergency could not be revived and was declared dead on arrival by the airport medical team. "We are deeply saddened with the news and our prayers and wishes are with his family," it added. The airline said the flight coming from Sharjah to Lucknow was diverted to Karachi. The Pakistani official said that the request for an emergency landing was received as soon as the aircraft entered Pakistani airspace via Iran at 4 in the morning. "The Captain contacted the air control tower and requested the aircraft be allowed to make an emergency landing on humanitarian grounds," he said. The permission was granted and the aircraft landed around 5 am, he said. The official said that by the time the medical team boarded the flight to treat the passenger, he had died. "The flight was allowed to take off around 8.36 am for Ahmedabad after completion of all formalities," the official added. Pakistan reopened its airspace to international civil aviation in July 2019, after months of restrictions imposed because of tensions with India, which forced long detours that cost airlines millions of dollars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-karachi-due-to-medical-emergency-onboard-957118.html
02-03-2021||National||Toolkit case: Court grants one week to Delhi Police to file reply to Nikita Jacob||A court here on Tuesday granted a week's time to the Delhi Police to file a reply to the anticipatory bail plea of Nikita Jacob, a co-accused along with Disha Ravi in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana allowed the police plea to grant it time till March 9 after the public prosecutor said the agency needed time to file a detailed reply to Jacob's plea. The court is scheduled to hear the anticipatory bail plea of another co-accused, Shantanu Muluk, on March 9. During the brief hearing held through video conferencing, senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Jacob, said she wanted to argue on her plea as a stand-alone case and not with Muluk's. The court said she could argue on March 9. The court also directed the Delhi Police to hand over a copy of its reply to Jacob's bail plea to her counsel. Jacob had got transit anticipatory bail from Bombay High Court on February 17 for three weeks, so that the accused could approach the court concerned in Delhi, where the case is lodged. The court on February 25 granted protection from arrest to Muluk till March 9. Muluk was granted transit anticipatory bail from the Aurangabad bench on February 16 for 10 days. He approached Delhi court on February 23. Muluk, Ravi and Jacob were booked for alleged sedition and other charges. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. She was granted bail by the Delhi court on February 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-court-grants-one-week-to-delhi-police-to-file-reply-to-nikita-jacob-957127.html
02-03-2021||National||PM Modi says $82 billion being invested in ports under Sagarmala Project||India will invest $82 billion in port projects by 2035, raise share of clean renewable energy source in maritime sector, develop waterways, augment seaplane services and boost tourism around lighthouses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday urging global players to make India a "preferred investment destination". As many as 400 projects with investment potential to the tune of $31 billion are ready for investors, who can be a part of India's growth trajectory, Modi said inaugurating the Maritime India Summit. "More than 574 projects at a cost of $82 billion or Rs 6 lakh crore have been identified under the Sagarmala project for implementation during 2030 and 2035... We will encourage private investment in the port sector... India's long coastline awaits you. India's hardworking people await you. "Invest in our ports. Invest in our people. Let India be your preferred trade destination. Let Indian ports be your port of call for trade and commerce," the Prime Minister said as he invited players to invest in Indian ports, shipyards and waterways. The Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways is ready with a list of 400 investable projects with investment potential of $31 billion or Rs 2.25 lakh crore, Modi said adding, this will further strengthen India's commitment of overall development of its maritime sector. "Through this Maritime India summit, I want to invite the world to come to India and be a part of our growth trajectory. India is emerging as a leading blue economy of the world. Our leading focus area includes upgrading current infrastructure, creating next-generation infra, boosting the reform journey. Through these steps we aim to give vision to our Aatmanirbhar Bharat," he said. Modi further noted that "ours is a government that is investing in waterways in a way that was never seen before. Domestic waterways are found to be cost-effective and environment-friendly ways of transporting freight. We aim to operate 23 waterways by 2030." He said this will be done through infrastructure enhancement, fairway development, navigation aid and river information system provisions and focus will also be given on augmenting regional connectivity to Bangladesh, Bhutan and Myanmar. New Maritime Infra will usher in ease of living through launch of roll-on, roll-off and other projects for harnessing rivers. "Waterdromes at 16 locations are being developed to enable seaplane operations... River cruise terminal infra and jetty are being developed on five national waterways. We aim to develop domestic and international cruise terminals by 2023," the Prime Minister said. Asserting that the government is working towards holistic maritime development that is not in silos, he said plans have been drawn for developing tourism on land adjacent to 78 out of 189 lighthouses on Indian coastline. "This with the objective of enhancing development of the existing lighthouses and its surrounding areas into unique maritime tourism landmarks," he said adding the government has also initiated holistic development of islands. Alongside, the usage of clean renewable energy in the maritime sector is being raised. "We are in the process of installing solar and wind-based power systems in all the major ports across the country. We aim to increase usage of renewable energy to more than 60 per cent of all energy by 2030 in three phases across Indian ports," he said. Modi said, Indian ports have reduced waiting time for inbound and outbound cargo. "India is very serious about growing in the maritime sector and emerging as a leading Blue Economy of the world," he said. The government of India is also focusing on the domestic shipbuilding and ship repair market, he said adding to encourage domestic shipbuilding, a Shipbuilding Financial Assistance Policy for Indian Shipyards has been approved. Recalling India's rich maritime heritage, the PM said it brings together many stakeholders. "Together we will achieve great success in boosting the maritime economy. India is a natural leader in this sector. Our nation has a rich maritime history. Civilisations flourished on our coasts. For thousands of years. Our ports have been important trading centres. Our ports connected India to the world," he said. Emphasising on improving efficiency, he said as a result of steps in this direction, capacity of major ports which was 870 Million Tonnes in 2014, has increased to around 1,550 MT per annum at present. "This productivity gain not only helps our ports but also boosts the overall economy by making our ports more competitive," he said. The Prime Minister also launched an E-book -- Maritime India vision (MIV) 2030 -- that envisages over Rs 3 lakh crore investments in various port sectors generating over 20 lakh direct and indirect jobs. The MIV 2030 identifies five key areas to propel growth and deliver tangible benefits to agriculture, logistics, local manufacturing, recycling and tourism besides boosting Indian tonnage. It aims to make India a preferred global destination for investments in the sector. The Prime Minister also launched Sagar Manthan Mercantile Marine Domain that envisages receiving oceanic data among others. Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Mansukh Mandaviya said post enactment of Recycling of Ship Act 2019, India now aspires to grab at least 50 per cent of global ship recycling business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-82-billion-being-invested-in-ports-under-sagarmala-project-957147.html
02-03-2021||National||Assembly polls 2021: Guidelines in place for Covid-positive voters||As the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced polling and counting dates for four states and one Union Territory — Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry — campaigning has heated up as political parties have set out all guns blazing to emerge at the top. Meanwhile, the coronavirus situation in the country is also volatile with the ebb and flow of daily cases. Against the backdrop of the pandemic, the ECI had last year set some general guidelines for elections during the pandemic. Basic Covid-19 rules of social distancing, thermal scanning, sanitisation, use of masks among other things, have been highlighted by the ECI. The number of maximum electors per polling station has also been brought down to 1,000 from 1,500.  Arrangements for Covid-19 patients Officials have said that the Bihar model would be followed in the upcoming assembly elections as the state's Health Department had won accolades for conducting elections to the 243-member assembly amid the coronavirus surge last year. During the Bihar polls, lists of Covid-19 positive electors were provided beforehand to polling officials and special training was imparted to handle them. A senior officer in West Bengal said that they would stick to the protocol followed in Bihar. Suspected Covid-19 patients will be allowed to cast their votes only after others finish exercising their franchise, he said. The body temperature of a voter would be checked for a second time if the person is found to have a temperature beyond the permissible limit of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit. "If the person's body temperature is found high for the second time too, the voter will be asked to come back to cast vote in the final hour of the day (5 pm-6 pm)," he added. There are also talks in other states about considering an extension of voting hours for Covid-19 patients under the supervision of health authorities. Other than that, electors who are Covid-19 positive/suspect and are in quarantine, home or institutional, will be given the option of postal ballot. This facility has also been extended to voters marked as Persons with Disabilities, voters above the age of 80, and those employed in notified essential services. The postal ballot facility enables a limited number of voters to exercise their franchise remotely with the use of a ballot paper and send it to the concerned election officer before the counting of votes. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-polls-2021-guidelines-in-place-for-covid-positive-voters-957152.html
02-03-2021||National||Farooq Abdullah, his wife receives Covid-19 vaccine||Regional National Conference (NC) President and Member of Parliament, Farooq Abdullah received the first Covid-19 vaccine dose along with his British-born wife at a Srinagar hospital on Tuesday. The veteran leader’s son and party Vice-President, Omar Abdullah made the announcement on Twitter and put a picture of his father receiving the jab. “Thank you to the doctors, nurses and staff at SKIMS, Srinagar. Today my 85-year-old father and my mother had their first Covid jab. My father has a number of health issues including being on immunosuppressants for a kidney transplant. If he can get the vaccine, you should as well,” he tweeted.   Abdullah had undergone a kidney transplant in 2014 when his wife Molly donated her kidney. India began the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination on Monday for people above 60 years of age, and people above 45 years of age with co-morbidities||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farooq-abdullah-his-wife-receives-covid-19-vaccine-957166.html
02-03-2021||National||Plea in SC raises issue of discrimination against transgenders||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre and others to establish a transgender welfare board to address their social welfare issues and also appoint a committee to promptly probe reports of their alleged gross abuse by the police. The petition filed by a Mumbai-based organisation said that transgenders should be treated with the same dignity and respect as others, claiming they have suffered discrimination for ages and are deprived of social and cultural participation. The plea has said that according to the 2011 Census, the total population of transgenders is around 4.87 lakh with a literacy rate of 57.06 per cent. “Transgender people are deprived of social and cultural participation and hence they have restricted access to education, health care and public places which further deprives them of the constitutional guarantee of equality before law and equal protection of law,” said the plea, drawn by advocate C R Jaya Sukin. It has sought the apex court’s direction to the Centre and the states to appoint a standing committee comprising station house officers, human rights and social activists to promptly investigate reports of alleged gross abuse of transgenders by the police. “Transgender people should be treated with the same dignity and respect as anyone else and be able to live and be respected, according to their gender identity. But transgender people often face serious discrimination and mistreatment at work, school, and in their families and communities,” the plea has claimed. It said transgender people face stigma and discrimination and get fewer opportunities as compared to others. Referring to the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019, the plea said Parliament had passed the bill to protect transgender rights but the new law is “inadequate on several fronts”. The plea alleged that the living conditions of transgenders are very poor and that majority of them are living in rented accommodations. It said that as per a 2017 report of the National Human Rights Commission, 79 per cent of transgenders either live in rented rooms or share accommodations with others and 52.61 per cent have monthly income below Rs 10,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-raises-issue-of-discrimination-against-transgenders-957170.html
02-03-2021||National||West Bengal Assembly Election: How to register as NRI voter||The stage is set for high-octane polls in West Bengal with a stiff contest between the TMC, the BJP and the Left Front. Elections in the states will be held in eight phases, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27. Votes will be counted on May 2. The voters who are staying outside the country but belong to the state can still cast their vote in the upcoming elections to 294-seat Assembly.  The Election Commission of India has allowed overseas Indians to register as NRI voter. As long as a prospective voter is a citizen of India, absent from the country owing to employment, education etc has not acquired citizenship of any other country and is otherwise eligible to be registered as a voter in the address mentioned in their passport, they can vote in the election.  Here's how to register yourself as an NRI voter: Documents Required: 1. One recent passport size coloured photograph affixed in Form 6A. 2. Self-attested photocopies of the relevant pages of the passport containing a photograph, address in India and all others. 3. The page of the passport containing the valid visa endorsement. Step 3: Submit the form | The form can be submitted in person or by post. A) If the application is sent by post, the photocopy of each of the documents referred to above should be duly self-attested. B) Alternatively you can fill the form in person at the Electoral Registration Officer / Assistant ERO of the constituency. If the application submitted in person before the ERO, the original passport should be produced for verification. The verification process: 1. Booth Level Officer will visit the home address mentioned in your passport and enquire to verify the copies of documents. 2. In cases where no relative is available or willing to give a declaration for verification of documents, the documents will be sent for verification to the concerned Indian Mission. 3. Decision of the ERO will be communicated to you by post on the address and SMS on the mobile number given in Form 6A. Electoral rolls are also on the website of the Chief Electoral Officer. 4. Names of overseas electors are included in a separate section for "Overseas Electors" which is the last section of the roll of each polling station area. 5. You can use Form-8 for making any correction in the electoral roll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-assembly-election-how-to-register-as-nri-voter-957174.html
02-03-2021||National||Tamil Nadu Assembly Election 2021 FAQs: What is NOTA?||Many political parties and alliances are in the fray to take command of the 234-member strong Legislative Assembly to drive the state for the next five years.  In the process of voting, apart from all the parties that are listed on the EVMs, there is another option called ‘NOTA’. What is NOTA? In India, if a voter does not support any of the candidates contesting in a particular election, but has to vote for something, then they can select the ‘None of the above’ (NOTA) option. This option empowers the voter to reject all the candidates listed on the electronic voting machine (EVM). When was it first used? NOTA was used for the first time in the 2013 assembly elections in five states - Chhattisgarh, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh - and later in the 2014 General Elections. It was introduced into the electoral process following the 2013 Supreme Court directive in PUCL versus Union of India case. The Supreme Court reasoned that the NOTA option would allow voters to express their discontent with the political parties and the candidates they put up and thus, help cleanse the political system. Does it have any impact on the results? NOTA has no electoral value in the Indian system. Even if the maximum votes are given in favour of NOTA, the candidate with the largest number of votes, which could theoretically even be just one, will still be declared elected. What purpose does it serve? Despite NOTA not having an electoral value, it is still a very significant tool for voters to express their discontent which will in turn, it hopes, cleanse the system. It is also seen as a tool for the marginalised groups to highlight their issues that would not otherwise find space in the mainstream electoral discourse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-assembly-election-2021-faqs-what-is-nota-957179.html
02-03-2021||National||Puducherry Assembly Election 2021 FAQs: What is NOTA?||Following the resignation of CM V Narayanasamy, the UT is under President's Rule. The electorate in Puducherry, comprising of 5,30,438 women, 4,71,863 men and 113 third gender, will decide if the BJP, or any other party, comes to power in the UT. Many among the voters of the UT to exercise their franchise are likely to be new voters. For them, the ECI has provided a facility to apply for a voter ID online, allowing them to bypass the hassle of going to offices. But what choice do the voters have in choosing between the candidates placed by the various parties? In the process of voting, apart from all the parties that are listed on the EVMs, there is another option called ‘NOTA’. What is NOTA? If a voter does not support any of the candidates contesting in a particular election but has to vote for something, then they can select the ‘None of the above’ (NOTA) option. This option empowers the voter to reject all the candidates listed on the electronic voting machine (EVM). When was it first used? NOTA was used for the first time in the 2013 assembly elections in five states - Chhattisgarh, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh - and later in the 2014 General Elections. It was introduced into the electoral process following the 2013 Supreme Court directive in the PUCL versus Union of India case. The Supreme Court reasoned that the NOTA option would allow voters to express their discontent with the political parties and the candidates they put up and thus, help cleanse the political system. Does it have any impact on the results? NOTA has no electoral value in the Indian system. Even if the maximum votes are given in favour of NOTA, the candidate with the largest number of votes, which could theoretically even be just one, will still be declared elected. What purpose does it serve? Despite NOTA not having an electoral value, it is still a very significant tool for voters to express their discontent which will in turn, it hopes, cleanse the system. It is also seen as a tool for the marginalised groups to highlight their issues that would not otherwise find space in the mainstream electoral discourse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-assembly-election-2021-faqs-what-is-nota-957182.html
02-03-2021||National||Puducherry Assembly Election: How to register as NRI voter||The spectre that has haunted the small states in the North-East and the bigger ones like Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh has visited Puducherry also, resulting in the fall of the Congress-DMK government. V Narayanaswamy resigned from the post of chief minister as he lost his majority in the Assembly after a series of resignations of Congress and DMK MLAs. The crisis began after five Congress and one DMK MLA resigned, bringing down the strength of the government. The 33-member Assembly will go to the polls on April 6. However, the voters who are staying outside the country but belong to the state can still cast their vote.  The Election Commission of India has allowed overseas Indians to register as NRI voter. As long as a prospective voter is a citizen of India, absent from the country owing to employment, education etc has not acquired citizenship of any other country and is otherwise eligible to be registered as a voter at the address mentioned in their passport, they can vote in the election. Here's how to register yourself as an NRI voter: Documents Required: 1. One recent passport size coloured photograph affixed in Form 6A. 2. Self-attested photocopies of the relevant pages of the passport containing a photograph, address in India and all others. 3. The page of the passport containing the valid visa endorsement. Step 3: Submit the form | The form can be submitted in person or by post. A) If the application is sent by post, the photocopy of each of the documents referred to above should be duly self-attested. B) Alternatively you can fill the form in person at the Electoral Registration Officer / Assistant ERO of the constituency. If the application submitted in person before the ERO, the original passport should be produced for verification. The verification process: 1. Booth Level Officer will visit the home address mentioned in your passport and enquire to verify the copies of documents. 2. In cases where no relative is available or willing to give a declaration for verification of documents, the documents will be sent for verification to the concerned Indian Mission. 3. Decision of the ERO will be communicated to you by post on the address and SMS on the mobile number given in Form 6A. Electoral rolls are also on the website of the Chief Electoral Officer. 4. Names of overseas electors are included in a separate section for "Overseas Electors" which is the last section of the roll of each polling station area. 5. You can use Form-8 for making any correction in the electoral roll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-assembly-election-how-to-register-as-nri-voter-957190.html
02-03-2021||National||Covid-19: WHO chief scientist says India exhibited capacity to innovate, manufacture vaccines||India has shown the capacity to be a global-scale manufacturer and also an innovator when it comes to coronavirus vaccines, World Health Organization’s Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said Monday. Speaking at the Global Bio-India 2021, she opined that the fight against the coronavirus pandemic is at a very critical junction now as cases have suddenly gone up, particularly in Europe and America. There are many uncertainties now, especially on the different variants of the virus, she noted. "India has shown the capacity to be a manufacturer at the global scale and also be an innovator when it came to vaccine development. There is a huge amount of scope to study the impact of vaccines, which needs to be thought-through by a very coordinated approach," she said. As many as 30 vaccines are at different stages of development in India. Covaxin, developed indigenously by Biotech, and Covishield, developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and being manufactured at Serum Institute of India, are already in use in the country. The vaccine candidates of Zydus Cadila and Russia's Sputnik V are in phase 3 of the human clinical trials. Sputnik V, which is being manufactured by Reddy's Laboratories in India, has initiated the process for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) with the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). India has supplied vaccines to several nations while many others have also placed orders for the same. Vinod Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog lauded the efforts of scientific community and said the speed with which the solutions during the pandemic appeared was phenomenal. “The stories of development of vaccines are amazing examples of how time can be compressed and scientific mobilisation can be initiated. The intent to have a global footprint in the manufacturing sector when it came to Covid-19 vaccine was path-breaking and something to be proud of. “We have realised that we have the potential to deliver in a speedy manner, like we did for vaccine distribution,” he said. The three-day Global Bio-India 2021 was inaugurated Monday by Harsh Vardhan, the minister of Science & Technology, and Health & Family Welfare. PTI PR TIR TIR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-who-chief-scientist-says-india-exhibited-capacity-to-innovate-manufacture-vaccines-957192.html
02-03-2021||National||Local body poll: BJP routs Congress in rural Gujarat||Riding on huge victory in municipal corporations last week, the BJP on Tuesday routed the Congress in the latter's bastion in the local body polls as the ruling  party wrested power in majority of talukas, district panchayats and Nagar Palikas. By the late evening, as results were being updated, BJP won all 31 district panchayats, 74 of 81 municipalities and 196 of 231 taluka panchayat seats.  Hours after the trend showed BJP winning decisively, state Congress president Amit Chavda and leader of opposition in the assembly Paresh Dhanani tendered resignations. Party spokesperson Manish Doshi told DH that both the leaders have been told to stay put for the time being. Insiders said that both the leaders will divest their responsibility by the end of the month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/local-body-poll-bjp-routs-congress-in-rural-gujarat-957194.html
02-03-2021||National||Assam Assembly Election 2021 FAQs: What is NOTA?||The assembly election in the state will take place in three phases, with all 126 seats of the state Legislative Assembly up for grabs. Many among the voters of the state to exercise their franchise are likely to be new voters. For them, the ECI has provided a facility to apply for a voter ID online, allowing them to bypass the hassle of going to offices. But what choice do the voters have in choosing between the candidates placed by the various parties?  In the process of voting, apart from all the parties that are listed on the EVMs, there is another option called ‘NOTA’. What is NOTA? In India, if a voter does not support any of the candidates contesting in a particular election, but has to vote for something, then they can select the ‘None of the above’ (NOTA) option. This option empowers the voter to reject all the candidates listed on the electronic voting machine (EVM). When was it first used? NOTA was used for the first time in the 2013 assembly elections in five states - Chhattisgarh, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh - and later in the 2014 General Elections. It was introduced into the electoral process following the 2013 Supreme Court directive in PUCL versus Union of India case. The Supreme Court reasoned that the NOTA option would allow voters to express their discontent with the political parties and the candidates they put up and thus, help cleanse the political system. Does it have any impact on the results? NOTA has no electoral value in the Indian system. Even if the maximum votes are given in favour of NOTA, the candidate with the largest number of votes, which could theoretically even be just one, will still be declared elected. What purpose does it serve? Despite NOTA not having an electoral value, it is still a very significant tool for voters to express their discontent which will in turn, it hopes, cleanse the system. It is also seen as a tool for the marginalised groups to highlight their issues that would not otherwise find space in the mainstream electoral discourse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-assembly-election-2021-faqs-what-is-nota-957196.html
02-03-2021||National||Uday Kotak gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Kotak Mahindra Bank MD and CEO Uday Kotak on Tuesday took the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine. "Happy to share that I took the first shot of the vaccine this morning. Smooth and no pain," Kotak said in a tweet sharing his photograph while being administered the vaccine. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too took his first shot of vaccine, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, on Monday. Modi, while tweeting about his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS on Monday, had congratulated doctors and scientists who have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against the coronavirus. Bharat Biotech is the indigenous maker of Covid-19 vaccine. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan took the first dose of Covaxin on Tuesday. India opened up vaccination for those over 60 years and within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specified co-morbidities from March 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uday-kotak-gets-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-957203.html
02-03-2021||National||Indian economy on 'upswing'; govt set to spend more along with pro-growth reforms: Panagariya||India's economy is on an "upswing" and the government's plans for increased spending comes in the backdrop of pro-growth reforms, former Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Arvind Panagariya said on Tuesday even as he opined that it might take longer to become a $5 trillion economy due to the coronavirus pandemic-induced disruptions. In an interview to PTI, the eminent economist described the government's decision to privatise two public sector banks next fiscal as an "unprecedented" effort to "finally right a wrong done 50 years ago". He was apparently referring to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's move to nationalise banks. Panagariya, who is currently a Professor of Economics at Columbia University, said the country's GDP growth in October-December 2020 quarter returned to a hair's breadth above its level a year ago. "At 0.4 per cent, the year-on-year growth in GDP may seem low but given the large negative growth during the preceding two quarters ((-)24.4 per cent during April-June and and (-)7.3 per cent during July-Sept), the quarter-on-quarter growth momentum is very strong," he said. According to him, there are signs that the government is clearing past arrears at an accelerated pace and has also provided for doubling of government expenditure in the current quarter over the same quarter last year. "These facts would help boost demand and give further impetus to growth at a time when the economy is on the upswing... So the news on the growth front is very encouraging," he said. To a query on whether it will be feasible now for India to achieve the target of becoming a USD 5 trillion economy by 2024-25, he said that given the unexpected COVID shock, "we may have to wait a year or two longer". In 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi envisioned to make India a USD 5 trillion economy and global power house by 2024-25. The pandemic has hit the economy hard and the country's GDP is projected to contract nearly 8 per cent in the current fiscal ending March. On whether he is in favour of reviewing the 2-6 per cent target inflation band, Panagariya said, "I would favour revising the target up by 1 percentage point". In the past, he said the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) had been quite reluctant to let the inflation rate rise above 4 per cent even though it has the room up to 6 per cent and was quite comfortable with the inflation staying around 2 per cent.       "Healthy GDP growth requires greater room for prices to adjust. Besides, enterprises draw up investment plans based on the growth of profits in nominal terms," he said, adding that the government wants low inflation to protect the poor but what matters for the poor is food inflation over which the RBI has very little control. The inflation target for the Reserve Bank of India's MPC for the next five years starting April is likely to be notified around mid-March. The current medium-term inflation target, which was notified in August 2016, ends on March 31. On the government's proposed asset reconstruction company and asset management company, Panagariya said, "one or the other way, we need a rapid clean up of NPAs". If the government can move swiftly to set up the bad bank and take out the bad assets from the bank balance sheets, it will be a major step in the right direction, he said. "If it (government) cannot do that fast, it should be prepared to recapitalise the banks on a much larger scale than currently provided." Replying to a question on fiscal expansionism, Panagariya said if the government had chosen to only expand spending to boost growth, ratings agencies may have seen it unfavourably. "But the increase in spending has been proposed in the backdrop of a large number of pro-growth reforms, including a massive privatisation programme and creation of a "Bad Bank" to clean up NPAs," he said. Noting that the rating agencies look at what the government does holistically than focus on just one indicator such as fiscal deficit, he said, "I see no danger from the ratings agencies". On agitation by farmers against the new farm laws, Panagariya pointed out that discussions on APMC reforms are now 20 years old and every central government since Prime Minister A B Vajpayee has promoted the reforms. Further, he said that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture called for the reforms as recently as December 2019 and nearly all farm organisations had also called for these reforms at one time or the other. "In the end, the solution will have to be worked out through discussions and negotiations," Panagariya opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-economy-on-upswing-govt-set-to-spend-more-along-with-pro-growth-reforms-panagariya-957204.html
02-03-2021||National||Kerala Assembly Election 2021 FAQs: What is NOTA?||The state is seeing a fierce competition between the ruling Left front and the opposition parties of the BJP and Congress, for the 140 seats of the Legislative Assembly. Many among the voters of the state to exercise their franchise are likely to be new voters. For them, the ECI has provided a facility to apply for a voter ID online, allowing them to bypass the hassle of going to offices. But what choice do the voters have in choosing between the candidates placed by the various parties?  In the process of voting, apart from all the parties that are listed on the EVMs, there is another option called ‘NOTA’. What is NOTA? In India, if a voter does not support any of the candidates contesting in a particular election, but has to vote for something, then they can select the ‘None of the above’ (NOTA) option. This option empowers the voter to reject all the candidates listed on the electronic voting machine (EVM). When was it first used? NOTA was used for the first time in the 2013 assembly elections in five states - Chhattisgarh, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh - and later in the 2014 General Elections. It was introduced into the electoral process following the 2013 Supreme Court directive in PUCL versus Union of India case. The Supreme Court reasoned that the NOTA option would allow voters to express their discontent with the political parties and the candidates they put up and thus, help cleanse the political system. Does it have any impact on the results? NOTA has no electoral value in the Indian system. Even if the maximum votes are given in favour of NOTA, the candidate with the largest number of votes, which could theoretically even be just one, will still be declared elected. What purpose does it serve? Despite NOTA not having an electoral value, it is still a very significant tool for voters to express their discontent which will in turn, it hopes, cleanse the system. It is also seen as a tool for the marginalised groups to highlight their issues that would not otherwise find space in the mainstream electoral discourse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-assembly-election-2021-faqs-what-is-nota-957211.html
02-03-2021||National||'Pawri' power: 5-second social media clip pulls India, Pakistan closer||A 19-year-old Pakistani student who shot to fame after her five-second video went viral on social media across the subcontinent, hopes numerous renditions of her monologue will translate into more dialogue between rival neighbours India and Pakistan. The short video shot by Dananeer Mobeen in the Nathaigali mountains of northern Pakistan and uploaded onto Instagram shows a group of youngsters enjoying themselves by the roadside. Swinging around the device she is filming on, Mobeen gestures behind her and says in Urdu, "This is our car, this is us, and this is our party taking place." Seemly innocuous, she deliberately mispronounces the English word "party" as "pawri" to poke fun at South Asians who adopt Western accents. It immediately struck a chord in both India and Pakistan, sparking top trending hashtags on social media, and garnering millions of views and hundreds of spin-offs. "It was the most random video. I initially had no intention of uploading it," Mobeen said, expressing surprise at how viral it had gone and adding the trend showed the power and reach of social media. "Pawri" monologue renditions have been used by police in India and the Delhi Commission for Women in their social media outreach campaigns. In one video, two Indian soldiers deployed in snowy mountains give it their own spin with "This is us, this is our gun, and we are patrolling here", while popular Bollywood actors Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone each did a version that also went viral. Indian dairy company Amul, known for inculcating trendy takes on current issues in its advertisements, did a "this is our pav-tea" version in a nod to a popular bread snack eaten with tea. Even politicians jumped on the bandwagon, with a leader from India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party using the catchy hook at an election rally. "I'm honoured and grateful for all the love across the border," said Mobeen, expressing her happiness at fostering some rare friendly cross-border dialogue. India and Pakistan, both nuclear-armed nations, have fought three wars and often had tense relations since gaining independence in 1947. Relations had most recently soured over developments in the northern region of Kashmir, which both countries control in parts but claim in full. Last week, their militaries released a rare joint statement saying they had agreed to observe a ceasefire along the disputed Kashmir border, after exchanging fire hundreds of times over past months. Since the video went viral, Mobeen said she has been inundated with acting and modelling offers, along with requests for product endorsements. Instead, she says she aspires to join Pakistan's foreign services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pawri-power-5-second-social-media-clip-pulls-india-pakistan-closer-957213.html
02-03-2021||National||West Bengal Assembly Election 2021 FAQs: What is NOTA?||West Bengal, one of the biggest states by size of the Legislative Assembly, will go to polls starting on March 27, the Election Commission has announced. The state, with a 294-member strong Legislative Assembly, will go to polls in eight phases - the highest number of all four states and one UT going to polls.  Many among the voters of the state to exercise their franchise are likely to be new voters. For them, the ECI has provided a facility to apply for a voter ID online, allowing them to bypass the hassle of going to offices. But what choice do the voters have in choosing between the candidates placed by the various parties? In the process of voting, apart from all the parties that are listed on the EVMs, there is another option called ‘NOTA’. What is NOTA? In India, if a voter does not support any of the candidates contesting in a particular election, but has to vote for something, then they can select the ‘None of the above’ (NOTA) option. This option empowers the voter to reject all the candidates listed on the electronic voting machine (EVM). When was it first used? NOTA was used for the first time in the 2013 assembly elections in five states - Chhattisgarh, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh - and later in the 2014 General Elections. It was introduced into the electoral process following the 2013 Supreme Court directive in PUCL versus Union of India case. The Supreme Court reasoned that the NOTA option would allow voters to express their discontent with the political parties and the candidates they put up and thus, help cleanse the political system. Does it have any impact on the results? NOTA has no electoral value in the Indian system. Even if the maximum votes are given in favour of NOTA, the candidate with the largest number of votes, which could theoretically even be just one, will still be declared elected. What purpose does it serve? Despite NOTA not having an electoral value, it is still a very significant tool for voters to express their discontent which will in turn, it hopes, cleanse the system. It is also seen as a tool for the marginalised groups to highlight their issues that would not otherwise find space in the mainstream electoral discourse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-assembly-election-2021-faqs-what-is-nota-957221.html
02-03-2021||National||BJP spokesperson shares selective data portraying lower petrol price in BJP-ruled states||Amid the growing criticism from opposition parties over the hike in petrol prices, BJP Tamil Nadu’s spokesperson SG Suryah tweeted a list of petrol prices in different states. The data was divided into two parts – one that listed petrol prices in BJP governed states, purportedly less than Rs 90 per litre, and the other listed prices in non-BJP-governed states that were over Rs 90. Tweeting the comparison, he said, “Petrol prices are cheapest of the lot in #BJP ruled states only! Maharashtra has highest price ruled by Shiv Sena, Congress & NCP“.   Alt News found that the infographic has selectively quoted BJP governed states with lower petrol prices and in some cases has omitted to mention the party’s alliance with regional parties in a particular state.  However, it is also noteworthy that the list of non-BJP-governed states also didn’t include INC-governed Punjab, YSRCP-governed Andhra Pradesh and BJD-governed Odisha. All the three states have petrol prices over Rs 90 as of February 17.  A misleading graphic was circulated on social media to falsely portray that petrol prices in BJP-governed states were less than Rs 90, while the non-BJP governed states had prices over Rs 90. It must be emphasised that petrol prices change on a day-to-day basis and are different from region-to-region. Thus, the comparison made on February 17 cannot reflect the current status of the petrol hike across India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-spokesperson-shares-selective-data-portraying-lower-petrol-price-in-bjp-ruled-states-957223.html
02-03-2021||National||Make in India 'epitomises' challenges facing US-India trade relationship: US report||The Biden administration has told the US Congress that India's recent emphasis on import substitution through the 'Make in India' campaign has "epitomised" the challenges facing the bilateral trade relationship. In its 2021 Trade Policy Agenda and 2020 Annual Report, the US Trade Representative (USTR) said that during 2020, the US continued its engagement with India to try to resolve longstanding market access impediments affecting US exporters. "While India’s large market, economic growth, and progress towards development make it an essential market for many US exporters, a general and consistent trend of trade-restrictive policies has inhibited the potential of the bilateral trade relationship. Recent Indian emphasis on import substitution through a ‘Make in India’ campaign has epitomised the challenges facing the bilateral trade relationship,” USTR said in its report to Congress on Monday. Effective June 5, 2019, the United States terminated India’s eligibility under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) programme, following a review of concerns related to India’s compliance with the GSP market access criterion. Subsequent to the suspension of India’s GSP benefits, the US and India resumed intensive work in the fall of 2019 aimed at producing a package of meaningful market access outcomes, and this engagement continued throughout 2020. The objectives of the US in this negotiation included resolution of various non-tariff barriers, targeted reduction of certain Indian tariffs, and other market access improvements, it said. “The United States also engaged with India on an ongoing basis throughout 2020 in response to specific concerns affecting the full range of pressing bilateral trade issues, including intellectual property (IP) protection and enforcement, policy development affecting electronic commerce and digital trade, and market access for agricultural and non-agricultural goods and services,” it said. According to the report, while the United Kingdom remained the largest supplier of services, accounting for $62.3 billion of total US services imports in 2019, India was the sixth largest with $29.7 billion after Canada ($38.6 billion), Japan ($35.8 billion), Germany ($34.9 billion) and Mexico ($29.8 billion). The USTR said that in July 2020, in response to outreach by it, India released US shipments of lactose and whey protein concentrate (WPC) that had been blocked since April 2020 when India began enforcing a requirement that those products be accompanied by a dairy certificate. Prior to this shift in practice, US exports of lactose and WPC to India had grown steadily for years, reaching a high of approximately $54 million in 2019 before falling to approximately $32 million in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-in-india-epitomises-challenges-facing-us-india-trade-relationship-us-report-957232.html
02-03-2021||National||Sri Lanka to offer strategic deep-sea port to India, Japan||Sri Lanka will offer a strategically located deep-sea port to India and Japan, an official said Tuesday, as the island seeks to balance traditional ties against China's rising regional influence. The government last month abruptly pulled out of an agreement with Delhi and Tokyo to jointly develop the partially built East Container Terminal, located next to a $500-million Chinese-run container jetty within the capital Colombo's sprawling port. But Colombo reversed course Tuesday, offering the West Container Terminal (WCT), which is yet to be built and located on the other side of the Chinese-run jetty known as the Colombo International Container Terminal (CICT). "The discussions to develop the WCT will be only with India and Japan," government spokesman Keheliya Rambukwella told reporters in the capital. Rambukwella said the cabinet decided Monday to allow India and Japan to have an 85 percent stake in the West Container Terminal -- the same terms China was granted when building the CICT. It's unclear how Tokyo and Delhi will divide their majority stake in the port. The government said the Indian High Commission in Colombo has "approved" Sri Lanka's latest offer. There was no immediate response from India's foreign ministry in New Delhi, and a government spokesman said Japan has yet to respond to the new proposal. The government blamed trade unions calling for local instead of foreign development for last month's abrogation of the East Container Terminal, which will now be completed by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority. Colombo is located in the Indian Ocean between the major hubs of Dubai and Singapore, meaning control of its ports is highly sought after. Two Chinese submarines berthed at the CICT -- which started operations in 2013 -- in 2014, sparking concerns in India which considers neighbour Sri Lanka to be within its sphere of influence. Since then, Sri Lanka has refused permission for further submarine calls. In December 2017, unable to repay a huge Chinese loan, Sri Lanka allowed China Merchants Port Holdings to take over the southern Hambantota port, which straddles the world's busiest east-west shipping route. The deal, which gave the Chinese company a 99-year lease, raised fears about Beijing's use of "debt traps" in exerting its influence abroad. India and the United States have also expressed concerns that a Chinese foothold at Hambantota could give Beijing a military advantage in the Indian Ocean.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-to-offer-strategic-deep-sea-port-to-india-japan-957240.html
02-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Ahead of West Bengal polls, rift seen in Congress||In your evening news brief, West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury hits out at party colleague Anand Sharma over the latter’s criticism of Congress-ISF ties; former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta gets bail, and Bharti Airtel says it acquired radio waves worth Rs 18,699 crore.    Here is the top news of March 2, 2021:   Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted bail to former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO Partho Dasgupta, accused in the TRP scam. Justice P D Naik granted bail to Dasgupta (55) on a personal bond of Rs 2 lakh and two solvent sureties of the same amount. Dasgupta approached the HC in January this year after a sessions court rejected his bail plea while noting that he had played a vital role in the scam and was the alleged "mastermind". He was accused of having misused his official position and conniving with ARG Outlier Media, the company that runs all Republic TV channels, and with Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, to manipulate TRPs.   West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has hit out at his colleague Anand Sharma over his criticism of its tie-up with the Indian Secular Front, accusing him of "undermining" the party's interest by making remarks "in tune with the BJP's agenda". Sharma had on Monday slammed Congress' association with the ISF led by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui in West Bengal, contending that it was against the "Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism" and the party cannot be selective in fighting "communalists".   Telecom operator Bharti Airtel on Tuesday said it has acquired radio waves worth Rs 18,699 crore in the latest spectrum auction. The telco has acquired 355.45 MHz spectrum across Sub GHz, mid-band and 2300 MHz bands, giving it the "most formidable" spectrum holding in the country, Airtel said in a statement. Spectrum auctions -- that put on offer a total of 2308.80 MHz of spectrum worth Rs 4 lakh crore in seven bands -- concluded on Tuesday, the second day of bidding. On Monday, the opening day, bids worth Rs 77,146 crore had come in with Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, and Vodafone Idea participating in the bidding process - a response that the government had said was better than expected. There were, however, no takers for spectrum in the 700 MHz and 2500 MHz bands on the first day.   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-ahead-of-west-bengal-polls-rift-seen-in-congress-957252.html
02-03-2021||National||Mumbai power outage due to human error not cyber attack, says Union Power Minister R K Singh||A day after Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut claimed that the power outage in Mumbai in October last year was caused by a "cyberattack" and it was an act of "sabotage", Union Power Minister R K Singh on Tuesday said that it was a result of “human error”. While a cyber attack was attempted on power installations, it had nothing to do with the October 2020 electricity blackout in Mumbai, said the minister. "Two teams investigated the power outage and submitted that the issue was caused by human error and not due to cyber attack. One of the teams submitted that the cyber attack did happen but they were not linked to the Mumbai grid failure," Singh said . The Union Minister further said that the cyber attacks affected the northern and southern region's load dispatch centres but they (malware) could not reach the operating system. The Power Minister was responding after a study report conducted by Recorded Future, a Massachusetts-based company, suggested that a Chinese government linked group targeted India''s power grid system through malware, a software designed to cause damage to a computer network. The study raised doubts that last year''s massive power outage in Mumbai was a result of the online intrusion. Admitting that there was an attempt to attack electricity grid system in the country, the Ministry of Power on Monday in a statement had said that an email was received from CERT-In on November 19, 2020 on the threat of malware called Shadow Pad at some control centres of POSOCO. Accordingly, action was taken to address these threats, he had said. "There is no impact on any of the functionalities carried out by Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO) due to the referred threat. No data breach/ data loss has been detected due to these incidents,"  the statement had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-power-outage-due-to-human-error-not-cyber-attack-says-union-power-minister-r-k-singh-957258.html
02-03-2021||National||Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda resigns||Gujarat Congress chief Amit Chavda and state Congress Legislative Party leader Paresh Dhanani resigned on Tuesday, ANI reported. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda and state Congress Legislative Party leader Paresh Dhanani resign More details awaited||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-congress-president-amit-chavda-resigns-957259.html
02-03-2021||National||India tells Pakistan to stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism||India said on Tuesday that Pakistan, a country in dire economic situation, should stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism and end institutionalised violation of human rights of its minority and other communities. Using its Right of Reply under the Agenda Item 2 at the 46th Session of the Human Rights Council in response to a statement by Pakistan's representative, India slammed Pakistan for deliberately misusing the forum for its malicious propaganda against New Delhi. "Pakistan, a country in dire economic situation, will be well advised to stop wasting time of the Council and its mechanisms, stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism and end institutionalised violation of human rights of its minority and other communities," said Pawankumar Badhe, First Secretary of India's Permanent Mission in Geneva. "The members of this Council are well aware that Pakistan has provided pensions to dreaded and listed terrorists out of State funds and has the dubious distinction of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the United Nations," Badhe said. The Indian diplomat recalled that Pakistani leaders have admitted the fact that "it has become a factory for producing terrorists." "Pakistan has ignored that terrorism is the worst form of human rights abuse and the supporters of terrorism are the worst abusers of human rights,” the Indian diplomat added. Badhe said the Council should ask Pakistan why the size of its minority communities such as Christians, Hindus and Sikhs has drastically shrunk since independence and why they and other communities such as Ahmadiyyas, Shias, Pashtuns, Sindhis and Baloch, have been subjected to draconian blasphemy laws, systemic persecution, blatant abuses and forced conversions. "Enforced disappearances, extrajudicial killings and arbitrary detentions of those who try to speak against the establishment are rampant in Pakistan and have been carried out by the State’s security agencies with impunity," the diplomat said. India also rejected the Organisation of Islamic Conference's statement on Jammu and Kashmir, saying the bloc has no locus standi to comment on such matters. "We reject the reference to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in the statement of the OIC. It has no locus standi to comment on matters related to Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral and inalienable part of India," the Indian diplomat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tells-pakistan-to-stop-state-sponsored-cross-border-terrorism-957265.html
02-03-2021||National||BJP to unleash high-voltage campaign to wrest power in Puducherry||The BJP plans to unleash a high-voltage campaign in Puducherry with a battery of central leaders as it seeks to wrest power in the union territory in the coming assembly elections. They include Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president J P Nadda, and Union Ministers Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman and Smriti Irani, he told PTI here. Modi and Shah have already launched the party's campaign in the tiny union territory. Surana, who is Vice-President of Karnataka unit of BJP, said discussions were underway with the All India NR Congress (AINRC) and AIADMK on seat-sharing for the elections and it would be finalised as soon as possible. Asked if the NDA plans to declare its Chief Ministerial candidate, he said: "All the matters are getting discussed". Surana said Puducherry Assembly Speaker V P Sivakolundhu, who quit on Sunday citing health reasons, is in touch with the BJP and would decide on joining the party in a day or two. Sivakolundhu won from the Lawspet constituency in the 2016 assembly elections on a Congress ticket. His brother V P Ramalingam joined the BJP in Karaikal in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his campaign visit on Sunday. "He (Sivakolundhu) wants his brother (Ramalingam) to contest from his constituency (Lawspet)", Surana said. On how many seats the NDA hoped to win in Puducherry, he claimed that according to his assessment the Congress would not be able to win even a single seat. Puducherry is now under President's rule after the Congress government headed by V Narayanasamy fell on February 22 on being reduced to a minority following a spate of resignation of Congress MLAs and a DMK legislator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-to-unleash-high-voltage-campaign-to-wrest-power-in-puducherry-957271.html
02-03-2021||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh administered first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh took the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine at the Army's Research and Referral Hospital here on Tuesday, a day after the start of the second phase of the inoculation drive. Dispelling apprehensions, he said the vaccine is completely safe. "The first dosage of Covid-19 vaccine was administered to me at RR Hospital today. India's resolve for making the country Covid-free has been strengthened by this inoculation drive. The vaccine is completely safe and hassle free. #LargestVaccineDrive," the minister said in a tweet. "I salute the efforts of India's scientists and doctors who developed the vaccine in a short span of time. I also thank the doctors and paramedic staff at the RR Hospital for the vaccination. I urge everyone who is eligible to take the vaccine and make India Covid-free," he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, setting the pace for the second phase of the country's inoculation drive, in which coverage has been expanded to include everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 with co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-administered-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-957272.html
02-03-2021||National||Issue of Mumbai power outage should not be politicised: Anil Deshmukh||Maintaining that the Mumbai power outage was because of a possible cyber attack, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the issue calls for alertness and should not be politicised. Deshmukh said he had spoken to Union Power Minister R K Singh on the issue. “The cyber attack happened all over India...it is not just an issue of Maharashtra....we need to be more alert...he also told me that the Centre was alert,” he said. Deshmukh said that the report suggests that a “foreign company” “might have introduced a malware” which resulted in the problem. On Monday, the state's Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut said that what has appeared in international media was true. The New York Times in a report suggested that China launched a cyber attack against India, targeting its power grid in particular, in the wake of the border clashes in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh. According to Stuart Solomon, the CEO of Recorded Future, a Massachusetts-based company that studies the use of the internet by state actors, the cyber attack on power systems in Mumbai was carried out by a Chinese state-sponsored group, which the company called Red Echo. The 12 October, 2020, power outage in Mumbai-MMR comprising the financial capital and parts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts brought the suburban railway network of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) to a grinding halt, even as industrial activity was badly hit. The incident took place at a time when the economy was being brought back to track through a phased-wise Unlock process after being hit by the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/issue-of-mumbai-power-outage-should-not-be-politicised-anil-deshmukh-957277.html
02-03-2021||National||AIADMK to interview ticket aspirants on Thursday||After launching seat-sharing talks with allies, Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK will interview party functionaries who have expressed interest to contest the April 6 assembly elections in a single day on Thursday. The interviews will also be held on the same day for those who have evinced interest to contest polls in Puducherry and Kerala. Party coordinator O Panneerselvam and deputy coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement that the interviews will take place on March 4. The party had on Monday announced that the last day for collecting applications to contest the assembly polls will be March 3 instead of March 5 as announced earlier. The aspirants will be questioned about the party's strength in their respective constituencies and chances of victory. When J Jayalalithaa was alive, the interviews would be conducted by a three or five-member team after which the candidate list will be announced. The move from the AIADMK comes as it has accelerated the process to finish the seat-sharing arrangement with allies. While a pact has been concluded with PMK, negotiations with BJP, DMDK, and TMC are on. Meanwhile, DMK on Tuesday began interviewing ticket aspirants district-wise with party president M K Stalin leading the process. The interviews will go on till March 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiadmk-to-interview-ticket-aspirants-on-thursday-957280.html
02-03-2021||National||Karat writes to CJI urging him to withdraw remarks made during hearing of bail plea of rape accused||CPI(M) politburo member Brinda Karat has written to Chief Justice of India SA Bobde urging him to withdraw his remarks made during the hearing of a case where he asked a rape accused if he was willing to marry the victim, saying that courts should not give an impression of supporting such "retrograde" approaches. Karat was referring to remarks made during the hearing of a plea filed by a public servant, who is accused of repeatedly raping a girl, against the Bombay High Court February 5 order which had cancelled his anticipatory bail. The Left leader said that these questions, words and actions have serious implications in granting bail in cases of rape of minors. "Please reconsider and withdraw these comments and questions... Please uphold the judgment of the Aurangabad High Court which rules that bail granted to him by the lower court was 'atrocious'," she said. When the hearing on the plea commenced on Monday, the bench also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked the accused “Are you willing to marry her?” “If you are willing to marry her then we can consider it, otherwise you will go to jail,” observed the bench adding “We are not forcing you to marry.” The counsel appearing for the petitioner said the accused was initially willing to marry the girl but she had refused and now he was married to someone else. As the counsel said that the accused is a public servant, the bench said, “You should have thought this before seducing and raping the girl. You knew that you are a government servant”. The apex court granted the accused protection from arrest for four weeks to allow him to apply for regular bail in the trial court. In the letter, Karat said, "The girl was gagged and raped by this criminal, when she was just sixteen years old. He repeated his crime 10-12 times. The girl tried to commit suicide. Does this show consent? "In any case, in the case of a minor, as this girl was, the law is clear that there is no issue of consent.¨ She also asked the CJI to consider the effect such questions will have on the psyche of victims, The message given is that a rapist can escape jail if after the crime he “agrees” to marry his victim whether she wants to or not, she said. ¨There is a prevailing retrograde social approach that the victim of rape is a 'bad' woman and if the rapist marries her, she gains respectability in the eyes of society. Comments of the apex court should not give the impression of supporting such approaches," she said. Karat said that the processes of justice must keep the interests of the rape victim at the centre. "Unfortunately in this case, the opposite has happened," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karat-writes-to-cji-urging-him-to-withdraw-remarks-made-during-hearing-of-bail-plea-of-rape-accused-957285.html
02-03-2021||National||Uproar in UP Assembly over fuel price rise, SP stages walk out||The issue of rising fuel prices rocked the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Tuesday, with Samajwadi Party MLAs staging a walkout over the matter. Raising the issue during the Zero Hour, Leader of Opposition in the assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary said the prices of LPG cylinders have increased significantly and the people are also getting less subsidy. He said in 10 months' time, the price of an LPG cylinder in Ballia has increased by over Rs 240. In an apparent reference to the UP Assembly polls next year, Chaudhary said, "If the government does not wake up now, then there will be a silent revolution in 2022." "The prices of petrol and diesel are increasing almost every day. This is impacting the farmers and the common man," he said. The leader of opposition said due to the increase in the prices of petrol and diesel, bus and auto-rickshaw fares have also increased in the past few months. "Is this a 'jankalyankari' government (a government which works for the welfare of the public)? This dispensation is not for the poor people," he said, alleging that the government has failed on all fronts. Countering the charges made by Chaudhary, the state's Finance Minister Suresh Khanna said the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG are governed by the international market. "Our party stands for 'antyodaya' — benefits reaching the last man of the society. As far as bus fares are concerned, in 2017, there was an increase of only 10 paise - from 95 paise per kilometre to Rs 1.05 per kilometre," Khanna said, adding that the government is making all possible efforts to ensure impact of the fuel price rise is not felt on the poor people. Price of petrol touched an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai on Saturday, while diesel rate crossed the Rs 88-mark. Cost of petrol rose to Rs 90.58 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 97 in Mumbai. Petrol price has already surged past the Rs 100-mark at some places in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, which levy the highest VAT on the fuel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uproar-in-up-assembly-over-fuel-price-rise-sp-stages-walk-out-957288.html
02-03-2021||National||India's fuel demand to rise 9.8% in year to March 2022||India's fuel consumption could rise by 9.8 per cent in the year to March 2022, its highest pace of growth in six years, driven by robust demand for gasoline and gasoil in Asia's third-largest economy, according to initial government projections. The higher expectation of fuel consumption, a proxy for oil demand, points to a sharp recovery in industrial activity in the economy hit hard by the pandemic. India could consume 215.24 million tonnes of refined fuels in the financial year 2021/22 compared to the revised estimate of 195.94 million tonnes consumed in 2020/21, data posted on the website of Petroleum Planning Analysis Cell (PPAC) showed. India's economy returned to growth in the three months to December with its gross domestic product rising 0.4 per cent compared with the same period a year earlier. The recovery is expected to gather pace as consumers and investors shake off the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. From April 2020 to January 2021, the first 10 months of this fiscal year, India's fuel consumption fell by 13.5 per cent as lockdown measures to stem the spread of Covid-19 hit demand in the world's third-biggest oil consumer. The increase in India's fuel consumption will aid global oil markets as the nation is seen as the main driver of rising demand for energy over the next two decades, the International Energy Agency said in January. Local sales of gasoil and gasoline, which together account for half of overall refined fuel sales in India, is projected to rise by 13.3 per cent each, the data showed. Consumption of diesel is related closely to economic growth and accounts for up to 40 per cent of the refined fuel sales in India. With easing restrictions and resumption of business, India's jet fuel sales are expected to reach 6.45 million tonnes in 2021/22, a growth of about 74.2 per cent from the revised estimates of this year, the data showed. Sale of liquefied petroleum gas, mainly used for cooking, is expected to rise 4.8 per cent to 29 million tonnes, the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-fuel-demand-to-rise-98-in-year-to-march-2022-957292.html
02-03-2021||National||India hits out at Pakistan, OIC at UNHRC for demanding probe into alleged human rights violations in J&K||War of words continued between India and Pakistan at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on Tuesday, even as the armed forces of the neigbouring nations agreed to stop firing across the Line of Control (LoC) last month. India strongly protested statements made by Pakistan and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) seeking a probe into alleged human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir. India also accused Pakistan of providing pension to dreaded terrorists out of its state funds although they were all designated by the United Nations as the ones having links to Al Qaeda, Taliban and the Islamic State.  “The members of this council are well aware that Pakistan has provided pensions to dreaded and listed terrorists out of State funds and has the dubious distinction of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the United Nations,” Pawan Badhe, First Secretary at the Permanent Mission of India at the UN in Geneva, told the UNHRC. He was making a statement at the 46th session of the council exercising India’s right to reply after Pakistan demanded a probe by the United Nations into alleged violations of human rights in Jammu and Kashmir. Khalil Hashmi, Pakistan’s Permanent Representative to the UN, recently called upon the Human Rights Council to step up efforts for access to independent observers into Jammu and Kashmir to conduct an investigation into reports of multiple cases of abuse of human rights by India. He said that the failure to hold the Government of India accountable for human rights abuses in Jammu and Kashmir would erode the credibility of the UNHRC, its members, and the global human rights agenda. Pakistan’s envoy to the UN alleged that India continued to use “torture and brute force, including pellet guns, and inflict collective punishments through house demolitions as well as cordon-and-search operations" in Jammu and Kashmir. Making a statement on behalf of the Government of India, Badhe said, “Pakistani leaders have admitted the fact that it has become a factory for producing terrorists. Pakistan has ignored that terrorism is the worst form of human rights abuse and the supporters of terrorism are the worst abusers of human rights.” India alleged that enforced disappearances, extrajudicial killings and, arbitrary detentions of those who try to speak against the establishment were rampant in Pakistan and had been carried out by the security agencies of the country with impunity. “Recently, Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, the key suspect in murder of journalists Daniel Pearl, was allowed to go scot-free. Disappearances and killings of Baloch human rights defenders show that human rights defenders are not safe, even after they leave Pakistan. Idris Khattak, a human rights defender who was picked up in November 2019, continues to be in secret detention,” said Badhe. India’s representative noted the dire economic situation of Pakistan and told the UNHRC that Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government would be well advised to stop wasting the time of the council and its mechanisms, stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism and end institutionalized violation of human rights of its minority and other communities. India also rejected the reference to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in the statement of the OIC. “It has no locus standi to comment on matters related to Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral and inalienable part of India. It is regrettable that OIC continues to allow itself to be exploited by Pakistan to indulge in anti-India propaganda,” said New Delhi’s representative to the UNHRC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hits-out-at-pakistan-oic-at-unhrc-for-demanding-probe-into-alleged-human-rights-violations-in-jk-957294.html
02-03-2021||National||SC orders formation of medical board to consider termination of rape victim's 26-week pregnancy||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed for setting up a medical board to examine a 14-year-old girl from Haryana, who was raped by a relative, and sought permission to terminate her 26-week-old pregnancy. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian directed that a medical report should be submitted by the next week. The court issued notice to the Centre and Haryana government on the petition. The petitioner's counsel, advocate VK Biju sought the court's direction for immediate formation of a medical board to look into the matter since the pregnancy is at 26 weeks. According to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, a foetus of above 20 weeks cannot be terminated without a nod from the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-formation-of-medical-board-to-consider-termination-of-rape-victims-26-week-pregnancy-957295.html
02-03-2021||National||Amazon Prime Video issues unconditional apology for Tandav||Streaming platform Amazon Prime Video on Tuesday apologised "unconditionally" for its show Tandav and said it has already removed scenes found objectionable by viewers. The political saga, starring Saif Ali Khan and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, attracted huge controversy for a scene depicting a college theatrical programme, leading to allegations that the show hurt religious sentiments and multiple FIRs. "Amazon Prime Video again deeply regrets that viewers considered certain scenes to be objectionable in the recently launched fictional series Tandav. This was never our intention, and the scenes that were objected to were removed or edited when they were brought to our attention," Amazon Prime said in a statement. "We respect our viewers' diverse beliefs and apologise unconditionally to anyone who felt hurt by these scenes. Our teams follow company content evaluation processes, which we acknowledge need to be constantly updated to better serve our audiences," the company added. The streamer said it will continue to develop entertaining content with partners while "complying with the laws of India and respecting the diversity of culture and beliefs of our audiences". The cast and the crew of the Ali Abbas Zafar-directed series apologised twice. Eventually, the team decided to cut the objectionable portions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amazon-prime-video-issues-unconditional-apology-for-tandav-957306.html
02-03-2021||National||SC slams Centre for delaying installation of CCTV cameras in probe agencies' offices||The Supreme Court on Tuesday pulled up the Centre for dragging its feet by seeking more time for installing CCTV cameras in the offices of central probe agencies like CBI, NIA, ED etc, saying it can't accept excuses, as it concerned the rights of citizens. On December 2, 2020, the top court had directed the Centre to install CCTV cameras and recording equipment at the offices of investigating agencies -- NIA, CBI, ED, DRI etc.—which have the power to arrest and carry out interrogations. It had ordered that CCTV cameras must be installed with such recording systems so that the stored data should be preserved for a period of 18 months. On Tuesday, the court expressed its displeasure after the Centre sought adjournment, and maintained that it would have ramifications, instead of showing compliance to its order. "It is setting an impression that the Centre is dragging its feet in the matter," a bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman said. The bench also told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that it was not concerned about ramifications. “This concerns the right of citizens, we are not accepting excuses," the bench said. The court also sought to know about allocation of funds for installation of CCTVs in central probe agencies.   Mehta sought some time to file an affidavit in the matter. The court gave three weeks to the Centre to file an affidavit citing financial outlay for allocation of CCTV cameras and timeline for installation.    The bench also went through the chart submitted by amicus curiae senior advocate Sidharth Dave in connection with the timeline sought by various state governments. The court granted five months to state governments to install CCTV in police stations. For poll-bound states – West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry –it directed setting up CCTV in police stations till December end this year. The bench gave nine months to Uttar Pradesh and eight months to Madhya Pradesh to comply with its order. The court posted the matter for further hearing after Holi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-slams-centre-for-delaying-installation-of-cctv-cameras-in-probe-agencies-offices-957307.html
02-03-2021||National||'Sugamya Bharat App' launched to ease accessibility issues faced by differently abled in buildings, transport system||Union minister Thaawarchand Gehlot virtually launched Sugamya Bharat App, a crowd-sourcing mobile application, and a handbook entitled Access - The Photo Digest on Tuesday to enhance accessibility. The app will enable people with disabilities and even the elderly to register accessibility-related problems in buildings, in modes of transport or any infrastructure by uploading pictures on it. They can also receive information on accessibility-related issues through the app. This mobile app will also address coronavirus-related issues faced by the differently abled. The app and the handbook have been developed by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. "The Sugamya Bharat app — a crowd-sourcing mobile application is a means for sensitising and enhancing accessibility in the three pillars of the Accessible India Campaign i.e. built environment, transportation sector and ICT ecosystem in India," Gehlot said. The app provides five main features, four of which are directly related to enhancing accessibility, while the fifth is a special feature meant only for people with disabilities for coronavirus-related issues. "The accessibility-related features include the registration of complaints of inaccessibility across the three broad pillars of the Sugamya Bharat Abhiyaan, positive feedback of examples and best practices worth emulating being shared by people as jan-bhagidhari, departmental updates; and guidelines and circulars related to accessibility," the minister said. He also said that in order to take accessibility to the public domain by involving the people, the prime minister envisioned a mobile application wherein the issues related to accessibility being faced by people with disabilities and others can be crowdsourced through ‘jan-bhagidhari’. "This crowd-sourcing will serve two-fold purpose of generating sensitisation and awareness about the need for accessibility and also bring in a perceptible change in accessible features being provided in built-up spaces, the transportation sector and other services. Implementation of accessibility-related activities across the country would help towards the vision of creating an universally accessible and inclusive India under the Accessible India Campaign," Gehlot said. The app has been provided with several user-friendly features like easy drop-down menus, videos in Hindi and English, along with sign language interpretation have been added demonstrating the process of registration and uploading complaints with photographs. The mobile app is made accessible for ease of use for persons with disabilities also with features such as font size adjustment, color contrasting option, text to speech, and having an integrated screen reader in Hindi and English. It is available in 10 regional languages, namely, Hindi, English, Marathi, Tamil, Odiya, Kannada, Telugu, Gujarati, Punjabi, and Malayalam. The app also has provision of easy photo uploads with geo tagging option of the premise where accessibility intervention is required. The app has provision for providing notifications to the users at the time of registration, regular status updates as well as at the time of resolution and closure of the complaint. The mobile app can be downloaded from Play Store by Android users. The iOS version of the app will be available by March 15, 2021. Gehlot said the handbook entitled Access - The Photo Digest is a collection of photographs from across different states and Union Territories. This book is envisaged as a tool and guide to sensitise stakeholders about 10 basic features of accessibility and related good-bad practices in easy to understand pictorial form. The electronic version of this handbook will also be available on the app and the website of the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sugamya-bharat-app-launched-to-ease-accessibility-issues-faced-by-differently-abled-in-buildings-transport-system-957309.html
02-03-2021||National||J&K bags maximum medals in second Khelo India Winter National Games||Jammu and Kashmir topped the medals tally in the second edition of Khelo India Winter National Games, which concluded in the famous ski resort of Gulmarg in Baramulla on Tuesday. J&K won 11 gold, 18 silver and 5 bronze medals in the five-day mega event which had been e-inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 26. More than 1,000 athletes from 27 states and union territories (UTs) had converged on the snow-bound slopes of Gulmarg during the event to compete in different sports categories. Athletes from the Army and the Jawahar Institute of Mountaineering and Winter Sports also participated in the event. Prominent sports activities, which were the hallmark of the winter games, included snowshoe race, ice skating, ice hockey, skiing, Nordic ski, snowboarding, ski mountaineering, ice stock. The event was organised by the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports in collaboration with the J&K Sports Council and the Winter Games Association of J&K. J&K Secretary Sports Council, Nuzhat Gul said after the successful completion of the second edition of Khelo India Winter National Games, the third edition will also be held in Gulmarg. “After the success and appreciative role played by Jammu and Kashmir Sports Council in organising the second edition of Khelo India Winter National Games here, the third edition of Khelo India has also been allotted to J&K Sports Council,” she said. Khelo India is a national sports development programme launched by the Center with an aim to revive the sports culture in the country at the grass-roots level, thereby, turning India into a sporting nation. Gulmarg had received good snowfall this winter and the weather conditions remained supportive for the mega event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-bags-maximum-medals-in-second-khelo-india-winter-national-games-957327.html
02-03-2021||National||UK's expired cruise ships being scrapped in India, says report||British cruise ships that are no longer meant for use are finding their way to India to be scrapped, according to a media report on Tuesday. Ships at the end of their lives are considered hazardous waste and it is illegal to send them to developing countries from the UK. But months after being sold at auction to buyers outside the UK they are then sold on as scrap, according to a new File on 4 investigative show for the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). As these vessels were set to be used for further trading when they leave UK waters, their arrival in India does not break the British law. Among these are the Marco Polo and the Magellan, which were sold at auction in November 2020 after their owners Cruise and Maritime Voyages went into administration. The Marco Polo, built in the 1960s, made its final voyage to Alang in Gujarat, referred to as the world's largest ship graveyard. The ship was reportedly bought at auction for around 2 million pounds by offshore company Highseas Ltd, which said the cruise ship would be used as a floating hotel in Dubai. But two months after taking ownership of the Marco Polo, it was sold as scrap for around 4 million pounds, the BBC report claims. HighSeas Ltd told the programme that it was always their intention the Marco Polo would be sold to new owners "but regrettably, the intended buyers in Dubai refused to take delivery". Meanwhile, the Magellan, which was meant to be used as a floating hotel in Liverpool in England, was bought at the auction by a Greek ship owner. Brokers say it was sold on for scrap after no new buyer was found. There are serious concerns about the environmental impact and working conditions in the ship-breaking industry across South Asia, as each year around 800 ships come to the end of their lives and need to be broken apart and recycled. The organisation Ship-breaking Platform has documented the deaths of more than 400 workers on beaches since 2009. It has recorded fatal accidents in the yards from workers falling from height and being killed in gas explosions, as well as longer-term sickness from exposure to toxic materials such as asbestos. "There is a lot of value in these vessels because they contain large amounts of steel," Ingvild Jenssen, director of Ship-breaking Platform, told the programme. "But they also contain large amounts of hazardous materials: asbestos; heavy metals; lead, and many materials you need to take large precautions when you're dealing with them," she said. Ship recycling consultant Sea2Cradle says asbestos is not treated as a hazardous material in India. The UK government said, "The illegal export of waste is a significant threat to the global environment, and those convicted could face two years in prison or an unlimited fine." Shipping’s Dirty Secret is set to be aired on BBC Radio 4 on Tuesday evening and repeated on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uks-expired-cruise-ships-being-scrapped-in-india-says-report-957330.html
02-03-2021||National||Ex-Union Minister Kushwaha may merge his party with the JD(U)||In a political development that may have wide ramifications in the state polity, former Union Minister and president of the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) Upendra Kushwaha is likely to join hands with his arch-rival Nitish Kumar. If sources in the JD (U) are to be believed, Kushwaha, who was Union Minister from 2014 to 2018, may soon merge his outfit RLSP with the JD (U). “Five rounds of talks have taken place between Upendra Kushwaha and former Bihar JD (U) president Bashistha Narayan Singh. Kushwaha has also met Chief Minister Nitish Kumar once at the CM’s official residence. Chances are he may merge his pocket organisation with the JD (U),” said the ruling party source. In Bihar, other than the numerically-strong Yadavs, Kurmis and Kushwahas belong to the influential section among the OBCs (Other backward castes). It is against this backdrop that Nitish wants to strengthen his support base which, before November 2020 Assembly polls, had stood by him. But the base was slipping out of his hands as was evident during the poll result. Nitish now wants to strengthen his weak points and unite all those who were originally his aides but split from him. Kushwaha was groomed by Nitish but eventually dumped him to float his own outfit RLSP in 2013. During the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, he joined the NDA, fielded three candidates and won all the three LS seats. Kushwaha was made a Union Minister in 2014 where he continued till December 2018 before dumping the NDA and joining the Grand Alliance. On the eve of Assembly polls, Kushwaha deserted Grand Alliance and came a cropper after his party could not win a single seat. Nitish too met a similar fate where his outfit JD (U) was relegated to the third position. Now, the two erstwhile Socialist friends are trying to forge a new relationship. “Kushwaha’s ideology was always the same as ours. When he will join us, he will be given adequate responsibility and respect,” said Rajya Sabha member and one of the closest aide of Nitish, Bashistha Narayan Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-union-minister-kushwaha-may-merge-his-party-with-the-jdu-957331.html
02-03-2021||National||India's present overall case positivity rate suggests Covid-19 close to being under control||India's present overall Covid-19 case positivity rate of 5.11 per cent suggests the pandemic is close to being under control, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Addressing a weekly press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said though certain states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, are seeing a surge in number of Covid-19 active cases, "the fact remains that recovered cases are still more than 97 per cent and India's total active cases are less than 2 per cent (1.51 per cent)".  Bhushan said that central teams have been deputed to Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. "We are monitoring Haryana also," he said.  Two states, Maharashtra and Kerala, account for 75 per cent of the total active Covid-19 cases in the country, he stated. "According to WHO, if 140 tests per million are being conducted per day and case positivity rate is 5 per cent or below, it means the Covid-19 pandemic is under control. We are very close to that mark with the present overall case positivity being 5.11 per cent," he said. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul urged people to come forward and get vaccinated to break the chain of transmission, while stressing that public compliance for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour cannot be diluted.  He said a large proportion of the population was still susceptible to disease and cautioned against any laxity. He said one of the reasons for the surge in cases in some states are large gatherings, parties and weddings. He urged people to maintain social distance and avoid gatherings, stating these can act as super-spreading events.  Bhushan said India has recorded 113 Covid-19 deaths per million and conducted 1,57,684 tests per million population.  According to the Health Ministry figures updated at 8 am, India's total Covid-19 active caseload was recorded at 1,68,358 comprising 1.51 per cent of India's total infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-present-overall-case-positivity-rate-suggests-covid-19-close-to-being-under-control-957332.html
02-03-2021||National||RSS and crony capitalists colluding to control India, says Rahul Gandhi||In an all-out attack on the RSS, Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the organisation of colluding with crony capitalists to capture India’s institutions in exchange for allowing getting hold of “all the business” in the country. In an interaction with economist Kaushik Basu of Cornell University, the former Congress president likened the RSS with the Wahhabis of Saudi Arabia and radical Islamist outfits who seek to control institutions to push their world view. “The crony capitalists figured out that the RSS is a sort of institution that can be used to capture the political system,” Gandhi said adding that the Gujarat model of development was “to pump thousands of crores” in the RSS. “That is how they got turbocharged,” he said adding that the model was tried earlier with late Pramod Mahajan but failed. Gandhi claimed that the trade-off was very much live in Saudi Arabia, where the Wahhabis control the institutional structures in Mecca and the royal family handled the finances from the oil business. “The deal here is—RSS do whatever you can with India’s institutions, we will give the Prime Minister full media, social media access and the Prime Minister will give us all the business we need and together we will run the country,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-and-crony-capitalists-colluding-to-control-india-says-rahul-gandhi-957392.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||Kerala's social harmony under stress; new development strategy needed: Sonia Gandhi||Kerala's social harmony and amity have come under stress and strain, Congress President Sonia Gandhi said on Tuesday, as she advocated for a new development strategy for strengthening the bonds of brotherhood among people and overall development of the southern state. "Kerala has been a lesson to other parts of the country and indeed the world on how to preserve and promote social harmony and amity. This has come under stress and strain and future development strategy must have, as one of its basic objectives, the strengthening of the bonds of brotherhood (and sisterhood) that have been the hallmarks of Kerala's wonderfully diverse society," Gandhi said in a message to a virtual summit organised by Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Development Studies (RGIDS) here. RGIDS is an economic think tank aligned to the Congress ideology, in the poll-bound state. The summit, Pratheeksha 2030, is the culmination of the RGIDSs elaborate and extensive consultations in India and abroad to prepare an action plan for Keralas development over the next decade. Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh inaugurated the summit. Referring to the much talked about Kerala Model of Development, Gandhi said today the state faces new, unprecedented challenges and it has been accentuated by Covid-19 pandemic and called for fresh thinking on economic growth and social security in the southern state. "It's clearly time for fresh thinking on economic growth that will revive investments, create productive jobs, protect the environment, build resilience to climate change, mitigate natural disasters, enhance social security for organized and unorganized labor and improve, the well-being of farmers and their families", she said in the message read out in the summit. The Congress president said over the past six decades and more the Kerala Model of Development has resulted in many impressive achievements for the state in areas like public health, education and literacy, gender empowerment and social justice. But Kerala faces new, and I may so, unprecedented challenges.  "These challenges have been accentuated by the crisis the entire world has had to confront due to Covid-19 pandemic that has still not run its course", she said. Hailing the summit, Gandhi said these consultations have resulted in the preparation of a Vision Document that is being released today. "Actually, this not just a Vision Document; its also a Mission Document that presents a detailed road map for fulfilling the aspirations of the people of the state", she said and congratulated the RGIDS team headed by senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala and director B S Shiju that has "worked so hard" on this initiative. "All I wish to add is that the Indian National Congress will soon, by winning the trust and confidence of the people of the state, begin implementing the Vision/Mission Document in letter and spirit," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/keralas-social-harmony-under-stress-new-development-strategy-needed-sonia-gandhi-957161.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||Chauhan championed cause of farmers, poor: Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday condoled the death of Lok Sabha member from Madhya Pradesh's Khandwa, Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan, saying he always championed the cause of the farmers, poor and the downtrodden. The BJP veteran died at a hospital in Gurugram. He was 69. "Deeply saddened to learn about the demise of Lok Sabha MP Shri Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan. He was a popular leader from Madhya Pradesh and always championed the cause of the farmers, poor and downtrodden," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. "My condolences to his bereaved family members. Om Shanti," Naidu said. The six-term MP, who was suffering from Covid-19 and was airlifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram last month in a serious condition, breathed his last late Monday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chauhan-championed-cause-of-farmers-poor-naidu-957187.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||Saddening to see leaders like Azad being 'castigated' by Congress: BJP||The BJP Tuesday took a swipe at the Congress amid a vocal dissidence within the opposition party, saying its ideology is all about fulfilling the Gandhi family's "ambition", and anyone speaking against it or standing with the “rightful” agenda of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is castigated. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra told a press conference that the Congress will "castigate" anyone who wants democracy in the party, wants its president to be elected, speaks in favour of politics of development or stands with Modi's rightful agenda. While stating that the G23, a reference to the group of 23 Congress leaders who have pushed for an organisational overhaul in the party, is an internal matter of the opposition party, Patra said it is "saddening" to see senior leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad and others being targeted. The Congress is now all about four leaders, he alleged, referring to its president Sonia Gandhi, her son Rahul and daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra -- both party general secretaries -- and Priyanka's husband Robert Vadra. "Their only agenda is 'hate Modi'. It has grown to such an extent that Congress workers are protesting on the streets against their own leaders who have praised good works of Modi," he said, mocking Rahul Gandhi as an “empty missile”. Patra's comments, in an answer to a question, came after Azad praised Modi at an event in Jammu on Saturday, saying he speaks frankly about his past as a tea-seller and does not try to hide his background from the world. Another senior Congress leader Anand Sharma had on Monday slammed the party's tie-up with Indian Secular Front (ISF) led by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui in West Bengal, saying it was against the party's core ideology and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism. Congress workers in Jammu on Tuesday set ablaze an effigy of Azad and accused him of conspiring against the party at the behest of the BJP to weaken it for "personal gains". Patra also hit out at Congress over its alliances in different states, saying they are solely aimed at maintaining the Gandhi family's relevance. The Congress has tied up with a "maulana's" party (Indian Secular Front) and the Left in West Bengal, while its fighting the Left in Kerala, he said. The opposition party is also working to strike an alliance with Badruddin Ajmal's AIDUF in Assam and has joined hands with the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, he noted. "It (the Congress) has no ideology. Its only ideology is corruption and nepotism and to come to power anyhow," he said. Such alliances highlight the Congress’ "double speak and utmost hypocrisy", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/saddening-to-see-leaders-like-azad-being-castigated-by-congress-bjp-957228.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||Prashant Kishor has left Mamata Banerjee to join Amarinder: BJP||Taking a dig at poll strategist Prashant Kishor over his appointment as Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's principal advisor, the BJP on Tuesday said he has "left" Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Mamata Banerjee to join the Congress leader. Kishor is working as a key strategist for the ruling TMC in West Bengal, with the state set to witness an eight-phase Assembly election starting March 27. He has worked for a number of anti-BJP parties in different Assembly polls over the last few years. Noting that senior BJP leaders such as Amit Shah and J P Nadda have often asserted that the saffron party will win over 200 seats in the 294-seat Bengal Assembly, Patra claimed that everyone is now accepting this and that the "so-called political adviser has also realised this". Singh on Monday said Kishor was appointed as his principal advisor. The development assumes significance as the Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prashant-kishor-has-left-mamata-banerjee-to-join-amarinder-bjp-957235.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||Central government only concerned about the rich and powerful: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre for not paying heed to farmers' concerns over the new agricultural laws, and said its policies are designed to benefit only the rich. Interacting with women workers of the Sadharu Tea Estate near here, she said farmers have been protesting in and around the national capital for months, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is yet to meet them and end the impasse. "More than three lakh farmers are sitting on a dharna for the last two months, barely four to five kilometres away from where the PM stays, but he has not gone to meet them. "What is the problem if he goes to meet them once, talk and if the farmers have a problem with the laws, then make changes for their benefit... but the policies of this government is for the rich and powerful and not for the common people," the Congress leader said. Gandhi, who is on a two-day visit to poll-bound Assam, sat with the women workers in the tea garden and discussed with them a host of issues. During the interaction, the women reportedly told her that only a few get benefits of the schemes meant for them, but the others have to frequently visit government offices to enquire, which is not feasible during work hours. They also highlighted the problems due to price rise, housing and lack of toilet facilities in the gardens. "It is the 'dharma' of the parties to fulfil the promises made by them when they visit you during elections. You have the power to vote and teach a lesson to the government which does not keep its words. We have promised Rs 365 as minimum daily wages..." the Congress leader told the women workers. Gandhi, clad in a traditional 'mekhla chador' for the second consecutive day, was seen putting on a tea-plucking basket on her back and going round the gardens. She also attempted a few steps of 'jhumur', the folk dance of the tea tribe community, and was gifted the white and red bordered saree which the women wear while dancing. The Congress leader then visited the home of a tea garden worker. Elections to 126 assembly constituencies in the state will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/central-government-only-concerned-about-the-rich-and-powerful-priyanka-gandhi-957257.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||Congress will bring law to nullify CAA in Assam if voted to power in assembly polls: Priyanka||Senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday asserted that her party, if voted to power in Assam, will bring a new law to "nullify" the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in the state. Gandhi, during a public meeting in Tezpur, launched the 'Five Guarantees' campaign, and said her party, if given a chance to form government in the northeastern state, will dole out Rs 2,000 every month to homemakers across the state, and provide free electricity up to 200 units to all households. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary, who is in poll-bound Assam on a two-day visit, also claimed that her party will hike daily wages of tea garden workers to Rs 365 from the existing Rs 167, and provide at least 25,000 government jobs to youth.  "People of Assam were cheated by a party (BJP) five years ago that promised them 25 lakh jobs but gave them CAA instead. Our party is not making empty promises but undertaking five guarantees," the Congress leader, who sported a traditional 'gamocha' around her neck with the letters CAA crossed out on it, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-will-bring-law-to-nullify-caa-in-assam-if-voted-to-power-in-assembly-polls-priyanka-957261.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||More than 50 lakh Indians register for Covid-19 vaccine in third Phase||In less than 48 hours, more than 50 lakh Indians have registered themselves on the Co-WIN 2.0 digital platform expressing their willingness to take the Covid-19 vaccine, health officials said on Tuesday. The public responses, according to the officials, is an indication of vaccine hesitancy going down. Till Tuesday, nearly five lakh citizens including the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, have received the vaccine shots. So far, nearly 27 lakh healthcare workers have taken both the doses whereas more than 67 lakh healthcare workers and 55 lakh front line workers got one dose. Also 828 frontline staff received both the doses. Asked about those who did not turn up for their second shot, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said vaccination is a voluntary exercise and those who had missed out, can take the second shot within six weeks. Bhushan pointed out all private hospitals can be used for Covid-19 vaccination if they have adequate space and trained staff. Besides, there are no predetermined time slots fixed for administering the jabs as it has been left to the states and hospitals to draw up a vaccination timetable depending on a hospital’s capability. “The states and union territories in consultation with private hospitals should open the vaccination slots for 15 days to a month and announce this as part of their vaccine time table,” the health ministry said in a statement. Private hospitals not empanelled under any government medical insurance schemes have now been permitted to operate as Covid-19 vaccination centres if they have adequate number of vaccinators, space for observation of the vaccinated, cold chain arrangement and proper arrangement to take care of adverse reaction cases. It has been left to the state administration to screen the hospitals and enlist them. Every private vaccination centre should put in place effective crowd management protocols along with facilities for seating, water and proper signage. In addition, they should ensure adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour among the citizen beneficiaries. Meanwhile, rising Covid-19 numbers in a few states remain a matter of concern with Maharashtra and Kerala accounting for 75 per cent of active cases. Asked for the reason behind such a rise, NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul said at least two states had blamed it on a spurt in wedding celebrations and parties. “The central teams have been sent to the states. Once they return, we will know more about the local causes,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/more-than-50-lakh-indians-register-for-covid-19-vaccine-in-third-phase-957290.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||TMC MLA Jitendra Tiwari joins BJP||The trend of defection from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to the BJP in West Bengal continued as yet another TMC MLA joined the saffron party on Tuesday. TMC MLA from Pandabeswar constituency in West Bardhaman district Jitendra Tiwari joined the BJP at Baidyabati in Hooghly district in the presence of state BJP president Dilip Ghosh and several other senior leaders. He is also the former mayor of Asansol. “I am grateful to the BJP leadership for allowing me to be a part of the party. From now on I will be able to express myself freely. I don’t want to make any allegations against anyone. But I must say for several years I was not able to speak my mind. I wanted something and had to say something else,” said Tiwari. Tiwari also said that he always wanted to chant ‘Jai Shree Ram’ but could not do it on stage. “I have found my thoughts to be much closer to BJP’s ideology. Earlier I used to say ‘Jai Shree Ram’ on my own but could not say it on stage,” said Tiwari. A section of State BJP leaders including Union Minister Babul Supriyo, State BJP Mahila Morcha president Agnimitra Paul and general secretary Sayantan Basu had earlier opposed Tiwari's induction into BJP. At that time Supriyo had said that opposing Tiwari’s induction into the BJP was his personal opinion and he would abide by the party leadership’s decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-mla-jitendra-tiwari-joins-bjp-957298.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||India appeals to extradite terror accused Kuldeep Singh from UK||The Indian authorities have moved the High Court in London to seek permission to appeal against a magistrates’ court order turning down the extradition on human rights grounds of Kuldeep Singh, wanted in India as an alleged member of the banned terrorist organisation Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF). Singh, also known as Keepa Sidhu, is charged with conspiring with others to commit terror activities in Punjab dating back to 2015-16, including a plot to assassinate the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal. The 44-year-old is also accused of recruiting youths in Punjab to the banned organisation by offering them money and organising a meeting of separatists in a gurdwara. District Judge Gareth Branston, presiding over the extradition case at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London, ruled in January that as the offences carry maximum sentences and "no possibility of a review of such a life sentence with a view to its commutation, remission, termination or conditional release" it would be contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights. "There is no dispute that these offences carry maximum sentences of life imprisonment. There is no dispute that Singh faces a real risk that he will receive such a sentence of life imprisonment," reads the judgment, dated January 25. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), appearing on behalf of the Indian government in the legal proceedings, confirmed that the grounds of appeal against Singh’s discharge were lodged on February 19, with his lawyers scheduled to file a response this Friday. "We have appealed the decision to discharge Singh. We haven’t had the permission decision yet," a CPS spokesperson said. Singh faces a total of four charges in India, under Sections 17, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 related to raising funds for terrorism, conspiracy and being a member of a terror outfit, and Section 25 of the Arms Act 1959, related to firearms offences. The court documents note that he is accused of being a point of contact in Punjab and liaising with the head of the KZF, who was residing in Pakistan, and other co-accused members of the banned organisation, who lived in Belgium and England. Singh, who entered the UK illegally in 2005, was on immigration bail when he was arrested at Loughborough Immigration Reporting Centre in eastern England in October 2019. In September 2020, the Indian authorities were successful in revoking bail granted to him at the magistrates’ court level. "I do place significant weight on the fact that Singh entered the United Kingdom illegally and remained at large and undetected for a period of some eight years. That suggests that he is a resourceful man and is a man who is capable of going to ground for an extended period when he chooses," noted Justice Swift, presiding over that appeal at the High Court last year. Singh – who used a Punjabi interpreter in court – then remained remanded in judicial custody for the duration of the extradition hearings before District Judge Branston, which concluded in December last year. In his judgment in January, Judge Branston accepted the Indian government assurances regarding prison conditions under which Singh would be kept as "clear, binding and sufficient". "There is no evidence that Singh has previously been ill-treated in India. This country has considered and accepted previous assurances by the Indian government. There is no cogent evidence to suggest that they will not be complied with," he said. He also noted that it is undisputed that there is evidence of a conspiracy to commit criminal offences in India but questioned the proportionality of a life term without parole. The judge said: "In my judgment, if such a sentence were imposed upon Singh in the context of this case, then such a sentence would plainly be grossly disproportionate to the offending alleged. "Whilst clearly very serious allegations, Singh is alleged to have been involved in the funding and recruitment of terrorist activity. As is observed, there is no evidence that anyone was actually killed as a result of his alleged activities. He is accused of acts preparatory to terrorist offences." On prison conditions and the sentencing provisions in India, he relied on evidence and reports presented by Dr V. Suresh and D. Nagasalia, Advocates of the Madras High Court, and Arjun Sheoran, Advocate of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana. Besides the human rights issue relating to a life sentence without parole, the court also found that there is "insufficient evidence to make a case requiring an answer by Kuldeep Singh". If permission to appeal against the magistrates’ court order is granted, either on paper or through oral submissions, the case would then proceed for a High Court hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-appeals-to-extradite-terror-accused-kuldeep-singh-from-uk-957326.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||Congress leaders Azad, Anand Sharma under fire for 'undermining' party||Congress dissenters Anand Sharma and Ghulam Nabi Azad came under fire from party leaders who accused them of "undermining" the party "in tune with the agenda" of the BJP.  While Congress workers set posters of Azad on fire in Jammu, senior leaders slammed Sharma for his remarks questioning the party’s pre-poll alliance in West Bengal.  "I would urge a select group of distinguished Congressmen to rise above always seeking personal comfort spots and stop wasting time singing praises of the PM," said West Bengal Congress President Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.  While party leaders refrained from going public with their comments, most said they shared the sentiments voiced by Chowdhury, who is also the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha.  AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra told the media in Guwahati that Chowdhury had already responded to “certain comments” made on Monday and she would not add to it.  Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singhvi said like Azad and Sharma, the party workers and leaders too enjoy the freedom of speech, virtually endorsing the comments made against the dissenters and the actions of burning of Azad’s effigies in Jammu.  “Those who are committed to fighting against BJP parties venomous communalism should support the Congress and campaign for the party in five states rather than attempting to undermine the party by remarks in tune with BJP’s agenda,” Chowdhury said.  Sharma, the Deputy Leader of the Congress in Rajya Sabha, rebuffed accusations of helping the BJP and reiterated his firm commitment to Congress. “I am also one of the historians and ideologue of the party and it has to be taken in that context,” he said of his comments questioning the alliance in West Bengal. The BJP took a swipe at the Congress saying its ideology was all about fulfilling the Gandhi family’s ambition’ and anyone speaking against it or standing with the ‘rightful’ agenda of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was castigated. BJP spokesman Sambit Patra hit out at the Congress over its alliances in various states, saying they are solely aimed at keeping the Gandhi family and the party relevant. “The Congress has tied up with a “maulana’s” party and the Left in West Bengal, while its fighting the Left in Kerala,” he said noting that Congress was in an alliance with AIUDF in Assam and Shiv Sena in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-azad-anand-sharma-under-fire-for-undermining-party-957348.html
02-03-2021||National Politics||Emergency was a mistake: Rahul Gandhi||Terming the Emergency that was imposed by former prime minister Indira Gandhi a "mistake", Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said what happened during that period was "wrong", but it was fundamentally different from the current scenario as the Congress at no point attempted to capture the country's institutional framework. In a conversation with Kaushik Basu, professor in the Cornell University in the US and India's former chief economic advisor, Gandhi said he is all for internal democracy in the Congress, which fought for India's independence, gave the country its Constitution and stood for equality. Asked about his views on the Emergency, he said, "I think that was a mistake. Absolutely, that was a mistake. And my grandmother (Indira Gandhi) said as much." Asked about Indira Gandhi announcing elections at the end of the Emergency and Pranab Mukherjee telling Basu later that she did so as she thought she might lose and wanted to put that to test, the former Congress chief said there is a fundamental difference between what happened during the Emergency, which "was wrong", and what is happening in the country now. "The Congress party at no point attempted to capture India's institutional framework and frankly, the Congress party does not even have that capability. Our design does not allow us that and even if we want, we cannot do it," he said. Gandhi alleged that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is doing something "fundamentally different" and filling up the institutions of the country with its people. "So, even if we defeat the BJP in the election, we are not going to get rid of their people in the institutional structure," he said. Gandhi recalled a conversation with former Congress chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Kamal Nath before his government was overthrown. Nath told him that senior bureaucrats in his government would not listen to him as they were RSS people and would not do something that they were asked to do. "So, it is fundamentally different what is going on," he said. The Emergency was imposed by Indira Gandhi for a 21-month period from 1975 to 1977, when curbs were imposed on the fundamental rights of citizens. On internal democracy within the Congress, Gandhi said he is the one who pushed for elections in the party at the Youth Congress and NSUI levels, but was criticised and attacked by his own party leaders. He wondered why nobody raises questions on why there is no internal democracy in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) and said such questions are asked about the Congress as it is an "ideological party" and has the ideology of the Constitution. "Therefore, it is more important for us to be democratic," he said. Asked about how he felt about the death of his father, former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, in May 1991, he said "it made me understand violence". Gandhi said he saw his father's death coming as he was fighting many forces at the time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/emergency-was-a-mistake-rahul-gandhi-957376.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Farmers destroy crops in UP village protesting against new farm laws||Farmers in an Uttar Pradesh village destroyed crops in a four-acre area on Monday in protest against the contentious farm laws. The incident occurred at Umraya village of Chhata subdivision. "With the consent of majority of villagers, crops grown in the four-acre area were destroyed on Monday," RLD state vice president Kunwar Narendra Singh said. He claimed that such acts by farmers would lead to acute shortage of cereals, forcing the government to go for import. "Repeal the three farm laws without further delay to prevent such suicidal steps of the farmers," Singh demanded, "We are forced to take such steps as the government is not understanding our problem," Megh Shyam, a farmer of the village, said. Subdivisional Magistrate Hanuman Maurya said no such incident had come to his notice, advising the farmers to desist from taking such steps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-destroy-crops-in-up-village-protesting-against-new-farm-laws-956942.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||GST officers arrest UP man for defrauding exchequer Rs 13.76 crore||GST officers have arrested a person for defrauding exchequer worth Rs 13.76 crore by clearing goods without issuing invoices, the finance ministry said on Monday. The Gurugram Zonal Unit of Directorate General of GST Intelligence has arrested a resident of Muzaffarnagar in UP, Pradeep Jain, who is director of PSR Metals Pvt Ltd, it said in a statement. It added that during investigation, Jain claimed to procure both old and non-guarantee batteries from various registered and unregistered dealers and also claimed to manufacture lead from old batteries and doing trading of new batteries. Old or scrap batteries are taxed at 18 per cent, while new or fresh batteries are taxed at 28 per cent under goods and services tax (GST). However, verification with their suppliers revealed that they had sold only fresh batteries to PSR Metals Pvt Ltd, the statement said. The ministry said that based on investigation, it appeared that the company was involved in using bazaar scrap to manufacture battery lead and was using the input tax credit (ITC) of fresh batteries while clearing these new batteries without issuance of invoices. "Pradeep Jain found to have defrauded the exchequer in excess of Rs 13.76 crore by clearance of goods without issue of invoices. "He was therefore arrested on February 27 under Section 69 of the CGST Act, 2017. The Magistrate sent him to Tihar Jail for 10 days' judicial custody," the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gst-officers-arrest-up-man-for-defrauding-exchequer-rs-1376-crore-956959.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Death-row convict Shabnam shifted to district jail||Death-row convict Shabnam was shifted to the district jail here on Monday after a photograph of her in another jail where she was lodged till now went viral on social media. The picture was apparently clicked on January 26 in Rampur. The incident was taken as a breach of security and violation of the jail manual. Bareilly jail superintendent P Singh confirmed that Shabnam, who may be the first woman to be hanged in India since Independence, had been shifted to the district jail. A photo of Shabnam in Rampur had gone viral on social media and the jail administration decided on shifting her in view of the security concerns, jail superintendent P D Salonia said. The Rampur jail authorities had conducted an inquiry in this connection and suspended two jail guards, Salonia said. Shabnam, who is from Babankhedi village of Amroha, had killed seven members of her family on the night of April 14-15, 2008, along with her lover Salim. Both have been awarded death sentences by the court. Shabnam was lodged in Rampur jail since July 2019. The President had rejected the mercy petition of Shabnam and Salim. Her counsel has filed a fresh mercy petition before Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. The jail superintendent said a death warrant for Shabnam's hanging was sought from the Amroha court, which refused it after being informed about the pendency of mercy petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-row-convict-shabnam-shifted-to-district-jail-957031.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||'Indecent' birthday message to judge lands Madhya Pradesh lawyer in jail: Report||The accused, 37-year-old Vijay Singh Yadav, is believed to have sent greetings along with the judge's Facebook profile picture — downloaded without her consent — and an "indecent message." Yadav has been charged with cheating, forgery and forgery for the purpose of harming reputation, and also under sections of the IT Act. The FIR was filed on February 8 at Ratlam's Station Road police station based on a complaint from Ratlam District Court's System Officer, Mahendra Singh Chouhan, the report added. Yadav's brother Jay told the publication that the lawyer would fight the case himself. His bail plea was rejected by a lower court on February 13. The family have since approached the Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court, with the next hearing due on Wednesday. The report said that in his bail plea, Yadav claimed that he had sent the birthday greeting in the capacity of a social worker and president of Jai Kul Devi Sewa Samiti, Ratlam, and that he had obtained the JMFC's image from Google and used it as a "creative designer."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indecent-birthday-message-to-judge-lands-madhya-pradesh-lawyer-in-jail-report-957096.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha TV merged into Sansad TV||Capping deliberations of over two years, Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV have been merged into a single entity 'Sansad TV' and appointed former IAS officer Ravi Capoor as its first Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Officials said on Tuesday that this does not mean any of the channels will be shut down. Both the channels will be on air throughout and proceedings of the Houses would be telecast separately under the new brand name. When Parliament is not in session and beyond the working hours of Parliament, both the variants will telecast common content to a large extent with the LSTV telecasting programmes in Hindi and RSTV in English. The new variants are likely to be named Sansad 1 and Sansad 2. With finances in mind, officials said, it was decided not to go for a bilingual channel and focus on one language by one channel. LSTV was launched in 2006 by the then Speaker Somnath Chatterjee, while RSTV came into being in 2011. Capoor was on Monday appointed the CEO after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu took a joint decision to merge the LSTV and the RSTV. Appointed for one year, he has been assigned to work out the modalities of the merger, which includes integration of assets and manpower. He will also look into whether to terminate the contracts of some employees as part of rationalisation of manpower. At present, RSTV has around 250 personnel and LSTV around 100. The merger of both the channels come after a report by a committee headed by former Prasar Bharati Chairman Surya Prakash in February 2020. The committee, which also included Rajya Sabha Secretariat A Rao and Lok Sabha Secretariat Ganpati Bhatt, was formed in November 2019 following a discussion between the Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha Chairman. "Two language variants would enable better branding and increased viewership by overcoming the shortcomings associated with the present bilingual telecast format of both the channels," the committee had said. The Committee also strongly recommended effective utilisation of the available resources like relocating the RSTV from the Talkatora Stadium Annexe, for which huge rent is being paid at present, to the space available with LSTV in Parliament House and at the Mahadev Road bungalow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajya-sabha-lok-sabha-tv-merged-into-sansad-tv-957103.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Dalit girl in Aligarh was strangulated, no clear evidence of rape: Police||The postmortem report of the teenage Dalit girl, whose body was found here on Sunday, has not indicated any clear evidence of rape and found that she was strangulated to death, a senior official said here. Five persons have been picked up by the police for questioning in the case, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Muniraj G told media persons on Monday night. The body of the 16-year-old girl was found in a field in the Akrabad area here following which villagers clashed with police and indulged in stone-pelting. Inspector Pranendra Kumar was injured in the attack. The postmortem report has not indicated any clear evidence of rape, the SSP said. He said that in view of the inconclusive evidence the police has decided to conduct further microbiological tests using vaginal swabs. "The proceedings of the postmortem were videographed. There were multiple injury marks on the body of the victim who died due to strangulation," the SSP said. An FIR has been registered under IPC 302 (murder), 376 (rape) and POCSO Act. Earlier, on Monday when the body was handed over to the family for last rites, a large group of protestors collected at the house of the victim and blocked traffic on the main Agra road. The SSP said efforts are on for giving adequate financial compensation to the victim's family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-girl-in-aligarh-was-strangulated-no-clear-evidence-of-rape-police-957106.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||BJP chief Nadda arrives in Rajasthan to address party’s state executive meet||BJP national president J P Nadda arrived here on Tuesday to address the party's state executive meeting. Party national general secretary and in-charge for Rajasthan Arun Singh, state BJP president Satish Poonia and other leaders received Nadda at the airport. A large number of party workers were present outside the airport who gave the BJP president a grand welcome. Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje and other leaders were present on the occasion. From the airport, Nadda left for the Birla auditorium where he will address the party’s state executive meeting which will be attended by the members of the core committee, discipline committees, MPs, MLAs and district presidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-chief-nadda-arrives-in-rajasthan-to-address-party-s-state-executive-meet-957123.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Out on bail, man accused of molestation shoots victim's father dead in Uttar Pradesh||Allegedly enraged over refusal to withdraw the case of molestation against him, a youth, who had been arrested and later released on bail, shot dead the father of the victim in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district, about 400 kilometres from here. The youth, identified as Gaurav Sharma, who was accompanied by three others, shot the father of the victim, identified as Amarish, with bullets while the latter was working in the fields near his village in the district on Monday evening. Amarish was rushed to the district hospital where the doctors declared him dead. While one of the accused was later arrested, the search was on for the others, police said. According to the police sources, a case of molestation had been registered against Gaurav two years ago on the complaint of the victim's father. Gaurav was later arrested and spent a fortnight in jail before being enlarged on bail. Sources said that he had been exerting pressure on the father of the victim to withdraw the case but he refused.  The families of Gaurav, who was also the resident of the same village, and the molestation victim had an argument on Monday morning when they came across during a visit to the nearby temple. In the evening, Gaurav and three others reached the fields, where Amarish was working, and sprayed him with bullets.  Police said that the National Security Act (NSA) would be slapped on the accused persons. The Opposition parties reacted strongly to the incident and said that the law and order situation in the state had turned for the worse. ''This government has failed on the law and order front....the chief minister is busy in the election campaign and the criminals are roaming on the streets,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader here on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/out-on-bail-man-accused-of-molestation-shoots-victims-father-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-957124.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Budget Session to be held from March 8 to 16||The Delhi Assembly's Budget session will begin from March 8. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Delhi cabinet, deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said in a tweet. The session will end on March 16. The government will present its budget for 2021-22 with a focus on areas of health, education and infrastructure including water supply, according to sources. New taxes are unlikely, the sources said. The government had presented a Rs 65,000 crore Budget for 2020-2021 that was around 10 per cent more than that in 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-budget-session-to-be-held-from-march-8-to-16-957129.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Ghulam Nabi Azad's effigy burnt in Jammu after he praises PM Modi||A day after senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad heaped praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the party’s G-23 event in Jammu, angry party workers Monday burned the Congress stalwart’s effigies and demanded his removal from the party. The G-23 event was organised by the Gandhi Global Family, chaired by Azad, but the party’s Jammu and Kashmir unit was given a snub. Visuals surfaced on social media where Congress workers were seen raising slogans against Azad and burning his effigies in Jammu city. The protesting workers reportedly said that the party held Azad, in high esteem “but today when it's time to support it, he forged a friendship with the BJP.” Azad, who recently retired as Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, on Sunday while appreciating Modi for never hiding the fact that he hails from a village and used to sell tea, drew parallels between himself and the Prime Minister. This upset the party’s J&K unit chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir who rushed to New Delhi to meet the party top brass to apprise them about the development. The pro-Modi remarks by Azad came a day after Congress rebels Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, BS Hooda, Manish Tewari, Raj Babbar and Vivek Tankha, publicly called the party weak and pledged to strengthen it. Earlier in February, before his farewell in the Rajya Sabha, Azad while speaking during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President’s address, said that Modi was the only person who can find a solution to the problems of Jammu and Kashmir. The Congress veteran also congratulated the Modi government for conducting District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir successfully. While bidding a tearful farewell to Azad on February 9 in the Upper House, the Prime Minister said that he respects the Congress leader as a “true friend” and will not let him retire, and will continue taking his advice.” Modi’s appreciation of Azad has since shifted the focus of Kashmir politics onto the veteran Congress leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghulam-nabi-azads-effigy-burnt-in-jammu-after-he-praises-pm-modi-957131.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Here's why spring skipped North India this year||Much of North India is witnessing a rise in temperature that is unusual at this time of the year. The nation's upper half has missed out on the pleasant spring season and the reason behind this, an IMD official said, is the absence of westerly winds. Westerly winds or westerlies are winds that originate from the west and blow eastwards. These winds are also responsible for the rain that some parts of North India witness during the winter. It is the northwesterly wind that is behind the pleasant springtime weather before the onset of summer, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) head of regional weather forecasting centre. The northern plains witnessed just one western disturbance each in January and February as opposed to the usual count of six. The remaining disturbances impacted just the upper reaches of the western Himalayas. The IMD, in its summer forecast for March to May, had hinted at above maximum temperatures in Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Gujarat, coastal Maharashtra, Goa and coastal Andhra Pradesh as well. "Below normal seasonal maximum temperatures are likely over most of the subdivisions of south peninsula and adjoining central India," the summer forecast added. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heres-why-spring-skipped-north-india-this-year-957134.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: One side of Ghazipur border opens for traffic||One side of the Ghazipur border, the site of the farmers’ protest, was opened for traffic on Tuesday, police said. The stretch was closed since January 26 when violence broke out during the farmers’ tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day. The one side of the road which goes towards Ghaziabad from Delhi was opened for traffic in the morning, a senior police officer said. The other side of the road is still closed, he added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-one-side-of-ghazipur-border-opens-for-traffic-957145.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||NGT directs Delhi Jal Board to control 'bad odour' emanating from Kondli sewage plant by May 31||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to take steps to control the "bad odour" emanating from a sewage treatment plant (STP) in Kondli here and install an odour control unit by May 31. "Counsel for the DJB submits that requisite steps have still not been taken but the same will be completed before the month of May, 2021. Even though for consistent failure of the DJB, we are inclined to award heavy costs, we defer this aspect till the next date with a direction that if the needful is not done even by May 31, 2021, the CEO, DJB, will be liable to pay the cost of Rs 5 lakhs per month till compliance," the bench said. The matter is listed for the next hearing on July 9. The NGT had earlier noted a report filed by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the DJB which said that laboratory analysis of the water samples collected at the outlet were not meeting the prescribed standards. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by a resident welfare society alleging that bad odour was coming from Kondli STP as it is not operated as per norms. The plea alleged that the foul smell was causing breathing problems to the residents in the vicinity and was a health hazard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-delhi-jal-board-to-control-bad-odour-emanating-from-kondli-sewage-plant-by-may-31-957156.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||After revocation of Article 370, J&K Bank readies to finance bigger projects||As Jammu and Kashmir received expressions of interest for investment of thousands of crores from bigger business groups amounting to over Rs 13,000 after the abrogation of Article 370, the Union Territory (UT) government-promoted J&K Bank is readying itself for financing such projects. Post the abrogation of Article 370, not only business groups from within the country, but a number of countries including the UK, Japan, the UAE and other Middle-East nations have expressed desire to invest in the UT. Recently Prakash P Hinduja, Chairman of Hinduja Group (Europe) – one of leading business conglomerates with a global footprint across 38 countries – had a meeting with the Chairman and Managing Director J&K Bank, R K Chhibber in New Delhi. “The promoters of Hinduja Group expressed their interest in building a lasting relationship with J&K Bank and UT of J&K for their investment opportunities. The duo remarked that they were highly impressed with the way J&K Bank has progressed in the recent past to establish itself as one of the top banks of the country,” a senior Bank official told DH. He said that Chhibber was informed by the Hinduja Group top brass that they were interested in forging a business relationship with the J&K Bank, which has always cherished its associations with reputed business groups. The Bank official said that they expect more big business houses like Hinduja Group to invest in J&K and they were always ready to walk an extra mile for the overall economic prosperity of the region. “J&K Bank has a proud legacy of over eight decades of financially empowering the people of our home territories, besides focusing on niche lending opportunities in the rest of the country. We see our role assuming further significance in the near future, as the governments of J&K and Ladakh roll out various developmental projects already in the pipeline,” he added. According to sources, the J&K government was expecting Expression of Interest in the investments in the UT amounting to Rs 50,000 crore but might filter them and confine the proposals between Rs 10,000 crore to Rs 15,000 crore initially as it would require a lot of infrastructure development to meet requirements of the industrialists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-revocation-of-article-370-jk-bank-readies-to-finance-bigger-projects-957163.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Ruling and opposition benches trade charges in UP Assembly over withdrawal of criminal cases||The Uttar Pradesh Assembly Tuesday witnessed a slanging match between the ruling and opposition benches over withdrawal of criminal cases by the BJP government in the state. Ruling party members alleged that cases against terrorists were withdrawn during the previous regime, while the opposition benches trashed the claim and said cases against "rioters" were withdrawn by the BJP government. Replying to a question by BSP member Shyam Sundar Sharma, Law Minister Brijesh Pathak said that from April, 2017 to July, 2020, as many as 670 cases were withdrawn by the government in 'janhit' (public interest) and "the cases pertain to political leaders and workers". He said that after the government formation, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced the decision to withdraw "political cases" to lessen the burden on judiciary. In his supplementary query during the Question House, the member asked about the political cases and sought a list of all people with their party affiliation whose cases were withdrawn. To this, the minister said that political cases are not defined but those with less serious charges were withdrawn. "After an application is made for withdrawal of cases, a 13-point report is sought from the District Magistrate concerned and then Principal Secretaries of Home and Law departments go through it before final decision," he said, adding that as law doesn't permit discrimination on basis of parties, it would not be appropriate to take names. "If Speaker permits, I can make the list of the persons whose cases were withdrawn public," the minister said. In his reply without taking name of the Samajwadi Party, the minister said that the previous government withdrew cases against terrorists who had charges under the Explosives Act and even POTA. His reaction led to a sharp attack from Leader of the Opposition Ram Govind Chowdhary who alleged that the government had taken back cases of their own men. "Even Chief Minister has withdrawn his own criminal cases. The cases against rioters were withdrawn. Those who orchestrate riots are terrorists," Chowdhary said, alleging that the minister had not responded to the main question. The SP members also trooped into the well of the House raising slogans against the government. Pathak said while the first cabinet meeting of the Yogi Adityanath government decided on loan waiver of farmers, the first cabinet in 2012 had decided on withdrawal of cases against terrorists. Chowdhary taking exception to the comment said, "The minister should show the file in which terrorist word is mentioned." Replying to him, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna said that on March 15, 2012 a circular was issued by the then chief secretary seeking details of such cases terming those lodged in jails as innocent. Law Minister Pathak said that he had the list of all the persons against whom cases were withdrawn and added that if the Speaker permits he could make it public. Speaker Hriday Narain Dixit, however, said that "there is not need of this." Pathak said that his government will continue to withdraw "political cases" in future also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ruling-and-opposition-benches-trade-charges-in-up-assembly-over-withdrawal-of-criminal-cases-957167.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi takes Covid-19 vaccine in Rampur, urges all eligible to take it||Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi took the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine on Tuesday in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur, a day after the start of the second phase of the inoculation drive. Naqvi got inoculated at Rampur's K D Dalmia Eye Hospital and was administered Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. After getting inoculated, the minister thanked the medical staff at the hospital and urged all those eligible to get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19. Naqvi, 63, is the Lok Sabha member from Rampur. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu were among the host of top leaders who took the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine on Monday. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and his Bihar counterpart Nitish Kumar, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and NCP president Sharad Pawar also took the jab on Monday. The government had announced on Wednesday that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-takes-covid-19-vaccine-in-rampur-urges-all-eligible-to-take-it-957169.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Chauhan will be remembered for his efforts to strengthen the BJP across Madhya Pradesh: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed his anguish at the demise of veteran BJP leader Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan, and said the former Madhya Pradesh party president will be remembered for his contributions to parliamentary proceedings and organisational skills. Other top BJP leaders, including Home Minister Amit Shah and its national president J P Nadda, also expressed their condolences. Chauhan, the Lok Sabha member from Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh, died at a hospital in Gurugram. He was 69. The six-term MP, who was suffering from Covid-19 and was airlifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram last month in a serious condition, breathed his last late Monday night. Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP from Khandwa Shri Nandkumar Singh Chauhan Ji. He will be remembered for his contributions to Parliamentary proceedings, organisational skills and efforts to strengthen the BJP across Madhya Pradesh. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti. "Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP from Khandwa Shri Nandkumar Singh Chauhan Ji. He will be remembered for his contributions to parliamentary proceedings, organisational skills and efforts to strengthen the BJP across Madhya Pradesh. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted. Shah said Chauhan's entire life was dedicated to serving people and Nadda also echoed similar views.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chauhan-will-be-remembered-for-his-efforts-to-strengthen-the-bjp-across-madhya-pradesh-pm-modi-957198.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Six killed as truck overturns in Kanpur||A coal-laden truck overturned here leaving six people dead and 13 others seriously injured, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday when the truck was carrying labourers and their family members to Firozabad, said an official. The labourers and their family members boarded the truck at Bhognipur crossing. While some of them were seated on top of the truck, others were seated inside the driver's cabin, SP (Kanpur Dehat), Keshav Kumar Chowdhary, said. The truck overturned near Maukhas village. After hearing screams of the victims, locals rushed to their help and informed police. Police rushed the labourers to the Community Health Centre (CHC) and district hospital where six of them were declared dead. The injured persons have been admitted to the district hospital. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed district authorities to provide proper treatment to the injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-killed-as-truck-overturns-in-kanpur-957201.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Three minor girls go missing in UP's Shahjahanpur after leaving home for school||Three minor girls went missing here after they left home for school, with one of them carrying cash and clothes supposedly meant for a programme at the institution, police said on Tuesday. Two of the girls are aged 15 and one is 10, Superintendent of Police S Anand said, adding that three teams have been formed to work the case. The three girls are from separate localities in Sadar area, and they left home on Monday to go to the school, Assistant Superintendent of Police, City, Praveen Kumar told PTI. He said one of them was carrying Rs 2,500 and another had taken Rs 2,700 and clothes with her. One of the girls told her family members that she had packed the clothes as there was a programme at the school, the police said. Police were informed about the case on Monday night when the girls did not return, Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-minor-girls-go-missing-in-ups-shahjahanpur-after-leaving-home-for-school-957233.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Haryana Governor gives assent to Bill giving 75% quota to state people in private sector jobs||Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya has given assent to the Bill providing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here on Tuesday. The Haryana Assembly had late last year passed the Bill, a key poll promise made by the ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party. "The Haryana Governor today gave his assent to the Bill entailing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state. The government will notify it soon," the CM told reporters at a press conference here. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 provides quota for local people in private-sector jobs that offer a salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month. The quota will initially apply for 10 years, according to the Bill. Apart from tackling unemployment among local people, the state government said the law will discourage the influx of migrants seeking low-paid jobs, which has a “significant impact” on local infrastructure and leads to the “proliferation of slums”. The Bill covers private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms in the state. It provides for training to eligible local candidates when qualified people are not available. It defines local candidates as those domiciled in the state. For the domicile status, a person should be born in Haryana or have lived there for at least 15 years. Giving 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs was a key poll promise by Dushyant Chautala's JJP, which is the BJP's coalition partner in the state. Chautala described the assent given by the Governor as "happiest moment for the youth of Haryana." "The rules on this new law will be framed soon and published," he said at Faridabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-governor-gives-assent-to-bill-giving-75-quota-to-state-people-in-private-sector-jobs-957274.html
02-03-2021||North and Central||Man dies after getting second dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Maharashtra||A 45-year-old man died shortly after he was administered the second dose of a Covid-19 vaccine in a hospital in Bhiwandi in Maharashtra's Thane district on Tuesday, officials said. Sukhdeo Kirdit, employed as the driver of a local doctor, took the shot around 11 AM. He complained of giddiness after some time while he was seated in the waiting hall at the civic-run inoculation centre, they said. "He was rushed to IGM Hospital nearby where doctors declared him dead on arrival," an official said. Bhiwandi Nizampura Municipal Corporation Health Officer Dr KR Kharat said the cause of Kirdit's death would be known after the postmortem report comes in, adding that Kirdit's medical history, records etc. were being checked. Kirdit's family said he was a healthy person who had left home in the morning to take the second dose of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-dies-after-getting-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-maharashtra-957313.html
02-03-2021||Oasis||A touching incident||This incident occurred before Prophet Mohammed was commissioned with Prophethood. He was a man of exemplary character and was highly respected and looked up to by the people. This Incident gives us a glimpse of his magnanimity and his love towards all. This was the time when the practice of slavery was rampant in the world and Arabia was no exception. After the marriage of the Prophet to Khadija, a young slave named Zaid bin Harithah came into the service of the Prophet. Zaid bin Harithah was from the area between Syria and Iraq and was from a prominent tribe but was stolen from his family and sold into slavery at a young age and in this way he had finally landed in Arabia. After being in the service of the Prophet for several months, during the pilgrimage season, as Makkah was the centre for pilgrimage for centuries, a few men from the tribe of Zaid saw him and recognised him and found out his whereabouts. On their return they informed his father. He immediately set forth to Makkah with his brother to redeem his son and take him back with him. Going to the Prophet he begged him to allow him to ransom Zaid at any price that he might ask. Prophet Mohammed replied “let him choose, and if he chooses you, he is yours without ransom; and if he chooses me, I am not the man to set any other above him who chooses me. When Zaid was called he recognised his father and his uncle and when asked to choose he replied “I will not choose any man in preference to you. You are to me as my father and my mother.” His father was shocked to hear this from his son who choose another instead of his own father and slavery to freedom. The Prophet was moved to hear this from Zaid and without any further talk he took them to the ‘Kabah' and announced to all that he had adopted him as his son with these words “ All ye present, bear witness that Zaid is my son; I am his heir and he is my mine.” From that day onwards Zaid came to be known as Zaid bin Mohammed. (Zaid son of Mohammed)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-touching-incident-956967.html
02-03-2021||Opinion||Trump 2.0 looks an awful lot like Trump 2020||Bret Stephens: I don’t know about you, Gail, but watching Donald Trump’s speech at the CPAC conference in Orlando brought to mind that Michael Corleone line: “Just when I thought I was out, they pull me back in!” Here we were, barely a month into the Biden presidency, thinking we could finally put one American disaster behind us and have normal arguments about normal subjects, and now we may be staring at the worst sequel of all time. The idea of another Trump presidential run is worse than 'The Godfather Part III.' It’s 'Dumb and Dumberer' meets 'Friday the 13th Part VIII.' Gail Collins: Well, he made it very clear he’s planning on a “triumphant return to the White House.” If you folks want to save the Republican Party, you’re going to have to take him on. Bret: I’ve always wanted to write a musical called “The Mitt and I.” Gail: Seeing Trump so clearly gearing up for another presidential run brought me back to an ongoing argument we’ve been having. Third parties. Am I to understand you’re a fan? Bret: I’m not a fan of third parties that have no hope of winning elections and mainly serve as vanity projects for the likes of Ross Perot or Ralph Nader. And I’m obviously not a fan of extremist parties, whether they are of the George Wallace or Henry Wallace varieties. On the other hand, I’d be a fan of a right-of-center party that can replace the current Republican Party, one that believes in the virtues of small government and personal responsibility without being nativist and nasty. Gail: A lovely idea, but it’s not going to work. Nobody’s ever made it work. We’ve already seen an exodus of moderates and sane conservatives from the Republican Party, leaving it even loopier. And Trump is threatening to start a third party of his own, or at least he was, which would split things even more. Feel free to daydream about the perfect, sane, moderate alternative Republican Party, Bret, but no chance. Bret: Well, Abe Lincoln made it work by building a party on the wreckage of the Whigs. Gail: Not going to interject that it took a civil war … Bret: And there’s a political moment here. Gallup released a poll two weeks ago showing that 62 percent of Americans believe that “parties do such a poor job representing the American people that a third party is needed.” Among self-identified Republicans, the number was a notch higher: 63 percent. I think you are underestimating the number of people who feel they’ve been abandoned by a Republican Party that became a whacked-out cult of personality under Trump. What’s missing isn’t an agenda; it’s a galvanizing personality to lead a new movement. Gail: Which galvanizing personality do you have in mind — Mitt Romney? Bret: Given what happened to the G.O.P., I bet you sometimes wish he’d won back in 2012. Gail: Um, no. But let’s look at now. Reforming the current Republican Party would mean a million grass-roots battles to retake the base. Understandable that people would just prefer to start a new movement — much less nasty infighting. Just sincere get-togethers of like-minded people, holding barbecues and giving interviews to folks like us who are desperate to think this could work. But you could never create a massive 50-state party structure, with enough voters willing to make the very large decision of abandoning the party they’ve identified with forever. No, I’m afraid you’re going to have to bring the Republican Party back. Bret: I wish you were right. But there’s no breaking bread with the Trumpers. And it’s pointless to hold out hope for people like Mitch McConnell, who, after denouncing Trump as a public menace for his role in the Capitol insurrection, just said he would “absolutely” support Trump if the former president is the Republican nominee in 2024. Some senators are profiles in courage. Mitch has the courage of his profile. So someone has to start a new party. If Mike Bloomberg or someone else with deep enough pockets wants to bankroll it, great. Gail: Well, as Bloomberg learned, you can run as an independent for mayor of New York City, but you can’t take that idea much further. And yeah, we all remember how Nader’s third-party movement stripped critical votes from Al Gore and gave the country over to George W. Bush. And in 2016, the Green Party was arguably a big help in electing Trump. But let’s talk a minute about the politicians we’re stuck with now. What’s your prediction for Congress? Biden Covid stimulus plan, yea or nay? Bret: Some version of it is bound to pass in the Senate, because I just don’t see any Senate Democrat voting it down. As to whether it should pass, that’s another question. I think you can guess where I stand. I’m also guessing that you’re a big fan. Gail: Well, yeah, I’m in favor of making a massive financial commitment to beating back the coronavirus and resurrecting the economy. The people moaning about the increased deficit are the very same people who cheered when Trump slashed corporate tax rates, totally ignoring the red ink he was splashing all over. Bret: What’s the line about hypocrisy being the homage that vice pays to virtue? Sorry, go on. Gail: And as much as I would like to fight about the details of the Biden plan, the bottom line for me is just getting it done. I’d love to see the minimum wage go up, but if dropping the idea is the price of getting a bill passed, I cede. Bret: The minimum wage hike is a terrible idea. It makes it more difficult for small businesses, like restaurants, to hire younger or unskilled workers. It encourages large franchises to move toward increased automation. The economy already got trillions of dollars in stimulus last year, most recently a $900 billion bill passed at the end of December. Shouldn’t the economy digest that meal before we move on to the next course? Otherwise we’re going to end up like Marcello Mastroianni in “La Grande Bouffe,” if you happen to recall that particular epic. Gail: Had to look that one up — a film about some guys who get together to eat themselves to death? I used to think I knew a lot about popular culture, but every conversation with you is a new education. Go ahead. Bret: The other big failing, of course, is that the Biden administration seems to have no serious plan to reopen schools. Even many liberals I know think this is a scandal and proof that teachers’ unions wield way too much power. Your thoughts? Gail: Someday when things quiet down a bit, let’s devote a whole day to unions. As for now, I’d just say that the big debate is not whether to open schools, but how to do it in a way that keeps kids safe. Air quality is a big issue. Should we need to double the number of classes to give students and teachers the protection they need? And when the schools do reopen, how do the kids make up for lost time? Do they devote all their time to catching up on basic math and reading skills? Bret: The kids are safe at school from the virus! There’s plenty of science to back that up. What isn’t safe is keeping them cooped up at home, isolated from normal social relationships, causing them to spend 14 hours a day on TikTok while pretending to pay attention to online schooling. I don’t think we’ve really reckoned with the consequences of this disaster, brought about by self-serving unions that don’t much care about their students and even less about the parents whose lives have been upended by the school closures. But I rant. Gail: Hey, nothing like a good rant to start the day. Gonna quickly but fiercely take exception to the idea that teachers’ unions don’t care about students. And then pack the whole subject into our now-growing file marked Fights for the Future. I can see we’re going to have a ton in the Age of Biden. But we’ll always be able to come back to the dreadfulness of Donald. Who says he isn’t a uniter?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/trump-20-looks-an-awful-lot-like-trump-2020-956938.html
02-03-2021||Opinion||Why is China still going after Hong Kong so hard?||On Sunday, the Hong Kong authorities charged 47 pro-democracy activists with “conspiracy to commit subversion” against the Chinese government under the national security law it imposed on the city last summer. Beijing must be happy with the catch, which elegantly nets under a single accusation both advocates of outright independence for Hong Kong and the city’s old-school loyal opposition. The People’s Republic of China is safe now. Glory to its leader. But what exactly was these criminals’ crime? Organizing or taking part in primaries in July ahead of legislative elections initially scheduled for September, and for daring to strategize. Were the pro-democracy camp to win a majority, some participants said at the time, it could vote down the government’s budget, possibly forcing it to resign. Under Hong Kong law, the chief executive must step down if the budget is defeated twice. In the end, the authorities postponed the election, citing health risks because of the pandemic. (The opposition said the real reason was fear of a searing defeat.) And now the government is saying that what was a perfectly legal electoral strategy amounts to an act of subversion against Beijing, punishable by life in prison — possibly to be served out in China. The onslaught continues in other ways, too. Journalists are being arrested for criticizing the Hong Kong government or investigating police brutality. Radio Television Hong Kong, the public broadcaster, can no longer show BBC programs. A student union is being silenced for its political views. The government is considering requiring district councilors — the vast majority of whom are in the political opposition — to pledge their loyalty to Beijing or else be disqualified. Why is Beijing still going after Hong Kong so hard when the repression generates pushback from much of the world? One explanation is that there is a gap between China’s national interests and the personal ambitions of its leader, Xi Jinping. Mr Xi seems intent on remaining president beyond his second term; he maneuvered to have term limits eliminated in 2018. His many titles and powers today — he also is general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party — exceed those of any of his predecessors, including even Mao, who founded the communist republic. Yet to stay on, Mr. Xi must deliver something monumental. And he is not measuring up. Mr Xi’s claim to have eradicated poverty in China has been given the lie by no less than Premier Li Keqiang, who said last year that the income of some 600 million people — nearly 43 percent of the population — wasn’t “even enough to rent a room in a medium Chinese city.” Corruption has worsened despite Mr. Xi’s aggressive anti-graft campaign, according to some international rankings. China’s GDP growth rate has been declining steadily since 2010. Struggling to score points on domestic issues, Mr. Xi has tried to double down on flagship projects abroad. With checkered results. Mr. Xi’s signature Belt and Road Initiative has caused some participating countries to ask for debt relief, even as major Chinese banks seem to be scaling back their investments in the project. His government’s increasing claims over parts of the South China Sea have antagonized countries in the region and drawn attention from the navies of the United States and its allies. The trade and technology wars waged by President Donald J. Trump have put Mr. Xi on the defensive. Huawei, after being carefully nurtured into a linchpin of China’s tech industry, is in free fall and selling assets. The European Union may have been criticized for signing in December the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment with China despite the human rights violations in Xinjiang, but to anyone who reads the fine print, the agreement reveals significant concessions from Beijing, notably opening up access to its market for manufactured goods. Then there are the big prizes closer to home: Taiwan and Hong Kong. Any forceful military move against Taiwan would be risky, and failure would doom Mr. Xi’s career. The lower-hanging fruit is to bring Hong Kong back into Beijing’s fold: China’s president is plucking away at that one. Yet even that is tricky because it could destroy Hong Kong’s standing as the freest conduit of goods, capital and people between the Chinese mainland and the West. That loss would be colossal for Beijing, and there is evidence that Mr. Xi’s adversaries in the Chinese Communist Party, particularly the political heirs of President Jiang Zemin, have reacted with unease and have made Mr. Xi feel threatened. One implicit indication of that is his pushback. Here is a telltale example: China’s official news agency, Xinhua, put out in mid-December a stern commentary against “America-worshiping soft-bone patients,” calling them “capitulationists,” a term from the Mao era used to denounce the disloyalty of party members suspected of having bought into Western ideology. A fundamental strategy of Deng Xiaoping’s, China’s leader from 1978 to 1989, was to run Hong Kong with a relatively light hand until the city’s full reversion to Chinese control in 2047, and in the meantime to exploit what Hong Kong would offer the mainland, before turning the table on the West. But Mr Xi, who is eager to score a historic victory before his term is up, is accelerating the time table. However fast he moves, though, Mr Xi will not manage to smother the opposition in Hong Kong. He will only transform it. The national security law did put an end to protests, it is quelling open calls for Hong Kong’s independence or simply its right to self-determination and it is silencing much of the formal opposition. But a wing of the pro-democracy movement is quickly building up overseas, buoyed by the stream of political emigrants leaving the city. This diaspora will help sustain resistance back home, however, subdued that branch of the movement might seem to become. The drive to redefine a Hong Kong identity that is politically, culturally and linguistically independent of the mainland’s has gained momentum over the last decade, and it will only accelerate. Expect the pro-democracy movement to move even further away from the ethos of the 2014 Umbrella Revolution, with its Gandhian pacifism and its calls for respecting political rights. Many of the activists I know might not say so openly for fear of repression, but a new spirit seems to be animating them, especially the young: the right to rebel forcefully against an unjust government, much like, for example, during the American Revolution against the British in the late 18th century. The Hong Kong resistance’s means of mobilization keep adapting to Beijing’s repression. Think insects with I.T.-based weaponry; think autonomous swarms: an ever-larger collection of small units, each with its own objectives and action plans but all bent on fighting the puppet home regime and replacing it with a democracy. Many such swarms are multiplying overseas. Several are lobbying host governments to enact sanctions against the C.C.P.; others are building networks among Hong Kongers in the diaspora. Some are trying to set up a shadow Parliament. Still more activists abroad are working quietly — and many in Hong Kong have gone silent, even underground. The Hong Kong authorities know this, of course, and they aren’t leaving anything to chance. They are considering, for example, criminalizing the possession of firearm components after some people in Hong Kong reportedly received gun parts in the mail from overseas. In other words, the authorities are worried about armed rebellion. But if an armed rebellion ever erupts, only Beijing, and mostly Mr. Xi, will be to blame.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-is-china-still-going-after-hong-kong-so-hard-956950.html
02-03-2021||Opinion||Why I overcame my Covid vaccine hesitancy||Had I been polled last fall, I would have registered as a Covid vaccine skeptic. I told anyone who asked that I was going to wait at least six months after a vaccine was approved, by which time I hoped we would know more about the degree and possibly the duration of its effectiveness and its potential side effects, especially in older adults. I was hardly alone in my concern that political influence might result in premature approval of a vaccine before its safety was well established. Well, that hesitancy quickly dissipated after listening to reports from the directors of the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and several vaccine experts I know and trust, all of whom gave an enthusiastic thumbs-up to both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. So in mid-January, when Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York announced that residents 75 and older would qualify for the vaccine, I found a computerized link to schedule an appointment five days later. At the mass vaccination site I went to in Brooklyn, everyone I encountered was cheerful, patient and reassuring, even the young woman checking me in who couldn’t find me on her list of 3 p.m. appointments. “Don’t worry,” she said reassuringly, “you’ll get the vaccine.” At the next window, a young man from Nigeria checked my ID and Medicare card and figured out what had happened. Turned out I had inadvertently booked a 3 a.m. appointment, not realizing the site was open 24-7. Another “don’t worry,” and I moved on to a young technician from Florida who painlessly injected the Moderna vaccine into my left arm. I then sat in a holding tent for 15 minutes to be sure I would have no serious reactions. The next day I got a text: “Hi Jane, It’s time for your daily v-safe check-in” and a link to a CDC site that asked: How are you feeling today? (Good, Fair, Poor); Have you had a fever or felt feverish today? (yes, no); followed by a symptom check, first at the injection site for pain, redness, swelling or itching and then generally for chills, headache, joint pains, muscle or body aches, fatigue or tiredness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain and rash or any other symptoms I wanted to report. Finally, I was asked several overall health impact questions about my ability to work and do my normal daily activities and whether I needed to consult a health care professional. I received the same text at the same time each day for more than a week and was also given a link if I wanted to send a report to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System. The second dose, administered 34 days later, went even more smoothly. By then I had spoken to dozens of others of various ages who had gotten both shots. Only two reported bad reactions — fever, nausea, extreme fatigue — that lasted a day or two. I was prepared for the worst, but it never happened. My arm, shoulder and neck hurt the first night, but most of the pain was gone the next morning. Although my son was on call in case I couldn’t walk my dog, his help wasn’t needed. I was even able to swim that afternoon. But I assure you, even if I’d had a bad post-vaccine reaction, I would have sucked it up as a small price to pay for protection against a most devastating and too-often deadly disease like Covid-19. And I will continue to urge everyone and anyone I meet to do their utmost to get immunized against Covid-19, especially now that potentially more potent variants are beginning to appear and spread. The more people who become immune to the virus, the less this scourge will be able to mutate and evade the vaccines already available and the updated versions of vaccines scientists are now scrambling to produce. Some people, hearing that vaccinated people may still be able to spread the infection and should continue to wear masks and practice social distancing which I will definitely do even after being fully immunized, question whether it pays to get the vaccine. Absolutely, it pays. While there’s a chance that an immunized person might be able to infect others, existing evidence suggests the risk is very small. Far more important is unimpeachable data that the vaccines are lifesaving. They nearly eliminate the risk of severe illness, hospitalization and death from the virus. Of the 32,000 people who got the vaccine in the Pfizer and Moderna vaccine trials, only one person developed a severe case of Covid. Even if future mutations of the virus make an annual booster necessary, what’s the big deal? We already do that with the flu shot. Keep in mind, too, that up to a third of people who develop Covid-19 can end up with debilitating symptoms that persist for many months, perhaps indefinitely for some. This is not always just a bug like the flu or common cold that is over and done with a week later. Eight months after recovering from a rather mild case of Covid, an otherwise healthy middle-aged friend said his lungs still hurt when he exerted himself. Anecdotal reports that vaccine reactions are sometimes worse after the second of the two shots given for the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines have prompted some people to question whether they need both shots. Again, the only reliable evidence shows that two doses are necessary to achieve maximum protection. Do you buckle your seat belt only every other time you are in a car? Now think of what will be possible once you, your family members and friends have had both shots and then waited the two weeks after the final dose to achieve the maximum level of immunity. While I’ll continue to wear a mask and socially distance in public, I’ll gladly dine indoors at home or in a well-spaced restaurant with fully immunized friends and relatives who are not considered at high risk. I can’t wait to again attend live performances of classical music and opera and watch movies and plays not on my computer or TV but on the big screen and in the theater with others who can laugh, cry or sneer with me. But until most of us are reliably immune to the coronavirus that has terrified and secluded so many of us for so long, none of this can happen. Meanwhile, I will continue to present the known facts and try to dispel misleading information about the vaccines. And I’ll hope that celebrities who enjoy the respect of vaccine-hesitant communities will be able to convince their members that controlling Covid infections and spread is critical, not just for their own sake, but for the future of their families, their towns, their country and a life that might again assume some semblance of normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-i-overcame-my-covid-vaccine-hesitancy-956969.html
02-03-2021||Opinion||Too Much Choice Is Hurting America||Dan Patrick, the lieutenant governor of Texas, is clearly what my father would have called a piece of work. Early in the pandemic he made headlines by saying that older Americans should be willing to risk death so that younger people could “get back to work.” More recently, he suggested that Texans who found themselves with $17,000 electricity bills after the February freeze had only themselves to blame, because they didn’t “read the fine print.” Funny, isn’t it, how politicians who denounce liberal elitists sneer when ordinary Americans get into trouble? But something else struck me about Patrick’s take on supersize power bills: How did we become a country where families can face ruin unless they carefully study something as mundane, as normally routine, as their electricity contract? And electricity isn’t a unique example. As The New York Times’ Margot Sanger-Katz has documented, many people end up with heavy financial burdens because they chose the wrong health insurance plan — yet even experts have a very hard time figuring out which plan is best. Using an out-of-network health care provider can also lead to huge medical bills. Wait, there’s more. One cause of the 2008 financial crisis was the proliferation of novel financial arrangements, like interest-only loans, that looked like good deals but exposed borrowers to huge risks. What these stories have in common is that they’re snapshots of a country in which many of us are actually offered too many choices, in ways that can do a lot of harm. It is true that both Economics 101 and conservative ideology say that more choice is always a good thing. Milton Friedman’s famous and influential 1980 TV series extolling the wonders of capitalism was titled “Free to Choose.” The spread of this ideology has turned America into a land where many aspects of life that used to be just part of the background now require potentially fateful decisions. You don’t get a company pension, you have to decide how to invest your 401(k). When you turn 65, you don’t just get put on Medicare, you also decide which of many Medicare Advantage plans to sign up for. You don’t just get power and phone service, you also have to choose from a wide variety of options. Some, maybe even most, of this expansion of choice was good. I don’t miss the days when all home phones were owned by AT&T and customers weren’t allowed to substitute their own handsets. But the argument that more choice is always good rests on the assumption that people have more or less unlimited capacity to do due diligence on every aspect of their lives — and the real world isn’t like that. People have children to raise, jobs to do, lives to live and limited ability to process information. And in the real world, too much choice can be a big problem. The lesson of subprime mortgages, health insurance and now Texas electricity is that sometimes people offered too much choice will make bigger mistakes than they imagined possible. But that’s not all. Too much choice creates space for predators who exploit our all-too-human limitations. Before the subprime mortgage crisis, Edward Gramlich, a Federal Reserve official who warned in vain about the potential for disaster, asked, “Why are the most risky loan products sold to the least sophisticated borrowers?” The question, he suggested, “answers itself — the least sophisticated borrowers are probably duped into taking these products.” Similarly, there’s clearly a lot of profiteering in medical billing, with the victims disproportionately those least able to understand what’s happening. Beyond all that, I’d suggest that an excess of choice is taking a psychological toll on many Americans, even when they don’t end up experiencing disaster. There’s a growing body of research suggesting that the costs of poverty go beyond the trouble low-income families have in affording necessities. The poor also face a heavy “cognitive burden” — the constant need to make difficult choices that the affluent don’t confront, like whether to buy food or pay the rent. Because people have limited “bandwidth” for processing complex issues, the financial burdens placed on the poor all too often degrade their ability to make good decisions on other issues, sometimes leading to self-destructive life choices. What I’m suggesting is that a society that turns what should be routine concerns into make-or-break decisions — a society in which you can ruin your life by choosing the wrong electric company or health insurer — imposes poverty-like cognitive burdens even on the middle class. And it is all unnecessary. We’re a rich country — and citizens of other rich countries don’t worry about being bankrupted by medical expenses. It wouldn’t take much to protect Americans against being scammed by mortgage lenders or losing their life savings to fluctuations in the wholesale price of electricity. So the next time some politician tries to sell a new policy — typically deregulation — by claiming that it will increase choice, be skeptical. Having more options isn’t automatically good, and in America we probably have more choices than we should.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/too-much-choice-is-hurting-america-957044.html
02-03-2021||Opinion||Jeff Bezos versus Mukesh Ambani isn’t the only fight in India’s retail||A bruising battle for supremacy between two of the world’s richest men is hogging the limelight, but the silent changes in India’s retail landscape deserve equal attention. The ongoing digital transformation of the corner Kirana stores, tens of millions of shops catering to 1.3 billion consumers, will matter for everyone from Unilever NV and Procter & Gamble Co. to State Bank of India, the country’s largest lender. It will also be important to Amazon.com Inc. boss Jeff Bezos and Reliance Industries Ltd. Chairman Mukesh Ambani.   Away from this high-profile fight for the ordinary Indian’s wallet, a different contest is shaping up for control of what goes on shop shelves. Reaching small stores in a country of more than 660,000 villages and 8,000 cities and towns has traditionally been an uphill struggle for brands. Even Unilever, which has been in India for almost a century, can barely tap 15% of all retailers directly. It needs wholesalers to boost that reach to 80%-plus, according to investment research and asset management company Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Suppliers receive their cash on time after Udaan takes their products. Retailers get the credit they would have otherwise obtained at high-interest rates from wholesalers. Everything happens on a smartphone app, which helps small shopkeepers build a history of reliability in payments. Banks and financiers gain the confidence to lend the required working capital, and brands get less convoluted access. From manufacturers and millers to farmers, pharmacists, hotels, restaurants and grocers, the platform has 3 million registered buyers and sellers. Sujeet Kumar, another co-founder, credits some of the success to the 2017 goods-and-services tax. With multiple rates and high compliance costs, GST is a cumbersome consumption tax, but it’s uniform across India. Warehousing decisions that used to be driven by a confusing smorgasbord of local levies are now guided by efficiency. Mobile internet is undoubtedly the centrepiece. Ambani entered the Indian telecom industry with his 4G network in 2016 and crunched expensive data prices to where they’re the cheapest in the world. The average Kirana owner has a smartphone now and isn’t shy about using it. With a little training, a lack of education isn’t a barrier to reshaping sclerotic business practices. Disruption doesn’t mean aping the West. Kumar and Gupta were part of the team that built Flipkart as India’s answer to Amazon and left it two years before Walmart Inc. bought the e-commerce site for $16 billion. Amod Malviya, their third partner, was Flipkart’s chief technology officer. At Udaan, though, the founders haven’t copied a global template. That’s because none exists. While affluent e-commerce consumers may have preferences similar to their Western counterparts, the vast majority of price-conscious customers buy everyday items in tiny quantities. “Kitchens and refrigerators are small, and the median buyer of shoes pays 200 rupees ($3),” Gupta says. Since mobile commerce arrived in India before connected desktop computers became a thing, even bigger-ticket purchasing decisions don’t start with elaborate online searches. Udaan was built for India its founders grew up in. Kumar arrived at the Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi from Bhabua, the main town of a dirt-poor district in the penurious eastern state of Bihar (annual per capita income: $630). The distance between Bhabua and Udaan in Bangalore isn’t measured in kilometres or miles, but in decades of progress that mobile internet is trying to squeeze into years. As a supply chain specialist, Kumar isn’t looking to fundamentally alter behaviour. He’s simply removing inefficiencies to speed up the flow of capital. This is crucial for retailers who work on 10% to 12% margins, half of what their peers in the West make.  Will the Kirana become collateral damage in the tycoons’ war? Perhaps not. Even by the end of this decade, when India’s retail market grows to $2 trillion, tripling from when the data revolution was just kicking in, small shops will command a 65% share, in Bernstein’s estimates. However, a little under half of their trade will have gone digital by then. Startups like Udaan will modernize the back-end. In doing so, they’ll raise the value of the prize that Ambani and Bezos are vying for — by the storefront.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/jeff-bezos-versus-mukesh-ambani-isn-t-the-only-fight-in-india-s-retail-957076.html
02-03-2021||Panorama||BJP has been given Hindutva party tag. I really don’t know why: 'Metro man' E Sreedharan||The recent decision of E Sreedharan, popularly known as 'Metro Man' to enter politics in Kerala and contend to be an aspirant for the chief minister’s office has raised eyebrows. It’s not just his age (88), but also his choice of party (BJP) in a state where it has not seen electoral success so far. In an interview with DH’s Arjun Raghunath, Sreedharan recalls being in the RSS during his school years and that the lack of progress in Kerala had prompted him to enter politics at this age.  Was it a sudden decision to enter politics or a long thought-out one? I took the decision to join politics only recently as I was so far fully engaged with many projects. The last project I took up was the reconstruction of the Palarivattom flyover in Kochi, which is also almost complete now. Since I am still mentally and physically active, I wish to use my knowledge and experience for Kerala's progress. This thought made me join politics. Why did you choose to join BJP? I could have opted for any party. I did not find much prospect in the Congress-led United Democratic Front and CPM-led Left Democratic Front that have been successively ruling Kerala all these years. Hence, I decided to join BJP. Moreover, I have been a BJP sympathiser for quite some time. I have been trained and brought up in that tradition. My family was very religious. I was part of RSS for seven years during my school and college days in my home district Palakkad. I have no hesitation in admitting that whatever values and principles I have now originated from RSS training, most importantly love for the country and society, doing everything in a righteous way and being honest. Do you feel that if the BJP comes to power in Kerala, they will live by these values? They will have to. I will be only part of such politics. I will not be part of vindictive politics. Will BJP's Hindutva tag affect its growth in Kerala? Hindutva is not a religion. Our country has had Hinduism for thousands of years and it embraced all religions that came here afterwards. No religion was driven away from here. Unfortunately, BJP is being given the Hindutva tag. BJP means love for country and people and never says love for any particular religion. However, there are political parties like Indian Union Muslim League that stand for a particular religion. Even the names of those parties clearly convey that. Even then such parties were not being given the tag of those particular religions. Those parties were not being termed as religious parties. Only BJP is being termed as a party of one religion. I really don't know why it is so. The Narendra Modi government is seen as being intolerant. The Modi government is not at all showing any sort of intolerance. It is just an allegation being raised by vested interest groups who want to topple the government. That is only a minor section of the society. People who elected Modi to power do not have such a feeling. There are a few activists who raise such allegations. It is being given much importance. How do you see Rahul Gandhi? Will he emerge as a popular leader?  Except for the Gandhi brand, what is Rahul's contribution to the country? I feel Congress has lost ground especially due to his irresponsible utterances. He is even calling the Prime Minister of the country a liar and a robber. Modi has never spoken in the way Rahul has. A strong opposition party is indeed required in a democratic country. But we do not have such an opposition party now. Do you feel that your freedom to openly express your views will be curtailed as you are now a party member? I don't think so. Certainly, I won't hesitate to make public such opinions in future also. I believe in a politics where the good things being done by other political parties should also be appreciated instead of blindly opposing everything and indulging in character assassination. That is my politics. It is for this reason that I openly stated that rather than a second term for Kerala Chief Minister Pinaryi Vijayan, I prefer Congress leader and former CM Oommen Chandy as the next Chief Minister of Kerala. I have worked closely with both of them. They have entirely different attitudes and ways of dealing with things. From my personal experience, I have a lot of respect for Oommen Chandy’s approach. We often criticise politicians for not giving way to the younger generations. But you are entering politics at 88. I am entering politics at 88 as I was fully engaged in my professional work so far and had no time to think of entering politics. As of now, my health permits me to be in politics. Moreover, I wish to use my knowledge and experience for the betterment of Kerala. I will be working in Kerala only and would prefer not to take up any assignments outside Kerala.   What are your priorities for Kerala if a BJP government should come to power? What has happened in Kerala over the years is that no major development has taken place and hence the economy is suffering, the level of unemployment is shooting up. Instead of showing the green flag to investors, Kerala has been showing the red flag. This has not only affected new investments, but even Kerala-based industrialists are taking their business out of the state. There are a lot of Malayalis who are successfully running industries abroad, especially in the Middle East. Most of them wish to make investments in Kerala. But the fear of the red flag has been chasing them away. This scenario has to change, and investors should be welcomed. Industrial growth strengthens the economy. Then the state will not have to go in for borrowings and the unemployment crisis will be addressed. Will you be contesting Assembly elections? What is your hope for BJP in the elections? Yes, I will be contesting, but the constituency has not yet been decided. I have left it to the party leadership to select. But I have requested that I may be allowed to contest from anywhere near my place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bjp-has-been-given-hindutva-party-tag-i-really-don-t-know-why-metro-man-e-sreedharan-956966.html
02-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Remembering the golden days||To quote a part of a poem I remember from my school days, “Standing at the foot, boys, Gazing at the sky, How can you get up, boys, If you never try? Though you stumble oft, boys, Never be downcast; Try, and try again, boys, You’ll succeed at last.” -James H Fassett. The lockdown locked us down indeed, especially us the seniors! Though we are indoors, at home, our concern for our neighbours, family and friends has grown cold because we are unable to visit or help those going through financial or emotional problems. Let us turn our attention to the present day! Many of us are unable to share our problems with each other because everyone is going through similar situations. I am reminded of a Tamil Proverb that says, ‘Veetikku veedu vaasapaddi’ which means, every house has a gate. For some people, it is easy to enter or exit, for some it is difficult. Through it all, whether it is good or bad, we go through each day given to us by God, with faith that we can overcome every hurdle that comes our way, though many times it’s not an easy road to tread on. When I talk to some of the elders I know, there is no stopping our conversation. We are happy to think and share the good times we enjoyed from childhood to this day. God blessed us with good friends, get-togethers and gatherings. We ate good healthy food, dressed well and were always happy and satisfied with whatever we had.  Let us not worry about what to eat, drink or wear rather let’s live one day at a time. Every situation in life is temporary, this is also true of the pandemic! So, when life is good, make sure you enjoy and receive it fully. When life is not so good, remember that it will not last forever and better days are on the way. We should keep in touch with family or friends and leave no place for depression or loneliness and make an attempt to break through the emotional wall we build around ourselves. Let’s bring to memory our good old golden days and re-live those moments of joy and happiness. Even after lockdown ends, I wish these chirping birds, clear skies, undisturbed nature, family time, fresh air stay forever!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/remembering-the-golden-days-956965.html
02-03-2021||Second Edit||Political uncertainty plagues Nepal||The Nepal Supreme Court has upheld the country’s constitution and has set a positive precedent with its recent ruling that Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s decision to dissolve the lower house of parliament in December was unconstitutional. It ordered the reconvening of Parliament in 13 days. Oli has been stacking key institutions and constitutional bodies with loyalists and there was real fear in Nepal in the run-up to last week’s ruling that the court would endorse Oli’s controversial decision rather than uphold constitutional principles. With the verdict, the court has underscored its independence. Its credibility in the eyes of the Nepali public has grown enormously. While the apex court ruling ends the impasse over Oli’s controversial decision to dissolve parliament, the political uncertainty in Nepal is nowhere near an end. Calls for Oli’s resignation are mounting but he is unlikely to step down. When parliament meets next week, he will face a confidence vote. He does not have the support in parliament to survive the vote. Although the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) enjoys a two-thirds majority in the House, the party is split between the Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal factions. If the party cannot be united, neither faction has the requisite number of seats to form the next government on its own. They will need the support of the opposition Nepali Congress (NC) to be able to do so. Both factions of the NCP are wooing the NC. However, the NC too is divided over which NCP faction to support. There are some NC leaders who prefer not to support either faction. They are keen to seek a fresh mandate. Adding to the prevailing uncertainty is the fact that the NCP split has not been formalised yet. Oli and Dahal’s differences, which underlie Nepal’s political crisis, are not over principles, policies or programmes. Their fight has always been over power. And while they have fought, governance has been in a state of paralysis. Nepal’s democracy was never short of public support for it. It was people’s power that fuelled democratic struggles. But Nepal’s politicians have routinely failed democracy by entering into unprincipled coalitions. When parliament reconvenes next week, they will have the opportunity to form a new government. They must reflect on what is good for the people of Nepal. They will need to set aside their personal ambitions to build a government based on principles. The Nepali people are weary of political turmoil. Royalists and authoritarian forces are waiting in the wings. Can Nepal’s politicians rise to the occasion?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/political-uncertainty-plagues-nepal-956960.html
02-03-2021||South||AIADMK firm on not including AMMK in alliance, BJP still trying||Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK seemed firm on not inducting its splinter group Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) led by V K Sasikala's nephew T T V Dhinakaran in the party-led alliance for the April 6 assembly elections. The party leadership, especially Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, is understood to have conveyed their stand to Union Home Minister Amit Shah during a meeting here on Sunday night. However, the BJP, it is learnt, is keen on inducting AMMK in the alliance to prevent any split in the AIADMK core vote bank. Sources said Palaniswami, who was hand-picked by Sasikala as the Chief Minister, is believed to have expressed “serious concerns” over inducting AMMK into the alliance, let alone a merger.  “The Chief Minister feels there is no need to induct AMMK into the alliance. He believes that the AIADMK's core vote bank is with the party and the recent announcements by his government will pull the party through this election. He made his stand clear,” a source in the know told Deccan Herald. Palaniswami has been red-flagging the move ever since it was floated by the BJP in January this year. “The BJP wanted AIADMKto allot more number of seats and the saffron party will give some seats from its quota to the AMMK,” another source said. The Chief Minister feels inducting Dhinakaran would not augur well for him in the “long run” especially after the elections. Interestingly, Sasikala, who vowed to plunge into active politics after her return from Bengaluru, is maintaining a studied silence. BJP believes AMMK votes will decide the victory in more than 40 constituencies in southern and parts of central region in Tamil Nadu where the Mukulathors, the caste to which Sasikala and Dhinakaran belong, are in large numbers. DH had reported on January 20 that BJP was working towards bringing together the AIADMK and AMMK. The proposal mooted by BJP was that Dhinakaran's AMMK will join the AIADMK-led alliance accepting Palaniswami as the Chief Ministerial face. “We need to wait and watch what happens. The BJP is still trying to convince the AIADMK leadership,” another source said. AMMK-led by Dhinakaran, who was inducted back into AIADMK by Sasikala hours before she left for Bengaluru to surrender before authorities at the Parappana Agrahara prison in February 2017, scored 5.25 percent of votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. After the defeat, Dhinakaran went into a shell and has hardly addressed any public meeting in the past one year, though other parties like DMK, AIADMK, and MNM have already launched their election campaign. This is not the first time that the BJP is playing the mediator in bringing two factions of the AIADMK together. In 2017, the BJP played the role of a matchmaker in bring EPS and his now deputy, O Panneerselvam, together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-firm-on-not-including-ammk-in-alliance-bjp-still-trying-956936.html
02-03-2021||South||Unemployment high in India due to govt's 'ill-considered demonetisation decision': Manmohan Singh||Attacking the Centre, former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh on Tuesday said that unemployment is high in the country and its informal sector is in shambles following the "ill considered demonetisation decision" taken by the BJP-led government in 2016. He also criticised the central government for not holding regular consultations with the states. Inaugurating a development summit virtually organised by the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Development Studies, an economic think tank aligned to the Congress ideology in poll-bound Kerala, Singh said that temporary measures by the Government of India and the Reserve Bank to paper over the credit problem cannot blind us to the looming credit crisis ahead that could affect the small and medium sector. "Unemployment is high and the informal sector is in shambles, a crisis precipitated by the ill considered demonetisation decision taken in 2016", he said at "Pratheeksha 2030." The summit was organised to launch a Vision Document, a framework of ideas for development of Kerala well in advance of the state elections. He said that in Kerala and in many other states, public finances are in disarray with states having to resort to excessive borrowing, which creates an intolerable burden on future budgets. "Federalism and regular consultation with states, which was the cornerstone of Indias economic and political philosophy as enshrined in the Constitution, no longer finds favour with the present Central government," he said. Singh said while Kerala's social standards are high, there are other sectors that need strong attention in the future. "There are many roadblocks ahead that the state has to overcome. The global downturn of the last two or three years, aggravated by the pandemic, has made the global interface of Kerala more fragile. While the increased use of digital modes of work may keep the IT sector afloat, tourism has been hit badly and the rate at which the pandemic is galloping in Kerala poses challenges for this industry", Singh said. Noting that the focus on health and education has enabled Kerala to take advantage of job opportunities elsewhere in the country and in all parts of the world, Singh said this has led to a growing stream of remittances from abroad which created a booming real estate sector and sharp growth of the services sector, led by tourism and information technology. "In the midst of all the gloom, I see the UDF's steadfast adherence to planned growth with a clear sense of direction and concern for the common man a beacon of hope, not only for Kerala, but for the whole country", he said. "When I presented the national budget in 1991 as Finance Minister, I quoted Victor Hugo, who had said, "Nothing is more powerful than an idea whose time has come." I get the feeling that the unanimity and clarity displayed by the UDF on the road ahead will lead to Kerala's idea moment arriving this year", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/unemployment-high-in-india-due-to-govts-ill-considered-demonetisation-decision-manmohan-singh-957168.html
02-03-2021||South||AP Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan and First Lady Suprava Harichandan on Tuesday got the Covid-19 vaccine administered as the process for inoculating those above 60 years of age began in the state. The First Citizen and the First Lady drove to the Government General Hospital in Vijayawada and got inoculated. "All eligible (persons) should get vaccinated. Covid-19 has to be rooted out not only of the state but also the country," the Governor said on the occasion. He recalled that coronavirus shook the entire world for over a year now. "The vaccination was simple. I didn't feel like I was injected. I am feeling well," Harichandan said. The state health department made arrangements for the Covid-19 vaccination in 432 government and 92 private hospitals for citizens above 60 years and those in the 45-59 age group with comorbidities. The state received an additional six lakh doses of the vaccine on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-governor-biswabhusan-harichandan-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-957178.html
02-03-2021||South||Kerala Health Minister receives Covid-19 vaccine||Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja on Tuesday received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the government medical college hospital here as the second phase of the vaccination drive progressed in the State. The 64-year-old minister later appealed to everyone to take part in the government programme. Besides Shailaja, her cabinet colleagueE Chandrasekharan also received thejab from the same hospital. Earlier, Minister of Ports and Museums, Kadannappally Ramachandran (76) got the shot from a hospital in his home district, Kannur. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his other cabinet colleagues, belonging to the prescribed age group targetedin the second phase, are also expected to take the vaccine in the coming days. Shailaja, who won global recognition for her effective intervention in containing the pandemic in the state in the initial phase of the virus outbreak, had on Monday indicated that she would get vaccinated soon. The minister had also said she wanted to receive the vaccine much earlier to alleviate concerns among people. But, she decided to wait as there wasa suggestion during the Prime Minister's meeting that people's representatives need not take the vaccine along with health workers and they can do it when their turn comes, the minister had said. Meanwhile, Health Department sources here said the response of people towards the second phase vaccination drive was overwhelming and the number of those who turned up to take the shot in the state-run hospitals on the first day was much more than they expected. However, a state-wide tally of the recipients of the vaccine was not yet available, the sources added. The second phase targets anyone over 60 and those aged between 45-59 who have comorbidities. They can receive vaccine shots for free at government hospitals and for a charge at private hospitals, as per the Centre's directive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-health-minister-receives-covid-19-vaccine-957180.html
02-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly Election: How to register as NRI voter||Polling for the assembly election in Kerala will be held from 7 am to 7 pm on April 6, Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena said on Saturday. However, in the Naxal-hit areas of the state, voting will begin at 7 am and conclude by 6 pm. There are a total of 2.67 crore voters in the state, including 2.99 lakh in the 18-19 age group, who would be participating in the election process.  There are over 90,709 NRI voters in the southern state. However, the voters who are staying outside the country but belong to the state can still cast their vote.  The Election Commission of India has allowed overseas Indians to register as NRI voter. As long as a prospective voter is a citizen of India, absent from the country owing to employment, education etc has not acquired citizenship of any other country and is otherwise eligible to be registered as a voter at the address mentioned in their passport, they can vote in the election. Here's how to register yourself as an NRI voter: Documents Required: 1. One recent passport size coloured photograph affixed in Form 6A. 2. Self-attested photocopies of the relevant pages of the passport containing a photograph, address in India and all others. 3. The page of the passport containing the valid visa endorsement. Step 3: Submit the form | The form can be submitted in person or by post. A) If the application is sent by post, the photocopy of each of the documents referred to above should be duly self-attested. B) Alternatively you can fill the form in person at the Electoral Registration Officer / Assistant ERO of the constituency. If the application submitted in person before the ERO, the original passport should be produced for verification.  The verification process: 1. Booth Level Officer will visit the home address mentioned in your passport and enquire to verify the copies of documents. 2. In cases where no relative is available or willing to give a declaration for verification of documents, the documents will be sent for verification to the concerned Indian Mission. 3. Decision of the ERO will be communicated to you by post on the address and SMS on the mobile number given in Form 6A. Electoral rolls are also on the website of the Chief Electoral Officer. 4. Names of overseas electors are included in a separate section for "Overseas Electors" which is the last section of the roll of each polling station area. 5. You can use Form-8 for making any correction in the electoral roll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-election-how-to-register-as-nri-voter-957181.html
02-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly Polls: What is VVPAT and how it functions||Tamil Nadu is set to go to polls on April 6 in a single phase, with campaigning already in full swing among major political players in the state. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Monday finalised a seat-sharing pact with two parties — Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), and Manidhaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) — for the polls. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK sealed its alliance with Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) on Saturday by allotting 23 seats for the elections. With the elections approaching, let us understand one of the key terms in the voting processes, VVPAT. What are VVPATs?  VVPAT stands for Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail. As the name suggests, the machine helps to keep a paper audit trail of the votes cast. This machine from the Election Commission of India prints a paper slip of the candidate a person votes for with the name, serial number and symbol of the party. The machine has a transparent window through which the printed slip is displayed to the voter for seven seconds. The machine is meant to be used as a verification for the voter to make sure that the person’s vote has indeed been taken into account for the right candidate. After the printed slip is displayed to the voter, it falls into a sealed ballot compartment within the machine. These VVPAT machines can only be accessed by polling officers. What is the process of counting VVPAT slips? The Election Commission (EC) does not count and verify each VVPAT with the EVM vote but carries out the process based on a random sample.  In the 2019 elections, the Supreme Court ordered the EC to check one in five EVM-VVPATs per assembly segment. The EC decided that the counting of VVPATs would be done in chronological order.  The verification of VVPAT slips is conducted inside a secured VVPAT counting booth in the counting hall, and only authorised personnel have access to this counting booth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-what-is-vvpat-and-how-it-functions-957184.html
02-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly Election: How to register as NRI voter||Kickstarting the BJP's election campaign in poll-bound Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday mounted a blistering attack on the Congress and DMK, saying their meetings are like "corruption hackathons" where their leaders sit and 'brainstorm' on how to loot. The 234-member assembly will go to the polls on April 6. However, the voters who are staying outside the country but belong to the state can still cast their vote.  The Election Commission of India has allowed overseas Indians to register as NRI voter. As long as a prospective voter is a citizen of India, absent from the country owing to employment, education etc has not acquired citizenship of any other country and is otherwise eligible to be registered as a voter at the address mentioned in their passport, they can vote in the election. Here's how to register yourself as an NRI voter: Documents Required: 1. One recent passport size coloured photograph affixed in Form 6A. 2. Self-attested photocopies of the relevant pages of the passport containing a photograph, address in India and all others. 3. The page of the passport containing the valid visa endorsement.  Step 3: Submit the form | The form can be submitted in person or by post. A) If the application is sent by post, the photocopy of each of the documents referred to above should be duly self-attested. B) Alternatively you can fill the form in person at the Electoral Registration Officer / Assistant ERO of the constituency. If the application submitted in person before the ERO, the original passport should be produced for verification. The verification process: 1. Booth Level Officer will visit the home address mentioned in your passport and enquire to verify the copies of documents. 2. In cases where no relative is available or willing to give a declaration for verification of documents, the documents will be sent for verification to the concerned Indian Mission. 3. Decision of the ERO will be communicated to you by post on the address and SMS on the mobile number given in Form 6A. Electoral rolls are also on the website of the Chief Electoral Officer. 4. Names of overseas electors are included in a separate section for "Overseas Electors" which is the last section of the roll of each polling station area. 5. You can use Form-8 for making any correction in the electoral roll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-election-how-to-register-as-nri-voter-957195.html
02-03-2021||South||Kamal Haasan receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan was on Tuesday administered with the Covid-19 vaccine at a city hospital. The actor-politician was inoculated a day after the nationwide vaccination of 60 plus age group and those aged between 45-59 with co-morbidities was launched, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi receiving the first shot on Monday. "I took the coronavirus vaccine at Sri Ramachandra Hospital. Those who care not only for themselves but also for others should get vaccinated," Haasan said in a tweet that was accompanied with a picture of him getting vaccinated. "Immunisation of the body immediately (and) vaccination against corruption next month. Get ready," he said in an apparent reference to the April 6 Assembly elections. Haasan has often hit out at the ruling AIADMK over corruption allegations. His party will contest the single phase April 6 polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-957200.html
02-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly Polls: Why deep-sea trawler row is a concern for LDF||An ongoing row in Kerala over the state government’s deal with a US-based firm for building deep-sea fishing trawlers has seemingly caused a dent in the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF)'s hopes to return to power in the state. Kerala has a long coastline and up to 50 of the 140 Assembly constituencies in the state are either fully or partially connected to the coastal belt. The fishermen community dominates the demographic in the coastal areas of the state, practicing different religions. They were even considered to be trendsetters in most of these constituencies. Of these seats, 35 were won by the LDF in the 2016 polls.  The Kerala government came into trouble upon initiating a deal with a US firm for manufacturing 400 deep-sea trawlers allegedly with the intention of exploiting the deep-sea marine resources. This row seems to have created concerns among the fishermen that the move was against their interests. The Kerala government scrapped the controversial memorandums of understanding after opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress exposed it. However, LDF leaders including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Fisheries Minister Mercykutty Amma and Industries Minister E P Jayarajan had initially denied the allegations. This sent a message to the fishermen community that the government tried to betray them by trying to hush up the matter. Fr Eugine Pereira of the Thiruvananthapuram Latin Catholic Archdiocese that represents a large section of the fishermen community in the state, had strongly flayed the LDF government over the issue and even said that this may affect the party in the upcoming elections. Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) is using this opportunity to its benefit. Rahul Gandhi recently interacted with the fishermen on the issue and the UDF organised a series of demonstrations for the same in the coastal areas. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala staged a day-long stir in the coastal area with UDF carrying out two marches in the coastal areas, one in the south and the other in the north. The UDF, especially Chennithala, is challenging the government to make public all files related to the project. Meanwhile, the LDF is trying to counter the allegations by raising suspicions of a political ploy. The party stated that Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation managing director N Prasanth, who inked the MoU for trawler manufacturing with EMCC International India, a subsidiary of US-based EMCC Global Consortium, earlier served as Chennithala’s private secretary while he was home minister in the previous UDF government. However, even as the government ordered an inquiry against Prasanth, no action was taken against him so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-why-deep-sea-trawler-row-is-a-concern-for-ldf-957311.html
02-03-2021||South||Puducherry Assembly Polls: What is VVPAT and how it functions||The 33-member Puducherry Assembly will go to the polls on April 6. V Narayanaswamy resigned from the post of chief minister of Puducherry after losing majority in the Assembly after a series of resignations of Congress and DMK MLAs. With the elections approaching, let us understand one of the key terms in the voting processes, VVPAT. What are VVPATs?  VVPAT stands for Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail. As the name suggests, the machine helps to keep a paper audit trail of the votes cast. This machine from the Election Commission of India prints a paper slip of the candidate a person votes for with the name, serial number and symbol of the party. The machine has a transparent window through which the printed slip is displayed to the voter for seven seconds. The machine is meant to be used as a verification for the voter to make sure that the person’s vote has indeed been taken into account for the right candidate. After the printed slip is displayed to the voter, it falls into a sealed ballot compartment within the machine. These VVPAT machines can only be accessed by polling officers. What is the process of counting VVPAT slips? The Election Commission (EC) does not count and verify each VVPAT with the EVM vote but carries out the process based on a random sample.  In the 2019 elections, the Supreme Court ordered the EC to check one in five EVM-VVPATs per assembly segment. The EC decided that the counting of VVPATs would be done in chronological order.  The verification of VVPAT slips is conducted inside a secured VVPAT counting booth in the counting hall, and only authorised personnel have access to this counting booth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-assembly-polls-what-is-vvpat-and-how-it-functions-957318.html
02-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly Polls: What is VVPAT and how it functions||Kerala will go to polls on April 6 as voters will decide their government for the next five years. The state is seeing fierce competition between the ruling Left Front and the opposition parties of the BJP and Congress, for the 140 seats of the Legislative Assembly.  With the elections approaching, let us understand one of the key terms in the voting processes, VVPAT. What are VVPATs?  VVPAT stands for Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail. As the name suggests, the machine helps to keep a paper audit trail of the votes cast. This machine from the Election Commission of India prints a paper slip of the candidate a person votes for with the name, serial number and symbol of the party. The machine has a transparent window through which the printed slip is displayed to the voter for seven seconds. The machine is meant to be used as a verification for the voter to make sure that the person’s vote has indeed been taken into account for the right candidate. After the printed slip is displayed to the voter, it falls into a sealed ballot compartment within the machine. These VVPAT machines can only be accessed by polling officers. What is the process of counting VVPAT slips? The Election Commission (EC) does not count and verify each VVPAT with the EVM vote but carries out the process based on a random sample.  In the 2019 elections, the Supreme Court ordered the EC to check one in five EVM-VVPATs per assembly segment. The EC decided that the counting of VVPATs would be done in chronological order.  The verification of VVPAT slips is conducted inside a secured VVPAT counting booth in the counting hall, and only authorised personnel have access to this counting booth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-what-is-vvpat-and-how-it-functions-957321.html
02-03-2021||South||Film personalities among probable candidates in Kerala polls||As the seat-sharing and candidate selection processes of political parties are still in progress in poll-bound Kerala, many from the film industry and even news anchors are in the fray. The latest from the film world to join politics is national award winner filmmaker Ranjith. A known CPM sympathiser, Ranjith is reportedly being considered by the CPM for the Kozhikode North seat. Ranjith said that the party sought his willingness to contest and he expressed in the positive. Actor Dharmajan Bolgatty, who hailed from a traditional Congress family and also a former KSU activist, had recently expressed his desire to contest in the elections. There are reports that he may be fielded from the Balusserry constituency in Kozhikode. Krishnakumar, another actor who is popular in television serials of the state, recently joined the BJP. The Thiruvananthapuram resident is likely to be fielded in the state capital. There are also strong rumours that a couple of popular news anchors in leading Malayalam news channels may be in the fray. Kerala Assembly already has popular actor Mukesh as Kollam MLA, a known film producer Mani C Kappan as Pala MLA and a former new anchor Veena George as Aranmula MLA. All of them are likely to be fielded again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/film-personalities-among-probable-candidates-in-kerala-polls-957324.html
02-03-2021||South||Why Congress, BJP are harping on Tamil language ahead of polls||Extolling virtues of the Tamil language, its rich literature, and the state’s vibrant culture have been an integral part of Tamil Nadu’s political discourse for over half-a-century. The Dravidian parties have not just projected themselves as “saviours of the race” but also take pride in stonewalling efforts by successive central governments to “impose Hindi”. As the April 6 election to the Tamil Nadu Assembly nears, the milking of the Tamil language and its culture for political gains is back. But there is a distinct difference this time. The national parties — the Congress and BJP — which had accused their regional counterparts and Dravidian majors DMK and AIADMK of politicising language, are now doing the same. After it was thrown out of power in 1967 at the height of the anti-Hindi movement, the Congress was not able to come anywhere close to power in Tamil Nadu. The BJP, currently in power at the Centre, is accused of “imposing” Hindi and Sanskrit on the state “through the back door.” Yet, Tamil flows free in the public meetings of the two national parties. The political compulsion brought in the change to invoke Tamil, as both the Congress and BJP sense a chance to emerge as the third force in Tamil Nadu following the exit of veterans M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. The parties would stop at greeting people and thanking them (Vanakkam and Nandri) in Tamil during public meetings until a few years ago. Today, no rally of a national party leader is complete without elaborate references to the “unique language” and its culture. It is the hostile attitude of the Tamil audience towards “imposition” of other languages that forced the BJP, whose DNA is according primacy to Hindi, to harp onto Tamil sentiments. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who used to deliver his speeches in Hindi, switched to English ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election in his bid to endear himself and his party to the Tamil people.  And the Congress has also come around to publicly acknowledge that it respects the Tamil language and its people. Party leader Rahul Gandhi now wants to learn Tamil and read Thirukkural, which offers a remedy or a piece of advice to every issue that the modern world encounters. Tamil language, culture, and the “onslaught” it faces from the BJP are the essence of his tours in the state that have enthusiastic Congress workers. To his credit, Modi was one of the first contemporary politicians to take Tamil to the global stage by quoting verses from some of the finest pieces of literature. He did not stop at that. Modi, to date, continues to talk about his love for the language and has even said that he repents not learning Tamil. “All of them have understood that Tamil is more powerful than any other identity in Tamil Nadu. It is the finest tool that helped them to assert themselves and made them aware of their social, political, and cultural identities. Moreover, Tamil literature and the day-to-day life is inter-oven and inseparable,” political analyst P Ramajayam told DH. The BJP has been making serious efforts to woo the people of the state through its “love” for Tamil and has promised to ensure that all flights in and out of Tamil Nadu will have in-flight announcements in the language. However, the outreach has been going for a toss with frequent incidents of Union Ministers replying in Hindi to letters written to them by MPs from the state. Symbolism apart, it depends on how the Congress and BJP take forward their politics in Tamil Nadu that would determine their future in the politically crucial state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-congress-bjp-are-harping-on-tamil-language-ahead-of-polls-957325.html
02-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: Allies upset with DMK over seat-sharing||Playing the hardball, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, leader of the Opposition combine in Tamil Nadu, is offering “less number of seats” for its alliance partners arguing that it needs to contest in about 180 of the total 234 Assembly constituencies to put up a “tough fight” against the AIADMK-BJP alliance. The DMK's stand, which is in contrast to the position taken by the party during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, has upset the allies. The DMK allotted nearly 20 of the total 39 seats at stake to alliance partners, though a couple of them contested on the party symbol. While the DMK has so far allotted five seats to two Muslim parties – Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Manidhaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) – talks are underway with the Congress, Left, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), and Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) led by Vaiko. The DMK has told all its alliance partners that it wants to contest in about 180 seats and is in a position to allot only the remaining 54 seats among them. “We have told the alliance party leaders that the 2021 election is a different ball game. It is not just the AIADMK that we are fighting against but also the BJP. So, we have told them that it augurs well for the larger good of the alliance if we contest maximum seats and allies in less number,” a senior DMK leader told DH. However, the argument has not gone well with allies like the Congress, which is expecting around 35 seats. After the second round of talks on Tuesday, the DMK is said to be ready to offer around 25, which is seven seats higher than the 18 that was proposed during the first round of discussions last week. But, the Congress is still unhappy and will come back again for discussions on Thursday. For the record, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee President K S Alagiri told reporters that the talks took place in a “cordial atmosphere” and that there was a possibility of a deal being inked in a “day or two.” A senior Congress leader told DH on condition of anonymity: “We expected the DMK to be reasonable with us. But they offered just 18 which we see as an insult. There is an opinion within the party that we should not go below 40, but 35 would be an acceptable number. Anything less than that would be difficult for us to convince our cadre. DMK should respect our sentiments.” The CPI (M) and VCK are also upset with the DMK for its offer. While the Communist party has been offered six seats against its demand of 12, the VCK four though the demand is for 10 seats. “We could not reach an agreement because of the gap in what is being demanded and what is offered. We are obviously disappointed. But we are hopeful that an agreement can be reached,” a leader of an alliance party said. DMK leaders also say the recent episode of Congress MLAs resigning and joining BJP in Puducherry has forced it to be “too cautious” in allotting more number of seats to allies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-allies-upset-with-dmk-over-seat-sharing-957362.html
02-03-2021||South||Public to be allowed to watch Karnataka Assembly Budget session||After almost an year since the coronavirus outbreak, public will be allowed to witness the Karnataka Assembly proceedings during the coming budget session, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said on Tuesday. Elaborate arrangements have been made for the nearly month-long session starting on Thursday as mandated under the Covid-19 protocol, he told reporters here. "The general public will be allowed to watch the proceedings from the visitors gallery. However, students will not be allowed this time," he said. During the monsoon and winter session of the assembly last year the public were not allowed. A series of events, including a discussion on One Nation, One Election, are lined up during the coming session, Kageri said. At least three amendment bills, including one to alter the Karnataka Money Lenders Act, would be tabled, the Speaker added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/public-to-be-allowed-to-watch-karnataka-assembly-budget-session-957367.html
02-03-2021||South||ED case against Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is learnt to have initiated a probe against Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) in connection with raising foreign funds by issuing Masala bonds abroad. The development came close on the heels of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman flaying KIIFB during a public address in Kochi. The ED is learnt to have initiated the case on the basis of a recent report of Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) citing serious flaws in KIIFB. It even termed raising of foreign funds directly by the state agency as unconstitutional. The ED is learnt to have sent notices to KIIFB senior officials for recording their statements, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-case-against-kerala-infrastructure-investment-fund-board-957368.html
02-03-2021||State||IMA flash strike in Belagavi||Indian Medical Association, Belagavi branch has given call for flash strike on Tuesday in protest against assault of one of its member. IMA Belagavi held its emergency meeting on Monday night after one of its member was physically assaulted. They decided to hold flash strike on Tuesday wherein all out patient departments of hospital's and nursing homes will remain closed. IMA members will submit memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner and City Police on Tuesday. IMA Belagavi President Dr Anil Patil, Secretary Dr Devegouda I and other members were present for the emergency meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ima-flash-strike-in-belagavi-957049.html
02-03-2021||State||The Lead: A tribal community's pain - mining||In this episode of The Lead, get to know how laterite mining is affecting the Koraga community in Mangaluru.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi, and welcome to another episode of the Lead from DH Radio. Continuing with the stories about the mayhem in mines, today we move to Mangaluru, where laterite mining near a community settlement is becoming a nuisance to them. to know more about it, we are joined by Harsha from DH's Mangaluru bureau. Hi, Harsha welcome to DH Radio. Harsha: Hi. Thank you. Ahmed: Harsha, my first question to you is: How was the laterite stone mining at the Koraga colony before 2019 and what changed? also could you tell us the geography and where is the colony located? Harsha: This place is called Gundavu Padavu and its called Koraga Model Colony. It's been identified by the department Integrated Tribal Development Project as a model colony because... To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/the-lead-a-tribal-communitys-pain-mining-957113.html
02-03-2021||State||Karnataka students commence 'March for Secure code'||Students in Karnataka commenced a “March for Secure Code” on Monday. The event, which kicked off on March 1, is conducted by Karnataka’s Centre of Excellence in Cybersecurity (CySecK), in partnership with NASSCOM Future Skills Prime and aims to increase student engagement in application coding and cybersecurity. Currently, more than 43% of data breaches are tied to web applications. “As India accelerates its adoption of digital technologies, awareness of secure coding practices amongst application developers is becoming more important than ever,” said the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in a statement. CySecK is housed at IISc  which is also the anchor institute for the centre. The “March for Secure Code” is a month-long programme consisting of an online, self-paced course titled “Application Security – Vulnerability Assessment.” The programme also encompasses a “Grand Challenge” from the skill development firm, SkillsDA. This will be a “Capture-the-flag event” at the end of the month with 3 rounds. Over 13,000 students from 81 colleges across 18 districts of Karnataka have registered to participate in the event. CySecK has announced exciting cash prizes and awards for the winners of the Grand Challenge, and the top three students who complete the course first from each district in Karnataka. Colleges with maximum participation will also be recognised. Only the students who complete the course will be allowed to participate in the Grand Challenge. The National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) will be providing internships for top 10 students of the Grand Challenge. Training partner SkillsDA has offered internship opportunities for the top performers from each of the 81 colleges as well. Ajeet Bajpai, Director General NCIIPC, noted that there is great scope for students to contribute in the field of cybersecurity, as cybersecurity experts and freelancers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-students-commence-march-for-secure-code-957116.html
02-03-2021||State||Over 8.25 lakh vaccinated against Covid-19 in Karnataka so far: Health Department||With the inoculation drive against Covid-19 for senior citizens and those with comorbidities kickstarting, a total of 4,942 people have received the shot, taking the total number of those vaccinated in the state so far to 8.25 lakh, the Karnataka government said. In 199 sessions held on Monday, 2,264 vaccinated were above 60 years and 624 were between 45-60 years with comorbidities. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16 and all these days it was limited to health care workers and front line Covid warriors. According to the health department data shared on Tuesday, all those above 60 years and those with comorbidities vaccinated on Monday were administered the Covishield vaccine. Vaccination has been planned at a total of 82 sessions sites on Tuesday, with a plan to inoculate 6,760 beneficiaries, it said. Infosys founder N R Narayanamurthy, his wife Sudha Murty, another cofounder Kris Gopalakrishnan, and a centenarian were among many others in the state to get inoculated as the vaccination drive for those above 60 years and people aged 45 yrs to 60yrs with specific comorbid conditions kick started in the country on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-825-lakh-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-karnataka-so-far-health-department-957121.html
02-03-2021||State||Karnataka transport workers warn of strike from March 15 if demands not met||In the latest addition to the warnings sent over the last one month reminding the government about their nine demands, including salary hike, workers of four road transport corporations on Tuesday said they will launch a strike from March 15 if the demands are not met. Leaders of employees from four RTCs held a convention at the Race Course Road-Sheshadri Road junction near Anandrao Circle on Tuesday to discuss the next course of action. The Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, an association of workers had come together to halt bus services for four days in December. The workers warned that if the government fails to keep its word, it would push them to abandon all the demands and stick to their original stance that they should be made government employees. The strike in December ended after the government promised to fulfill eight demands and consider the demand for implementing the 6th Pay Commission wages within a span of "three months".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-transport-workers-warn-of-strike-from-march-15-if-demands-not-met-957305.html
02-03-2021||State||Karnataka Budget Session to start with debate on 'one nation, one election'||The Budget session of the legislature begins on March 4 with a discussion on 'One Nation, One Election,' Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said on Tuesday. Kageri said Karnataka will be the first Assembly in India to hold the debate on March 4 and 5, based on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's advice. During a conference of Assembly speakers in Gujarat, Modi suggested to hold discussions on simultaneously holding Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha elections. This will not be applicable to elections held for decentralised local bodies such as gram panchayats, Kageri said. The 2021-22 Budget will be presented by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on March 8, and it will be discussed till March 31. Noting that Covid-19 was still prevalent, he said that all precautionary measures will be in place. Visitors from the general public, save students, will be allowed to the galleries during the session after a span of almost one year. To a question on complaints over absence of officials and ministers during discussions in the House, Kageri said that he had spoken to chief secretary P Ravi Kumar and whips of parties to ensure that all officials and ministers are present in the House during the course of the session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-budget-session-to-start-with-debate-on-one-nation-one-election-957356.html
02-03-2021||State||Aid to farmers’ families: Karnataka High Court tells chief secretary to file affidavit||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday expressed shock over the  “insensitive” affidavit filed by the commissioner for agriculture on the scheme of assistance to the families of the farmers who ended lives by suicide. The court directed the chief secretary to government to take a clear stand whether the families of the farmers who have taken loan from private money lenders can be excluded from government assistance. In the previous hearings, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka had directed the state government to submit a detailed affidavit on the alarming number of suicides reported from Shahpur taluk in Yadgir district. The bench perused the report submitted by the Commissioner for Agriculture. The report said that between 2016 and 2020-21 a total 125 farmers ended lives by suicide in Shahpur taluk. Elaborating the scheme of assistance to the families of such farmers, including cash compensation of Rs five lakh, the report said only 105 farmers were eligible.   The report said in terms of the government order issued in 2015, financial assistance can be given only to those who have taken loans from banks/credit co-operative societies. The state government has no control and there is no regulation preventing farmers from approaching private money lenders. The bench observed that the state has created two artificial classes of farmers. “Therefore, prima facie it is difficult to accept that the classification made by the state will stand the test of Article 14 of the Constitution of India,” the court said. The bench also observed that it should concern the state that the cause for suicide was that the farmers were unable to repay the borrowed amounts.   The bench directed the chief secretary to file an affidavit within three weeks after taking a look at the report filed by the Commissioner for Agriculture. “We are sure that the chief secretary while filing the affidavit will look at the seriousness of the situation. Only in one taluk there are 125 cases of farmers committing suicide within a span of five years. We are sure that the chief secretary will also consider why some of the farmers are forced to go to individual money lenders for obtaining loans,” the bench said. The PIL is filed by  Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha. Apart from the alarming number of suicides in Shahpur taluk and other districts, the petition highlights the non-payment of crop insurance in the state. The petition said more than 20,000 farmers have ended their lives in the state in the past two decades, third highest after Maharashtra and Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/aid-to-farmers-families-karnataka-high-court-tells-chief-secretary-to-file-affidavit-957360.html
02-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B R Shetty blames vested interests for his downfall||NRI businessman B R Shetty on Monday blamed vested interests for his sudden fall from grace. He also claimed to have been deceived by those whom he had trusted with his life. Shetty told mediapersons that an accountant, who was made the CEO of his company, had backstabbed him. Shetty said that he being ignorant about the developments led to the collapse of his financial empire. But he refused to call his CEO an offender as the charges against him are yet to be proven. Besides, the case is in court and it will be unwise to pass any comments, he said. Shetty said that he is confident of overcoming current problems.  He also recollected how banks in the USA had declined to offer credit cards to Donald Trump, but Trump went on to become the US President. "Nothing is permanent," he added. Shetty recollected that he was a poor man in Udupi and used to borrow money even to buy petrol for his motorbike. "I am paying back all my debts," Shetty said. Though he lost properties in other countries, his assets in India are still safe, and there are many people who envy him for his popularity, he claimed. Shetty denied on having met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders. On being compared with Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi, Shetty said the comparison is "meaningless". Meanwhile, Shetty promises to continue charity work, adding that he has donated half of his assets to Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. "I once contributed five million dollars to country's economy. So I will bounce back," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-r-shetty-blames-vested-interests-for-his-downfall-957183.html
02-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||16 lakh people in state have comorbidities: Health minister K Sudhakar||The third phase of Covid vaccination drive has begun and people should take the jab without any hesitation, said Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. He was speaking to the media after launching the drive in Sirsi, Uttara Kannada. First phase of vaccination was done in Bengaluru, second phase in Kalyana Karnataka and third phase is being started in Sirsi, he said. All citizens above 60 years and people above the age of 45 with specified comorbidities are eligible for the vaccination. “There are 50 lakh people above the age of 60 years and 16 lakh with comorbidities,” said the Minister. Serious consequences of infection can be prevented through vaccine. Therefore, it is necessary to get vaccinated. Prime Minister himself has taken the jab and set example for others to follow, he added. “A total of 270 vaccine centres have been set up for third phase of vaccination. People from Uttara Kannada should be an example for others in getting vaccinated. People can directly come to vaccine centres and register. It is not necessary that one should register only online. Second wave is being witnessed in neighbouring states. We have taken strict measures to prevent it,” he said. If one gets infected after getting the vaccination, there won’t be much effect. Balanced food and disciplined life style will lead to good health. This will also contribute for economical and educational growth. There is no progress without health, said Sudhakar. “National Economic Forum has suggested that all states should set aside at least 8% of budget for health sector. There is also mention of increased human resource for healthcare. We are recruiting 2,150 doctors for serving in rural areas. We have already announced special incentives for serving in rural areas. We are also upgrading primary health centres to be able to work 24/7,” said the minister. Legislative assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri was present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/16-lakh-people-in-state-have-comorbidities-health-minister-k-sudhakar-957293.html
02-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers to campaign for MSP in Karnataka from Friday||Stepping up their agitation, farmers' groups protesting against the three farm laws will launch a nationwide campaign for MSP for crops from Karnataka on Friday. Addressing a press conference to outline plans to sustain the agitation, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will also campaign against the BJP in poll-bound states of West Bengal and Kerala, beginning with a farmers' rally in Kolkata on March 12. “The SKM will put out a call to the public to punish the anti-farmer, anti-poor policies of the BJP,” Darshan Pal, leader of the SKM, said. The farmers will start the 'MSP Dilao Abhiyan' from Karnataka on Friday asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure minimum support price for crops. The campaign would then move to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and gradually cover the entire country, Pal said. Farmers will block the entire length of the Western Peripheral Expressway or Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway from 11:00 am to 4:00 pm on March 6, when the agitation at Delhi borders completes 100 days. Swaraj India President Yogendra Yadav said March 6 would also be observed as “black flag day” and urged those supporting the farmers across the country to unfurl black flags or wear black ribbons on their clothes. On March 15, farm unions will support the call of ten Central trade unions to protest against privatisation and corporatisation, Yadav said. The agitating farmers will mark March 8 as Mahila Kisan Diwas with protest sites across the country witnessing greater participation of women, who will manage the stage and will be speakers. “We invite women's organisations and others marking International Women's Day to do so in support of the farmers' movement and highlight the contributions of women farmers to the country,” Pal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-to-campaign-for-msp-in-karnataka-from-friday-957333.html
02-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi courts controversy after sexual harassment charge||Karnataka Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi landed thick in the middle of a controversy Tuesday after a social activist approached the police accusing him of sexually harassing a woman on the pretext of getting her a government job.  Kannada news channels widely aired video clips purportedly showing Jarkiholi getting intimate with the unidentified woman.  Denying any wrongdoing, Jarkiholi said this is “a big shock” and sought an investigation into this. He said it is a “100% fake video”.  This comes just two days before the start of the all-important Budget session of the legislature, causing embarrassment to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.  Jarkiholi, who was in Mysuru, rushed to the city and met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. He said he would rush to New Delhi to meet the BJP central leadership.  Social activist Dinesh Kallahalli approached Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant who directed him to the Cubbon Park police station to file a complaint.  “I don’t know who Kallahalli is. I don’t know who that woman is. I don’t know anything. I’m in a big shock. Let this be investigated,” Jarkiholi told reporters. “If I'm wrong, let them hang me," he added. Jarkiholi, who represents Gokak, was among the chief architects in causing the downfall of the Congress-JD(S) coalition, paving the way for the BJP to come to power. He was earlier with the Congress.  The incident could potentially dent Jarkiholi’s political career. His family holds a clout in the politically-significant Belagavi, Karnataka’s largest district.  “The Jarkiholi family has built an empire. I’ve been a legislator for 21 years. Why was this done now? It’s a political gimmick,” the minister said. “I’m a dharmic man and I have no need to fear,” he said, adding that he will quit politics if proven wrong.   Kallahalli, who filed the complaint, said the victim and her relatives approached him as they were under threat. “I’m a social activist, so it is my responsibility to fight against such abuses. So, I contacted senior advocates and filed a complaint on her behalf," he said, alleging that Jarkiholi used Karnataka Bhavan in New Delhi to meet the woman.  The police reportedly grilled Kallahalli on the origin of the video, details of the victim, whether she was willing to testify and why she or her family approached him in the first place. A senior officer told DH that an FIR cannot be registered solely on the basis of Kallahalli’s complaint.  DCP (Central) MN Anucheth, who is said to have been asked by Pant to look into the complaint, said necessary action will be taken after obtaining more details. “The family members of the woman in the video are yet to give information to us,” he said, adding that the police will inquire with the woman as well.  This is not the first sex scandal involving a minister. In 2016, Congress’ HY Meti was forced to resign from the then chief minister Siddaramaiah’s Cabinet after a sleazy tape went public. He, too, was accused of misusing power. In 2010, BJP’s Hartal Halappa resigned when B S Yediyurappa was the CM after he was charged with sexual misconduct.  There was no immediate reaction from the chief minister’s office or the ruling BJP on the Jarkiholi controversy. However, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi stopped short of admitting that this is an embarrassment. “It must be investigated,” he said. “As leaders, we need to be morally pure. We should be clean. But let’s not jump to conclusions too soon," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-ramesh-jarkiholi-courts-controversy-after-sexual-harassment-charge-957334.html
02-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Industry norms to be simplified in Karnataka: Shettar||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said that there is no need for the entrepreneurs to wait for long durations to get approval for their projects in the future. As per the new industrial policy, they can get government approval as early as possible. Speaking to reporters here, on Tuesday, he said, "No objection certificates and permission for an extension of units will be given on priority. There is no need to visit government offices. The work can be started by submitting a self-declaration affidavit. Amendments will be brought to the norms and the entrepreneurs should make use of the opportunities." he said. A state-level meeting is being held every month, to resolve the issues faced by industrialists in Bengaluru. The deputy commissioner will be directed to hold similar meetings every month at the district level. Industries will not be centralised in Bengaluru and steps will be taken to establish them in tier II and III cities, he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/industry-norms-to-be-simplified-in-karnataka-shettar-957371.html
02-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister gets Covid-19 vaccine at home, Centre seeks report||The Centre has sought a report from Karnataka on the controversy surrounding state minister BC Patil receiving the Covid-19 shot at his residence in Haveri district rather than getting it from a designated vaccination centre. When asked about the incident, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan Tuesday said the Union government sought a report from Karnataka on doctors and nurses visiting an MLA's house for administering the vaccine. "It is not in the protocol and we have asked for a report from the state," he said. Patil and his wife took the vaccine at his Hirekerur residence in Haveri district on the second day of the latest phase of the vaccination drive to cover people aged above 60 and those aged between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities. The minister tweeted, "Took the #COVID19Vaccine with my wife, at my Hirekerur house from the government doctors today. While 'Made In India' vaccines are being immensely appreciated by many countries, some vested interest groups are spreading false information about the vaccines." ಇಂದು ಹಿರೇಕೆರೂರಿನ ಸ್ವಗೃಹದಲ್ಲಿ ನಾನು ಮತ್ತು ನನ್ನ ಶ್ರೀಮತಿ, ಸರ್ಕಾರಿ ವೈದ್ಯರಿಂದ ಕೊರೋನಾ ಲಸಿಕೆ ಪಡೆದೆವು. As soon as the message was released on social media, many users questioned Patil's decision to take the vaccine at home. He, however, defended himself, claiming that he had not committed any crime and wanted to avoid trouble for the public. Since the vaccination for 27 crore citizens began on Monday, many politicians including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan have received the shot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-gets-covid-19-vaccine-at-home-centre-seeks-report-957372.html
02-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: Family receives Rs 9.37 lakh compensation for son's death in accident||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) here in Maharashtra has awarded a compensation of Rs 9.37 lakh to the parents of a 20-year-old man who died in a road accident in 2018. The order was passed on February 25 and a copy of it was made available on February 28. MACT member R N Rokade ordered the offending truck's owner and the insurer of the vehicle to pay the compensation to the claimants along with eight per cent interest from the date of filing of the application. The claimants, residents of Chandivali in neighbouring Mumbai, told the tribunal that their son Himalaya Bisht was pursuing his Master of Business Administration (MBA) course and also working with a company, earning Rs 8,000 per month. They said on August 19, 2018, while their son was returning home riding pillion on a motorcycle, a speeding truck hit the two-wheeler at Majiwada in Thane. The victim fell from the motorcycle, received serious head injuries and died on the spot, they said. The parents said they were dependent on him and hence, should be awarded compensation. The truck owner and the vehicle's insurer contested the claim. After hearing both sides, the tribunal said the accident took place solely because of rash and negligent driving by the truck driver. "Therefore, I am inclined to hold that both the opponents are jointly and severally liable to pay the compensation," MACT member Rokade said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-family-receives-rs-937-lakh-compensation-for-sons-death-in-accident-957102.html
02-03-2021||West||Western Railway gets ATC type communication system, commuters to get real-time info on trains||In a path-breaking technology initiative, the Western Railways (WR), in the Mumbai suburban section, has commissioned a Mobile Train Radio Communication (MTRC) which is modelled on the lines of Air Traffic Control (ATC). The system is operational in the Churchgate-Virar section of the suburban network in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). This modern state-of-the-art technology system is a first-of-its-kind in the Indian Railways, which will enable several possibilities of communication between the crew of EMU trains with the Control Centre as well as enable broadcast call by Control to passengers and also between all EMU cabs. The system was commissioned on Monday by WR’s General Manager Alok Kansal. According to him, MTRC is an effective and technologically advanced communication system that can play an intrinsic role in preventing train accidents through effective communication. It facilitates an instant and constant interaction of train crew with the Control Centre and the station master. “This system uses the lowest time to connect calls i.e 300 milliseconds and it is the first time that MTRC has been commissioned in India. It is a historic move for Indian Railways. MRTC acts in a similar way to that of  ATC for aircraft. The system will monitor, track and aid in communication between the trains and the control room thereby ensuring smooth movement of rakes as well as help in preventing adverse events,” said Kansal. WR’s Chief Public Relations Officer Sumit Thakur said that the Churchgate-Virar section (60 km) of Mumbai suburban section is a high-density traffic route where trains run with a headway of approximately three minutes in peak hours. Presently, this section has a capacity to transport over 3.4 million passengers every day by operating over 1,300 services each day. The earlier existing conventional VHF-based communication system, Mobile and CUG had their limitations and does not give the facility for communication between the crew of the running train and the controllers operating from the control centre at Mumbai. “This system will also help in getting real-time information of train operation during the monsoon period,” he said. Thakur stated that the provision of the new Digital MTRC system was sanctioned at the cost of Rs 5.98 crore with two years warranty and five years Annual Maintenance Charges (AMC). The MTRC System is TETRA (Terrestrial Trunk Radio) based digital technology employing TDMA on Air Interface and Internet Protocol-based Network Architecture with Distributed Switching Architecture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/western-railway-gets-atc-type-communication-system-commuters-to-get-real-time-info-on-trains-957125.html
02-03-2021||West||BJP surges ahead of Congress in Gujarat civic polls||The BJP gained a lead by winning 2,085 seats, while the Congress won 602 seats so far across various municipalities, district and taluka panchayats in Gujarat where results for 2,771 seats out of the total 8,474 were declared till 1 pm on Tuesday. Counting of votes is underway since 9 am in 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats, and 231 taluka panchayats where elections were held on Sunday. There are total 8,474 seats across the three local bodies. Candidates in 237 seats remain unopposed, the State Election Commission (SEC) said. Bye-elections were also held for two seats in taluka panchayats and 24 seats in municipalities. As per the results available till 1 pm, the BJP has so far bagged 2,085 seats, while the Congress has won 602 seats across these local bodies, the SEC said. New entrant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has won 15 seats, Bahujan Samaj Party-5, while independents have won 42 seats, it said. In municipalities, the BJP has so far won 803 seats and the Congress-159. In district panchayats, the BJP has till now bagged 246 seats and the Congress-55. In taluka panchayats, the BJP has so far emerged victorious in 1,036 seats and the Congress in 388 seats. More than 58,000 poll and security personnel are involved in the counting being conducted at 542 centres in Gujarat, the SEC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-surges-ahead-of-congress-in-gujarat-civic-polls-957136.html
02-03-2021||West||Maharashtra to stop disconnecting power of defaulters: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday said the drive of disconnecting power supply to farmers or other domestic consumers who failed to clear their dues will be stopped immediately till the issue is discussed in the state Assembly. Pawar made the announcement in the state Assembly after Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis raised the issue in the House. Fadnavis said that there is "a lot of anger" among people across the state over the inflated electricity bills. Lakhs of people have received notices for power supply disconnection, he said. "Farmers have already suffered big losses due to lockdown and heavy rainfall. Now, they are facing the power supply disconnection crisis," the BJP leader said. Without naming state Energy Minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut, Fadnavis said the former had talked about giving relief to lockdown-hit consumers, but instead power tariff was increased. "Small shopkeepers could not do business during the lockdown. Now you are asking them to pay bills. From where are they going to pay it? So, there is a big problem," the former chief minister said. Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole pitched for stopping the on-going drive of disconnecting the power supply. Patole also said the tradition of issuing average electricity bills to consumers has to be stopped. He demanded that the electricity department take an actual power meter reading before issuing bills to consumers. Responding to this, Pawar said, "I would like to tell on behalf of the state government that the drive of disconnecting the electricity supply of farmers or other domestic consumers will be stopped immediately until the issue raised by Devendra Fadnavis saheb is discussed." He said that other decisions with regard to the issue will be taken after members of the House are satisfied with the discussion. Fadnavis thanked the government for taking the decision but demanded the restoration of power supply to consumers who faced disconnection earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-stop-disconnecting-power-of-defaulters-ajit-pawar-957146.html
02-03-2021||West||Platform tickets at key Mumbai railway stations hiked 500%||The Central Railway has increased the price of platform tickets at some key stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to avoid over-crowding during the upcoming summer season in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Tuesday. A platform ticket now costs Rs 50 instead of the previous rate of Rs 10 at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Dadar and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Mumbai, and neighbouring Thane, Kalyan, Panvel and Bhiwandi Road stations, CR's chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said. The new rate came into force from March 1 and will remain effective till June 15 this year, the official said. "The decision was taken to prevent over-crowding at these stations during the summer travel rush," he said. Since the second week of February, there has been a surge in daily Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. The city has so far reported over 3.25 lakh Covid-19 cases and more than 11,400 deaths due to the disease||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/platform-tickets-at-key-mumbai-railway-stations-hiked-500-957153.html
02-03-2021||West||Assam Assembly Election: How to register as NRI voter||The 126-member Assembly will go to polls starting from March 27 and will end on April 6. The polls will be held in three phases. The Citizenship Amendment Act which is being pushed by the BJP has largely been opposed in Assam. The elections in the state are crucial as the onus is on the voters to decide what they really want. However, the voters who are staying outside the country but belong to the state can still cast their vote.  The Election Commission of India has allowed overseas Indians to register as NRI voter. As long as a prospective voter is a citizen of India, absent from the country owing to employment, education etc has not acquired citizenship of any other country and is otherwise eligible to be registered as a voter at the address mentioned in their passport, they can vote in the election. Here's how to register yourself as an NRI voter: Documents Required: 1. One recent passport size coloured photograph affixed in Form 6A. 2. Self-attested photocopies of the relevant pages of the passport containing a photograph, address in India and all others. 3. The page of the passport containing the valid visa endorsement. Step 3: Submit the form | The form can be submitted in person or by post. A) If the application is sent by post, the photocopy of each of the documents referred to above should be duly self-attested. B) Alternatively you can fill the form in person at the Electoral Registration Officer / Assistant ERO of the constituency. If the application submitted in person before the ERO, the original passport should be produced for verification.  The verification process: 1. Booth Level Officer will visit the home address mentioned in your passport and enquire to verify the copies of documents. 2. In cases where no relative is available or willing to give a declaration for verification of documents, the documents will be sent for verification to the concerned Indian Mission. 3. Decision of the ERO will be communicated to you by post on the address and SMS on the mobile number given in Form 6A. Electoral rolls are also on the website of the Chief Electoral Officer. 4. Names of overseas electors are included in a separate section for "Overseas Electors" which is the last section of the roll of each polling station area. 5. You can use Form-8 for making any correction in the electoral roll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/assam-assembly-election-how-to-register-as-nri-voter-957189.html
02-03-2021||West||Woman killed in husband's shop in Maharashtra, hunt on for servant||A 30-year-old woman was killed in a ration shop run by her husband in Maharashtra's Thane district, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday in the shop, located in Manpada area of Dombivli township here, where their servant was also present, an official from Manpada police station said. The couple had a quarrel following which the husband left the shop. After some time, he called up the servant to bring his wife home. However, the servant informed him that the woman was lying in a pool of blood in the shop. After taking the call, the servant fled from the place, the official said. The husband then rushed to the shop and took his wife to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead, the official said. He later lodged a police complaint against the servant. The police registered a case under Indian Penal Code 302 (murder), the official said, adding that search was underway for the servant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-killed-in-husbands-shop-in-maharashtra-hunt-on-for-servant-957197.html
02-03-2021||West||Chavan slams Centre for letting private hospitals charge for Covid-19 vaccine||Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Tuesday questioned the Centre's decision to let private hospitals charge people for the Covid-19 vaccine in the phase-II of the immunisation drive that began on Monday. Last week, the government had announced that people above the age of 60 and those over 45 years suffering from co-morbidities can avail Covid vaccine for free at government facilities and for Rs 250 at private hospitals. According to a statement issued by his office, Chavan said in phase-I of the drive, the Union government had procured 1.65 crore doses of the vaccine at a cost of Rs 210 per dose. As per the February 1 budget speech delivered by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Rs 35,000 crore had been earmarked for the vaccination drive, the former Maharashtra chief minister said. In this amount, at the cost of Rs 210 per dose, more than 1.5 billion doses can be procured and 75 crore people can be inoculated twice, covering almost the entire adult population of the country, he said. "If budgetary provisions have been made, why charge common people (at private hospitals)?" the statement quoted Chavan as saying. The former Union minister further pointed out that countries including the US, UK and Canada were providing free vaccines to their citizens either through insurance schemes or by budgetary provisions. "I demand that all beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (Ayushman Bharat) be given free Covid-19 vaccines," Chavan said. Despite lofty budgetary announcements and India being the largest supplier of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Modi government is digging into the common man's pocket, Chavan alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chavan-slams-centre-for-letting-private-hospitals-charge-for-covid-19-vaccine-957199.html
02-03-2021||West||Former Maharashtra CM Prithviraj Chavan questions Covid-19 vaccine rates at private hospitals||The Congress has questioned the Narendra Modi government's decision to allow private hospitals to charge for the Covid-19 vaccine in Phase II that began on 1 March. In Phase II, a person over the age of 45 with co-morbidity or over the age of 60 can get inoculated at a designated center. The price of every dose is kept at Rs.250 in private hospitals. Senior Congressman and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan said that in Phase I, the Union government had procured 1.65 crore doses of vaccine at a cost of Rs.210 per dose.  "According to the budget speech delivered by the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on 1 February, Rs 35,000 crore has been earmarked for vaccination drive. In this amount, at the cost of Rs. 210 per dose, more than 1.5 billion doses can be procured. These can inoculate 75 crore population twice, covering almost the entire adult population of India. If budgetary provisions are made then, why charge common people?" he asked.  Chavan said large countries like the USA, UK or Canada are providing free vaccines to their citizens either through insurance schemes or by budgetary provisions. Chavan, a former Minister of State in the PMO, said all beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogy Yojana (Aayushman Bharat) must be given free Covid-19 vaccine. “Unfortunately, despite lofty budgetary announcements and India being the largest supplier of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Modi government is digging into the common man’s pocket,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-maharashtra-cm-prithviraj-chavan-questions-covid-19-vaccine-rates-at-private-hospitals-957217.html
02-03-2021||West||Co-WIN snag halts vaccination drive for senior citizens in Goa||A snag in the Co-WIN portal affected the Covid-19 vaccination process for senior citizens at private hospitals in Goa in initial hours on Tuesday, a Health official said. The portal developed a glitch soon after the process for vaccination began after 9 AM, forcing many senior citizens who had gathered at the hospitals to take the first dose to leave. "As the snag stalled the entire process in the first one hour, several senior citizens had to go back. We regret the inconvenience caused to them," he said. The process restarted at 2.30 pm after the snag was fixed, the official said. Meanwhile, the Goa health department on Tuesday allowed 15 private hospitals to administer Covid-19 shots to the people who are eligible under the latest drive. The government initially allowed only government hospitals to conduct vaccination when the second drive covering senior citizens and the people in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities began on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/co-win-snag-halts-vaccination-drive-for-senior-citizens-in-goa-957234.html
02-03-2021||West||New enforcement tools set up to curb illegal seashell trade in India||World Wildlife Fund India and wildlife trade monitoring network TRAFFIC have developed new identification tools to identify marine mollusc species accurately to monitor seashells trade in India and strengthen action against traffickers.  India’s seashell market is driven mainly by its demand for curios: for making accessories like buttons and combs, lampshades and fashion articles, and other decorative items. TRAFFIC research into seashell seizures between 2009-2019 indicates a sizable amount of ongoing illicit trade, with the weight of reported seizures across the country during this period totalling more than 97,000 kg. Discussions with enforcement agencies reveal that the challenges in curbing illegal seashell trade in India are two-fold. First, only a limited number of seashell species are protected under India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Only 24 of almost 3,400 species of marine molluscs (soft-bodied animals that remain enclosed in their shells) found in India are legally protected from exploitation and illegal trade.   The second challenge is related to the correct identification of species encountered in the illegal wildlife trade. TRAFFIC’s ongoing analysis of seashell seizures for the period of 2009-2019 found that almost a third of seized seashell species could not be correctly identified to the species level by first-level enforcement officers. This leads to wrongful seizures, faulty case reports and ultimately, low conviction rates in instances of illegal trade. In a statement, Dr Saket Badola, Head of TRAFFIC’s India Office and co-author of the ID tools said, “Seashells are sold openly not just at markets in coastal regions of India, but across the country. Correct identification of seized species is essential to better enforcement as it helps secure commensurate convictions through courts. We are hopeful that the new ID tools, probably one of their kind in India, will aid wildlife law enforcement officers in their initiatives to protect and conserve marine molluscs”.  Authored by Dr Deepak V Samuel; Dr Saket Badola, Dr R Ravinesh; Dr A Biju Kumar and Dr Merwyn Fernandes, these new guides provide vital information about marine molluscs protected under India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, their legal and conservation statuses, natural distribution, key identification features and the threats faced by them. In the form of ID cards and posters, the new ID tools will be made available to wildlife law enforcement agencies, including the Forest Department, Police, Border Security Force, Customs, DRI, and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-enforcement-tools-set-up-to-curb-illegal-seashell-trade-in-india-957246.html
02-03-2021||West||Farmers' stir: Fadnavis raises issue of celebs' tweets, Deshmukh counters||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday trained guns at the Maharashtra government,suggesting it was trying to probe icons like Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar over their pro-India tweets issued after some foreign celebrities talked about farmers' protest near Delhi. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh promptly refuted the charge in the state Assembly, saying the state government has ordered a probe into tweets by the BJP's IT cell and not by cricketer Tendulkar and legendary singer Mangeshkar. On February 8, Deshmukh said the state intelligence department will conduct a probe into allegations that some celebrities were pressurised recently to issue tweets in connection with the ongoing farmers' protest. Deshmukh had made the remarks on an online platform after the Congress, a ruling coalition partner in Maharashtra, sought an investigation into the BJP's alleged connection with tweets of some celebrities and whether the saffron party "arm-twisted" them. A number of prominent personalities, including Tendulkar and Mangeshkar, had rallied around the central government on social media using hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. This came after tweets by American pop star Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg backing farmers who are protesting near Delhi's border points against three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. Fadnavis said in the Maharashtra Assembly on Tuesday that Tendulkar and Mangeshkar had tweeted that "India is against propaganda" and "India stands united". "Is it wrong to say in this country that 'India stands united'? Someone gets up, complains to the home minister," the leader of opposition in the Assembly said and asked Deshmukh to think well before entertaining such complaints. Deshmukh, however, dismissed Fadnavis's charges. "I did not speak about probing Tendulkar or Mangeshkar. I had talked about probing the IT cell of a political party, which I am not naming," the minister said. "It was probed. Names of 12 persons have come to the fore in this connection and further action is being taken against them," he added. Deshmukh later said in the House that the IT cell concerned is of the BJP. Countering him, Fadnavis said he will feel proud if he asks anyone to tweet for the country. "Let's assume for a minute that I asked them to do so (issue tweets). What offence did I commit? What offence have I committed if I asked celebrities to side with the country if there is propaganda going on against it?" the BJP leader asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-stir-fadnavis-raises-issue-of-celebs-tweets-deshmukh-counters-957264.html
02-03-2021||West||Threat to life: Kangana seeks transfer of Mumbai cases||Actor Kangana Ranaut has moved the Supreme Court to transfer cases filed against her in Mumbai to a Shimla court in Himachal Pradesh, alleging Shiv Sena leaders would eliminate her due to outspokenness on wrongs committed by them in Bollywood. She claimed she faced a material threat to her life and property in Mumbai because of the personal vendetta of ruling Shiv Sena leaders. She also contended that she had been provided Y plus security by CISF due to threat perception. "The Shiv Sena will leave no stone unturned to eliminate the petitioners herein, because of Kangana's continuous outspokenness against the wrongs done by the Shiv Sena in collusion with big names of the Bollywood," she alleged. In a joint plea, Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel said, "The Maharashtra government led by Shiv Sena has been harassing us. It would not be out of context to mention that Kangana was called ‘Haramkhor Ladki’ by Sanjay Raut, who is a senior Shiv Sena leader and a Member of Parliament." Further, on September 9, 2020, the Shiv Sena-led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished her Pali Hill Bungalow, which the Bombay High Court termed as illegal and having malafide intentions. "If the petitioners visit Maharashtra to attend the said trials, there will be a constant threat to them from the Shiv Sena and Maharashtra government," the petition claimed. The cases listed for transfer are one FIR filed by Ali Kashif Khan Deshmukh for her tweet criticising attack on doctors in Moradabad's Nawabganj area at the peak of Covid-19 pandemic on April 15, 2020, a defamation complaint by lyricist Javed Akhtar following Kangana's interview to Arnab Goswami on July 20, 2020 and a complaint by Munawar Ali for another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/threat-to-life-kangana-seeks-transfer-of-mumbai-cases-957267.html
02-03-2021||West||Toolkit case: Goa-based activist Subham Kar Chaudhuri files for anticipatory bail||An environmental activist filed for anticipatory bail before the Bombay High Court bench in Goa on Tuesday following the controversy linked to the Greta Thunberg-endorsed toolkit in support of farmer's protests. Subham Kar Chaudhuri, known to two accused in the toolkit case Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Mulukm, expressed apprehension that the Delhi Police Special Cell -- which is investigating the case -- may falsely implicate and arrest him. "Though the petitioner has not been named in the said FIR, apparently, respondent no. 2 (Delhi Police) seeks to falsely implicate the petitioner in the offences alleged in the said FIR, with which he has no connection whatsoever," the anticipatory bail application filed by Chaudhuri in the Bombay High Court bench in Goa has said. Notices have already been sent to the Delhi police to file their say in response to the petition. Chaudhuri, 29, has been living in Goa for some time now and has been campaigning for accreditation for Goa's unique estuarine land farming systems referred to as Khazan farming with the UN. Chaudhuri said that he had been in touch with Muluk and Jacob, both of whom have been booked for conspiracy and sedition in the toolkit case, but their interaction had been in connection with another project altogether. "Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk happen to be members of the Extinction Rebellion India chapter, and his interaction with the said persons is strictly in the capacity as liaison and in their capacity as volunteers in Extinction Rebellion -- which is completely unconnected with the offences that the hypothesis of the Delhi police alleges. The petitioner reiterates that he has nothing whatsoever to do with the making of the alleged 'toolkit'," his petition states. Chaudhuri also said that over the last few days, he had been contacted by a Delhi Police personnel, who was seeking to know his whereabouts in Goa, which the petitioner says, led him to fear his arrest and false implication in the sensational case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/toolkit-case-goa-based-activist-subham-kar-chaudhuri-files-for-anticipatory-bail-957312.html
02-03-2021||West||Commotion at Bengal BJP's 'Parivartan Yatra' rally in Hooghly district||BJP's 'Parivartan Yatra' rally on Tuesday witnessed commotion when it was passing by a Trinamool Congress (TMC) party office at Uttarpara in Hooghly district. Activists of the TMC blocked G T Road as the rally neared its office leading to arguments between the workers of the ruling party and the BJP, police said. A timely intervention by the police prevented the situation from turning worse and the rally with BJP members chanting 'Jai Shree Ram' resumed its journey. TMC leader Tapas Roy said, the BJP was instigating trouble to disturb the prevailing peaceful environment in the state. "In the name of movement they are trying to foment trouble but we will not be swayed by any provocation," he said. BJP leader Prabir Ghosal said the attempt by the TMC to create disturbance did not succeed as the stand-off lasted for a few minutes with the timely intervention by the police. TMC sources alleged that the BJP had installed a loudspeaker in front of the TMC party office and raised provocative slogans against the party and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee which incensed their activists. However, the saffron party denied the allegation as "baseless". BJP chief J P Nadda had flagged off the party's 'Parivartan Yatra' in poll-bound West Bengal in early February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/commotion-at-bengal-bjps-parivartan-yatra-rally-in-hooghly-district-957329.html
02-03-2021||West||Gujarat local bodies polls: Congress MLA, legislators' kin lose||Even as the BJP surges ahead in the local bodies' polls in Gujarat, among the losers on the Congress side were an MLA and sons of seven sitting MLAs. Counting of votes in 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats of the state is currently underway, the polling having been held on February 28. In a major upset, Niranjan Patel, a three-time Congress MLA from Petlad in Anand district, lost from ward number 2 and 5 of Petlad municipality. His son, Saurabh Patel, too lost to the BJP in the same municipality. Vijay Parmar, son of Congress MLA Punambhai Parmar from Sojitra in Anand, lost to a BJP candidate from Moraj seat in Tarapur taluka panchayat, while the former's nephew Nikunj Parmar also tasted defeat. Yash Kotwal, son of Khedbrahma Congress MLA Ashvin Kotwal, was trounced in Chitariya in tribal-dominated Vijaynagar taluka panchayat in Sabarkantha district. Bhiloda Congress MLA Anil Joshiara also saw his son Keval biting the dust from Upsal seat in Bhiloda taluka panchayat in the state's Arvalli district. Similar was the fate of Paresh Vansh, son of six-time Congress MLA Punja Vansh from Una in Gir Somnath district, with the former losing to his BJP rival in Rajpara. Vikram Madam, Congress MLA from Khambhalia in Devbhumi Dwarka, saw his son Karan losing from Vadtara seat in the district panchayat polls, while Ramdev Modhwadia, brother of former Gujarat Congress president Arjun Modhwadia, was trounced in Kindarkheda seat of Porbandar taluka panchayat. Bharatiya Tribal Party MLA Chhotu Vasava's son Dilip Vasava also failed to pass the electoral test from Rajpardi seat of Bharuch district panchayat. Incidentally, the ruling BJP had decided to not give tickets to kin of sitting legislators and party leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-local-bodies-polls-congress-mla-legislators-kin-lose-957337.html
