03-03-2021||First Edit||Green shoots of economic recovery welcome||The third quarter of the current financial has seen the country emerge from the Covid-induced recession, howsoever slightly and haltingly. The GDP growth of 0.4%, announced by the National Statistical Office (NSO), is a good green shoot, and it marks a year-on-year rise at constant prices. There is also an estimate of a marginal contraction in the fourth quarter. Gross Value Added (GVA) expanded by 1% in the third quarter against a decline of 22.4% and 7.3% in the first and second quarters, respectively. Real Gross Capital Formation (RGCF) saw high growth during the quarter. It is expected to grow by 2.5% in the January-March quarter. It is also expected that the economy may return to the pre-pandemic levels of growth in the second half of the next financial year.  Recovery was aided by the continuing growth of the agricultural sector, which expanded by 3.9%. It has the possibility of registering a 3% growth for the whole year. Industry has improved, with the manufacturing and construction sectors growing by 1.6% and 6.2%, respectively. Though private consumption and household spending declined in spite of the boost given by festival spending, there was a moderate expansion in investment. Much of the investment was on account of government spending, however, and private investment is still low. Financial services have seen good growth, but areas like trade, transportation, hotels and communication have continued their poor run. Segments that are labour and contact intensive have also not seen any significant positive movement. This may be the result of the loss of jobs and income, which are far from their previous levels, and the curbs on activities enforced by the Covid-19 protocol.  While the signs of revival are encouraging, they cannot be taken as indications of a sustained turnaround. In the case of industry, the growth was mainly contributed by the bigger firms. The small and medium sectors are still struggling. The NSO figures reflect the performance of the formal sector and it does not give the full picture of the economy. The informal sector has not picked up and there are no figures to show their performance. Governments at the Centre and in the states may not be in a position to do much more to push growth through public spending. Revenue from disinvestment may be available to the Centre only after months. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has done most of what it can through policy and actions. Most importantly, the spurt in Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country poses a threat to economic activities. Vaccination for the general population has only just started and will take time to make a difference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/green-shoots-of-economic-recovery-welcome-957439.html
03-03-2021||In Perspective||A name board that displays narcissism||The naming of the world’s largest cricket stadium in Ahmedabad as ‘Narendra Modi Stadium’ brings into focus once again the question whether public places such as stadiums, parks, monuments, institutions or roads should be named after political leaders. And in this particular instance, whether it should have been named after a living politician and one, moreover, who is still in office.  It surprised many that the stadium, earlier known as Sardar Patel Stadium was renamed as Narendra Modi Stadium on the day of its official inauguration, and no less than the President of India, Ramnath Kovind, did so, triggering not only a slugfest among political parties but also unease amongst the thinking public. The BJP was quick to clarify that the overall complex still bears the name of Sardar Patel and only the cricket stadium has been named after the Prime Minister. Here again, a question springs to mind. Was there a need to name the cricket stadium after Modi? Would it not have been appropriate for the entire sports complex to be known after Sardar Patel? After all, Patel’s contribution to our country has been immense. Hasn’t Modi himself acknowledged the ‘Iron Man of India’ as an inspirational figure when, a few years ago, he said, “I am from the BJP and he was from Congress, but I still follow his ideology and beliefs, which belong to no party”? The obsession of naming public places after politicians, especially living ones, smacks of narcissism and blatant self-promotion, which goes against democratic values. I am not singling out Modi here. In fact, such things should not happen as long as a person is living, no exceptions. There are many other ways to honour politicians during their lifetime for their contributions to public life. Public places such as stadiums, airports, ports, museums, institutions, etc., should be appropriately named. For example, the cricket stadium in Ahmedabad could have been named after an Indian cricketer whose contribution to the game has been outstanding. There are any number of cricketers -- from Ranjitsinhji, C K Nayudu, Vijay Hazare, Pataudi, Vinoo Mankad to cricketers from Gujarat itself, such as Datta Gaekwad or Nari Contractor, who was born in Godhra. Likewise, museums should be named after people who have contributed greatly to the arts or the sciences; educational institutions after their founders or exemplary teachers. Bridges, parks, streets can be named after national heroes or important events in our history. These will not only help people establish a link between the individual and the public place/monument but also lend context to the individual’s lasting legacy. One is tempted to ask what Modi’s contribution to cricket is, apart from news reports saying that he conceptualised the idea of the stadium while he was Chief Minister of Gujarat. Cartoonists had a field day, with one saying “what a way to honour the greatest spinner in the world” while another said: “It is going to be a spinning wicket for sure as it is named after India’s greatest spinner.” Equally puzzling and amusing is the fact that the two pavilion ends of the stadium are named after corporate giants Reliance and Adani, eliciting barbs and jokes from many, with Rahul Gandhi reiterating the ‘hum do, humare do’ joke. Raul Castro, during his time as President of Cuba, declared that his government will not allow naming of public places after his long-ruling brother Fidel Castro, as the latter was against building a personality cult. “The men and women who lead this country are people, not gods,” Fidel Castro had said in his biography. How strikingly different it is in India and in some other countries where almost every important monument or public place is named after politicians! I don’t mean to say that political leaders who have been immortalised through public monuments, places or institutions have not contributed to our country. Indeed, they have. But there are many others who have also contributed greatly to India in their chosen fields – scientists, artists, writers, sportspersons, educationists, social workers, soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the country, and others. Don’t they too deserve to be honoured and remembered? The names of public places, institutions or monuments form an important part of our history as they stand as memorials for individuals and events of the past. They shed light not only on the individual but also on his or her achievements and contribution to the country, serving as inspiration for future generations. Naming public places after individuals who are still living, and still in office, is also risky because the individual could well come to be seen as undeserving later in life. Nor can naming of public places be decided arbitrarily on the basis of political power, influence, wealth or other factors. Hence, it is imperative that in the naming of public places, a proper, transparent procedure is followed with clearly specified processes, consistently applied rules and solid criteria to choose the right names of those who are aligned with the country’s values. (The writer is a senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-name-board-that-displays-narcissism-957441.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||19 test positive for Covid in Dakshina Kannada||Nineteen people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district on Tuesday. The total deaths in the district stood at 740. The total number of positive cases in the district has increased to 34,468 while the total discharges stood at 33,536, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V stated in a press release. The district has 192 active cases with patients being treated in different hospitals. As many as 34,963 cases were registered against those who violated mandatory mouth mask rule and a fine amount of Rs 36,03,510 has been collected from the violators till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/19-test-positive-for-covid-in-dakshina-kannada-957425.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard hit by vehicle dies in Hiriyur taluk||A one-year old male leopard was killed on spot after being hit by an unidentified vehicle near Navodaya school at Uduvalli in Hiriyur taluk on Tuesday night. It sustained injury on head, shoulder and legs. According to Range Forest Officer Sriharsha, a leopard cub stays with its mother for three to four months. Later, it starts hunting herbivorous animals on its own. "This leopard had the potential to get food on its own," he said. He suspects that the incident might have taken place while it was crossing the road at night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-hit-by-vehicle-dies-in-hiriyur-taluk-957720.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||5 lakh industries operating without permission from KSPCB: Yogeeshwara||Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment C P Yogeeshwara on Wednesday, said that approximately five lakh industries are operating without obtaining the 'letter of consent' or approval from Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). The minister was addressing a gathering, after inaugurating a programme organised to distribute ‘letter of consent’ by Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association and KSPCB, here. The minister said, "Water sources and water bodies are contaminated and the Green Tribunal is questioning the department about it. All small-scale industries must be registered with the board. The officials of the Environment department should bring all industries under the board’s purview." The minister assured of revising the fee for approval. The department has increased the fee by 30%, recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/5-lakh-industries-operating-without-permission-from-kspcb-yogeeshwara-957731.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rising Covid-19 cases paralyse tourism sector again||With cases of Covid-19 increasing in the neighbouring Kerala, tourism, as well as hospitality sector, in the city, is badly affected once again. The tourism sector, which was severely affected due to the lockdown, from March 2020, was recovering with an increase in footfall from January 2021. Hotel business was returning to normal, with 70% occupancy after the guidelines were relaxed. But, again, business is hit by 35% to 40%, owing to an outbreak of Covid in Kerala and Maharashtra. According to Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association president C Narayana Gowda, nearly, 25% of tourists to Mysuru are from Kerala. Now, tourism and hospitality sectors are taking a hit again. “Tourists inflow reduced in the last one week. However, tourists from different parts of Karnataka are coming to the city, albeit less in numbers. A majority of the visitors are floating population and do not stay in Mysuru,” he said. In addition, lodges are affected severely as many travellers are cancelling their bookings. A manager of a lodge said, “A majority of their customers are from other states, particularly Kerala. The business was picking up slowly from December end. But, following the outbreak in Kerala, many rooms that were booked online were cancelled since the last 15 days.” “There are nearly 8,500 rooms, catering to tourists and the occupancy was less from March 20, 2020, due to the Covid crisis. The footfall had improved from January first week and business had picked up. Now, again, we are facing trouble,” he said. It has to be noted that a few sections of students from Kerala, who reached Mysuru, tested positive for Covid. Hence, the district administration and the Health department officials made RT-PCR test report mandatory for those entering Karnataka, from Kerala. The officials have given strict instructions to hotels and lodges and also education institutions to allow the people only after getting negative reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rising-covid-19-cases-paralyse-tourism-sector-again-957732.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid vaccination target at 2.87 lakh in Hassan district||Covid vaccination drive for those above 60 years of age and above 45 years of age with health comorbidities was launched in Hassan district. Due to technical issues, the vaccination drive had to be postponed by a day. There is a target to vaccinate 2.87 lakh people. The vaccine is being administered at the district hospital and at all government taluk hospitals. Except government holidays, vaccination will be given on all days. At Primary Health Centres, Covid vaccine is administered on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, between 9 am and 5 pm. Deputy Commissioner R Girish said, “Frontline warriors have already been successfully administered the vaccine. Now, the vaccine is being given for those above 60 years, and for people suffering from blood pressure, diabetes and other ailments and are above 45 years. They can directly visit the hospital or register on www.cowin.gov.in The people are requested to bring either Aadhaar card, pan card, driver’s license or voter’s identity card for registration. Those suffering from comorbidities should produce doctor’s certificate, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-vaccination-target-at-287-lakh-in-hassan-district-957733.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivaratri: Thousands from Bengaluru take ‘padayatra’ to Dharmasthala||Thousands of devotees, taking out a padayatra from Bengaluru to Dharmasthala as part of Mahashivaratri, have started arriving in hordes to Hassan district. Mahashivaratri falls on March 11, this year. Several batches of devotees entered Hirisave, the border of Hassan district, on Wednesday. Hundreds of devotees from various layouts in Bengaluru have started padayatra from the last four days. Attired in saffron and wearing a mala, they walk 20 to 40 kms every day. Hundreds of devotees from Mandya and Tumakuru districts and also villagers from Hirisave hobli, joined them to walk to Dharmasthala. The devotees, who arrive on national highway 75, are welcomed with panaka, buttermilk and even snacks across the stretch at Hirisave. The devotees walked via Hirisave, Channarayapatna, Hassan, Belur, Kottegehara, Charmadi and would reach Dharmasthala by March 9 to have darshan of Manjunatha Swamy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivaratri-thousands-from-bengaluru-take-padayatra-to-dharmasthala-957735.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Inspector suspended for allowing youth to drive on KRS dam||Swamy, inspector, Central Industrial Security Force, has been suspended for allowing a youth to drive a jeep on the KRS dam and also capturing it on his mobile phone. The Police department’s internal security division has issued the suspension orders. Swamy was on duty at KRS dam on February 9. It is alleged that Swamy had allowed Surya alias Suresh of Belagola village, his distant relative, to drive the police jeep on the dam on the day, at around 4 pm. While Surya drove the vehicle, Swamy was seated beside him. This drew flak from the people as the general public are banned from even walking on the dam, and Swamy had violated the norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/inspector-suspended-for-allowing-youth-to-drive-on-krs-dam-957737.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP top brass seeks details from Karnataka CM BSY over Jarkiholi controversy||BJP top brass, on Tuesday, asked the details from the Karnataka party leaders over a video purportedly showing state Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi getting intimate with the unidentified woman. Karnataka incharge General Secretary Arun Singh spoke to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel about the incident, sources said. Denying any wrongdoing, Jarkiholi said this is “a big shock” and sought an investigation into this. He said it is a “100% fake video”. Singh also asked the state leaders to send all videos and other details about the incident. Singh, who is on a Rajasthan tour at present, is likely to submit details to BJP president JP Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah tonight or tomorrow. The party top brass is likely to communicate their decision to the CM by Wednesday. The party top leaders are upset with the incident and may ask Jarkiholi to quit on his own on moral grounds, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-top-brass-seeks-details-from-karnataka-cm-bsy-over-jarkiholi-controversy-957437.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP leaders to take decision on Jarkiholi issue: Ramadass||After Opposition parties demanded the resignation of Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in connection with a sex scandal, BJP MLA S A Ramadass said that the party leaders will make a decision on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-leaders-to-take-decision-on-jarkiholi-issue-ramadass-957586.html
03-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi resigns over sex scandal in setback for BJP||Ramesh Jarkiholi tendered his resignation as Water Resources Minister on Wednesday, following the controversy over the alleged 'sex for job' scandal. His resignation came hours after a video was leaked to TV channels of the minister getting intimate with a woman. Social activist Dinesh Kallahalli had filed a complaint at Cubbon Park police station on Tuesday evening, alleging that Ramesh Jarkiholi had threatened the woman, whom he had lured assuring a job in Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited. Ramesh had initially refused to step down. His brother and BJP MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi had met Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday morning demanding a CBI or CID probe into the leak. However, the Chief Minister asked him to resign from the post to prevent further embarrassment to the government ahead of the upcoming Budget Session. "Allegations against me are far from truth and a probe should be constituted soon. Even though I am confident of emerging innocent, I am tendering my resignation from the state Cabinet on moral grounds," Ramesh wrote in his resignation letter.  Yediyurappa is learnt to have assured of inducting him to the Cabinet again, if he was cleared of the charges levelled against him. BJP National General Secretary B L Santosh spoke to Ramesh Jarkiholi and convinced him to resign to avoid embarrassment to the government, sources said. The minister was under immense pressure from government and BJP leaders, who had pressed for the resignation. State president Nalin Kumar Kateel is learnt to have spoken to BJP general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh about the developments. Meanwhile, supporters of Ramesh Jarkiholi staged a protest against his resignation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-water-resources-minister-ramesh-jarkiholi-resigns-over-sex-scandal-in-setback-for-bjp-957581.html
03-03-2021||Main Article||Upholding Free Speech | The need to speak up||By seeking to make an example of Disha Ravi over the toolkit issue, Delhi Police made an overkill. But it all began with the knee-jerk reaction of the Ministry of External Affairs to the tweets of Rihanna and Greta Thunberg and then the rallying of Indian celebrities in support of the actions of the government in clamping down on the farmers’ movement. By making use of force, and excessive and disproportionate force at that, against anyone daring to raise a voice against its high-handedness, the government, driven by a desire to strike fear among its critics, has only amplified its own insecurities. Therefore, any narrative that runs counter to the ones provided by the government, and which has a wide following, is sure to fall foul of the government’s preferences and decrees. Considering that the sedition law, enacted in 1860 by the British Raj for "offences against the State" and originally brought in to curtail the Wahhabi Movement that threatened British rule in the subcontinent, is still being exploited to curb protests against the government, it should cause shame to our lawmakers and to those who are still invoking it at the slightest provocation. The government’s shrill cry of ‘foreign conspiracy’ to malign India’s name (or its whingeing about outsiders poking their noses in India’s internal matters) – invoked far too frequently lately – failed to put a gloss on the perception war that the present dispensation was hoping to win. The idea that India is faltering on its democratic credentials and making a serious dent in the right to free speech on one pretext or the other is doing the rounds in international fora over which our government has little control. The exasperation might already be evident about how the government seeks to control social media platforms which, warts and all, have been the most potent vehicle for the right to free speech if we keep in mind that it is through these platforms that one can register a protest, report a crime, document an injustice, mobilise an opinion and post unsavoury truths that the mainstream media chooses to turn a blind eye to. It is ironic that democratic India leads the world in internet shutdowns, followed by autocratic Myanmar. Perhaps our government, wary of criticism, and our apex court, wary of contempt, should reflect why the perception has turned bad and what course corrections should be made, in a spirit of soul-searching. By choosing to decide which news items we should and should not read, which channels we should watch, what narrative we should subscribe to, what we should and should not post on social media, and by trying to keep a hawk’s eye on the activities of citizens, it cannot curb disaffection. That our government is increasingly becoming paternalistic in trying to set our moral priorities ‘right’, to tell us what constitutes ‘anti-national’ behaviour, which causes we should align ourselves with and from which we should desist, is clear. But in trying to stifle recalcitrant voices by unleashing its agencies and its laws on them, that it is trying to put serious curbs on the right to free speech is also manifest, to people both at home and abroad. Union Minister for Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad recently said in the Rajya Sabha that social media platforms must follow the law of the land and assured the House that the government is opposed to fake news and spreading of hate through them, which is as it should be. But the argument for free speech gets fraught here. Since all governments thrive on numbers, they set great store by them. That could partly be a reason why our MEA took so much umbrage at the tweets of Greta and Rihanna, because if the office of the Prime Minister (PMO India) has 40.8 million followers and our Prime Minister has 65.8 million followers on Twitter, pop star Rihanna has 101.9 million followers and climate activist Greta Thunberg has 4.9 million followers, that too with an international following that is able to amplify their opinion against our government’s stand against Indian farmers. All the governments of the world – authoritarian, quasi-authoritarian, democratic or quasi-democratic – are aware of the raw power of social media platforms to speak truth to power. While the unfettered sway of social media might also be a vehicle for religious and communal hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence, or extreme forms of hate speech, the larger question is, who will rein in a social media platform when the role of the government is not neutral in choosing what constitutes hate speech, what is anti-national behaviour, what constitutes sedition, and what is righteous protest? In the event States fail to redress instances of advocacy of many forms of hatred, people must have access to justice, given that our courts act impartially. What if social media is used to propagate social dogmas by the government? Asked about journalists and activists being booked in sedition cases, former CJI Ranjan Gogoi, now a Rajya Sabha MP (nominated), said at a conclave recently that the country is facing threats from everywhere. Mostly ominously, he said that the "efficacy" of the judicial system needs "serious reconsideration". A ‘Surveillance State’ is, by definition, wary of free speech. It promotes self-censorship, betrays distrust of institutions and compromises them, and remains cynical about the free exchange of ideas.  So, what is at stake? Democratic values such as freedom of speech, the institutional integrity of our hallowed institutions such as our Parliament and the apex court, might well fritter away if their members in each era did not work hard to protect them, assuming instead that victories once earned in an earlier age will always remain with them. Those victories are not permanent, the institutions, their ideals and integrity must be fought for by each generation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/upholding-free-speech-the-need-to-speak-up-957440.html
03-03-2021||National||India has highest number of attacks on Corona warriors globally||One-third out of almost 1,200 attacks on health workers globally last year were related to Covid-19, a coalition of healthcare experts said on Tuesday, with staff being beaten and doused with hot coffee by people fearful of coronavirus infection. India had the highest number of coronavirus-related attacks, with 128 out of the 412 incidents, carried out mainly by protestors, patients and their relatives, and police, data from the Safeguarding Health in Conflict Coalition (SHCC) showed. "As we enter the second year of the Covid-19 pandemic, we must learn from the failures of year one and act immediately to safeguard health workers," said Leonard Rubenstein, founder of the SHCC, made up of 40 health worker and charity groups. Mexico had the second highest number of threats or attacks - 49 - with nurses told to get off a bus by other passengers, health workers being beaten while tracing contacts of people infected with Covid-19 and a trainee doctor sprayed with bleach. Mexico and India are among the countries hardest hit by coronavirus pandemic, which has caused 2.5 million deaths worldwide and some 115 million infections, as nations race to procure vaccines and detect new Covid-19 variants. SHCC said other incidents - presented on an interactive online map - were related to opposition to public health measures, like testing and social distancing, and people not wanting hospitals to be used to treat Covid-19 patients. Fake news has helped fuel assaults on frontline workers, with some members of the public mistrusting medical treatments or official information about the virus, aid agencies have said. After reports of attacks last year, the United Nations in Mexico called for respect for health personnel, highlighting the role of women in the sector. Rubenstein said healthcare inequality had also helped fuel mistrust that can lead to violence, and that any solutions had to work on multiple levels. "We must address the structural issues, whether its deprivation of the rights of women or inequitable access to healthcare," he said. The true number of attacks on health workers in 2020 was likely higher than the total of 1,172 reported, said the groups involved in producing the map, which also included Insecurity Insight, a Geneva-based non-profit. "Violence is absolutely unacceptable and it hurts everyone," Erica Burton, a senior advisor to the International Council of Nurses, which is a member of SHCC's steering committee, said at a webinar to launch the map.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-highest-number-of-attacks-on-corona-warriors-globally-957470.html
03-03-2021||National||India-US ties greatest testament to Gandhi-King legacy, says Indian diplomat||The current strong ties between India and the United States is the greatest testament to the legacy of Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr, Consul General of India in Chicago Amit Kumar has said. Kumar said this at the first Gandhi King Legacy Roundtable Summit organized by the US Congressional Multi Advisory Task Force of Congressman Danny K Davis in cooperation with Metropolitan Asian Family Services on February 26. "The greatest testament to the Gandhi-King legacy is the current ties between India, the world's largest democracy and the US, the oldest democracy," Kumar said, addressing the summit in Chicago last week, according to a media release issued on Tuesday. He said the supply of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines to several countries recently is "another glowing example of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's global leadership". "Martin Luther King Jr. was a disciple of Gandhi. A lot of Gandhi's teachings was put into practice by Martin Luther king Jr. So it is important that our elected leaders and community leaders adapt and enrich the same partnership between African and Indian communities in Chicago and beyond," said Congressman Danny K Davis in his presidential address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-ties-greatest-testament-to-gandhi-king-legacy-says-indian-diplomat-957483.html
03-03-2021||National||DH Toon | 'LPG prices rising? So what?'||Cooking gas LPG price was on Monday hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder across all categories, including subsidised fuel and those availed by Ujjwala scheme beneficiaries - the fourth increase in rates in a month's time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-lpg-prices-rising-so-what-957517.html
03-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Congress vs Congress: 'Break from hectic schedule'||Congress dissenters Anand Sharma and Ghulam Nabi Azad came under fire from party leaders who accused them of “undermining” the party “in tune with the agenda” of the BJP. While Congress workers set posters of Azad afire in Jammu, senior leaders slammed Sharma for his remarks questioning the party’s pre-poll alliance in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-congress-vs-congress-break-from-hectic-schedule-957519.html
03-03-2021||National||India sees nearly 15,000 new Covid-19 cases, 98 deaths||India registered a single-day spike of 14,989 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, pushing the infection tally to 1,11,39,516, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll rose to 1,57,346 with 98 new fatalities, the data updated at 9 am on Wednesday showed. The active case count has further increased to 1,70,126, which comprises 1.51 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-nearly-15000-new-covid-19-cases-98-deaths-957531.html
03-03-2021||National||PM Modi calls for protection of forests, safe habitats for animals on World Wildlife Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi commended people working for the protection of wildlife on World Wildlife Day on Wednesday and said that everything possible should be done to preserve forests and safe habitats for animals. On the occasion, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu called for putting in dedicated efforts to save and preserve the wildlife and create greater awareness on the need to maintain a healthy ecological balance on the planet. Modi tweeted, I salute all those working towards wildlife protection. Be it lions, tigers and leopards, India is seeing a steady rise in the population of various animals. We should do everything possible to ensure protection of our forests and safe habitats for animals."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-for-protection-of-forests-safe-habitats-for-animals-on-world-wildlife-day-957558.html
03-03-2021||National||Doors opened for talented youth in several sectors: PM Modi||Doors are being opened for talented youth in several sectors such as space, atomic energy and agriculture as limiting knowledge and research is a big injustice to the country's potential, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Addressing a webinar on implementation of the Union Budget provisions in the education sector, he said the new National Education Policy has encouraged the use of local language and now it is the responsibility of all academics and experts of every language to prepare the best content available in the country and the world in Indian languages. This is definitely possible in this era of technology, he asserted. Modi said education, skill, research and innovation were the second biggest focus of budget after health. "The Union Budget has broadened our efforts to link education with employability and entrepreneurial capability," he said. As a result of these efforts, India today is among the top three countries in terms of scientific publications, Modi said. Limiting knowledge and research is a big injustice to the country's potential, the prime minister said. "With this thinking, doors of several sectors such as space, atomic energy, DRDO, agriculture, are being opened for our talented youth," Modi said. To build a self-reliant India, confidence in the youth of the country is important, he said, asserting that confidence only comes when the youth has complete faith in their education and knowledge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doors-opened-for-talented-youth-in-several-sectors-pm-modi-957563.html
03-03-2021||National||Views different from govt's not seditious: SC rejects PIL against Farooq Abdullah||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a PIL seeking action against former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah for making a statement on scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution, related to special status of the erstwhile state. The court said that dissent or expression of views different from the opinion of the government cannot be termed as seditious. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta also imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on petitioner Rajat Sharma who failed to substantiate his allegations that Abdullah sought help from Pakistan and China for restoring Article 370. The Centre abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5, 2019 and divided into the state into two Union Territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh - with effect from October 31, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/views-different-from-govts-not-seditious-sc-rejects-pil-against-farooq-abdullah-957566.html
03-03-2021||National||'Shocking': TMC leaders attack over Yogi's women safety remark in WB poll campaign||Lashing out at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who visited poll-bound West Bengal to campaign for BJP on Tuesday, several TMC MPs including actor Nusrat Jahan and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar questioned the law and order in the northern state. Nusrat Jahan tweeted that she cannot find words to describe the 'horror' Uttar Pradesh has turned into, using the hashtag #BJPHataoBetiBachao.  UP CM Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday lambasted his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee on the issue of women safety and alleged that incidents of cattle smuggling and 'Love Jihad' are continuing unabated while the TMC government is endangering national security by indulging in appeasement politics. Claiming that West Bengal, which had once led the nation, is now facing a lawless situation, Adityanath had also said the state needs a "double engine BJP government" to regain its lost glory. Listen to the heart-wrenching statement of the father of the deceased teenager from UP's Bulandshahr, who was brutally raped and killed.  Apart from Nusrat Jahan, several other senior TMC leaders were also quick to respond to the UP CM's allegations and said West Bengal did not need sermons from him and rather he should look at the dismal track record of his state. Alleging that Yogi has made Uttar Pradesh the "rape capital" of India, TMC MP Mahua Moitra on Tuesday tweeted that she pities BJP workers of Bengal who are "scurrying" around arranging the "circus" of the U{ CM's campaign. So Bhogi Yogi who’s made UP the rape capital of India is now coming to Malda, Bengal to campaign for @BJP! Pity poor @BJP workers scurrying around arranging the circus.... "In a poll-bound state, Yogi Adityanath comes and spreads misinformation to fool people..." TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar tweeted. Cricketer Manoj Tiwary who recently joined the party in the presence of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, tweeted a video with the hashtag #BJPHataoBetiBachao, soon after the UP CM's address. Elections to the 294-member assembly will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shocking-tmc-leaders-attack-over-yogis-women-safety-remark-in-wb-poll-campaign-957567.html
03-03-2021||National||Supreme Court dismisses plea by UP govt against Mukhtar Ansari's sons||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea by the Uttar Pradesh government against interim bail granted to Abbas Ansari and Umar Ansari, two sons of mafia-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari in a land grab case. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy did not find any merit in the petition filed by the Yogi Adityanath government against the Allahabad High Court's order granting relief to Abbas and Umar. "We do not find any error in the High Court order granting interim relief in the case. The HC will hear the case on Thursday and thus we would not interfere," the court said. Acting on a writ petition, the Lucknow bench of the HC had in October 2020 granted protection to Abbas and Umar in an FIR lodged by Lucknow's Hazratganj police station on August 27, last for illegal constructions on government land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-by-up-govt-against-mukhtar-ansaris-sons-957594.html
03-03-2021||National||Maharashtra, Karnataka, 6 other states continue to see surge in new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka continue to report a surge in fresh Covid-19 cases and they account for 85.95 per cent of the cases reported in a span of 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The ministry said that 14,989 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours.  Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 7,863. It is followed by Kerala with 2,938, while Punjab reported 729 new cases. "Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Karnataka have shown the maximum increase in new cases on a week on week basis," the ministry said. Maharashtra alone accounted for a weekly increase of 16,012 cases. In percentage terms, Punjab reported a weekly increase of 71.5 per cent (1,783 cases). The Centre is continuously engaging with the states and union territories reporting higher caseload of active cases and those reporting a spike in the daily new Covid-19 cases, the ministry underlined.  States and UTs have been advised to maintain a continued rigorous vigil for containing the spread of Covid-19 so that the gains of collective efforts are not squandered away, the ministry said. Need for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts are strongly emphasised. The central government has also rushed high-level teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir to support them in their fight against the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. The three-member teams are headed by joint secretary-level officers in the Health Ministry.  They will ascertain reasons for the surge and coordinate with the state health departments in Covid-19 control and containment measures. India's total active caseload has reached 1,70,126 on Wednesday. India's present active caseload now stands at 1.53 per cent of the total positive cases. Showing the change in active cases for states/UTs in a day, the ministry said while Kerala, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Jammu and Kashmir show a reduction in the active cases in a span of 24 hours, Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi, Karnataka and Gujarat display a rise in the active cases during the same period. Eight States -- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana -- are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry highlighted. The 2nd dose of Covid19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. Vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. More than 1.56 crore (1,56,20,749) vaccine doses have been administered through 3,12,188 sessions, according to provisional report till Wednesday 7 am. These include 67,42,187 healthcare workers (1st dose), 27,13,144 HCWs (2nd dose), 55,70,230 FLWs (1st dose) and 834 FLWs (2nd dose), 71,896 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) and 5,22,458 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on Day-46 of the vaccination drive (March 2), a total of 7,68,730 vaccine doses were given. Out of which 6,52,501 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 10,527 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 1,16,229 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine. More than 1.08 crore people have recovered from the disease so far. As many as 13,123 patients have recovered and got discharged in the last 24 hours. Of the new recovered cases, 86.58 per cent are concentrated in six states. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 6,332 newly recovered cases. As many as 3,512 people recovered in Kerala in the past 24 hours, followed by 473 in Tamil Nadu. 98 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Four states account for 88.78 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (54). Kerala follows with 16 daily deaths and Punjab reported 10 deaths in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-karnataka-6-other-states-continue-to-see-surge-in-new-covid-19-cases-957600.html
03-03-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||President Ram Nath Kovind was administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at an army hospital on Tuesday and urged all eligible citizens to get vaccinated. According to tweets on his official handle, the president, 75, was accompanied by his daughter when the vaccine dose was administered to him at the army's Research and Referral Hospital here. The President thanked all doctors, nurses, health workers and administrators who are successfully implementing the largest vaccination drive in history and urged all eligible citizens to get vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-gets-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-957606.html
03-03-2021||National||People can get Covid-19 vaccine 24x7: Harsh Vardhan||The government has lifted the time restriction on receiving Covid-19 vaccine jabs so as to increase the pace of immunisation, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday. People can now get vaccinated round-the-clock according to their convenience, he said in a tweet, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi values the health as well as the time of the citizens of the country. "The government has lifted the time restriction to increase the speed of vaccination. People can now get vaccinated 24x7 according to their convenience. Prime Minister Narendra Modi understands the value of health as well as the time of citizens," Vardhan tweeted in Hindi. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a press conference on Tuesday that the timeline of vaccinating the beneficiaries from 9 am to 5 pm has been done away with and it is up to the hospitals to decide whether they want to continue administering the vaccines even after that. "Co-WIN 2.0 does not provide 9 am-5 pm vaccination sessions. It has done away with that timeline. If a hospital has the capacity, the system permits it to do vaccination even after 5 pm in consultation with the state government. This has been briefed both to the state governments as well as the private and government hospitals," he said. The second dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 started being administered from February 13 for those who have completed 28 days since the receipt of the first dose. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. More than 1.56 crore (1,56,20,749) vaccine doses were administered in the country through 3,12,188 sessions, according to a provisional report till Wednesday 7 am. The beneficiaries include 67,42,187 healthcare workers (first dose), 27,13,144 healthcare workers (second dose), 55,70,230 front-line workers (first dose), 834 front-line workers (second dose), 71,896 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first dose) and 5,22,458 beneficiaries aged above 60 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-can-get-covid-19-vaccine-24x7-harsh-vardhan-957611.html
03-03-2021||National||Samajwadi Party members walk out of Uttar Pradesh Assembly over issue of cane price||Samajwadi Party members on Wednesday walked out of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly over the issue of cane price, accusing the government of being anti-farmer. During the Question Hour, SP member Narendra Verma asked the government whether cane production cost has increased due to rise in prices of diesel, fertiliser, pesticides, agricultural equipment, and sought to know if the government is considering an increase in cane price. In his reply, Cane minister Suresh Kumar Rana said the state advisory price (SAP) of cane is declared after taking into note production and sugar production cost and other factors, and that the state had already done so for 2020-2021. While the prices for early variety is Rs 325 per quintal, for rejected varieties it is Rs 310 per quintal, and Rs 315 per quintal for common variety, he said. On increasing SAP, he said, the "question does not arise" as for 2021 it has been already fixed. The minister also cited some data of payments made to cane farmers by the previous Samajwadi Party regime and said the present government is committed to the welfare of farmers. Leader of Oppostion, Ram Govind Chowdhury (SP), said the minister did not answer the important question. "When you are not raising the price, how can you double the income of farmers. This government is anti-farmers," he said and walked out along with other SP members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/samajwadi-party-members-walk-out-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-over-issue-of-cane-price-957619.html
03-03-2021||National||Goa CM calls for preserving forests on occasion of World Wildlife Day||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday expressed his government's resolve towards preserving forests and regenerating economic growth around them. On the occasion of the World Wildlife Day, Sawant in a message on Twitter said Goa is blessed with rich biodiversity. "Today we celebrate World Wildlife Day with the theme 'Forests and Livelihoods, Sustaining People and Planet'," he tweeted.   "Under the Swayampurna Goa initiative, let us enable our communities to regenerate economic growth around our pristine forests and spread awareness to preserve them for our future generation," the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-cm-calls-for-preserving-forests-on-occasion-of-world-wildlife-day-957640.html
03-03-2021||National||Kerala turns homes into 'mini-solar power stations'||Before Govindan Satheeshan installed solar panels on the roof of his home in southern India's Kerala state under a government scheme two years ago, the 70-year-old retiree was unsure. Would the panels produce enough electricity? Would they be too expensive? Would the system suffer technical glitches? But his hefty electricity bills, of up to 15,000 rupees ($205) every two months, motivated him to sign up - and today his bills have dropped close to zero. Satheeshan is so happy with the results he invited anyone uncertain about installing a home solar system to visit him in Thiruvananthapuram, the state capital. "People are still doubtful about the feasibility of rooftop solar panels. If anyone is interested but sceptical, they are welcome to visit my home and I will clarify (the benefits)," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Kerala now hopes to convince more residents to make the switch, launching a new solar rooftop programme in January aimed at curbing carbon emissions and cutting the state's reliance on imported power. The Soura (Sun) project aims to install solar panels on 75,000 homes, which will contribute 350 megawatts (MW) of power to the state's grid. Combined with the 20,000 houses that already put in solar panels under an earlier initiative, the new Soura project will help Kerala cover about 10% of its electricity needs through solar, according to KSEB, the state's electricity board. Despite Kerala's solar innovations - from the world's first solar airport to India's largest floating solar power plant - the state has lagged behind much of the country in wider uptake of the renewable energy source. Kerala sits in the middle of a ranking of India's 28 states in terms of installed solar capacity, according to data from the country's Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). Soura offers a subsidy to encourage residents to sign up for the project and dispel the common belief solar panels are only for the rich, explained A. Nasarudeen, a KSEB project leader. "We have streamlined this project, ensuring that ordinary people will benefit. Their houses will be mini-solar power stations. By exploring solar energy, they can be self-reliant in their electricity needs," he said in an interview. Any surplus electricity the rooftop systems generate can be sold back to KSEB at a rate of 3 rupees per kilowatt hour. The project is part of the state's plan to generate 1,000 MW - about a quarter of its electricity needs - from the sun by 2022. KSEB figures show that about 30% of the electricity Kerala uses is produced in the state, with the rest brought in from other states or the national grid at a cost of about 80 billion rupees per year. With more than 33 million residents, according to the latest census, Kerala is India's third most densely-populated state, leaving little available land to build large solar grids, explained Aneesh S. Prasad at the government's Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology. So the government is looking to residents' rooftops to tap into the sun's energy, said the state programme manager. C. T. Ajith Kumar, an energy expert at the Integrated Rural Technology Centre, a research and development institution in Kerala, said the state's focus on solar made both economic and environmental sense. "For reducing carbon emissions, Kerala has no other option other than solar," he said. "We can't cut trees or destroy forest for the purpose of building new hydroelectric power stations. Thermal power stations would generate more emissions. But solar energy is absolutely pollution-free. We have to explore it." On top of the estimated 15 billion rupees the Soura project will cost - paid by the MNRE, KSEB and solar panel producers that sign up - another 5 billion rupees will go toward a sub-scheme aimed at low-income consumers. Those eligible will have to pay only 12% of the installation cost of their solar panels, said KSEB's Nasarudeen. The homeowners get to use 25% of the electricity they produce, with the rest going into the grid, he explained. Even if it overcomes the problem of affordability, the project faces other challenges, said Ambalamukku resident Jacob Varghese, 65, who had solar panels installed under the earlier rooftop scheme. He and other residents he knows had to wait a long time to get approval from the KSEB, visiting its offices many times. "Then, after installing the solar panels, getting the subsidy was the next staggering effort," he said. "As a businessman, I had the patience and financial background to cope with the initial hiccups. But could ordinary people cope with them?" he asked. Nasarudeen said the KSEB was confident it could tackle those issues. By involving more installation companies, the government plans to bring the wait time for residents down to no more than seven days and have subsidies paid as soon as installation starts, he noted. Swapna Ebi Varkey, a 48-year-old housewife in Thiruvananthapuram who installed solar panels on her roof a few years ago, said she was keen for the government to succeed in its quest to get Kerala's homes running on the sun. "Suppose every home in Kerala turned into a mini-rooftop solar power station. Then we could easily make the state clean and green," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-turns-homes-into-mini-solar-power-stations-957648.html
03-03-2021||National||SC to hear anticipatory bail plea of Amazon Prime Video's India head Aparna Purohit on March 4||The Supreme Court would hear on Thursday the plea of Amazon Prime Video's India head Aparna Purohit challenging the Allahabad High Court order rejecting her anticipatory bail in connection with the FIRs lodged against her over web series 'Tandav'. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy, which was to hear Purohit's plea on Wednesday, listed it for consideration on Thursday as the bench was siting till 1 PM only.   She has been accused of inappropriate depiction of Uttar Pradesh police personnel, Hindu deities and an adverse portrayal of a character playing the prime minister in the web series. Earlier, the apex court, on January 27, had declined to grant interim protection from any coercive action to Ali Abbas Zafar, Director of the web series, Purohit, producer Himanshu Mehra, the show's writer Gaurav Solanki and actor Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub. It had said that they may seek bail from courts concerned in the FIRs lodged in connection with the web series. Now, Purohit has appealed to the top court against the Allahabad High Court's February 25 order declining anticipatory bail to her.  A single-judge bench of the High Court had said that Purohit had not been “vigilant and has acted irresponsibly making her open to criminal prosecution in permitting streaming of a movie which is against the fundamental rights of the majority of citizens of this country and therefore, her fundamental right of life and liberty cannot be protected by grant of anticipatory bail to her in the exercise of discretionary powers of this court.” While rejecting the plea, the high court had said that the applicant was earlier granted interim protection from arrest by another bench in a similar case but she was not cooperating with the investigation. The high court had observed, "Western filmmakers have refrained from ridiculing Lord Jesus or the Prophet but Hindi filmmakers have done this repeatedly and are still doing this most unabashedly with Hindu gods and goddesses." "This tendency on the part of the Hindi film industry is growing and if not curbed in time, it may have disastrous consequences for the Indian social, religious and communal order,” the high court had observed. On January 19, 2021, an FIR was lodged on the complaint of one Balbir Azad of Raunija village under Rabupura police station of Greater Noida.  In the complaint, Azad alleged that the show depicted Uttar Pradesh and its police in a poor light. The complaint further alleged that the web series had deliberately denigrated Hindu gods and goddesses.  Several other FIRs have also been lodged in states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bihar and Delhi.  Tandav", a nine-episode political thriller starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-amazon-prime-videos-india-head-aparna-purohit-on-march-4-957656.html
03-03-2021||National||Bharat Biotech claims Covaxin shows 81% interim efficacy; says it is effective against UK variant||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has announced that its indigenously developed vaccine has demonstrated an efficacy of 81 per cent in preventing Covid-19 infection. The interim projections are based on Phase-3 trials of Covaxin. Bharat Biotech also claimed that Covaxin is showing significant immunogenicity against the rapidly emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants like the UK strain. The vaccine was made part of the ongoing Covid-19 immunisation programme in January despite doubts raised by a section of experts and politicians over its efficacy. Covaxin was administered to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Covishield, the other vaccine included in the national drive, reportedly shows around 70 per cent efficacy. “Covaxin demonstrated 81 per cent interim efficacy in preventing Covid-19 in those without prior infection, after the second dose,” Bharat Biotech stated on Wednesday. Beginning in November, Covaxin's Phase-3 trials were conducted with 25,800 participants from across the country between 18-98 years age, including 2,433 volunteers over 60 years age and 4,500 with comorbidities. The first interim analysis now is based on 43 cases, of which 36 cases of Covid-19 were observed in the group given a placebo and seven cases which received COVAXIN, resulting in a point estimate of vaccine efficacy of 80.6 %, the biotech firm said. The analysis showed that severe, serious, and medically attended adverse events occurred at low levels and were balanced between vaccine and placebo groups. An additional interim analysis is planned for 87 cases, and a final one for 130 cases.  The Hyderabad based company termed Covaxin's efficacy outcome as “an important milestone in vaccine discovery, for science and our fight against the coronavirus.” “With today’s results from our Phase 3 clinical trials, we have reported data on our COVID-19 vaccine from Phase 1 to 3 involving around 27,000 participants. Covaxin not only demonstrates high clinical efficacy trend against Covid-19 but also a significant immunogenicity against the rapidly emerging variants,” said Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman & Managing Director, Bharat Biotech. Bharat Biotech said that the National Institute of Virology's analysis indicated that the vaccine-induced antibodies can neutralise the UK variant strains and other heterologous strains. Bharat Biotech developed BBV152 or Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology. Covaxin was given the emergency use authorization by the central drug authorities on 3 January even as it was in the Phase-3 trials, and amid an uncertainty over its efficacy. Covishield, developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca, and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Pune is also part of the ongoing vaccination drive. However, PM Modi chose to take the first dose of the home grown vaccine on Monday at AIIMS, New Delhi, to mark the inauguration of Phase-2 Covid-19 immunisation programme. Covaxin contains a whole virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. It is stable at 2 to 8°C and is shipped in a ready-to-use liquid formulation that permits distribution using existing vaccine supply chain channels. Bharat Biotech said that more than 40 countries globally have expressed their interest in Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-claims-covaxin-shows-81-interim-efficacy-says-it-is-effective-against-uk-variant-957663.html
03-03-2021||National||Caller on BBC show abuses PM Modi's mother; #BoycottBBC trends on Twitter||BBC Asian Network's 'Big Debate' show has come under fire on social media after a speaker in one of the episodes used abusive words against the mother of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A voice recording of the show was shared on Twitter, which has since gone viral. Making #BoycottBBC trend on Twitter, many have slammed the radio show host and the speaker for not taking it off the air. The episode 'Do you feel proud seeing the turban being referred to as a crown in Eastenders?' was hosted by Priya Rai on BBC Sounds. It aired on Monday. Rai took several calls on the show and one of them used bad language towards PM Modi's mother. The remarks were apparently related to the farmers' protests going on in India over the past three months. Following the outrage, the programme has been edited to remove the controversial remark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caller-on-bbc-show-abuses-pm-modis-mother-boycottbbc-trends-on-twitter-957674.html
03-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Karnataka Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi resigns over sex scandal||In your evening news brief, Karnataka Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi resigns following the controversy over the alleged 'sex for job' scandal; government lifts the time restriction on receiving Covid-19 vaccine jabs; high-level committee to conduct a probe into an incident of harassment of girls at a hostel in Maharashtra and Pope Francis calls for release of political prisoners.  Here is the top news of March 3, 2021: Ramesh Jarkiholi tendered his resignation as Water Resources Minister on Wednesday, following the controversy over the alleged 'sex for job' scandal. His resignation came hours after a video was leaked to TV channels of the minister getting intimate with a woman. Social activist Dinesh Kallahalli had filed a complaint at Cubbon Park police station on Tuesday evening, alleging that Ramesh Jarkiholi had threatened the woman, whom he had lured assuring a job in Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited. Ramesh had initially refused to step down. His brother and BJP MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi had met Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday morning demanding a CBI or CID probe into the leak. However, the Chief Minister asked him to resign from the post to prevent further embarrassment to the government ahead of the upcoming Budget Session.   The government has lifted the time restriction on receiving Covid-19 vaccine jabs so as to increase the pace of immunisation, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday. People can now get vaccinated round-the-clock according to their convenience, he said in a tweet, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi values the health as well as the time of the citizens of the country. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a press conference on Tuesday that the timeline of vaccinating the beneficiaries from 9 am to 5 pm has been done away with and it is up to the hospitals to decide whether they want to continue administering the vaccines even after that.   The Maharashtra government has formed a four-member high-level committee to conduct a probe into an incident where girls were allegedly stripped and forced to dance by policemen at a hostel in Jalgaon Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday. The minister made the announcement in the state Assembly after the issue was raised by opposition members.   Pope Francis said on Wednesday the hopes of the people of Myanmar cannot be "suffocated by violence" and again called for the release of political prisoners. At least 30 people have been killed since a coup on February 1. The pope visited Myanmar in 2017. Francis, speaking at the end of his general audience, appealed directly to Myanmar's military authorities "so that dialogue prevails over repression and harmony over discord".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-minister-ramesh-jarkiholi-resigns-over-sex-scandal-957683.html
03-03-2021||National||Every day one family or the other screaming for justice in UP: Priyanka Gandhi||Hitting out at the BJP over alleged rise in incidents of crime in Uttar Pradesh, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said contrary to the Yogi Adityanath government's propaganda, everyday one family or the other is "screaming for justice" in the state. Her attack on the BJP dispensation came over the incident of a 50-year-old man being shot dead in Hathras district by an accused out on bail in a case of molestation lodged in 2018 against the victim's daughter and the body of a 12-year-old girl exhumed from a pit in a man's house in Bulandshahr. "The father of a girl who did not take back a case of molestation was murdered in Hathras. The body of a girl, who had been missing for several days in Bulandshahr, was found buried in a house," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. हाथरस में छेड़छाड़ के खिलाफ मुक़दमा वापस न लेने वाली एक लड़की के पिता की हत्या कर दी गई। बुलंदशहर में कई दिनों से गायब एक बच्ची का शव एक घर में गड़ा हुआ मिला। अपराध को लेकर यूपी भाजपा सरकार के झूठे प्रचार के ठीक विपरीत जमीन पर हर रोज कोई न कोई परिवार न्याय के लिए चीख रहा है। "Contrary to the UP government's false propaganda on crime, every day one family or the other is screaming for justice," she said. Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders have been attacking the Adityanath government over the law and order situation in the state, alleging that criminal activities were rampant, a claim denied by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/every-day-one-family-or-the-other-screaming-for-justice-in-up-priyanka-gandhi-957687.html
03-03-2021||National||West Bengal Assembly polls: Left-Congress-ISF talks make headway||The seat-sharing talks between the Congress and the Indian Secular Front (ISF) finally made some headway with the grand old party agreeing to leave seven seats to the political greenhorn. Congress sources said that that if the ISF agrees to the offer then the seat-sharing issue will be resolved. The ISF has demanded two to three more seats from the Congress and the issue is yet to be resolved. The Left Front has given 30 seats to the ISF already, and the newly formed party seeks to contest from at least 40 seats in the Assembly polls. The development took place late on Tuesday night. "The ISF urged us to leave three more seats in the districts of South 24 Paraganas, Malda and Murshidabad," a Congress leader said. ISF’s fresh demand resulted in further complications with Congress urging the Left Front to leave it a few more seats from which it will give to the ISF. "The CPM is having none of it. They said that if it has to give additional seats to Congress so that it (Congress) can leave to the ISF, then it could give it to the ISF directly," the Congress leader said. But the state Congress leadership is not keen on leaving additional seats to the ISF out of the 92 seats allotted to it. The Left Front has decided to contest in 101 seats and Congress in 92 seats. There are 294 Assembly seats in West Bengal. The CPM has agreed to leave 30 seats to the ISF. "It will be better if we have some more seats. As for leaving seats to the ISF or other parties, it is the CPM's concern," said state Congress President Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. CPM Politburo member Md Salim said that the seat-sharing discussion was going on in a positive manner and issues will soon be resolved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-assembly-polls-left-congress-isf-talks-make-headway-957712.html
03-03-2021||National||Power to administer new digital media rules not with states, UTs: Centre||The Centre has told all states and union territories that the power to administer the new rules on digital media publications has not been delegated to them, a day after the Union government overturned a Manipur district magistrate's order issued under the recently implemented guidelines. In an office memorandum on Monday, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry said that it had announced on February 25 the Information Technology (Intermediary guidelines and digital media ethics codes) Rules 2021 under the IT Act 2000. The provisions under the new rules relate to the code of ethics for digital news publishers, setting up of a grievance redressal system and the requirement of disclosure of information to the Centre, the ministry said, However, it added, “These powers have not been delegated to state governments/district magistrates/police commissioners.” These rules have to be administered by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, it clarified. The rules relate to publishers of digital news and current affairs and publishers of online curated content [Over the Top (OTT)]. The rules provide the code of ethics to be followed by digital news publishers and the publishers of OTT content. “A three-level Grievance redressal mechanism consisting of the publisher (level 1), self-regulating body constituted by the publishers (level 2) and an oversight mechanism of the government (level 3), with time-bound grievance disposal mechanism. “Furnishing of information by publishers to the government and periodical disclosure of information regarding grievance redressal in public domain,” according to the new digital media rules. The Centre had on March 2 sent a letter to the Chief Secretary of Manipur a day after the Imphal West district magistrate, Naorem Praveen Singh, had served a notice to Manipuri talk show Khanasi Neinasi under the new media laws. The magistrate had directed the media outlet to furnish all relevant documents to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The notice was withdrawn after the Centre’s intervention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-to-administer-new-digital-media-rules-not-with-states-uts-centre-957719.html
03-03-2021||National||Govt mulls hiking MSP for jute||The Union Cabinet is believed to have considered a proposal to raise the support price for procuring raw jute during its meeting on Wednesday, according to sources. The Minimum Support Price (MSP) of raw jute is Rs 4,225 per quintal for the 2020-21 season. The sources said the proposal to increase the MSP of raw jute for 2021-22 was on the agenda of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA). However, it could not be ascertained whether a decision has been taken on hiking the MSP. An official announcement about the decision is unlikely to be made because of the model code of conduct being in place for the assembly election in West Bengal, which is a major jute producing state, one of the sources said. The Jute Corporation of India (JCI) is the central government's nodal agency to undertake price support operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-mulls-hiking-msp-for-jute-957726.html
03-03-2021||National||Cancellation of exam justified due to systemic fraud: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said if the recruitment to public employment stood vitiated as a consequence of systemic fraud or irregularities, the entire process would become illegitimate, justifying cancellation of examinations. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said the requirement that a public body must act in fair and reasonable terms animates the entire process of selection. "Recruitment to public services must command public confidence. Persons who are recruited are intended to fulfil public functions associated with the functioning of the government. Where the entire process is found to be flawed, its cancellation may undoubtedly cause hardship to a few who may not specifically be found to be involved in wrong-doing," the bench said. "But that is not sufficient to nullify the ultimate decision to cancel an examination where the nature of the wrong-doing cuts through the entire process so as to seriously impinge upon the legitimacy of the examinations which have been held for recruitment," the bench added. The top court upheld Delhi government's decision of March 15, 2016, to cancel the Tier-I and Tier-II examinations held for recruitment to the post of Head Clerk. It allowed an appeal by Delhi Subordinate Service Selection Board against the court's judgement setting aside the decision to cancel the recruitment examinations. The court pointed out that irregularities were not confined to acts of malpractice or unfair means on the part of a specific group of persons. On the contrary, the report of a committee found deficiencies of a systemic nature like non-issuance of hard copies of admit cards, shortlisting of candidates belonging to a certain geographical area, lack of randomisation in the examination centres, among others, which cast serious doubts on the legitimacy of the entire process of recruitment. In its judgement, the bench said, "The constitutional values which undergird Articles 14 and 16 mandate that selection processes conducted by public authorities to recruit have to be fair, transparent and accountable." However, all too often, human fallibility and foibles intrude into the selection processes. Selection involves intense competition and there is no dearth of individuals who try and bend the rules to gain an unfair leap in the race, the court added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cancellation-of-exam-justified-due-to-systemic-fraud-sc-957728.html
03-03-2021||National||Indian Railways to revamp second class coaches as AC coaches||Indian Railways is working to revamp second class coaches by making them air-conditioned. Rail Coach Factory (RCF) at Kapurthala will design and produce the new coaches. The new coach is being finalised and expected to roll out the prototype soon, said an official in the Indian Railways. Currently, the general second class coach can accommodate up to 100 passengers. However, the AC coaches not only have space to accommodate more passengers, but they will also have more facilities. AC coaches will be built in such a way that they can be used only in Mail and Express trains. The Railways is already working to upgrade its infrastructure so that trains speed can increase up to 130 km per hour. To meet this speed, the national transporter has decided to upgrade general class coaches to AC coaches. RCF has started manufacturing air-conditioned three-tier economy class coaches capable of running at an optimum speed of 160 km per hour. The Economy AC 3-tier coach will replace sleeper class coaches in Mail/Express trains. The production began after successful oscillation trials of the economy coach conducted on the Nagda-Kota-Sawai Madhopur section at a speed of 180 kmph.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-revamp-second-class-coaches-as-ac-coaches-957730.html
03-03-2021||National||India treads gently on Myanmar despite escalating violence||India is taking a cautious approach in its response to the military coup in neighbouring Myanmar, worried about the future of ambitious projects worth about $650 million and reluctant to openly denounce generals who could move closer to its rival China. Two sources aware of the Indian government's position said it is in favour of restoration of democracy in Myanmar and is holding private discussions with the Tatmadaw, or military, which staged the coup on Feb. 1. Security forces have killed more than 30 people since the coup, which ousted the civilian government of Aung San Suu Kyi and triggered pro-democracy protests across the country. The junta's response to the protests, including the use of live ammunition and detentions, has drawn global condemnation. But India, the region's largest democracy, has been more measured in its public positions. Both sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said New Delhi understands the limitations of its influence on the Tatmadaw, preferring not to chasten them openly. "They are very clear that they want to impress on the Tatmadaw that what has happened is wrong," one source said. On Sunday, after Myanmar police fired on protesters and killed at least 18 people, the Indian embassy said in a tweet: "We would urge all to exercise restraint and resolve issues through dialogue in a peaceful manner." In earlier statements, India has called for the democratic process to be upheld. "Restoring democratic order should be the priority of all stakeholders in Myanmar," T.S. Tirumurti, India's Permanent Representative to the United Nations said. India could do more than that, a leader of the Chin refugees from Myanmar said at a protest in New Delhi on Wednesday where a few hundred gathered and burnt pictures of junta leader Senior General Min Aung Hlaing. "We want the government of India to give more pressure on the army to stop killing the people and shooting the protesters, and to restore democracy," said James Fanai, president of the Chin Refugee Committee. India's foreign ministry did not respond to questions from Reuters.  MONEY AND MILITARY Officials in New Delhi have long been concerned about China's growing political and economic influence in South Asia, and turning its back on the Myanmar junta could potentially allow China to gain further ground. India has provided developmental assistance of more than $1.75 billion to Myanmar and is currently involved in developing the nearly $400 million Kaladan port and highway project in the west of the country. It is also putting in around $250 million for another road project to connect India's landlocked northeastern states with Thailand, via Myanmar. "The biggest worry is the destabilising impact of this coup on connectivity," said one of the sources. Myanmar's military government itself appeared to highlight India's development role, running a story on Tuesday in a state-run daily about senior Myanmar officials meeting in the capital Naypyidaw to discuss implementing projects funded by India. India's reticence in calling out the Tatmadaw is further underpinned by its reliance on Myanmar troops for securing its northeastern borders, where some insurgent groups are thought to have Chinese support. Over the last two years, the Myanmar military had undertaken operations at India's request to flush out insurgents along the frontier, Indian army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said last month. The Indian military also trains a number of Myanmar soldiers at its facilities and New Delhi last year gifted the Tatmadaw with its first submarine. Gautam Mukhopadhaya, a former Indian ambassador to Myanmar, said the Indian officials would also be thinking back to New Delhi's backing of pro-democracy protests in Myanmar in 1988, which were suppressed by military, leaving India's ties with a key neighbour in tatters. "We went on a limb for the students and the pro-democracy agitation, and then the junta crushed it," he said. "And then we needed the army to deal our own security issues."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-treads-gently-on-myanmar-despite-escalating-violence-957743.html
03-03-2021||National||Congress, NCP slam Centre over I-T raids on Kashyap, Taapsee||Maharashtra ruling allies Congress and the NCP on Wednesday criticised the Income Tax raids on filmmaker Anurag Kashyap and actor Taapsee Pannu, and termed the action as an attempt to suppress the voices of those who speak against the Modi government and put forth "facts". State minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said central agencies are being used to target those who take a stand against the BJP-led NDA government. His cabinet colleague Ashok Chavan of the Congress said the raids are the Centre's way to pressurise people who put forth "facts" so that they do not speak up. "Central agencies like the ED, CBI and Income Tax are being used to target those who take an anti-government stand and speak against the policies of the regime," Malik told reporters outside Vidhan Bhavan in south Mumbai. "The premises of Anurag Kashyap and Pannu have been raided. Both were raising their voices against the Modi government. This action has been carried out to suppress their voices," said the NCP leader. Interacting with media persons separately outside Vidhan Bhavan, PWD Minister Chavan said the raids are not something new. This is not new. We have been seeing this as happening often. Those who put forth facts are being pressurised in this way so that they don't speak up, Chavan said while replying to a question. Hitting out at the Centre, another Maharashtra Minister Yashomati Thakur said the Income Tax Department's action against the Bollywood figures stemmed from "vengeance". They work with so much vengeance. They don't want anyone to enjoy the freedom a democracy gives. For them, it is an autocratic rule and whatever they say is right and whatever others want to say is wrong, the Women and Child Development Minister Thakuralleged. Further attacking the Centre, the Congress minister said anyone who speaks up on national issues is labelled as deshdrohi (anti-national). The I-T Department on Wednesday raided the homes and offices of Pannu and Kashyap as well as his partners who launched the now-shuttered production house Phantom Films, officials said. The searches, part of a tax evasion probe against Phantom Films and carried out across 30 locations in Mumbai and Pune, also covered Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhasish Sarkar and some executives of celebrity and talent management companies KWAN and Exceed, they said. The others searched include some Phantom Films production house employees, which was dissolved in 2018, and its then promoters Kashyap, director-producer Vikramaditya Motwane, producer Vikas Bahl and producer-distributor Madhu Mantena.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-ncp-slam-centre-over-i-t-raids-on-kashyap-taapsee-957746.html
03-03-2021||National||India 'downgraded' from 'Free' to 'Partly Free' country by US-based organisation||India has been downgraded from a “Free Country” to a “Partly Free Country” by the ‘Freedom House’, a non-profit organisation, which is based in the United States and annually assesses the extents of political freedom and human rights in the countries around the world. The country scored 51 out of 100 in a separate assessment of the extent of internet freedom. “India’s status declined from Free to Partly Free due to a multiyear pattern in which the Hindu nationalist government and its allies have presided over rising violence and discriminatory policies affecting the Muslim population and pursued a crackdown on expressions of dissent by the media, academics, civil society groups, and protesters,” the Freedom House stated in its latest report. The Freedom House was formally established in New York in 1941 to promote the involvement of the US in World War II and the fight against fascism. It calls itself the “oldest” US organisation devoted to the support and defence of democracy around the world. The organisation has been regularly publishing its annual report since 1973, employing the methods of social science analysis to assess the level of freedom in each country in the world, with a numerical score and ranking as ‘Free’, ‘Partly Free’, or ‘Not Free’. It noted in its latest report that the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and its state-level allies continued to crack down on critics during the year (2020) and their response to the Covid-19 “included a ham-fisted lockdown that resulted in the dangerous and unplanned displacement of millions of internal migrant workers”.  “The ruling Hindu nationalist movement also encouraged the scapegoating of Muslims, who were disproportionately blamed for the spread of the virus and faced attacks by vigilante mobs,” the organisation alleged, adding: “Rather than serving as a champion of democratic practice and a counterweight to authoritarian influence from countries such as China, Modi and his party are tragically driving India itself toward authoritarianism.” The latest report by the Freedom House downgraded not only India, but also 72 other nations. It, however, noted that India’s decline to “Partly Free” status meant that less than 20% of the world’s population were presently living in a ‘Free’ country, the smallest proportion since 1995. "The enemies of freedom have pushed the false narrative that democracy is in decline because it is incapable of addressing people’s needs. In fact, democracy is in decline because its most prominent exemplars are not doing enough to protect it,” it argued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-downgraded-from-free-to-partly-free-country-by-us-based-organisation-957757.html
03-03-2021||National||Election Commission's Special Observers to have the final say in security plans in poll-bound states||The Election Commission has further empowered the Special General Observers and the Special Police Observers appointed by it in the poll-bound states, entrusting them with the new responsibility of vetting and, if necessary, modifying deployment of police and paramilitary personnel. The EC on Wednesday sent out a communiqué to the Chief Electoral Officers of all the states and the union territories. The commission made it clear that the Special General Observers and the Special Police Observers appointed by it ahead of any elections in any state would have the final say on the deployment of security forces ahead of the polling as well as the on the day of polling and the day of counting. The poll-panel made the move just ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in the four states – West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, and the Union Territory of Puducherry. The Commission had on February 8 last ordered that the election security plan, including the randomization and deployment of the forces, in any poll-bound state would be finalized by a committee comprising the Chief Electoral Officer, the nodal officer of the state police and the state coordinator of the central paramilitary forces. The new communiqué issued by the EC on Wednesday however gave its Special General Observers and Police Observers power to vet and, if necessary, modify the deployment plans prepared for the respective states. The deployment plan jointly prepared by the District Election Officers and the Superintendents of Police in the districts would be vetted and, if necessary, modified by the senior-most general and police observers, the EC added in its letter to the Chief Electoral Officers in the states.  Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, noted that the observers would have (an) additional role in the randomization of forces and their deployment during the forthcoming elections. He was speaking during a briefing organized by EC for the observers appointed by it for the coming polls in the four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry. More than 1650 observers participated in the briefing – either physically or virtually from more than 120 remote locations. The EC appointed officers from the Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service, Indian Revenue Service and other central services as General, Police and Expenditure Observers. Some retired officers have been appointed as Special General Observers and Special Police Observers. The deployment of the security forces during the elections have been a sensitive issue, particularly in West Bengal, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been demanding central paramilitary forces should be engaged in all the polling stations to pre-empt any violent bid by the Trinamool Congress led by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The EC appointed the retired IAS officer and former Bihar Chief Electoral Officer, Ajay Nayak, as the Special General Observer for West Bengal. It also appointed retired IPS officers Vivek Dube and M K Das as Special Police Observer for the State. Banerjee has already criticized the EC for re-appointing Dube as the Special Police Observer for West Bengal, stating that everyone knew what he had been doing during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when he had been assigned the same job in the state by the poll panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commissions-special-observers-to-have-the-final-say-in-security-plans-in-poll-bound-states-957765.html
03-03-2021||National||US index downgrades India from 'free' to 'partly free'||India has slipped from being a "free" country to a "partly free" country, the 'Freedom in the World 2021' report by a US-based private political and civil rights watchdog said on Wednesday. It cited the continuing "crackdown" on critics and its "ham-fisted" Covid-19 lockdown leading to "dangerous and unplanned displacement" of millions of migrant workers as the reasons for the slip in the country's status. The report by Freedom House, released on Wednesday, also claimed that Modi and the BJP are "tragically driving India toward authoritarianism" rather than serving as a "champion of democratic practice and a counterweight to authoritarian influence" from countries such as China.  "India’s status declined from free to partly free due to a multi-year pattern in which the Hindu nationalist government and its allies have presided over rising violence and discriminatory policies affecting the Muslim population. They pursued a crackdown on expressions of dissent by the media, academics, civil society groups, and protesters," the report said. 'Freedom in the World' is Freedom House's flagship annual report which has been published since 1973, that assesses political rights and civil liberties around the world. Harassment of journalists, NGOs and other critics has "increased significantly" under the Modi government while Muslims, Dalits and tribals "remain economically and socially marginalised", it added. "Political rights and civil liberties in the country have deteriorated since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014, with increased pressure on human rights organisations, rising intimidation of academics and journalists, and a spate of bigoted attacks, including lynchings, aimed at Muslims. The decline only accelerated after Modi’s re-election in 2019," it said. The report has cited February last year's Delhi riots and slapping of sedition charges as well as IT Act against youth for their opposition to the government, including on the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act and Covid-19 response. India, without including Jammu and Kashmir, scored 67 out of 100 — 34 out of 40 in political rights and 33 out of 60 in civil rights. The report said Jammu and Kashmir is "not free" and scored a cumulative of 27 — seven for political rights and 20 for civil rights. Referring to the campaign against Tablighi Jamaat during the pandemic, the report said, the ruling Hindutva supporters also "encouraged the scapegoating" of Muslims, who were disproportionately blamed for the spread of the virus and faced attacks by vigilante mobs. The fall of India from the upper ranks of free nations could have a particularly damaging impact on global democratic standards, the report said. Now, less than 20 per cent percent of the world’s population lives in a free country, the smallest proportion since 1995. "Under Modi, India appears to have abandoned its potential to serve as a global democratic leader, elevating narrow Hindu nationalist interests at the expense of its founding values of inclusion and equal rights for all," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-index-downgrades-india-from-free-to-partly-free-957767.html
03-03-2021||National||Cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses given crosses 1.63 crore: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 1.63 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with inoculation of healthcare workers (HCWs), while for frontline workers (FLWs) it started from February 2. The next phase of vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. These include 67,75,619 HCWs who have taken the first dose and 28,24,311 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 57,62,131 FLWs (first dose), 3,277 FLWs (second dose), 8,44,884 beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 1,04,263 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific comorbidities. "Total 6,92,889 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm on Wednesday, the forty-seventh day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination.  "Out of which 5,79,366 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 1,13,523 HCWs and FLWs received second dose of vaccine," the ministry said, adding final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The 5,79,366 beneficiaries who were administered the first dose includes 3,22,189 people aged more than 60 and 32,364 individuals aged between 45 and 59 with specific co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-number-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-given-crosses-163-crore-govt-957771.html
03-03-2021||National||Cheque dishonour cases intractable problem: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said there was no doubt or dispute that the huge pendency of cheque dishonour cases has become an intractable problem, accounting for close to 30 to 40% of the cases in the trial courts and a very high percentage in the high courts also.  The top court agreed to a suggestion by the Union government to form a committee of stakeholders, officers and the secretaries of various ministries who will be able to suggest a solution to the problems of pendency of the cases under the Negotiable Instruments Act.  The court was hearing a suo motu matter registered as 'In Re Expeditious Trial' of cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. About 3.5 crore cases are pending in trial courts in the country. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian initially suggested that the Union government may provide for the establishment of additional courts for the better administration of laws.  Appearing for the Centre, Additional Solicitor General Vikramjit Banerjee said the Ministry of Finance has suggested that instead of setting up additional courts, certain other measures could be taken up. The court, however, said such measures would be inadequate for the purpose. It, nonetheless, agreed to another suggestion by Banerjee that the matter required wide-ranging discussion for which a committee may be formed. The bench asked Banerjee to suggest by Thursday the names from various departments for the purpose of forming a panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cheque-dishonour-cases-intractable-problem-sc-957780.html
03-03-2021||National||MCD bypolls: Rude shock to BJP; Congress, AAP vow to wipe it out in 2022 civic body polls||The municipal corporation bypoll results on Wednesday came as a rude shock to the BJP which drew a blank, with its rivals AAP and Congress asserting that they would wipe it out in the civic body polls in 2022. The AAP swept the bypolls winning four out of the five wards where elections were held on February 28. However, Congress snatched the Chauhan Bangar ward from the AAP by a huge margin of over 10,000 votes. "The AAP has won the semi-final decisively, with roughly one year to go for MCD finals in 2022. It is time for Delhiites to put an end to the 15-year corruption-plagued rule of the BJP in MCDs," said senior AAP leader Raghav Chadha. As per the State Election Commission figures, the AAP polled the highest 46.10 per cent votes in the bypolls, followed by 27.29 per cent by the BJP and 21.84 per cent by the Congress. The BJP also lost its stronghold, Shalimar Bagh North, to the AAP. The bypoll was necessitated by the death of Renu Jaju. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar asserted that party candidate Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad's victory by over 10,000 votes in Chauhan Bangar showed that the confidence of people in the party was rising and it was on the path of revival in Delhi. He asserted the party would win in the MCD polls. The party, however, failed to leave any influence on the four other wards where its candidates trailed behind the BJP, on the third spot, indicating it has to cover a lot of lost ground. Nevertheless, Kumar claimed the Congress increased its vote share from 6 per cent in 2020 Assembly polls to 22 per cent in the bypolls, while that of the BJP and the AAP registered a decline. The loss registered by the AAP in minority-dominated Chauhan Bangar ward was seen by many in the context of North East Delhi riots in February, 2020 and the cases registered during the coronavirus pandemic against Tablighi Jamat members.  The AAP leaders, however, termed the loss of party candidate and former MLA Mohammad Ishraq Khan as an outcome of "local factors" and the influence of the Congress candidate's father, Mateen Ahmad, in the area. Delhi BJP president said that the loss of the party in Shalimar Bagh was a matter of deliberation and asserted that it will contest 2022 MCD polls after making amends and adopting a new strategy. A senior Delhi BJP leader said although the bypoll results were "upsetting" but they had no meaning with reference to the upcoming MCD polls. "In 2016 MCD bypolls, we won only three seats, while the AAP and the Congress won five seats each out of the total 13. Yet we managed to stage a comeback and won the civic body polls in 2017 with a clear majority in the three municipal corporations," he said. The BJP is ruling the municipal corporations since 2007. In 2017 MCD polls, the party won 184 of the total 272 wards in three municipal corporations. AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, however, said that the bypoll results were a sign of the 2022 MCD poll outcome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mcd-bypolls-rude-shock-to-bjp-congress-aap-vow-to-wipe-it-out-in-2022-civic-body-polls-957788.html
03-03-2021||National Politics||Heading into assembly polls, BJP must explain non-deliverance: Anand Sharma||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Tuesday attacked the BJP, saying that heading into assembly elections the ruling party must explain non deliverance on promises and must apologise for the betrayal of people's trust. His attack on the BJP comes a day after he criticized his own party over the Congress' tie-up with Indian Secular Front (ISF) led by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui in West Bengal, saying it was against the "Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism" and the party cannot be selective in fighting the "communalists". "As we head into the assembly elections, the BJP must explain non deliverance on promises it made & must apologize for the betrayal of people's trust," Sharma tweeted, hitting out at the BJP. "More than 200 farmers have died and the government remains indifferent to their plight," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Sharma alleged that the BJP's "monumental mismanagement" of the economy has led to mounting job losses and closure of small businesses leading to despondency among the youth of the nation. Sharma, a former union minister, is a leader of the group of 23 which had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanding organisational overhaul. Sharma and several other 'G-23' leaders had gathered in Jammu on Saturday and said that the party was weakening, in an apparent show of dissent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/heading-into-assembly-polls-bjp-must-explain-non-deliverance-anand-sharma-957447.html
03-03-2021||National Politics||There is no place for Sasikala, Dhinakaran in party: AIADMK||Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK on Wednesday said that there is “no chance” of reinducting V K Sasikala and her nephew T T V Dhinakaran into the party, asserting that ally BJP will not interfere in the internal affairs of the party. Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar, considered as the spokesman of the state government, told reporters at the AIADMK headquarters that the party has “rejected” suggestions on Sasikala and Dhinakaran's reinduction into the party or be taken into the alliance. “Chief Minister (Edappadi K Palaniswami) has made it clear that there is no chance of Sasikala and Dhinakaran joining AIADMK. 100 percent there is no chance and this is the stand of the party,” Jayakumar said, amid an effort by the BJP to bring the two factions of the ruling party together for the April 6 Assembly elections. To a question on whether BJP has moved a proposal before the party to at least consider inducting Dhinakaran's AMMK into the alliance, Jayakumar said alliance and ideology of the party are two different things. “BJP is our alliance partner. They do not intefere in our internal matters. They never do it and we decide for our party,” he said. Jayakumar's statement came just minutes after BJP General Secretary C T Ravi maintained that it is for the AIADMK to decide on the Sasikala-Dhinakaran question. “EPS and OPS know the strengths and weaknesses of Sasikala. It is for them to decide,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/there-is-no-place-for-sasikala-dhinakaran-in-party-aiadmk-957604.html
03-03-2021||National Politics||PM free to visit poll-bound West Bengal 20 times or more: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is free to visit the state for BJP's election campaign "20 times or more" to see for himself the spree of development under the TMC dispensation and compare it to that of states ruled by the saffron party. West Bengal minister and party spokesman Bratya Basu told reporters that Modi is welcome to attend as many meetings, say 20 or more, he wishes to and comes to the state as many times he wants to see for himself how Bengal has left behind states like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on development parameters. Basu was replying to a query whether eight-phase assembly polls in the state, beginning on March 27, would enable BJP heavyweights to address multiple meetings in different parts of the state. "We don't bother. Maybe they (Narendra Modi and Amit Shah) want to see for themselves how much Bengal has progressed after TMC came to power in 2011... how roads look, how power cut has become a rarity, how people in rural areas are getting better amenities and how states like UP and MP are lagging behind," Basu said. BJP sources said Modi is slated to address multiple rallies during the eight-phase polls in the state stretching a little over a month. Leaders like Shah and J P Nadda will also address several meetings as well as other BJP heavyweights like Yogi Adityanath. Asked about two-time TMC MLA from Pandabeswar and former Asansol Mayor Jitendra Tiwari joining the BJP on March 2, Basu said, "It is the culture of the saffron party to admit people having tarnished reputation with open arms". "Previously the local MP had protested publicly, but perhaps after being reprimanded by his higher-ups he will be mum this time despite having bitter memories," Basu said referring to Union minister Babul Supriyo voicing reservations about plans of inducting Tiwari into the BJP from the TMC in December last. Asked about the claims by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath that there are curbs in Durga Puja celebrations in West Bengal, Basu said "People in Bengal know that nothing could be further from the truth. While Durga Puja was celebrated with great fervour across West Bengal even last October, in Uttar Pradesh the BJP government stopped its celebrations while allowing some other religious festivals. "A fake sadhu is making laughable comments. He is criticising Bengal's law and order but forgets the fact that the father of a rape victim is shot dead in his own state and there are daily reports of attacks on women in Uttar Pradesh." A 50-year-old man was allegedly shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district by an accused out on bail in a case of molestation lodged in 2018 against the victim's daughter. In Basu's presence, TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee announced the joining of popular Bengali actor Sayantika Bandyopadhyay in the party. The actor had delivered hits like 'Paapi', 'Awara', 'Bindaas', 'Herogiri', 'Uma', 'Byomkesh Pwarbo' in her career spanning over a decade. "Today I am officially joining the TMC but I had been with 'Didi' (Mamata Banerjee) for past 10 years. At this crucial hour, people of Bengal should not be silent but come out in open support of 'Banglar meye Didi'," she said. Earlier actors Saayoni Ghosh, Kanchan Mallick, director-actor Sudeshna Roy, director Raj Chakraborty had joined the party which also boasts of names like hero Soham Chakraborty and veteran Dipankar Dey. The principal of City College of Commerce Sandip Paul also joined the ruling party. "Our leader Mamata Banerjee wants people from different walks of life to join the TMC to work for the people," Chatterjee said. Elections to the 294-member state assembly will be held from March 27 to April 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-free-to-visit-poll-bound-west-bengal-20-times-or-more-tmc-957658.html
03-03-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi's claim that Congress did not try to capture institutions during Emergency 'laughable': BJP||The BJP on Wednesday hit back at Rahul Gandhi for attacking the RSS and claiming that the Congress at no point during the Emergency attempted to capture India's institutional framework, saying his statement was "laughable" as his party had then ended the independence of institutions, denied media freedom and jailed dissenting voices. Union minister Prakash Javadekar said it will take Gandhi a long time to understand Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a Hindutva organisation and ideological fountainhead of the ruling BJP, and asserted that it is the "world's biggest school of patriotism". The RSS' role is to effect good changes in people and inspire patriotism in them, he told reporters after he was asked about Gandhi's comparison of the Hindutva organisation with radical Islamists in Pakistan. In a conversation with Kaushik Basu, professor at the Cornell University in the US and India's former chief economic advisor, Gandhi had termed the Emergency imposed by former prime minister Indira Gandhi a "mistake". However, he added that it was fundamentally different from the current scenario as Congress at no point attempted to capture the country's institutional framework. Attacking the Congress leader, Javadekar said lakhs of people, including MPs and MLAs, were arrested during that time while institutions were denied any freedom. Now for him to say that they did not target institutions is laughable, Javadekar said. Responding to a question, the minister also rejected allegations that the Income Tax raids on the premises of filmmaker Anurag Kashyap and actor Taapsee Pannu were linked to their comments, which are seen at times critical of the BJP. "This is too much," he said to the question and added that "probe agencies undertake investigations based on credible information and the matter later goes to courts as well." The Income Tax Department on Wednesday raided premises linked to the filmmakers, including Kashyap, who launched the now-dissolved production house Phantom Films, Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhashish Sarkar and Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhis-claim-that-congress-did-not-try-to-capture-institutions-during-emergency-laughable-bjp-957662.html
03-03-2021||National Politics||Will BJP apologise for the 2002 Gujarat riot like Rahul Gandhi did for the Emergency? ask MVA leaders||A day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi admitted that the Emergency imposed by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was a mistake, the leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra wanted to know when will the BJP apologize for its wrongs, including the 2002 Gujarat riots. Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole, State Minority Affairs Minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik, Shiv Sena leader Kishore Tiwari and Samajwadi Party state unit President Abu Asim Azmi were among those seeking answers from the BJP. "Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has accepted that the declaration of the Emergency was wrong. After 45 years of its implementation, Congress has accepted their mistake, and the party has also apologised for the Delhi riots. Now it's the BJP's turn to apologise for the Gujarat riots. It takes a large heart to accept the wrongs of the past,” Malik said.  Nana Patole said that it was a magnanimous gesture. “There is nothing wrong in Rahul ji apologising for an old mistake. On the other hand, it is a magnanimous gesture. Gujarat riots were a blot on humanity. Will the BJP and Narendra Modi apologise for the same,” said Patole, a former Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. Tiwari, the founder of Vidarbha Jan Andolan Samiti and Chairman of Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission too felt that it was a great gesture on part of Rahul Gandhi. “The Congress has realized and is trying to erase its past errors, the BJP must also do the same to improve its credibility among the masses,” said Tiwari, referring to the Gujarat riots. “They (BJP) must categorically apologise for the Gujarat riots, plus the way minorities are being targeted, for the lynchings of Muslims, Dalits and other poor people, for the harassments in the name of 'Love Jihad’… the list is long,” said Azmi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-bjp-apologise-for-the-2002-gujarat-riot-like-rahul-gandhi-did-for-the-emergency-ask-mva-leaders-957668.html
03-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi's photo on Covid-19 vaccine certificates violates poll code, TMC tells EC||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission (EC) alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo on Covid-19 vaccination certificates and advertisements of Central schemes was a violation of the Model Code of Conduct. A TMC delegation headed by Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim met the EC officials in Kolkata and sought their intervention in this regard. “The photos of the prime minister, who is the star campaigner of the BJP in West Bengal Assembly elections, on Covid-19 vaccination certificates and hoardings with advertisements of various Central government projects are a shameless violation of government machinery,” said Hakim. Speaking to reporters after the meeting the EC officials, he said that the prime minister as a BJP leader will be seeking votes for the party in the Assembly elections and in such a situation his photos on Covid-19 vaccination certificates is tantamount to attempting to influence voters and violate the Model Code of Conduct. “We have sought the EC’s intervention in this regard and urged them to ensure that the prime minister’s photo gets removed from the hoardings displaying advertisements of various Central government schemes at petrol pumps and other places,” said Hakim on Tuesday. The development comes a day after TMC MP Derek O’ Brien alleged that the prime minister’s photo was used in Covid-19 vaccination cards even after the announcement of poll dates. “Elections declared. PM photo still brazenly appearing on #COVID19 documents. Trinamool @AITCofficialtaking this up strongly with Election Commission @ECISVEEP, tweeted O’Brien on Wednesday. Denying the allegation, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the vaccination drive started before the announcement of the poll dates adding that the hoardings with the advertisement of Central government projects were put up on private lands. “When a government project starts before the poll dates are announced it can continue in the same way. The hoardings at petrol pumps with advertisements of the Centre’s welfare schemes are put on private land. These are all baseless allegations. The EC will take a call on the issue,” said Ghosh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modis-photo-on-covid-19-vaccine-certificates-violates-poll-code-tmc-tells-ec-957672.html
03-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi made people beat thalis, we gave them full thalis: Uddhav Thackeray||In a fierce attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said while the Centre announced a lockdown and asked people to beat thalis, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government provided full meals to the needy people during the pandemic crisis. “While people were asked to beat ‘thalis’, we provided full ‘thalis’ (full meals) to people,” Thackeray told the Maharashtra Legislature replying to the motion of thanks to the address of Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. “During the Covid-19 lockdown, we helped people reach their homes. In fact, people praised us after reaching their homes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” Thackeray said in the Assembly. Koshyari, in his address to the joint session on the opening day of the Legislature on Monday, had mentioned that the government had launched ‘Shiv Bhojan Yojana’ on January 26. “Under the scheme, more than 3.15 crore thalis have been served at just Rs five per thali and expenditure of Rs 125 crore has been incurred by the State Government for the same. This scheme’s success can be ascertained from the fact that daily consumption of thalis has increased from the original 18,000 to 1,38,000,” he had said. Thackeray also lashed out at BJP and Modi on the issue of Delhi farmers’ agitation and Indo-China row. “You put nails on roads (to quell the farmers’ protest in Delhi) and retreat against China...,” he said. However, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis lashed out at Thackeray saying that with such a statement, the Chief Minister insulted the Indian soldiers. “Not an inch of land has gone....our soldiers defended the Chinese aggression under extreme circumstances...and you (Thackeray) make such a kind of statement insulting them,” he told reporters in the Vidhan Bhavan complex. Thackeray also took a dig at the PM for renaming of Motera stadium after Modi. “India will not lose any cricket match now.... We will not lose any cricket match as the name of the stadium has been changed to Narendra Modi Stadium. We have named the international airport after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj but they have changed Sardar Patel Stadium's name,” he said. On the issue of renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar after Shivaji Maharaj’s son Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj, he said: “We will definitely name Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar...but the Centre is still stuck on the renaming of Aurangabad airport as Chhatrapati Sambhaji Nagar Airport....You have not yet conferred Bharat Ratna on Swatantryaveer Savarkar....We don’t have to learn Hindutva from you,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-made-people-beat-thalis-we-gave-them-full-thalis-uddhav-thackeray-957688.html
03-03-2021||National Politics||Union Minister Prakash Javadekar hits back at Rahul Gandhi, calls RSS 'world's biggest school of patriotism'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s remarks comparing the RSS with radical Islamist outfits in Pakistan drew a sharp riposte on Wednesday from the BJP, which slammed the Congress leader and hailed the Hindutva outfit as the “world’s biggest school of patriotism”. Slamming Gandhi over his remarks against RSS, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said that Gandhi will take a long time to understand the RSS, whose role is to effect good changes in people and inspire patriotism in them. Gandhi during an interaction with India’s former chief economic advisor Kaushik Basu had on Tuesday said RSS uses schools run by it to push a particular worldview like the radical Islamists in Pakistan do in madrassas. Gandhi had said that the BJP and RSS are taking away the institutional framework of the country. Following up on this, Youth Congress tweeted: “Independent institutions in Indian democracy are under attack by one mother institution of RSS.” He dismissed Gandhi’s acknowledgment that the Emergency imposed by former prime minister Indira Gandhi was a ‘mistake’, asking for how many things Gandhi will tender an apology. He also brought up the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. This, however, wasn't the first time that the Congress leader had made controversial remarks about the RSS. In 2016, the Supreme Court had asked Gandhi to apologise for his remarks blaming the RSS for Mahatma Gandhi's assassination or face a defamation case. The court had then observed that he should not have carried out a collective denunciation of an organisation in this matter. Gandhi had later told the court through his lawyer that he never accused the RSS as an institution for Mahatma Gandhi's killing.  Gandhi has also faced a defamation case in Maharashtra over his remarks against the RSS after the murder of journalist Gauri Lankesh in Bengaluru in September 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-prakash-javadekar-hits-back-at-rahul-gandhi-calls-rss-worlds-biggest-school-of-patriotism-957693.html
03-03-2021||National Politics||Sasikala 'steps aside' from politics ahead of Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, says she never aspired for any post||In an anticlimax that will cheer the AIADMK, its ousted general secretary V K Sasikala on Wednesday announced her decision to "step aside" from politics after it became clear that the current leadership of the party that she once controlled from the sidelines was hesitant to take her back. Sasikala, who arrived in Tamil Nadu to a rousing reception by her supporters on February 9 following her release from Parappana Agrahara prison with a vow to jump into “active politics”, made the announcement in a two-page statement that harped on about her “close association” with former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. The dramatic announcement by Sasikala comes exactly a week after she appealed to the “true loyalists” of Jayalalithaa to “unite” to ensure that the AIADMK government is voted back to power in the April 6 assembly elections. “I never aspired for any position or post. I will always be grateful to the people of Tamil Nadu and cadre of J Jayalalithaa. I will step aside from politics and continue to pray that Amma's (Jayalalithaa) Government is established in Tamil Nadu,” Sasikala said in her “farewell” statement. Sasikala also urged all true loyalists of Jayalalithaa to work towards keeping “our common enemy” DMK, as identified by the late leader, out of power and continuing with “Amma's golden rule” in the state. Another reason could be the absence of an upheaval, which she certainly expected, in the AIADMK after her return from Parapanna Agrahara prison – not even second-rung leaders of the party made any effort to meet her or give statements in her favour. However, Palaniswami might now come under pressure from the BJP to allow it to share a few seats from its kitty to Sasikala's nephew T T V Dhinakaran's Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) to prevent any split of votes. Dhinakaran, sans Sasikala, will not be a threat to Palaniswami in the immediate future. And for Dhinakaran too, the “common enemy” is DMK. If one reads the carefully drafted statement between the lines, it gives room to interpretation that Sasikala might make a comeback to politics post-assembly elections in the event of AIADMK losing power as she has used the word “stepping aside” and not quitting.  The surprise announcement will come as a disappointment to DMK which was hoping that Sasikala's “re-entry” into politics will create confusion within the AIADMK. The development will now allow allies like Congress, VCK, and Left parties, who are upset over the number of seats offered to them, to play the hard ball with DMK. Palaniswami, hand picked by Sasikala as Chief Minister in 2017 before she went to serve her four-year term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case, stonewalled BJP's proposal to induct her into the party or alliance, maintaining that the “core vote bank” of the AIADMK stays with the party and not the splinter group. Palaniswami, considered a political lightweight, consolidated his position within the AIADMK by side lining all his potential challengers, notably his one-time boss O Panneerselvam, who is now playing the second fiddle to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sasikala-steps-aside-from-politics-ahead-of-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-says-she-never-aspired-for-any-post-957721.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti moves J&K HC for her pending passport application||PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti has moved the Jammu and Kashmir High Court, seeking its intervention for clearance of her passport application pending at the Regional Passport Office (RPO) here for nearly three months. Mehbooba had applied for a fresh passport in December last year after its expiry on May 31. However, her passport application has not been cleared till date due to want of a police verification report, officials said. The 60-year-old politician was put under preventive custody on August 5, 2019, the day when central government revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories. She was released in October last year after the Union Territory administration revoked the Public Safety Act charges against her, more than a year after she was detained. In a petition before the high court, Mehbooba said the passport, as per the instruction manual, is expected to be dispatched within 30 days but her application is pending before the passport officer since December 11, last year. Mehbooba said she submitted a representation to the passport officer to know the status of her application after the passage of more than a month and came to know that the police verification, which is required to be completed within a period of 21 days, is pending. Seeking intervention of the court in early issuance of her passport, Mehbooba also sought directions declaring the action of officials concerned in not allowing her to travel abroad as "illegal and unconstitutional", violating her fundamental right to travel abroad as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-moves-jk-hc-for-her-pending-passport-application-957397.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||Father of UP molestation victim shot dead by accused||A 50-year-old man was allegedly shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district by an accused out on bail in a case of molestation lodged in 2018 against the victim's daughter, police said on Tuesday. "The incident took place in Nozarpur village of Sasani area in Hathras on Monday afternoon when the daughters of Ambrish Sharma (50) had gone to a temple, where the wife and aunt of accused Gaurav Sharma were present. The women had heated arguments with each other after which both Gaurav and Ambrish also reached there," Hathras Superintendent of Police Vineet Jaiswal said. Both Gaurav and Ambrish also had an argument after which the accused called some members of his family and shot Ambrish in a fit of rage, the SP said. Ambrish was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead, the SP added. According to an FIR lodged by the victim's daughter, however, the incident took place in their family potato field. The Hathras SP said the FIR was registered against Gaurav Sharma, Lalit Sharma, Rahitash Sharma, Nikhil Sharma and two others. Out of them, Lalit has been arrested while the main accused Gaurav is absconding. In the FIR, it was alleged that the girl was there in her family potato field with her father Ambrish when Gaurav came in a white car with his accomplice and asked Ambrish to take back the case lodged against him. "Before my father could say anything, he opened fire on him. We rushed him to the hospital, where he died," the girl said in the FIR. The victim had lodged a case of molestation of his daughter two and a half years ago against Gaurav, who was jailed. Gaurav, then, came out on bail after a month and he had animosity with Ambrish since then, the SP added. Taking note of the incident, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered strict action to be taken against the accused and directed officials to invoke provisions of the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against them. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav alleged that women in UP have lost hope of justice from the state government. "After 'Hathras ki beti', murder of a father who had complained of molestation of his daughter has taken place. UP's women have not just lost hope from the government, they have stopped seeking justice from it," Akhilesh said in a tweet in Hindi. "Enough of the atrocities on women, this time the BJP is out," he added. Akhilesh also tagged a video of a girl, said to be the victim's daughter along with his tweet. In the video, the girl is heard saying, "Please give me justice... please give me justice. First, he molested me and now he has shot my father. He had come to our village. There were six-seven people. My father had no enmity against anyone. His name is Gaurav Sharma, he is a dog...". Meanwhile, a war of words has started between the ruling BJP and the Samajwadi Party over the political background of the main accused. The state BJP has alleged that the main accused is from the SP with Gaurav Sharma running his social media pages with the name 'Gaurav Songra'. The BJP pointed to a Facebook post on February 27 in which Gaurav asked people to attend a farmers' meeting convened by Yadav on March 3 in Aligarh. "The accused is an SP leader and was out on bail and pressuring the victim's family to withdraw the case. No such element will be spared in the present regime," BJP spokesman Manish Shukla said. BJP MLA from Lambhua, Deomani Dwivedi took to Twitter on the matter and termed the Samajwadi Party as "Apradhwavi Party" (criminal party). He also put up a picture purportedly of Gaurav from the Facebook page in which he is inviting people for a kisan mahapanchyat in Aligarh. Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary rejected the charges of the BJP . "Gaurav is not a leader of the Samajwadi Party but that of the BJP. There are photographs of Gaurav with BJP leaders to prove this," Chaudhary said. When asked if Gaurav has ever been with the Samajwadi Party, Chaudhary said he has no information about it. In September last year, a 20-year-old Dalit woman died after being raped by four men in an incident that had shocked the entire nation. She later died due to her injuries at a hospital in Delhi and the police came under widespread criticism over the handling of the case and a late-night funeral of the victim where the family said they were not allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/father-of-up-molestation-victim-shot-dead-by-accused-957417.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||UP man rapes, kills 13-year-old girl, buries body in his house||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped before being hacked to death in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district. The body of the minor was recovered from a pit inside the house of the accused, who was arrested on Wednesday from Himachal Pradesh, according to the police sources here. Police said that the minor, who was working in a field with her father and sisters, had left to fetch water last Thursday and her parents started looking for her when she did not return till late in the evening. The cops zeroed in on the accused, a man named Harendra, who lived in the vicinity and had gone missing after the incident. A police team, which searched Harendra's house on Tuesday, found the body buried in a newly dug pit in the courtyard. The police said that the victim had gone to Harendra's house for water when she was dragged inside by him and was raped. She was killed with a stone when she raised an alarm. Harendra then dug a pit and buried her body, the police said. According to the sources, there were no clothes on the victim's body, indicating that she might have been raped.  The incident triggered outrage with Opposition leaders slamming the Yogi Adityanath government over the rise in the crimes against women in the state. ''This government has completely failed in ensuring the safety of women,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader here. Less than two days ago, a Dalit girl was found dead in a forested area near a village in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh district. The family of the deceased had alleged that she was raped before being murdered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-rapes-kills-13-year-old-girl-buries-body-in-his-house-957542.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi municipal corporation bypolls: AAP wins in four out of five wards, Congress bags one, BJP draws a blank||Bypolls to five municipal wards in the national capital gave a boost to the AAP on Wednesday as it bagged four and Congress one while leaving the BJP red-faced with just one year to go for the civic body elections. Adding more trouble, BJP lost its sitting seat Shalimar Bagh North, a party stronghold, to AAP. Congress wrested one seat from AAP to instil some confidence in the party, which had decimated to the third in the previous civic body polls and the Assembly elections last year. AAP candidates won from Kalyanpuri, Rohin-C, Trilokpuri and Shalimar Bagh wards while Congress won Chauhan Bangar ward. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "The people of Delhi once again voted for those who work. Congratulations to all. The public has been troubled by the 15-year BJP misrule in the MCD. People are now desperate that they want AAP to head Delhi municipalities too." Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia congratulated the party workers for the victory and said that people were fed up with the BJP and would bring in Kejriwal's politics of honesty and work in the municipal polls next year. The bypoll victories also came against the backdrop of AAP's impressive performance in Gujarat civic body elections recently. It became the main opposition in Surat municipality. In the 2017 polls, the BJP had retained all three municipal corporations in Delhi with the AAP finishing a distant second. The bypoll results showed that the BJP would have to pull its strings together fast as the capital will witness the civic body elections early next year. AAP candidate Dhirender Kumar won the Kalyanpuri ward by 7,043 votes while AAP's Vijay Kumar defeated BJP's Om Prakash by 4,986 votes in Trilokpuri. AAP's Sunita Mishra defeated BJP's Surbhi in Shalimar Bagh ward by 2,705 votes. AAP's Ram Chander defeated BJP's Rakesh Goyal by 2,985 votes in Rohini C ward. Congress' Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad defeated AAP's Mohammad Ishraq Khan by 10,642 votes in Chauhan Bangar ward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-municipal-corporation-bypolls-aap-wins-in-four-out-of-five-wards-congress-bags-one-bjp-draws-a-blank-957554.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||BJP MP's son shot at in UP, cops claim attack staged||The son of BJP MP Kaushal Kishore was shot at in Lucknow on early Wednesday, but the police claimed that he had staged the attack on him by his brother-in-law to implicate some persons. Ayush (30), the son of the BJP MP from Mohanlalganj constituency, was shot at in the Madiaon area around 2 am. He was rushed to a hospital from where he was discharged after first-aid. "The probe so far has indicated that he (Ayush) staged the firing at him by his brother-in-law," Commissioner of Police of Lucknow D K Thakur told PTI. Asked whether an FIR will be registered in the matter, the officer said, "No one has filed a complaint. We will do it as the weapon used in the act has been recovered." Madiaon police station SHO Manoj Kumar Singh said the incident took place around 2 am on Wednesday. Ayush's brother-in-law has been detained and he admitted that he had fired on him, the SHO said. "Adarsh admitted that he fired at Ayush to implicate some persons," the SHO said, adding that a detailed probe is on. BJP MP Kishore told reporters that his son did not tell any name to him at the hospital. He just said that he had gone out with his brother-in-law when the attack took place, according to the MP. "Ayush and Adarsh know better what they are saying. They did not have enmity with anyone. Why will they get someone implicated, I have no idea," the MP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mps-son-shot-at-in-up-cops-claim-attack-staged-957555.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||Minor Dalit girl raped by elderly man in Uttar Pradesh||An elderly man has been arrested for allegedly raping an eight-year-old Dalit girl in a village here, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place in the Baberu area in Banda district in Uttar Pradesh around 6 pm on Tuesday when the girl was playing near her house. The accused, identified as Jagdish Pal, 70, was arrested later, Circle Officer Siyaram said, adding the girl has been sent for medical examination. According to the police, the girl has a vision problem and cannot see clearly. In a separate incident in the Bisanda area in the district, a 14-year-old boy was sodomised by a teenager on Tuesday. The accused boy has been held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-dalit-girl-raped-by-elderly-man-in-uttar-pradesh-957568.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||Army officer shoots himself dead in J&K’s Pulwama||An army officer allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon at a military camp in Khonmoh area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday. Lieutenant Colonel Sudeep Bhagat, who was posted at an Army depot in Khonmoh, fired upon himself, officials said. He died on the spot. The reason behind the suicide was not known immediately as a police party had rushed to the spot to ascertain the details. Suicides and fratricide incidents were common among security forces personnel deployed in restive Kashmir from the early 1990s till 2010. A research carried by a leading sociologist of the valley, Prof Bashir Ahmad Dabla, in 2012 had revealed that 1,500-2,000 soldiers committed suicide between 1990-2011. The majority of the soldiers who committed suicides were married persons and the suicides, the research had revealed. It also stated that the suicides were committed by personnel of the army, paramilitary BSF, CRPF, ITBP and CISF who belonged to all regions and states of the country. In 2006, recognising the rising fratricide and suicide cases among the armed forces, the then defence minister had constituted an expert group of psychiatrists under the Defence Institute of Psychological Research in order to suggest remedial measures to prevent such incidents. Over the last decade, incidents of suicides have reportedly reduced in the army as the force has taken measures to address the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-officer-shoots-himself-dead-in-jk-s-pulwama-957578.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||BSF jawan killed, 4 injured in firing accident at practice range||A BSF jawan was killed and four were injured in an incident during firing practice at the Lathi firing range in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer, police said on Wednesday. The incident occurred on Tuesday night, they said, adding that a "premature blast" in the muzzle of a gun resulted in splinter injuries to five Border Security Force (BSF) personnel taking part in firing practice. Three of them sustained critical injuries and were evacuated to the primary health centre in Pokhran, where Satish Kumar (32) was declared brought dead, the police said, adding that the family members of the deceased have been informed about the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-jawan-killed-4-injured-in-firing-accident-at-practice-range-957583.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||UP man kills wife, daughters with hammer over suspected illicit relations||A 60-year-old man allegedly bludgeoned his wife and two daughters to death with a hammer at their house here over suspicion that they had illicit relationships with outsiders, police said on Wednesday. While the wife and two daughters died, his third daughter, who was also attacked, survived and has been referred to nearby Meerut district for treatment, the police said. The accused is on the run. The incident took place in Ambedkarnagar colony in the Shikarpur police station area. The wife was aged around 50 years, while the two daughters who died were aged 20 and 15, Bulandshahr Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said. The daughter who is undergoing treatment in Meerut is 18 years old, he said. He said an FIR has been lodged based on a complaint given by the man's 22-year-old son, who lives separately with his wife. “The man suspected his wife and daughters of having illicit relationships with outsiders. He would often fight at home. Last night also they had a fight at home,” SSP Singh said, citing the complaint given by the son. “Some time after his wife and daughters fell asleep in the night, the man hit them with a hammer on their heads. The wife and two daughters died, while the third one has been referred to Meerut for treatment,” he added. Four police teams have been formed to track the accused, Singh said, adding efforts are being made to ensure his early arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-kills-wife-daughters-with-hammer-over-suspected-illicit-relations-957584.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||Every type of crime is at its peak in Uttar Pradesh: Mayawati slams law and order situation in UP||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Wednesday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the law and order situation in the state, and accused it of adopting an insensitive attitude even in serious cases. Every type of crime is at its peak in Uttar Pradesh and there is a very bad state of crime control, she charged. "Everyone is concerned about painful and embarrassing incidents of Dalit and women harassment. Even in such serious cases, the insensitive and negligence of government is unfortunate," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. She also targeted the BJP government at the Centre over the issue of Dalit rights. "Dalit oppression and murder of a man in Hathras and ruthless killing of a Dalit RTI activist in Gujarat prove that lives of Dalits, oppressed and women are not safe under the BJP government like in previous Congress regime. The government should immediately take notice of this," she added. Her remarks come in the backdrop of a 50-year-old man being shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district allegedly by a man accused of molesting the victim's daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/every-type-of-crime-is-at-its-peak-in-uttar-pradesh-mayawati-slams-law-and-order-situation-in-up-957612.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court issues notice to NIA on plea by Gautam Navlakha against denial of bail||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued a notice to the NIA on the plea by activist Gautam Navlakha against the rejection of his statutory bail in the Bhima Koregaon case, despite the failure of the agency to file a charge sheet within the stipulated time of 90 days. A bench presided over by Justice U U Lalit and comprising of Justices Indira Banerjee and K M Joseph sought a reply from the NIA and posted the matter for consideration on March 15. Navlakha has challenged the Bombay High Court's order of February 8, which contended that the accused's plea of alleged illegal detention can't be considered to compute 90 days time.  On March 16, 2020, the top court had declined anticipatory bail to Navlakha and told him to surrender within three weeks before the NIA.  On April 8, 2020, it gave him one more week to surrender in the case of their alleged link to a banned Maoist outfit, a connection that allegedly came to the surface after the Bhima Koregaon violence. An event 'Elgar Parishad' was held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly led to caste violence on January 1, 2018. Several prominent activists have already been arrested in the matter. The case was initially investigated by the Pune police and was subsequently handed over to the NIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-nia-on-plea-by-gautam-navlakha-against-denial-of-bail-957670.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||NGT directs Centre, states to convene meetings to ensure scientific sand mining||Expressing displeasure over poor enforcement of law to control illegal sand mining, the National Green Tribunal has asked the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to convene a meeting in coordination with the Central Pollution Control Board, Ministry of Mines and Jal Shakti Ministry and experts at the national level in three months to discuss scientific sand mining. The Principal Bench of the NGT, headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said a similar meeting should also be held at the state level to ensure that sand miners must follow 'Sustainable Sand Mining and Management Guidelines, 2016.' Disposing of a number of petitions on sand mining, the NGT said holding such meetings will provide clarity on enforcement strategies and help protect the environment. The NGT directed all the states to post an annual report about sand mining status. "Based on such reports, MoEF may consider supplementing its guidelines on sand mining from time to time. The Green Bench directed the periodic inspection be by a five-member Committee, headed and coordinated by the EIAA (Environment Impact Assessment Committee) comprising CPCB  and State PCB and visit the sand mining spot and prepare a report. In January 2020, the Environment Ministry came out with 'Enforcement & Monitoring Guidelines for Sand Mining 2020' to regulate sand mining and check illegal mining. The guidelines suggest the use of technologies like drones with night vision for surveillance of sand mining sites, steps to identify sources of sand, procedures for the replenishment of sand, post environmental clearance monitoring of sand mining sites, a procedure for an environmental audit of such areas and steps to control the instances of illegal mining.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-centre-states-to-convene-meetings-to-ensure-scientific-sand-mining-957706.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||Mukhtar Ansari being kept as 'state guest': Akali Dal||The Shiromani Akali Dal castigated the Congress government in Assembly on Wednesday for trying to "prevent" gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is lodged in a jail in Punjab, from being transferred to Uttar Pradesh. During the zero hour on the third day of the budget session, Akali Dal legislator Bikram Singh Majithia claimed gangsters used to run away to Uttar Pradesh earlier, but now they were being kept as "guests" The Uttar Pradesh government had told the Supreme Court last month that the Punjab administration was "shamelessly" protecting Ansari by not sending him to face trial in several cases. Punjab had referred to the medical condition of Ansari and said he had been undergoing treatment at the jail hospital, as well as other hospitals from time to time since January 2019. Ansari is presently lodged in a prison in Rupnagar district in connection with an alleged extortion case registered in 2019. Majithia alleged that a "noted" lawyer was hired for Ansari's case in the Supreme Court by the state government. Ansari is facing several cases like murder and extortion. His case has become a "joke", the Akali Dal leader said. Talking to the media outside the Assembly later, Majithia asked the Amarinder Singh government to explain why it was keeping Ansari as a "state guest" in a jail for more than two years and even spending money to "prevent" his transfer to Uttar Pradesh. Majithia alleged that crores of rupees were being spent to "defend" Ansari in the apex court even though the government did not have funds for the Scheduled Castes scholarship scheme, social welfare benefits and government employees. The former minister said Ansari was arrested and brought to Punjab on the basis of a "vague" complaint that was registered in Mohali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mukhtar-ansari-being-kept-as-state-guest-akali-dal-957740.html
03-03-2021||North and Central||Opposition dubs Governor's address in Punjab assembly as 'bundle of lies'||The opposition on Wednesday dubbed the Governor's address in the Punjab assembly as a "bundle of lies" and attacked the Congress-led government over its alleged unfulfilled poll promises. Participating in the discussion on the Governor's address on the third day of the Budget Session of the Punjab Assembly, legislators of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) lambasted the Amarinder Singh-led regime for “not fulfilling” poll promises like debt waiver, elimination of drug menace, jobs for each household and cheaper power. "Four years of the state government have passed but it has not fulfilled its promises including ending drug menace in four weeks and employment to youth," alleged Harpal Singh Cheema, AAP MLA and Leader of Opposition in the assembly. "No new industry has come up... Farmers are committing suicide," he added. He also raised the issue of the 2015 sacrilege incidents and accused the state government of failing to catch the culprits who were behind the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. "People of Punjab have still not got justice (in sacrilege matter),” he said. Cheema said, "The Governor's address is a bundle of lies." SAD MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon took on the state government on the issue of debt waiver, claiming that Congress had promised to waive farm debt of cooperative banks, nationalised banks and commission agents. Despite a farm debt of Rs 90,000 crore, the state government waived just Rs 4,600 crore, said Dhillon. AAP legislator Budh Ram raised the issue of non-appointment of assistant professors in government colleges in Punjab. He also criticised the state government for not implementing pay commission recommendations and releasing pending dearness allowance of state government employees. Akali legislator Pawan Kumar Tinu slammed the government over the issue of the post-matric Scheduled Caste scholarship scheme, alleging that money was not being released under the scheme. Later, AAP legislators took exception to some objectionable remarks against an AAP leader by Congress legislator Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon and rushed to the well of the House to protest. A heated exchange ensued between the AAP members and Dhillon even as Harpartap Singh Ajnala, who was at the Speaker's chair, tried to calm the situation. PTI CHS VSD||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-dubs-governors-address-in-punjab-assembly-as-bundle-of-lies-957756.html
03-03-2021||Oasis||Why be a spiritual person?||Unlike religion, the concept of spirituality is almost identical and free from conflicts throughout the world.  The common characteristics of a spiritually mature person is that he/she looks at all living beings as one and accepts them as they are without feeling superior or inferior or trying to change them.  Such a person works for the universal welfare, ceases to have expectations from others, engages in benevolent actions only for self-satisfaction, without seeking approval from others, does not compare oneself with others and is always happy and content without attaching such state to others or to material objectives.   True spirituality leads one to beyond earthly benefits and losses. It is a state of equanimity far above the duality of good and bad, profit and loss, sorrow and happiness etc that we ordinarily experience.  In that sublime state of bliss, none of these dualities matter as the spiritually oriented person rejoices in the highest condition of divinity.    Spirituality should never be viewed with reference to mundane gains and losses; the benefits of being a spiritual person are incomparably far above every other joy that we can think of, either of this or the other world.   Regardless of what is desired or asked for, God will ensure that the benefits adapt themselves to the actual needs of the devotee. Also, the benefits start flowing in during the very process of becoming spiritual and not merely after its fruition.  Being a spiritual person is synonymous with being a person whose highest goal is to be loving to oneself and others. His/her conviction that we are all One, motivates him/her to work for everyone’s welfare and stay away from any harmful activities.  However, the path to spirituality is intricate but efforts are never wasted; even if this life ends abruptly in the midst of trying to achieve spiritual peaks.  Their noble qualities and capabilities continue to remain alive and vibrant in their reincarnation phase.   Here is what Lord Krishna assures in Bhagawad Gita (6/40):  pãrtha naiveha nãmutra vinãshas tasya vidyate na hi kalyãna-krit kashchid durgatim tata gachchhati meaning, “One who engages on the spiritual path does not meet with destruction either in this world or the world to come; one who strives for God-realization is never overcome by evil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/why-be-a-spiritual-person-957446.html
03-03-2021||Opinion||It's a myth that Asian-Americans are doing well in US amid Covid pandemic||Like many low-wage restaurant workers in Boston, Su Hua Mei and her husband lost their jobs last spring as the COVID pandemic took hold. With a toddler to care for, it has been a harrowing time for this immigrant couple from China, They speak little English and only finished high school so have limited job opportunities. Mei and other Asian Americans still face potential threats of eviction and unemployment benefits running out. She has no idea when restaurants will reopen. This uncertainty “is very hard on us,” says Mei. “It creates a lot of stress. We can’t have a normal life.” Yet Mei and many low-income Asian Americans are grossly overlooked. A widely cited national poll last year from Harvard School of Public Health, NPR and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation reported that 37 percent of Asians had experienced serious financial problems during the pandemic, compared with 72 percent of Latinos, 60 percent of Blacks, 55 percent of Native Americans. Seems like Asian Americans are doing well, right? But the survey had a gaping lacuna: it was conducted by phone only in English or Spanish. Of course, that immediately excludes Asians with low proficiency in English, who, ironically, are likely poor, vulnerable and most in need. And importantly, the poll highlights how skewed data can yield dangerously misleading results and headlines. After all, who is included in statistics in the first place yields results that influence life-changing policy and research. Contrary to the poll results, working class Asians like Mei are suffering from record job losses and staggering economic hardship. They work in restaurants, salons, hotels, laundries, delivery, health care, housekeeping, construction and factories. These low-wage industries are hit hard by the pandemic. Yet Asians are woefully neglected by researchers, academics and pollsters. Consequently, they are overlooked by media and the policymakers who control funding and services they desperately need. Partly, this is because of the limited English of the most vulnerable Asians: low-income, recent immigrants, the undocumented or elderly. The average person may be unaware of them because Asians who can’t speak any English toil behind the scenes, in restaurant kitchens, factories and construction sites. They are also more likely to be victims of racist harassment or attacks on Asians, such as an 84-year-old Thai man who was killed in February during a morning walk in San Francisco. Disturbingly, violence against Asians seems to be escalating across the country, from Los Angeles to New York. Vulnerable Asians are also less likely to report incidents due to language and cultural barriers. What’s more, many Asians are not included in key national statistics, because of language barriers. Accessing government assistance such as unemployment benefits is complicated for native English speakers, much less for those with low English. Limited English speakers also cannot advocate for themselves if landlords want to remove them. Thus, they are not counted in official eviction numbers, even if they are informally evicted. These gaps are surely not malicious or intentional. Robert Blendon, co-director of the Harvard/NPR/Johnson poll and professor at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, explains that it is very expensive to conduct surveys in other languages. Asians speak a multitude of languages, which makes capturing their experiences through data more difficult. If funding for multilingual surveys materialized, “I would gladly do it in a second,” says Blendon. But without granular data, people must understand that national statistics show only part of the picture. The Harvard survey should have explicitly flagged its language limitations and not buried them in fine print. Otherwise, its results about Asians are powerfully misleading. Data at the state and local level start to show a different perspective. In California, 83 percent of Asian Americans with high school degrees or less filed unemployment claims in California, compared to 37 percent for non-Asians, according to a UCLA report in July. During the lockdown, Asian unemployment jumped to 25 percent in New York City—the largest increase of all races, according to a report from the Asian American Federation (AAF) last October. Yet even those high numbers underreport Asian joblessness. The statistics exclude Asians thwarted by English and citizenship. Translations help – but some translated websites and applications were not available at the start of the pandemic. And applying for unemployment benefits is still so complicated and intimidating that “people didn’t even try,” says Karen Chen, executive director of the nonprofit Chinese Progressive Association, based in Boston. If people are denied unemployment benefits because of mistakes on applications, appealing decisions is extremely difficult without English. And consider that parents with limited English sometimes rely on their young children to translate and fill out complex paperwork. Online applications also assume people have computers and good internet connections, which many low-income folks don’t have. Using mobile phones to fill out small-print applications is a frustrating task. And even if approved, maintaining those unemployment benefits requires a steady stream of paperwork and administration—in English.  There are other challenges too. Asians may be afraid of interaction because of immigration status. Across the U.S., there are about 1.7 million undocumented Asians, representing one in seven Asian immigrants. More than 463,000 live in California, nearly 167,000 in New York and more than 148,000 in Texas. To reiterate, vulnerable Asians also might not be counted in evictions, which become “official” when a landlord files a court case against a tenant. However, if a landlord wants a non-English speaker to vacate, the tenant might not fight; without English they simply can’t. Asians are being unofficially evicted, yet those displacements are not considered official evictions. They don’t get counted in eviction statistics “because they don’t even make it to the court system,” says Bethany Li, a director at Greater Boston Legal Services. For Asians with low English, there’s a fear of retaliation from threatening landlords. “Not knowing their full rights make people afraid,” says Angie Liou, executive director of the Asian Community Development Corporation in Boston. Displaced Asians then are forced to double and triple up with family and friends in cramped housing. “That’s what we don’t want during a pandemic,” adds Liou. There are also cultural barriers. Many Asian immigrants hail from countries without democratic processes or with authoritarian governments. They may be afraid to interact with government, institutions or anyone they don’t know personally. The media also plays a role. Coverage about struggling Asian Americans and unemployment are a fraction of similar coverage about other racial groups. And in recent months, I’ve listened to dozens of online panels with experts at Harvard, the Knight Foundation and other influential institutions about the pandemic’s impact on minorities. Asians are not even mentioned. The general lack of attention “is ridiculous given the need of the Asian community,” says Alex Milvae, legal fellow at Greater Boston Legal Services. The misperception that Asians “are doing fine” is damaging. In fact, income inequality in the U.S. is greatest among Asians, who displaced Blacks as the country’s most economically divided racial group, according to Pew Research Center in 2018. Asians at the top of the economic pyramid are doing well, but many people at the very large base are not. Consider that in New York City, one in four Asians lives in poverty and 50 percent have limited English, according to the nonprofit Asian American Federation. More than 70 percent of Asians are immigrants, which means they might be unfamiliar with accessing government services. In Boston, poverty among Asians was nearly 26.6 percent compared to 23 percent among the city’s Black population, according to a 2014 report from Boston Redevelopment Authority. More needs to be done for Asians and others with limited English, such as hiring bilingual interpreters and creating multilingual Web sites, applications and helplines. But simply using Google Translate is not enough; cities should hire trained interpreters and get feedback about translations and to make sure they are accurate and jargon-free. Skewed or incomplete statistics are a disservice to people who most need help. Surveys like the Harvard one should more explicitly highlight language and cultural barriers. Broad national statistics only offer a piece of the picture. Local surveys and community organizations have a more granular, nuanced view. Grassroots organizations in Asian communities also need more support. Since they are on the ground helping desperate people, they should have a direct line to policy makers and donors. After all, their staff can actually speak to Asians and others with limited English. Vulnerable Asians like Mei and her toddler are in dire need of help—and influential statistics must not render them invisible. (This piece was written with support from the Economic Hardship Reporting Project.) Author’s Note: Between May and December, there were 184 articles with the keywords “Asian American” and “unemployment” in major U.S. media outlets, according to a Media Cloud search. By comparison, there were 1,020 unemployment stories involving Latinos and 5,574 about Blacks. You can create a free account at MediaCloud.org and do a search. (This is not to draw attention away from other communities, but simply to highlight scant attention on an overlooked group that desperately needs help.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/its-a-myth-that-asian-americans-are-doing-well-in-us-amid-covid-pandemic-957449.html
03-03-2021||Opinion||My vaccine, a love story||I’m not usually given to bursting into tears in public, but Saturday, Jan. 16, was an exception. I was getting my Covid-19 vaccination in Queens when it happened. A friendly physician, who identified herself only as Dr. Burke, approached me to make sure I was OK. I told her I was just overwhelmed with emotion. “It’s OK,” she said. “A lot of people are crying here today.” I’ve spent most of my 50 years in journalism as a war correspondent; when the pandemic hit, I couldn’t help but see the coronavirus pandemic in familiar terms. Countries around the world were transformed into battlefields. Like most of us, I have known people who have died of the virus. <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/26/opinion/war-correspondent-covid.html" rel="nofollow">This has made the pandemic very different from other wars I’ve covered,</a> which is nearly all of them since Cambodia in 1979. In other wars I had an out: I could always leave and go back home. That, of course, isn’t an option in a pandemic; the front lines in the fight against the virus are everywhere, and we are nearly all on them. With no home leave, so to speak, I felt bereft of home in a way more profound than during any field assignment I had been on before. As someone who has spent most of his career on farther shores, I have found this past year particularly hard to bear. I was abroad at home, and never had I felt so isolated and alone. My litany of collateral damages will sound familiar: the weeks of quarantines, the unattended weddings and funerals, the skipped Labor Day family barbecue. And forget about graduations and plain old birthday parties; I haven’t seen my three children, all of whom live in Europe, for most of a year. Thanksgiving, normally an affair for 30 or 40 extended family members, was off limits. I found our canceled Christmas to be particularly wrenching. Our family event, hosted by my sister Darlene, typically boasts 50 place settings. This year I was not invited, of course; I was heartbroken over that till I quickly realized that if I had been called upon to attend, I could not have gone. Outside of her immediate household of six family members, most of us dialed in by Zoom or FaceTime. That way we all stayed safe, if a bit sad. It was a touching scene to see the devoted and unpaid volunteers running the vaccination site (normally the bustling, 2,000-student Aviation High School) where I had booked my first dose. The volunteers were wearing Day-Glo green or orange vests with bibs that read, “I speak Spanish,” “I speak Chinese,” “I speak Cantonese” or “I speak Urdu.” The lists of languages went on and on; after all, we were in Queens, as polyglot a place as you’ll find in New York City. This virus has known no boundary, it has left no community untouched. The volunteers were determinedly efficient: From arrival to the shot in my arm, maybe 15 minutes elapsed. I was one of the first<a href="https://www.nbcnews.com/science/science-news/supply-shortages-registration-issues-nyc-struggles-vaccine-distribution-n1254446" rel="nofollow"> </a>New Yorkers vaccinated as the list of those eligible expanded to everyone over 65 and anyone who is a vulnerable person or is taking care of someone who is. The city was handing out shots so quickly that Mayor Bill DeBlasio warned that it was in danger of exhausting its first batch of vaccine doses. “It’s been so exciting,” my vaccinator, Denise Mahon, told me. “The first day it was like a carnival atmosphere here. People were so happy.” “The scientific achievement has just been amazing,” Dr. Burke said. Ms. Mahon is normally a school nurse, tending to students, not vaccinating baby boomers, the vulnerable and the elderly for 13 hours a day. After getting jabbed, I was moved along to a holding area, in normal times the school cafeteria, to spend 15 minutes making sure there was no allergic reaction or other problem. Very few people had complaints. While waiting, my girlfriend visited the New York State Department of Health website to book my second dose. She found an opening on Valentine’s Day. V-Day. It felt auspicious, to finally have a holiday that gave us something we really could celebrate. I knew I’d be dreaming of spending Christmas with my children and my extended family at my sister’s soon again. When Valentine’s Day came, I went in for my second dose and felt nearly overcome with relief, though this time dry-eyed. Also getting her second dose that day was a New York City schoolteacher named Yesenia Garcia, 49, from Jackson Heights, one of the Queens neighborhoods hard hit by the pandemic. Her vaccine “was like getting a kiss for Valentine’s Day on my arm,” she told me. Early in the pandemic, Ms. Garcia, who teaches — now mostly remotely — English as a second language, saw friends and colleagues lose their lives to Covid-19 as the city delayed closing the schools. Now, she said, she is especially relieved that she can see her parents, both in their 80s, without worrying about putting their lives at risk. “I was so grateful to science when the vaccine arrived, ” Ms. Garcia said. “This all proves that science really has to be celebrated and protected from power-hungry people like our last president and others who want to twist it and use it to their own advantage.” Walking away fully vaccinated felt like a small but memorable victory in this home-based war, a V-Day for which I was not only reporter, but protagonist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/my-vaccine-a-love-story-957452.html
03-03-2021||Panorama||Crude policy: When Centre manipulates fuel price at public expense||People demand answers to these six questions to know why petrol and diesel prices in India are at record highs: 1) Is it because international crude prices are high? 2) Has the dollar price increased steeply, whereby more rupees have to be spent to buy the same amount of crude? 3) Are the oil marketing companies in huge losses that they have to make up? 4) Is government untenably burdened with a high petroleum subsidy whereby it wants to ease the burden through oil price hikes? 5) Or is it that the price is being determined by the market fairly and so the government has no role to play in it and so remains silent both when the prices go unreasonably up nor when they do not come down when international prices fall? 6) Wasn’t this the party (BJP) which vehemently opposed fuel price hikes during the UPA government when international crude prices were actually sky high (unlike now when it is half of what it was in 2013) and wasn’t it Narendra Modi who promised that if he came to power, fuel prices would be dirt-cheap? For sure, the government cannot answer ‘yes’ to any of those questions. There is enough evidence to refute any such claims, one by one. First, while petrol and diesel prices have hit close to Rs 100 a litre in some states, international crude prices are nowhere near any record highs to justify that. Therefore, the present fuel prices and continuous hikes cannot be justified by citing high import prices. The Indian basket of crude cost $54.79 per barrel (about 159 litres) in January 2021 when petrol was being sold at Rs 86.34 a litre in Delhi. In September 2013, by which time the fuel was being sold at nearly market price under the UPA government, international crude price was $111.59 per barrel, or more than double today’s level, and yet petrol in Delhi cost Rs 76.06.  OK, then is it because the dollar exchange rate is higher than before, making crude imports costlier in rupee terms? No. Crude import price was Rs 46.94 per litre when the rupee-dollar exchange rate was Rs 66.89 in 2013, whereas in January 2021, the exchange rate was Rs 72.90 and crude cost at that rate was Rs 25.12 per litre. So, are the fuel prices high and being hiked every day to make up for the losses suffered by the oil marketing companies (OMCs)? No. The OMCs are not making any loss. The Petroleum and Natural Gas (PNG) ministry statistics confirm that beyond any doubt. All the CPSEs under the PNG ministry earned a combined Profit After Tax of Rs 69,714 crore in 2018-19; and their profits have risen constantly to this level over the last seven years -- from Rs 39,419 crore in 2012-13. Is the government burdened with paying subsidies to the OMCs? No. Rather, revenues to the Centre and states have risen continually from 2012-13 to 2018-19. As per the 2018-19 provisional figures, the states and the Centre received: (i) Royalty from crude oil of Rs 16,964 crore; (ii) Royalty from gas Rs 2,364 crore; (iii) Oil Development Cess Rs 18,984 crore; (iv) Excise & Custom duties Rs 1,63,162 crore; (v) Sales Tax Rs 2,01,265 crore, and (vi) Dividend Rs 30,323 crore. All this amounts to Rs 4,33,062 crore – a single-year revenue. The subsequent revised figures have shown a still higher amount of Rs 5,75,632 crore that year, of which the Centre’s share was Rs 3,48,041 crore, equal to 22% of its revenue receipts. The remaining Rs 2,27,591 crore went to the states, which was equal to 8% of their revenue receipts. That year, the Centre’s actual subsidy to the petroleum sector, as per the Budget document, was Rs 24,837 crore, which equals 7.13% of what it receives from the sector. This means that the government doesn’t give, rather it takes a lot from the industry. The total government subsidy -- for fertilisers, food and fuel combined -- was Rs 1,96,769 crore. It was 56.53% of central petroleum revenues and 34.18% of the total petroleum sector’s revenue. Clearly, this sector alone meets the entire subsidy burden of the Centre. So, it is wrong to say that the government is bearing the burden of subsidy to the sector. The fifth assumption is that the high fuel prices are the making of market forces and that government is helpless. That’s not true. It could halt the price hikes during the previous election season though international crude prices were going up at the time.   What’s more, the government can reduce the price by reducing taxes and cesses if it wants to. The BJP had protested inside and outside Parliament when the UPA hiked prices. Imports burden and exports boon True, India depends heavily – up to 85% -- on imports for its petroleum needs; it produced only 32.2 MMT of crude in 2019-20 against consumption of 214.1 MMT that year. Yet, that is no justification for the current price level and hike. Imports are a burden, but India also exports petroleum products. In 2019-20, India imported and refined 48.8 MMT crude more than was domestically required, and it exported this for $38.8 billion (11.4% of its gross exports value). The import bill of POL (Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants) that year was $119.1 billion, equal to 25% of India’s gross imports. So, while thinking of the costs, the export earnings and the domestic production of crude should also be factored in, not just the crude import cost. A democratic government should be transparent enough to share all the details with the people, rather than scaring them with misleading information and assertions and blaming previous governments going back all the way to Nehru for today’s prices. Also, the government should share with the people the profits it makes in different modes – tax and non-tax – by keeping the prices of essential commodities within specified bounds. No profiteering at the cost of public interest, please. (The writer is an economist and commentator on economic and social affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/crude-policy-when-centre-manipulates-fuel-price-at-public-expense-957444.html
03-03-2021||Panorama||Threats to migratory birds||Climate change, habitat loss, hunting and mobile signal towers are adversely impacting migratory birds. Forty percent of global bird species are under critical threat. Around 1800 of the known 10,000 bird species found across the globe are migratory. The most popular long-distance migrants are the Siberian Cranes that can cover 200 miles in a single day. The medium-sized Arctic Tern has recorded the longest migration of 49,700 miles in a year from the Arctic to the Antarctic. Hummingbirds are the smallest migratory birds weighing 1/8th of an ounce but with a speed of 48km/hour. The Bar Headed Goose, the highest altitude migratory bird, can fly at a height of 25,000 feet while crossing the Himalayan mountains on its journey to Tsokar Lake in Ladakh. Birds migrate to find the best ecological conditions and habitat for breeding, feeding and raising their young.  When conditions become unfavourable for them to survive, they migrate to regions where the conditions are better. Studies have shown that birds orient themselves during these long migrations by following the position of the sun and stars. They navigate by sensing the earth’s magnetic field. Researchers have confirmed that migratory birds produce elevated concentrations of cryptochromes  (Cry4)  protein in their body, during migration. This protein helps the birds to sense the magnetic field of the earth. Human-migratory bird interactions – hunting, habitat modification and deforestation -- threaten the survival of these ecologically significant species. Among the major disturbances to migratory birds are network towers and their signals. Electromagnetic radiation produced by humans, such as radio waves, can interfere with the navigational ability of bird species. These disruptions seem to have impacted the chemical reaction in the cryptochromes. This could explain why the global population of night-migrating birds have decreased sharply in recent years. Interferences from other electronic noises disorient migratory birds, especially European robins.  This problem is most acute in cities, which are buzzing with electromagnetic noise. The increasing number of cell phone towers in cities apparently affects the migration of birds to their breeding spots. The microwaves emitted by the cell phone towers and mobile handsets have resulted in damaging bird eggs and embryos. “Tower kill” is a known phenomenon by which birds are killed by collisions with antenna towers. Night illumination around the towers can disorient the birds and propel their collision with the towers. A European Information Technology Observatory report indicates 5.1 billion cell phone users worldwide by the end of 2010. The fifth generation of wireless technology, popularly known as 5G network, is responsible for our fast internet service and wireless communication. But these signal towers can seriously impact the migration of birds and can sometimes affect insects and mammals. The ‘colony collapse disorder’ found in bees nearby to signal towers indicates the extent of damage posed by mobile towers on bees and the ecological services rendered by them. The advent of the boom in smart device technology and increasing human footprint across the globe has resulted in pushing 40% of the bird population toward extinction. Climate change, habitat loss, indiscriminate hunting and network towers are impacting migratory birds. These age-old travellers cross continents to maintain the ecological balance of the earth, rendering major ecological services. The loss of these species will not only destabilize the biosphere but can trigger an extinction cycle across the globe. Conservation, awareness and sustainable development are the key to safeguard these unique avian species. (Dewan is a student; Chowdhury an Assistant Professor, and Rosencranz a Dean at Jindal School of Environment and Sustainability, O.P. Jindal Global University, Haryana, India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/threats-to-migratory-birds-957445.html
03-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Just 'bear' facts||The Army and animals have a working relationship, with mutual affection. Horses, mules, oxen, elephants, camels, dogs, cats, rats and pigeons have been in use in armies from times immemorial. Even moose have been used as deep snow cavalry by Sweden and USSR. But not many may have heard of  Sir Nils Olav, promoted to the rank of a Brigadier by the Norwegian King’s Guard on Aug 16. No, he was not a human, but a King Penguin in Edinburgh Zoo! Or about an elephant entering an army mess in Binnaguri in North Bengal on Sep 19 2020, drinking up the rum and being unable to exit? Artillery units are generally turned over every two-three years to other locations, and an advance party moves to each other’s location,6-8 weeks ahead of the main move. This is a story from my regiment some years after my retirement. The officer-in-charge of the advance party from my regiment, a Major, had moved and established old friendships at the new location in Sikkim. Welcome drinks followed the first evening. After a few drinks, the Mess Havildar reported to the CO with a smart salute, “Sahib, guest log aa gaya hai”. All officers got up. Wondering who these ‘guests’ could be who did not enter the mess, but were received by all officers, the Major too accompanied the CO  to meet them. In the diffused light, he could see two jawans with a patila (Big Utensil) and some Mess Staff. CO was given a stack of langar chapatis to be fed to Papa Bear. Major picked up a bigger stack, offering it to the Mama Bear, who shared it with her two babies. Thereafter the other officers picked up a few each and fed them in turn. Returning to the mess, the CO told the Major that this too was an important taking over point. It is the bear family that has adopted the regiment, turning up at the same time every day. Interestingly, when the regiment along with our advance party, moved to test operational readiness at pre-determined locations at a short notice, only a small rear party was left behind. Arriving at the usual time, the Bear family found a more or less deserted area. May be pestered by the Mama Bear, Papa and Mama moved to the ration store, ransacked and took away an ‘atta’ bag! No one knows if Mama Bear made chapatis with it and if so how!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/just-bear-facts-957443.html
03-03-2021||Second Edit||Odisha jumbo deaths cause for worry||An outbreak of haemorrhagic septicaemia in Odisha’s Karlapat Wildlife Sanctuary is reason for serious concern. Caused by the bacteria Pasteurella multocida, the disease has claimed the lives of seven elephants and two cattle over a span of a fortnight in February. According to a preliminary study conducted by a team of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, the source of the infection could be a herd of cattle in a village inside the sanctuary. The infection could have been passed on to the elephants through contamination of water and soil. The carcasses of all seven elephants were found near the Ghusurigudi Nullah. Pasteurella multocida strikes an animal’s respiratory tract and lungs, leading to severe pneumonia. Death often comes swiftly: elephants can die within a few hours of contracting the infection. Being a highly contagious disease, an entire herd of elephants could get infected, even be wiped out, in 10-15 days. Hence, swift action to curb the spread of the disease is vital. Health authorities have warned that humans can contract the infection, too, through contact with infected animals, contaminated clothing, equipment, and through ingestion or inhalation of the bacteria. Health authorities must spread awareness about the disease among villagers in hamlets in the affected area. The Karlapat Wildlife Sanctuary is home to some 22 elephants, and the seven elephants that died belonged to a herd of nine. Efforts are on to prevent elephants from straying into areas where infections are high, and cattle in hamlets in the sanctuary and surrounding areas are being vaccinated against the disease. Water bodies are also being disinfected to prevent contamination. While these steps are welcome, could they have been set in motion earlier to prevent the mass death of elephants? Better monitoring of livestock and wildlife could have prevented these deaths. Experts have blamed the elephant deaths on a failure of the government machinery. Monitoring of the animals was not being done, they say, and it was only after several elephants died that forest officials slowly stirred to action. It is important that the Odisha government fixes accountability for the death of the elephants. So far, the only action taken has been against a low-ranking livestock inspector. Forest officers and veterinary officials who should have been monitoring the animals have not been held accountable for their dereliction of duty. In January last year, 40 buffaloes had died of haemorrhagic septicaemia in Odisha’s Kendrapara. Then, too, officials were found to have neglected to monitor the health of livestock. Had stern action been taken against them, perhaps the mass death of elephants at Karlapat could have been prevented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/odisha-jumbo-deaths-cause-for-worry-957438.html
03-03-2021||South||Man attacks Hyderabad woman techie with knife for rejecting marriage proposal||A woman software engineer was injured when a man allegedly attacked her using a knife at her residence here, for turning down his marriage proposal, police said. She has been admitted to a city hospital with multiple cut injuries and was out of danger, they said. The incident took place on Tuesday evening. The woman's mother, who rushed to the rescue of her daughter, suffered minor injuries. The assailant, who works in a prominent beauty and hairstyling salon, was known to the woman for about two years. The woman's refusal to marry him appeared to be the primary reason for the attack, police said, adding further investigation was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-attacks-hyderabad-woman-techie-with-knife-for-rejecting-marriage-proposal-957561.html
03-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly poll: DMK to release election manifesto on March 11||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, leading party of the Opposition alliance in Tamil Nadu, will release its much-awaited manifesto for the April 6 Assembly elections in Chennai on March 11. Party President M K Stalin on Wednesday said the manifesto, which is being finalised, will be the “hero of the Assembly elections.” The release of the manifesto will be preceded by a mega rally in Tiruchirapalli on March 7 during which Stalin will release his 10-year vision for Tamil Nadu. “I will release a vision document for the next 10 years. The vision will have two salient features – seven-point guidance and a long-term planning document,” Stalin said in the statement. Four days after the rally in Tiruchirappalli, the Central Tamil Nadu city considered lucky for the DMK, the party will release its manifesto on March 11. “The manifesto will be the hero of this election,” Stalin said, borrowing words from late M Karunanidhi who had described DMK's promise of colour television sets in 2006 as the “hero” that clinched the poll in party's favour. Sources said the DMK's manifesto will have "ättractice announcements”, besides suggesting several measures to address problems like unemployment. “Unemployment is the biggest issue today, and the manifesto will address it. Besides, we have other announcements that will help the people,” a DMK leader told DH. DMK, which has been out of power for the past 10 years, is pulling all stops to win the April 6 Assembly elections. However, the party's decision to contest in 180 seats, allotting only 54 to others, has upset the alliance partners, including Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-poll-dmk-to-release-election-manifesto-on-march-11-957591.html
03-03-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, joining the bandwagon of his counterparts in Odisha and Bihar in getting the shot. The 75 years-old Marxist veteran had already informed that he would take the shot soon since the second phase of the vaccination drive began across the country on Monday. Health Minister K K Shailaja and officials accompanied him at the vaccination centre in the Government Women and Children's Hospital at Thycaud. Later, he urged people to take part in the drive without any hesitation and criticised those involved in spreading rumours and misinformation against taking the shot. "Receiving the Covid-19 vaccine was a good experience and there was no need to worry at all about it," he told reporters after taking the shot along with his wife Kamala. Noting that a large number of people were coming forward to take the vaccine, Vijayan said vaccination has equipped mankind to prevent deadly diseases that had plagued the world at various stages. Diseases like Polio could be eradicated through vaccination. But, still there were some people campaigning against the drive. "However, people have not accepted it. I am saying this to prevent people from falling prey to such propaganda," the Chief Minister added. Later, in a tweet, Vijayan said, "Took the first dose of Covid vaccine today. Vaccines provide immunity to diseases. I encourage everyone to get vaccinated as and when it is available. Together, let us overcome this pandemic through scientific methods." Meanwhile, Public Works Minister G Sudhakaran received the jab from the Government General Hospital in the morning. Besides Health Minister K K Shailaja, Revenue Minister E Chandrasekharan and Ports and Museums Minister Kadannappally Ramachandranreceived the first dose of the vaccine from hospitals and Kannur on Tuesday. Over 1,000 centres have been set up in various districts across the state for people to take the jab. The second phase drive targets anyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities. They can receive vaccine shots for free at government hospitals and for a charge at a number of private hospitals, as per the Centre's directive. To get vaccinated, everyone should register at the prescribed portal beforehand and the shot should be taken on a priority basis, health department sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-957635.html
03-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly Polls: Cong seeks fair deal from DMK based on mutual respect||The Congress has convened a meeting of the state executive committee in Tamil Nadu on Friday amid indications that seat-sharing talks with the DMK are yet to make headway. AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Dinesh Gundu Rao told PTI on Wednesday the party had one round of talks on Tuesday but there was no progress on seat-sharing. Rao, former President of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee, said he is reaching Chennai on Wednesday and further meetings on seat-sharing are slated on Thursday and Friday. "We have state executive committee meeting on Friday. So, hopefully by then, we should have some decision on all those things," he said. Rao, a former Karnataka Minister, declined to say how many seats the Congress has sought but insisted that the seat-sharing deal has to be fair and based on mutual respect. Obviously, everything has to be fair.Nothing unfair.. (and unfair deal) is neither good for us (Congress) nor for them (DMK)," Rao, son of former Karnataka Chief Minister late R Gundu Rao, said. Asked if he expected seat-sharing talks to be smooth or to face problems, he said they are still under negotiations, adding, " I cannot say exactly anything as it's still in the process." On whether seat-sharing deal with DMK would be struck eventually, the MLA from Karnataka said he can't say anything now. "Till it happens, I can't say anything. To be finalised, no?" "I won't say anything on that. When we are in the talks, I don't think we should make any other kind of remarks. "Not correct," Rao said when asked if going alone in the April 6 assembly elections is an option for the Congress. Rao also struck a positive note, saying the Congress has had a long alliance with the DMK. "We think that it's a good alliance and it should continue. Hopefully, everything should work out," he said. "We have fought fascist forces together; so, that is the main agenda, common ideology of this alliance." The DMK has already signed seat-sharing pact with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK), apportioning them three and two seats, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-cong-seeks-fair-deal-from-dmk-based-on-mutual-respect-957638.html
03-03-2021||South||Ball in DMK's court: Congress on seat-sharing agreement ahead of Tamil Nadu Assembly polls||Acknowledging that there was a “gap” in the number of seats being demanded and offered, Congress on Wednesday pushed the ball into the DMK's court, saying the alliance is not just based on the number of seats but on the “common goal” to defeat the AIADMK-BJP combine. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) President K S Alagiri told reporters in Cuddalore, 175 km from here, that the party has conveyed their stand on the number of seats offered to the DMK. Sources said the DMK is ready to give around 24 seats from its initial offer of 18, but Congress wants more than 30 seats. The second round of negotiations on Tuesday remained inconclusive with both parties sticking to their known stands. With DMK remaining adamant, Congress is disappointed with its senior ally in the state and wants a “respectable number” to it. “This alliance is not based just on numbers. It is based on ideology and the common goal to defeat the AIADMK and BJP which have ruined the state and the country. We are very firm on our stand,” Alagiri said. He added that the second round of negotiations is at an advanced stage, and there was a possibility of another round of talks on Thursday. “The ball is in DMK's court. They need to decide. They gave a number, and we gave a number. Now it is for them to decide,” Alagiri said when asked about the number of seats that the Congress will be allotted in the DMK alliance. Not just the Congress, the Left parties and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) are also upset with the DMK on sharing of seats. The DMK, which has been out of power for the past 10 years, wants to form a government on its own and has decided to contest in about 180 of the total 234 seats at stake. With just 54 seats to be shared among half-a-dozen parties, there is disappointment among alliance partners. The DMK has so far finalised seat-sharing only with two Muslim parties – IUML (3), and MMK (2).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ball-in-dmks-court-congress-on-seat-sharing-agreement-ahead-of-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-957657.html
03-03-2021||South||Kerala government’s decision to allot land to Sri M triggers allegation of CPM-RSS nexus||CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government's decision in Kerala to allot four-acre land in Thiruvananthapuram for ten years lease to spiritual guide Sri M for setting up a yoga centre has triggered allegations of a CPM-RSS nexus ahead of the Kerala Assembly elections. The state cabinet decided to allot the land to Sri M's Satsang Foundation for setting up a Yoga centre last week and the land can not be used for any other purpose, government sources said.  It has also come to the fore that Sri M had initiated talks between RSS and the CPM leadership several years ago to try to put an end to the political killings in Kannur district. While the Opposition Congress alleged that Sri M played the role of middleman in forging a CPM-RSS-BJP nexus in Kerala, the CPM on the other hand retorted that the allegations over allotting land to Sri M are being triggered by the  Jamaat-e-Islami as part of their tie-ups with Congress. Reacting to the row, Sri M told a section of the media that he had initiated the talks between RSS and CPM as he aimed to ensure the prevalence of peace in the society. "There was no political agenda in the meeting and there was no politics involved in the Pinarayi Vijayan government's decision to allot land for the yoga centre," said the Padma Bhushan recipient. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that the decision to allot land is quite dubious. Congress MLA V T Balaram said that Sri M requested for the land hardly one month back and the Pinarayi Vijayan government swiftly took the necessary step. A widespread campaign is also going on in social media over the decision. Some CPM leaders initially denied the allegations of a meeting between RSS and CPM leaders. However, CPM senior leader and former Kannur district secretary of the party P Jayarajan said that Sri M initiated the discussion for the sake of peace and it was not held for an alliance. He also alleged that the Jamaat-e-Islami and its political outfit Welfare Party were against peace and hence they are trying to frame it as a political ploy. "Even after the talks, Kannur witnessed political violence between the two sections," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-s-decision-to-allot-land-to-sri-m-triggers-allegation-of-cpm-rss-nexus-957694.html
03-03-2021||South||Kerala church heads call on RSS leaders ahead of polls||Amidst reports of the BJP and RSS trying to make inroads into the Christian vote banks of Kerala, heads of the prominent Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church in Kerala called on RSS leaders in Kochi on Wednesday. Several rounds of discussions have already taken place over the last few months in Kerala between BJP-RSS leaders and heads of various prominent churches. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in one such discussion. BJP state President K Surendran and Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan called on Syro-Malabar Church Cardinal George Alencherry in Kochi recently. Metropolitans Geevarghese Mar Yulios and Yakob Mar Irenios of the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church and metropolitan Joseph Mar Gregorious of the Jacobite faction called on RSS leaders including joint general secretary Manmohan Vaidya in Kochi on Wednesday separately. The focus of the talks was the power tussle between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions over control over churches. The Orthodox faction is unhappy with the Kerala government over its failure to enforce the Supreme Court order to hand over control of over 1,000 churches which are now with the Jacobite faction. The Jacobite faction is unhappy that the government is not trying to protect its interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-church-heads-call-on-rss-leaders-ahead-of-polls-957727.html
03-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly elections: BJP shelves plan to bring AMMK into AIADMK alliance||With AIADMK unrelenting in its opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is believed to have shelved its proposal to bring the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) led by V K Sasikala's nephew T T V Dhinakaran into the alliance led by the Dravidian party. “It is not happening. It is a closed chapter now,” a source with the knowledge of the developments told DH on Wednesday. “The discussions between the BJP and AIADMK currently is centred only around the number of seats that the national party gets in the alliance and identifying the constituencies. Sasikala-TTV is not a topic of discussion any more,” the source added. The BJP, which proposed to AIADMK in January to arrive at an electoral understanding with its splinter group AMMK to prevent split of the core vote bank, has “dumped the plan” due to continued opposition from the leadership of the ruling party in Tamil Nadu, especially Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. BJP believes AMMK votes will decide the victory in more than 40 constituencies in southern and parts of the central region in Tamil Nadu where the Mukulathors, the caste to which Sasikala and Dhinakaran belong, are in large numbers. “We believe AMMK will split the AIADMK votes in Southern Tamil Nadu. But if AIADMK does not relent and continues to show hesitation in taking them back, the BJP cannot push them beyond a point given the elections are just a month away,” the source added. The Chief Minister feels inducting Sasikala and Dhinakaran would not augur well for him in the “long-run” especially after the elections. Meanwhile, AIADMK reiterated that there was “no chance” of re inducting Sasikala and Dhinakaran into the party while asserting that ally BJP will not interfere in the internal affairs of the party. Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar, considered the spokesman of the government, told reporters at the AIADMK headquarters that the party has “rejected” suggestions, if there were any, that Sasikala and Dhinakaran be re-inducted into the party or taken into the alliance. “Chief Minister (Edappadi K Palaniswami) has made it clear that there was no chance of Sasikala and Dhinakaran joining AIADMK. There is no chance. 100 per cent there is no chance. We are firm in our stand,” Jayakumar said. To a question on whether BJP has moved a proposal before the party to at least consider inducting Dhinakaran's AMMK into the alliance, Jayakumar said the alliance and ideology of the party were two different things. “BJP is our alliance partner. They do not interfere in our internal matters. They never do it and we decide for our party,” he said. Jayakumar's statement came just minutes after BJP General Secretary C T Ravi maintained that it was for the AIADMK to decide on the Sasikala-Dhinakaran question. “EPS and OPS know the strengths and weaknesses of Sasikala and Dhinakaran. They will take a call,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-bjp-shelves-plan-to-bring-ammk-into-aiadmk-alliance-957745.html
03-03-2021||South||Five new species of shrub frogs found in Western Ghats||An Indo-US team of biologists on Wednesday reported the discovery of five new species of shrub frogs from the Western Ghats, one of India’s biodiversity hotspots. The scientists discovered these new species as part of a long comprehensive study on the shrub frogs (genus Raorchestes) of the Western Ghats spanning over a period of nearly ten years. The new species were identified and found to be distinct on the basis of their external morphology, DNA, calling pattern, behaviour, and other natural history observations. They were named Raorchestes kakkayamensis after the place of its discovery Kakkayam; Raorchestes keirasabinae after young nature lover Keira Sabin and Raorchestes sanjappai after M Sanjappa, a renowned Indian Botanist and former director of the Botanical Survey of India. One species has been named Raorchestes drutaahu because of its unique calling pattern. The species name is derived from Sanskrit ‘druta’ (meaning fast) and ‘ahu’ (meaning call). The last one has been named Raorchestes vellikkannan because of its distinct eye colour it gets its name Malayalam ‘velli’ (meaning silver) and ‘kannu’ (meaning eye). All of them have been found in Kerala. “This study is a testament to how little is known about the most threatened group of vertebrates in India. The shrubs frogs are among the most researched groups of frogs in India, with frequent new discoveries being made over the past two decades. Yet, we are far from fully understanding their existing diversity and uniqueness,” said team leader S D Biju, a professor at Delhi University and India’s leading frog hunter. Over 80 per cent of the globally known shrub frogs (genus Raorchestes) are restricted to the Western Ghats, and most species are known to have narrow geographical ranges. The study provides several new insights into the behaviour of such amphibians. The biologists are now tracing potential evidence for the population decline of the five newly discovered species, and any threats that they may be facing within their known ranges, in order to protect them from extinction. “Several new species are often threatened even before they are formally named and known to science. Many of these may already be extinct before they are discovered. It is an unfortunate fate that scientists call as — the nameless extinction,” added DU researcher Sonali Garg, the lead author of the study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-new-species-of-shrub-frogs-found-in-western-ghats-957748.html
03-03-2021||South||Abdul Kalam's former aide joins Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam||V Ponraj, who was Scientific Advisor and Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to A P J Abdul Kalam when he was President and after he demitted office respectively, on Wednesday joined the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) led by actor Kamal Haasan. Ponraj, who was closely associated with Kalam and played a key role in preparing a report to allay apprehensions over the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant in Tamil Nadu following wide-spread protests, launched Abdul Kalam Vision India Party in 2016, a year after the death of the former President. “I am happy to join Kamal Haasan today and I feel he is the right person to fulfill ideas propagated by Dr Abdul Kalam,” Ponraj said after joining the party. After inducting him into the party, Kamal Haasan appointed Ponraj as Vice-President of MNM. The document said MNM, if elected to power, will establish hostels in all districts for free emergency overnight stay for women in distress and establish a follow-up system on complaints registered with 181 women’s helpline. “Government to procure and distribute sanitary napkins via PDS for poor, urban and rural adolescent girls and women, women bank, education, skill building, employment, and socio-economic support to be given to all single mothers and government to organise reproductive health check-up once in every six months,” the document said. Meanwhile, Kamal Haasan launched his election campaign from Alandur, formerly known as Parangimalai from where the late matinee idol M G Ramachandran got elected to the Tamil Nadu Assembly for the first time in 1967. The move comes as Kamal Haasan seeks to claim the legacy of MGR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/abdul-kalams-former-aide-joins-kamal-haasans-makkal-needhi-maiam-957758.html
03-03-2021||South||Panel to address human-animal conflict in Telangana||In the wake of the killing of two humans by a tiger, the Telangana government has formed a high-level committee to address the increasing incidents of human-animal conflict in the state. In November last year, a tiger wandering into Komaram Bheem Asifabad district, which abuts Maharashtra, killed two tribals—a young man and a teenage girl—in two separate incidents in a span of three weeks. “The killer is the same tiger which is coming in and moving out of Telangana. A2 was born, grew up in the Chandrapur super thermal power station area of Maharashtra (close to our border),” R Shobha, principal chief conservator of forests, Telangana told DH. The tiger on the prowl is giving sleepless nights to the residents of the largely foresty district—mostly tribals living in isolated hamlets and dependent on forests and minor cultivation for their livelihood. The non-resident tiger has also killed about 15 cattle till now. However, A2 is not the only wild animal keeping the Telangana forest officials on their toes. Several tiger sightings are reported from other areas too like Khammam in recent months. And leopard sightings have become more frequent including in suburb localities of Hyderabad. Following such incidents, Shobha said she wrote to the government to constitute a state-level committee to evolve a mechanism for mitigation of such human-animal confrontation. According to a government order issued on Tuesday, the panel, chaired by the Telangana minister for forests & environment, with senior officials, conservation experts and one representative from the National Tiger Conservation Authority's regional office in Bangaluru as members, would submit its report in three months. The committee would propose measures to avoid recurrence of incidents of tigers killing human beings, and propose a revision to the existing compensation package while setting guidelines for settling the claims for human death, injury, cattle kills, crop damage, etc. As of now, the state government compensates a family of a person killed due to an attack of a tiger or other wild animals with Rs five lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panel-to-address-human-animal-conflict-in-telangana-957778.html
03-03-2021||State||It's clearing litter before letters for these Bengaluru schoolkids||Children in schools across the state begin the day with a morning prayer, but students of an 82-year-old government school in Chamarajpet, the cultural centre of the city, are busy clearing liquor bottles and vestiges of illicit activities, thanks to official indifference. The dilapidated building houses the Government Kannada and Tamil Higher Primary School as well as a kindergarten. However, it is unsafe for children even during the day as trespassers enter the premises easily. At night, it is a hub for raucous groups of youth who consume liquor and food and litter the place. The school is right opposite the Bengaluru Medical College and Research Institute, close to the VV Puram police station and Victoria Hospital and just a scream away from the office of the Deputy Director for Public Instruction (DDPI) and Block Education Officer (BEO). The school was established in 1939. Currently, classes are conducted under the Vidyagama scheme where Tamil medium has 33 children and Kannada medium has around 28 for primary classes, and 10 children are admitted to LKG and UKG. Despite repeated pleas and “oral complaints” from the teachers, nothing has changed. Now, the students have invited Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar to visit the school. “This is the everyday scene. We still clear liquor bottles in the morning liked we always used to,” said a student of Class 7. “We have brought this to the notice of the officials,” said a senior teacher. Local shopkeepers said the school has been a permanent base for some followers of a local leader. With toilets in a pathetic condition, children must relieve themselves at home in the evening after school hours.  BEO South 2 L H Muthaiah said, “A few repairs are needed. We have written to higher officials but are not aware of other issues.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/its-clearing-litter-before-letters-for-these-bengaluru-schoolkids-957415.html
03-03-2021||State||Involve NGOs to vaccinate fast, panel advises Karnataka govt||The State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended the government to enlist the services of reputed NGOs like Rotary, Lions and others to hasten Covid-19 vaccination in high-risk general population. “There is an increase in the number of cases again in the adjacent states of Maharashtra, Kerala and other states. This may result in a possible spillover of the infection to Karnataka. In this context, it is important that a large number of elderly and comorbid individuals be vaccinated as quickly as possible,” TAC said. Health Commissioner Dr Thrilok Chandra said by weekend the Health department will take a call on cohort registration by roping in NGOs. The BBMP is already covering all urban slums within Palike limits. An expert who did not want to be named said, “BBMP is already undertaking a survey especially in the urban slums. Microplanning such as who are the target beneficiaries and where to get them should be the focus. Manpower, logistics (which NGOs can provide) and beneficiary planning should be the crux. This way we can vaccinate a targeted number of people every day. There is no other way of covering the population unless we do an enumeration by going to places like old age homes.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/involve-ngos-to-vaccinate-fast-panel-advises-karnataka-govt-957429.html
03-03-2021||State||Ramp up testing in border districts, Central team tells Karnataka govt||A three-member central team which visited Bengaluru on Monday has recommended government to ramp up testing in border districts considering a number of cluster outbreaks in the state owing to arrivals from neighbouring Maharashtra and Kerala. The central team, comprising a joint secretary in the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and two doctors, visited the testing facility at Kempegowda International Airport, a cluster at Sambhram Institute of Management Studies and the lab at Nimhans where Covid samples’ genomes were sequenced. They also visited a Diplomate of National Board (DNB) Academic Centre in Tumakuru. Health Commissioner Dr Thrilok Chandra said, “They have asked us to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour more vigorously and enhance testing and surveillance measures in border areas, particularly borders with Maharashtra and Kerala. They wanted to know remedial measures taken up particularly, with respect to students coming back from Kerala. Already, one round of testing has been completed on all the students. As per recommendations, mandatory isolation is also happening.” “The central team was appreciative of our containment measures and testing. Only seven per cent of our tests are rapid antigen tests, 93% are RTPCR tests,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ramp-up-testing-in-border-districts-central-team-tells-karnataka-govt-957433.html
03-03-2021||State||Karnataka reports 437 new Covid-19 cases, seven deaths in 24 hours||Karnataka reported 437 new Covid-19 cases and seven related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,52,037 and the death toll to 12,343, on Tuesday. The day also saw 309 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 437 fresh cases reported, 282 were from Bengaluru Urban. As of March 2 evening, cumulatively there have been 9,33,730 discharges. Among seven deaths, four were from Bengaluru Urban, two from Mysuru and one from Tumakuru. Dakshina Kannada reported 19 fresh cases followed by Bidar (16), Mysuru and Tumakuru (15) each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-437-new-covid-19-cases-seven-deaths-in-24-hours-957435.html
03-03-2021||State||Impartial probe into 'sex-for-job' row will be done, says Karnataka Home Minister Bommai||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Wednesday that an impartial probe will be carried out into the complaint filed against Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that the police would take up a detailed investigation into the incident. "Based on the complaint, we are doing an enquiry. Investigation will be carried out as per law," he said. To a question on the BJP's stand on the issue, he said that it will be revealed by the party and its leaders soon. "I cannot comment on what the party’s stand is. The issue has come to their notice. Party and its senior leaders will take a call," he said. On demands by the Opposition seeking Jarkiholi's resignation, he said that the party would take a call. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, reacting to demands that Jarkiholi should resign, said that the party and the state leadership will take a call after verifying whether there was any truth in the complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/impartial-probe-into-sex-for-job-row-will-be-done-says-karnataka-home-minister-bommai-957557.html
03-03-2021||State||DH Radio | The Lead: What fuels illegal quarrying in Karnataka?||The recent blast at a quarry site in Karnataka's Chikaballapur has brought to light the mayhem that's happening at these places. Tune in to The Lead to get to know more about the incident and what fuels such activity.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to another episode of the Lead by DH Radio. The recent blast at a quarry site in Karnataka's Chikaballapur has brought to light the mayhem that's happening at these places. to get to know more about the incident and fuels such activity, we are joined by DH's Akram Mohammed, who has covered the story. Hi, Akram welcome to DH Radio. Akram Mohammed: Thank you Ahmed: Akram, could you briefly tell us about the latest incident in Chikaballapur? Akram: The incident happened when the labourers of the crushing unit were trying to hide explosives. So, after the Shivamogga incident that happened in February, the government had tightened the screws on the supply of explosives to these quarries. The raids took place on this quarry on February 21 and some material was seized. Subsequently, there was a raid on February 28. The explosives were hidden... To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-radio-the-lead-what-fuels-illegal-quarrying-in-karnataka-957569.html
03-03-2021||State||Over 5,500 arecanut farmers hit due to Yellow Leaf Disease||The Yellow Leaf Disease (YLD) has ravaged arecanut plantation spread of 1,217.38 hectares in Sullia and Puttur taluks of Dakshina Kannada district, an official from the Horticulture Department said during the tri-monthly Karnataka Development Programmes (KDP) review meeting held at Zilla Panchayat Hall on Tuesday. “A total of 5,588 farmers have suffered losses as their arecanut plantation are infected with the disease,” the official said. The meeting was chaired by District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary. The officer added that as no remedy was found to check the spread of the diseases, the farmers have been asked to grow alternative crops. Farmers have shown interest in cultivating coconut, cashew nuts, cocoa and oil palm as an alternative to arecanut. A detailed project report for alternative crops and financial assistance was submitted to the government through the deputy commissioner. Pointing out that the YLD had also destroyed plantations in Koppa, Sringeri and N R Pura taluks of the Chikkamagaluru district, Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor and MLC Bhoje Gowda said that compensation should be paid to the growers for the loss of crops as they are in distress now without any sources of income. Gowda added that the affected plantations should be cleared to take up fresh crops. District In-charge Poojary said that a delegation comprising MLAs from DK and MLC Bhoje Gowda will be taken to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and compensation will be sought for the growers affected by YLD. When MLC Prathap Simha Nayak highlighted the issue of a mysterious disease affecting arecanut plantation in Malavanthige Gram Panchayat, the officer from horticulture department clarified that it was not YLD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-5500-arecanut-farmers-hit-due-to-yellow-leaf-disease-957608.html
03-03-2021||State||97-year-old man gets ‘shot in the arm,’ tells peers to go for it||While other hospitals in Bengaluru were facing teething problems with Co-WIN, 97-year-old Ramaswami Parthasarathy, former Director of Projects for Satellite Communication, in Intelsat Corporation, a US communications satellite services provider, wheeled out of Manipal Hospital, with a rather cheerful demeanour. He was one of the lucky few to get a vaccine jab on Monday afternoon. “Post vaccination I have no pain in the arm. The correct dose does the job. It’s a great achievement. There’s an excellent atmosphere here and it is due to the young people maintaining it.” he said. Parthasarathy has blood pressure and sugar but did well during the half-an-hour observation period, post vaccination. His apartment is less than 500 metres from the hospital and he could easily secure a vaccination slot in Manipal hospital on the Co-WIN portal. “My son and daughter live 3,000 miles away and my driver is my companion and caretaker. My wife died 10 years back. I am the first to get vaccinated in my family. My message to senior citizens and those with comorbidities is to enjoy getting vaccinated rather than be afraid of it. “Combined with good surroundings, I don’t think anybody should worry about vaccination on any ground because we are in the hands of competent people. I am thankful for that,” he added. Rs 250 price nominal for urban poor, he said. “Anybody who has undergone hospital treatment will know Rs 250 is not a lot to pay for this vaccine. I think whoever fixed this price did a great job and has really helped the urban poor who visit private hospitals. For rich people, it doesn’t matter.” Parthasarathy will be coming back for his second dose after 28 days on March 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/97-year-old-man-gets-shot-in-the-arm-tells-peers-to-go-for-it-957684.html
03-03-2021||State||Man attempts self-immolation over Karnataka Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi's resignation||Peeved at the resignation by Karnataka Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi owing to the sex-for-job scandal, a man on Wednesday tried to immolate himself in Gokak, 70 km from here. The attempt was made during a protest by the Minister's supporters, police said. As news spread about the Minister tendering his resignation, the supporters swarmed the Basaveshwara circle in Gokak. They burned tyres, raised slogans holding Jarkiholi's photograph appealing to him not to resign as the charges, they said, were baseless and frivolous. During the stir, one of the supporters poured petrol on his body and was about to set himself afire when the policemen reached there and took him into custody. The Minister sent his resignation to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa following the leaked videos and police complaint alleging sexual exploitation of a woman under the pretext of giving her a job in a government organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-attempts-self-immolation-over-karnataka-minister-ramesh-jarkiholis-resignation-957701.html
03-03-2021||State||Fire at Nagarahole Tiger Reserve destroys vegetation||Vegetation on several acres of forest land was destroyed due to wildfire that erupted near Udburu, Antharasanthe range, under the limits of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve in HD Kote taluk on Wednesday. The fire spread rapidly up to Manandavadi Road due to strong winds. Around six vehicles of Fire and Emergency Services rushed to the spot with more than 30 personnel struggling to check the fire from spreading. In addition, 200 Forest department personnel also swung into action. The employees of nearby jungle lodges and resorts too helped the department staff in containing the fire. Thick smoke could be seen billowing from the forest. Attempts to contact Nagarahole Tiger Project Director Mahesh Kumar turned futile.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fire-at-nagarahole-tiger-reserve-destroys-vegetation-957754.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tell Centre Co-WIN stumbling block for vaccination: TAC to Karnataka govt||“The CO-WIN portal has always been a stumbling block in smooth delivery of Covid vaccination from the very first day till date,” the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) said, at its meeting on Monday evening at the end of Day One of vaccination for senior citizens and those with comorbidites.  “In this context, TAC recommends ‘walk-in registration’ of beneficiaries and uploading data following vaccination. This will greatly smoothen the vaccination drive and augment vaccination coverage. A letter from GoK (Government of Karnataka) may be sent to GoI (Government of India) in this regard for favourable consideration and necessary actions,” TAC said in its recommendations to the state government. On Monday, only 1,576 of the 60-plus-aged population were vaccinated across the state, though there are 50 lakh people with comorbidities, according to Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar. It will be a major embarrassment for the union government if the Karnataka government seeks permission to stop using Co-WIN in real time. Health Commissioner Dr Thrilok Chandra told DH, “As of now, the Centre’s guidelines say offline registration is not allowed. So, we will await further instructions on that. What we are telling the Centre is allow multiple vaccination sites at the same location, where you give more opportunity for onsite registration. It’s not happening in all the places. Online, onsite registration “Many of them are still preferring online registration. If one site in a hospital relies on online registration, another site in the same hospital can rely on on-site registration.” “Regarding offline registration, we will send the recommendation in writing to the Centre today, but again, from the beginning they’ve not allowed it, even for healthcare workers and frontline workers. They insist on everything being captured in Co-WIN (in real time),” he said.  Asked if this will be an embarrassment for the Centre considering that Co-WIN was specifically developed during the pandemic that can handle adult vaccination data, Chandra said, “We’re only asking them to take a call on the feedback that we have received. We’re only sending recommendations made by TAC for their consideration.” "We have already escalated to the Central team, vaccination site-specific Co-WIN issues. Few of them have been administered the vaccine, some of them are facing software issues. They (the central team) are in the process of fixing it." he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tell-centre-co-win-stumbling-block-for-vaccination-tac-to-karnataka-govt-957434.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandal: Ramesh Jarkiholi’s brother pushes for CID, CBI probe||Karnataka Milk Federation chairperson Balachandra Jarkiholi on Wednesday urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to go for a CID or CBI probe into the sex scandal allegedly involving his brother and Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Balachandra met Yediyurappa and defended his estranged brother. “I met the CM to request for a CID or CBI probe into this. The people of the state should know who made the CD, who that woman is and who are the politicians behind this. If Ramesh has erred, I’ll ask him to apologise to the people of the state and quit politics,” Balachandra said. Maintaining that there was something fishy in the allegation, Balachandra said, “First of all, it’s wrong to have taken the (police) complaint, because it should be filed by the one who is affected. But the  complainant hasn’t revealed the victim’s identity or her background.” Apparently, the video that was widely aired by news channels originated on YouTube. “It is said that a CD was made out of whatever came on YouTube,” Balachandra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-ramesh-jarkiholi-s-brother-pushes-for-cid-cbi-probe-957540.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||What's wrong? asks Karnataka minister B C Patil who took Covid-19 vaccine at home||'What is wrong in getting vaccinated at home?' If you are wondering about home vaccinations, this is the question Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil also raised in a retort to his critics who raised eyebrows after the minister was administered the Covid-19 vaccine at home. Patil landed into a controversy on Tuesday after he and his wife took the jab at his home instead of going to a designated hospital.  I appeal to all the eligible people to follow the protocol and take the vaccine to help the cause of building pandemic free, healthy India. State Health Minister K Sudhakar, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhusan and many others said that this is against the standard protocol. An investigation will also be carried out in this matter. Patil's take on the issue, was, however, different. Defending himself, the Agriculture Minister argued that if he went to a hospital to get vaccinated, people would have to wait due to his visit. "Here I can attend to people and also can get vaccinated. What is wrong in this?," Patil who took his first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine asked. He said that he did not commit a crime and wanted to avoid trouble for public. "Have I done any theft or robbery? I have only taken the vaccine at home, which is not a crime," the Minister told reporters. He said it was good that his inoculation became public, which would inspire others to take the shot.  However, Health Minister Sudhakar expressed his dissatisfaction over the conduct of Patil and said the medical team should have persuaded him to come to the hospital. "Unless there is prior permission, no one is allowed to go home to vaccinate. It is wrong to go home to administer a vaccine," he said. The Minister added that he would issue a circular to the doctors not to administer vaccines at home. When reporters sought Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's reaction, he said getting vaccinated was more important than the place where the inoculation happened. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several others had taken the vaccine shots in designated hospitals on Monday after India started its third phase of vaccinations wherein the elderly and those above 45 with comorbidties were administered the coronavirus vaccine. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/whats-wrong-asks-karnataka-minister-b-c-patil-who-took-covid-19-vaccine-at-home-957546.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Have shame, ask Jarkiholi to resign now: Siddaramaiah||Karnataka's Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday asked the BJP to get scandal-hit Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi to resign immediately “if the party has any shame and respect”. This is the first authoritative comment from the opposition Congress on the sex scandal that broke out Tuesday. A video purportedly showing Jarkiholi getting intimate with a woman went viral and a police complaint has been filed against the minister alleging that he sexually exploited the woman on the pretext of getting her a government job. “If the BJP has any shame and respect, and if they have human values, they should take (Jarkiholi’s) resignation immediately,” Siddaramaiah said. “The entire country knows of this sex scandal now.” The Congress leader also asked the BS Yediyurappa administration to ask Jarkiholi to step down. “The government should not only accept his resignation, but also file an FIR,” he said. Ramesh was seen as Siddaramaiah’s loyalist when he was with the Congress. AICC spokesperson Brijesh Kalappa told reporters that the sex scandal undermined the idea of ‘Government’s Work is God’s Work’ that is carved on Vidhana Soudha, the seat of the legislature. “These are cardinal sins,” he said. “We’re confident that he will resign by evening. Otherwise, his continuation in office is untenable.” Kalappa cited portions of the video clips allegedly involving Jarkiholi. “In one of the video clips, Jarkiholi is heard saying Yediyurappa is corrupt. Imagine a Cabinet minister speaking ill about his own chief minister,” Kalappa charged. “In the same conversation, he also says (Union Minister) Pralhad Joshi will be the next CM. So, it clearly looks like there’s a conspiracy being hatched against Yediyurappa.” Kalappa charged that Jarkiholi had promised the woman a job at KPTCL. “When that promise wasn’t kept, the videos came out.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/have-shame-ask-jarkiholi-to-resign-now-siddaramaiah-957570.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Quota quagmire: Karnataka govt forms high-level panel||The Karnataka Cabinet on Wednesday decided to constitute a high-level committee headed by a retired High Court judge to look into the demands made by various communities seeking changes in the existing reservation.  With this, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa will look to buy time on the contentious issue.  Briefing reporters, Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said it will be a 3-member committee, with one member being a social scientist.  “The Halumatha (Kuruba) community has asked to be categorised as ST. Panchamasali Lingayats have asked for reservation under Category 2A. When we look at all these demands, it already exceeds the 50% mandate for overall reservation,” Bommai pointed out.   “This is a challenging issue. Hence, we require expert opinions in this regard. This committee will look into current demands and possible future demands,” the minister said.  At present, Karnataka provides 32% reservation for OBCs, 15% for SCs and 3% for STs, totalling 50% as capped by the Supreme Court. If the BJP government decides to hike quotas, the 50% cap will be breached, which would land it in a legal quagmire.  Last year, the HN Nagamohan Das Commission had recommended increasing reservation for SC from 15% to 17% and STs from 3% to 7.5%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/quota-quagmire-karnataka-govt-forms-high-level-panel-957651.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||All Karnataka police stations to get CCTVs||Close on the heels of the Supreme Court pulling up states for not installing CCTVs at police stations, the Karnataka Cabinet on Wednesday decided to equip all law enforcement buildings with functional surveillance cameras. Allocating a budget of Rs 18.5 crore for this, the Cabinet approved installation of new CCTVs in 281 police stations, while upgrading the storage capacity of existing ones in 774 stations across the state, Law and Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said.  The Cabinet also decided to amend the Karnataka Civil Services (Computer Literacy Test) Rules to stop providing Rs 5,000 incentive for computer learning to new recruits. In 2012, the state government had decided to give the incentive to those who learn computer skills in an effort to encourage digital literacy. "Now, since everyone who is recruited has computer knowledge, the government decided to drop this incentive," Bommai said. In other decisions, the Cabinet extended the revised AICTE pay scale to the teaching faculty of government and aided AYUSH institutions. The Karnataka Maritime Board Amendment Bill, 2021 was approved naming the chief minister as the chairperson of the Board and the ports minister as vice-chairman. The Board was earlier headed by Additional Chief Secretary. The Cabinet cleared a plan to construct a hostel in Bengaluru exclusively for Kalyana Karnataka students at a cost of Rs 59 crore. It will accommodate about 400 students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-karnataka-police-stations-to-get-cctvs-957729.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Experts visit KRS dam to assess blast threats||Karnataka government has roped in national experts to monitor vibrations due to blasting activities at nearby quarries amid mounting pressure from the mining and quarrying industries to resume operations around the Krishna Raja Sagara (KRS) reservoir. The government has committed to ensuring the structural safety of the major dam in South Karnataka. The state has asked scientists from the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR) in Dhanbad, Jharkhand to carry out reconnaissance of the area in a 20-km radius around the dam site on Wednesday and Thursday. Speaking to DH, a senior official from the Cauvery Neeravari Nigama Limited (CNNL) confirmed the arrival of experts to carry out the study. Currently, as per the then Mandya Deputy Commissioner’s order in October 2018, mining within the radius of 20 km from the dam site is banned. Another official from the Water Resources department, requesting anonymity, told DH that the study is expected to give the government a scientific understanding of the problem and threat to the dam if any. “The department is contemplating to undertake comprehensive studies by way of trial blasting as a part of the investigation to obtain recommendations for regulation of blasting activities taking place in and around KRS dam and nearby villages,” the officer explained. The scientists and a team of officials from the central institute will visit the area and hold a discussion with the project engineers to understand the problems and other structural threats. Sources in the Water Resource department said that Mines and Geology officials have been consistently pressing to resolve the issue amicably so that the mining activity is reactivated, therefore, restoring revenue generation to the state’s exchequer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/experts-visit-krs-dam-to-assess-blast-threats-957738.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Meet the Jarkiholis||For over two decades now, the Jarkiholi family has ruled the roost in Belagavi, the sugar bowl of Karnataka. The five Jarkiholi brothers, sons of rags-to-riches businessman Laxmanrao Jarkiholi, have grown to become one of Karnataka’s most powerful political families. The family owns sugar factories, educational institutions among other ventures.  Ramesh, 60, is the eldest who represents the Gokak constituency. He made his electoral debut in 1999. Next is Satish Jarkiholi, 58, from the Yamkanmardi constituency. The third sibling is Balachandra Jarkiholi, 54, from the Arabhavi constituency. Then comes Bhimshi Jarkiholi, 52 and the youngest, Lakhan Jarkiholi, 44. They belong to the ST Valmiki community.  Family's political diversity Satish and Lakhan are with the Congress, whereas, Ramesh, Balachandra and Bhimshi are with the BJP. Ramesh, too, was with the Congress until his defection in 2019. The political diversity in the family ensures at least one of them finds a place in the government of the day.  In the 2008 polls, Bhimshi fought as the BJP candidate against Ramesh (then with the Congress) in the Gokak constituency, but lost. This was Bhimshi’s last electoral test and he has been politically inactive since then. In the same election, Balachandra won from Arabhavi on the JD(S) ticket. Lakhan made his electoral debut as the Congress candidate against Ramesh (now with BJP) in the December 2019 bypolls, and lost.   Belagavi is also home to the Kattis, the Pattans, the Koujalagis, the Hukkeris and the Jolles. However, it is said that no one can flourish politically in the district without the patronage of the Jarkiholi family. Belagavi is a politically-significant district with 18 Assembly constituencies. While in the Congress, Ramesh developed a bitter animosity with D K Shivakumar, which many believe made him rebel and help the BJP come to power. During his onboarding, it was said that the BJP offered to make him deputy chief minister. In the BJP too, Ramesh is said to have made enemies, especially after he started lobbying for C P Yogeeshwar to be made a minister, causing heartburn among fellow partymen.    When he was with the Congress, Ramesh was known to be loyal to former chief minister Siddaramaiah. In one of the sleazy tapes purportedly involving him, Ramesh is heard saying, “Siddaramaiah is good,” while damning Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/meet-the-jarkiholis-957751.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Sex for job’ charge a conspiracy against Ramesh, says Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan||With the 'sex for job’ issue snowballing into a massive controversy, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday said that a political conspiracy was being hatched against BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi and that the probe would reveal the truth. Speaking to mediapersons here, he said that a third party lodging a complaint with the police has created suspicions. "Therefore, give some more time to it, and the truth would come out eventually.  The party leaders are observing all the developments and they would take suitable steps in this regard,” Ashwath Narayan said.  Referring to the demands for reservation benefits put forth by various communities, the deputy chief minister said that the government has constituted a panel to look into the demands. The government would take a call based on the report, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-for-job-charge-a-conspiracy-against-ramesh-says-karnataka-deputy-chief-minister-dr-cn-ashwath-narayan-957772.html
03-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress woos farmers at Janadhwani Yatra||The DK Shivakumar-led Congress on Wednesday launched its ambitious Janadhwani Yatra from the Devanahalli assembly constituency, where the party tried to woo farmers. The Congress will hold the Janadhwani Yatras in 100 assembly constituencies, especially those where it is weak, as part of a massive organization-building exercise. "The international airport is here in Devanahalli. Who got it done? I was the district in-charge minister and it was our (Congress) MLA Muninarasimhaiah. I held a meeting and fixed Rs 6 lakh per acre for 2,000 acres. Today, if your land is valued at Rs 6 crore, it’s because of the Congress government. You can’t forget that,” Shivakumar said. He also told milk producers that it was the Congress government that hiked the subsidy to Rs 5 per litre. “On the way here, we met some farmers and they gave us a representation. They said they can’t sell their aged ox. They said they didn’t get the right price for their vegetables during the Covid-19 lockdown. They didn’t get their MSP,” he said. “We also got a representation from taxi drivers. We asked the BJP government to give Rs 10,000 aid. The government announced Rs 5,000. Did it reach everyone,” he asked. ‘Tipu is a patriot’ Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah hailed erstwhile Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan as a ‘patriot’. “Devanahalli is Tipu’s birthplace. He fought the British who laid down his life as a patriot and freedom lover,” he said. He also remembered Bengaluru founder Kempegowda who ruled over Devanahalli. “When we were in power, we celebrated Tipu Jayanti and Kempegowda Jayanti. Not just that, it was the Congress government that named the airport after Kempegowda,” he said. Terming the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government as “illegitimate”, Siddaramaiah said no development works were going on in the state. "They have not been able to fulfil a single promise they made to the people of the state," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-woos-farmers-at-janadhwani-yatra-957774.html
03-03-2021||West||Letter taking responsibility for car near Ambani's house seems to be a hoax: Police||A letter in the name of `Jaish Ul Hind' claiming responsibility for parking a vehicle with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house here appears to be a hoax, the Mumbai police said on Tuesday. The letter, posted on messaging app Telegram on Sunday, also demanded payment in crypto currency and provided a link to a webpage for depositing it. On the same evening, another letter posted by a group claiming to be the `real' Jaish Ul Hind said it had not posted the first message and it had nothing to do with the car found near Ambani's house. Officials of the Mumbai Crime Branch during their probe found that the link in first letter did not lead to any webpage. Investigators suspect that the letter was merely a prank, a senior police official said. A Scorpio with gelatin sticks was found parked on Carmichael Road near 'Antilia', the multi-storey residence of Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, on Thursday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/letter-taking-responsibility-for-car-near-ambanis-house-seems-to-be-a-hoax-police-957450.html
03-03-2021||West||Allow chartered flights in Goa from safe places: Tourism body||Ahead of the Goa Assembly's Budget Session, an apex tourism body here has urged the Pramod Sawant government to allow chartered flights in the state from "safe destinations" to boost tourism. The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), in a memorandum to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday, said various trade bodies have suggested to form travel bubbles with Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, other CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States) countries, the UK, Poland and Finland for these commercial flights. The Budget Session of the Goa Assembly will be held between March 24 and April 16. Sawant will present the budget on March 24, a senior official from the state legislature department said last week. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation last week extended the suspension of international commercial passenger flight services till March 31. Scheduled international flight operations were suspended from March 23 last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Amid the suspension, special international flights have been allowed under the Vande Bharat Mission since May last year and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with select countries since July. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. "We have proposed that chartered flights be allowed to land in Goa from safe destinations and bubbles be formed," TTAG president Nilesh Shah said in the memorandum. The state government should also provide landing and airport fees waiver to foreign airlines and operators of chartered flights for one year from March 1, 2021, he said. This will help to revive the state's tourism industry, the TTAG said in its memorandum. It also claimed that there are 5,000 to 7,000 unregistered service apartments, guest houses and home stays in Goa that do not pay any taxes, while a number of hotels, shacks and cruises are operating without license. "They need to be brought under the tax net to increase the state's revenue so that law abiding and legitimate businesses are not overburdened and there is a level-playing field," the memorandum said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/allow-chartered-flights-in-goa-from-safe-places-tourism-body-957548.html
03-03-2021||West||Mumbai Police chief orders cops to collect 12,000 fines daily from those not wearing a mask||In a bid to intensify the crackdown on people not wearing masks, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh has asked the city police force to collect fine from at least 1,000 such violators per day in each zone, an official said on Wednesday. Mumbai is divided into 12 police zones and the city police are authorised to collect a fine of Rs 200 from people not wearing masks, as mandated under Covid-19 norms. To prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the metropolis, Singh has asked the city police force to take strict action against those not wearing masks in public places, the official said. He said Singh recently asked all senior inspectors to improve the performance of their respective police stations and achieve the zonal target of 1,000 such cases per day. The Mumbai police are making efforts to increase the awareness among citizens about containing the spread of Covid-19, city police spokesperson S Chaitanya said. "The idea behind setting the target of 1,000 cases for each zone per day is to sensitise people about following guidelines issued by the government about wearing mask and maintaining physical distance in public places," he said. The official said 50 per cent of the fine collected from mask rule violators will be used for police welfare activities and the remaining amount will be given to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Since the enforcement of lockdown in March last year, the city police have so far registered cases against 57,692 people under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for violating various Covid-19 prevention norms, another official said. Out of these people, 25,947 were arrested and later released on bail, he said. Since April 18 last year, 10,490 people were penalised for not wearing masks in public places, he added. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 849 new cases of Covid-19, raising the tally to 3,27,619. The city has so far reported 11,476 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-chief-orders-cops-to-collect-12000-fines-daily-from-those-not-wearing-a-mask-957575.html
03-03-2021||West||Goa CM Pramod Sawant gets Covid-19 vaccine dose||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant received his first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 at a primary health centre near here on Wednesday. The 47-year-old politician is a trained medical doctor and comes under the category of health professionals. A nurse explained the inoculation procedure to Sawant before he received the jab at the primary health centre in Sankhalim in North Goa district. Talking to reporters after getting inoculated, Sawant said people should not be afraid of taking the vaccine. "I took the jab to bolster people's trust in the vaccine," he said, adding that there are no major complaints from people who have received the vaccine shots. Sawant said even after getting vaccinated, people should continue to follow social distancing, wear mask and use sanitiser to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. He congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the vaccination drive currently underway in the country. The nationwide inoculation drive began January 16 and it was expanded on March 1 to vaccinate people above 60 years of age and those in the age bracket of 45 to 59 with co- morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-gets-covid-19-vaccine-dose-957616.html
03-03-2021||West||Girls stripped, forced to dance by police; Maharashtra govt orders probe||In a shocking incident, girls were forced to strip and dance by some cops and others in a hostel in Jalgaon district of Maharashtra. Raising the issue in the Maharashtra Legislature, the BJP lashed out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. The government has announced a time-bound probe into the incident. The incident took place on March 1 at the government-run Ashadeep Hospital in the Ganesh Nagar area of Jalgaon after which a local NGO Jananayak Foundation filed a complaint into the matter with Collector Abhijit Raut. The hostel is run by the state government’s Women and Child Welfare Department. According to the complaint, some police personnel and others entered the hostel in the name of an investigation and coerced women to undress and dance. However, when the girls refused to do so, they were threatened with murder. The girls later narrated the incident from the windows of the hostel. A video clip of the incident has also surfaced. “We expect the government to take immediate action,” Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said. “There are video clips, where policemen are forcing girls to strip and dance....we must take the issue sensitively and must probe,” he added. "It is not merely a news report but also there are videos that have surfaced," the former CM pointed out. BJP MLA from Chikhali, Shweta Mahale raised the issue and demanded a probe. Former Finance Minister and senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said that the government does not seem serious over the issue. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said a four-member panel has been formed to probe the incident and table the report in two days. "It is a very unfortunate incident. Action will be taken as per rules after the report is submitted. Videos and other evidence are being gathered," Deshmukh said. The panel includes Assistant Collector Trupti Dhodmise, mental health expert Dr Kanchan Patil, Kanchan Chavan and Police Inspector Kanchan Kale. "Those found guilty will not be spared,” added Woman and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/girls-stripped-forced-to-dance-by-police-maharashtra-govt-orders-probe-957617.html
03-03-2021||West||Mumbai's CSMT becomes Maharashtra's first green station||Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, has become the first railway station in Maharashtra to be awarded the gold certification as per the Confederation of Indian Industry’s Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) ratings. Central Railway’s General Manager Sanjeev Mittal and Divisional Railway Manager Shalabh Goel received the plaque from IGBC National Vice Chairman Gurmit Singh Arora. Mittal, on receiving the certification, appreciated the staff and officials for their consistent effort in implementing green initiatives and motivated them to pursue such measures across the Central Railway Zone. He also thanked the IGBC team for recognizing their effort by conferring CSMT with the gold certification. Central Railway has implemented various green initiatives across its zone like creating green areas, installation of solar panels, customer-friendly initiatives at many stations, LED bulbs and lights, among other things. The Mumbai division of the Central Railway has put in concerted efforts in implementing many green and passenger-friendly initiatives across its stations, especially at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus. The station has also taken steps to make the commute easier for differently abled commuters and senior citizens. More than 15% of the station's site area is covered with trees and small parks with landscaped areas and lawns being maintained with organic manure. There are on-site 245 kWp solar panels and 100% of lamps have been replaced with LED fixtures at the station. Besides, 17 occupancy sensors are installed in various offices and waiting rooms. Energy-efficient brushless DC  and high-volume low-speed fans have been installed at various locations. Comprehensive Mechanized Cleaning Contracts are in place to ensure the upkeep of the platforms, concourse, circulating areas, parking places, tracks, rooftops, shutters, waiting halls, etc.  Smart passenger amenities like Wi-Fi, automatic ticket vending machines, tourism information & booking centre, food court, pharmacy & medical facility were also installed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-csmt-becomes-maharashtras-first-green-station-957679.html
03-03-2021||West||On average 2 murders, 4 rapes in Gujarat everyday: Assembly told||The crime figures of Gujarat shared in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday revealed that average two murders, four incidents of rape and six kidnappings occurred everyday in the state in the last two years. As many as 1,944 murders, 1,853 incidents of attempt to murder, 3,095 rapes, 4,829 incidents of abduction and over 14,000 cases of suicide were reported in different parts of the state in the last two years ending December 31, 2020, the data shared by the state home department said. This information was shared in response to the questions raised by different Congress MLAs during the Question Hour of the ongoing Budget Session of the Assembly here on Wednesday. It said that during the same period, over 21,000 incidents of theft and 1,520 incidents of loot were also reported in the state. While the maximum number of 280 murders took place in Surat district, Ahmedabad topped the charts in loot (479) and theft (5,566), the data revealed. While the highest number of rapes - 620 - took place in Ahmedabad, Surat witnessed highest number of 701 kidnapping cases in these two years. The home department informed the House that 4,043 accused, named in these complaints during the last two years, are yet to be nabbed. During the same period, police have recovered over 65,000 kg of beef from different parts of the state. The police also freed 2,223 cows and 1,485 calves when they were being transported for the purpose of slaughter. The home department told the House that 132 accused involved in such crimes are yet to be nabbed. In its written responses, the department said that over 15 crore Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) bottles worth Rs 198.30 crore were also seized in the last two years. The House was also informed that various psychotropic drugs, such as charas and heroin, worth Rs 68.60 crore were also seized during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/on-average-2-murders-4-rapes-in-gujarat-everyday-assembly-told-957790.html
