04-03-2021||First Edit||A good start to vaccine campaign||The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive has got off to a start with a fairly good response from the targeted groups. All those who are above 60 years of age and those with a range of co-morbidities in the 45-59 age group are to be covered in this phase. It is a massive operation that involves about one-fifth of the population. There are expectations and excitement among many, and some have received their vaccination shot. Prime Minister Narendra Modi did well to lead the campaign, receiving his shot on the first day, as did several other prominent leaders and public personalities. That was a welcome move which should give encouragement and confidence to many people who may be hesitant about taking the vaccine for various reasons. There was some confusion in the past three days and there were some glitches, and they need to be cleared and sorted out at the earliest. The government has opened up the vaccination programme by involving the private sector, and rightly so because government facilities alone will not be enough to vaccinate our large population. There are over 10,000 centres now, of which about 2,000 are private facilities. While vaccination is free of cost in government facilities, private players have been allowed to charge Rs 250 per shot. The infrastructure and facilities need to be stepped up so that the programme reaches every eligible person everywhere. The first phase of the programme was not a complete success. The first dose was received by only 76.6% of healthcare workers and 47.7% of frontline workers; even fewer turned up for the second dose when it was offered. Some states have adopted a stern policy to persuade them to go in for vaccination. But a coercive policy is not possible and desirable in the case of the larger population as it will only be counterproductive. The interest and enthusiasm which is seen among second phase beneficiaries should be sustained with quick and easy access to vaccination. Bottlenecks, difficulties and long delays will lead to loss of interest. There may also be large numbers of people waiting to see whether the vaccines are safe before taking a decision to go for the jab themselves. Coverage of rural areas will call for a different strategy than is being pursued now. There is a need for more awareness campaigns. Effective implementation of the programme is especially important because the daily infections have once again started to rise in some parts of the country. New strains of the virus have also been found. It must be ensured that the vaccination drive moves faster than the virus in such areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-good-start-to-vaccine-campaign-957846.html
04-03-2021||In Perspective||India's multilingualism faces threats||The theme of UNESCO's International Mother Language Day for 2021 was ‘fostering multilingualism in education and society’. It emphasised the need for teaching the child in the mother tongue for a sound foundation in learning. With a diversity of cultures and diverse ecological zones from the Himalayas to the coastal regions, linguistic diversity, too, runs deep in the Indian psyche. The People’s Linguistic Survey of India (PSLI) has documented 780 different languages in the country. Unfortunately, this diversity stands threatened as almost 400 of these languages are at risk of dying, according to Ganesh Devy, the Chairperson of PSLI, who provided the leadership for this monumental study. India is the only country to have declared 22 languages as official ‘scheduled’ languages, and six languages as ‘classical’ languages, which have a history and lineage of more than a thousand years. Though our Constitution provides rights to speakers of minority languages, the ground reality shows that the dominant languages like Hindi and English are gradually entrenching in the minds of the younger generations as they get lured by these languages that provide livelihoods, prestige and social status. This diversity emerges from different linguistic origins that often include diverse scripts. We have language families of Dravidian, Indo-Aryan, Sino-Tibetan and Austro-Asiatic origins. These longstanding traditions of diverse languages existing in different regions have given birth to Indians’ multilingualism. For an ordinary Indian citizen, speaking, reading, doing business, and writing in more than one language comes very naturally. After Independence, the formation of states was based on languages spoken in each specific region. The ‘identity’ politics of language was one of the modes of political and democratic struggle. One of the objectives was to facilitate the active participation of the people in developmental and cultural programmes through the usage of their local languages. The threat to multilingualism is also inherent in the present digital era. Most of the communications and business is carried out online. Invariably, English is the dominant language on the internet, forcing people to become, at most, bi-lingual, rather than multilingual. Though the government has launched a national mission to develop digital content in the scheduled languages, it is doubtful if this can provide equitable access to people who use multiple languages. China has the largest number of internet users in the world, and they use Mandarin. Compare this to the second largest internet user, India. Though the central government prefers Hindi as the national language, the presence of Hindi-speakers on the internet is miniscule. It reveals the power of the dominant languages online. Though India is the second-largest digitising population in the world, the ordinary people are forced to consume digital content in English as the cyber presence of Hindi or any of the other scheduled languages is negligible. The human brain has evolved to be multilingual, and that allows learning of multiple languages. Multilingual persons not only reap the social benefit of being better communicators with different sets of people, but multilingualism also brings career benefits. It enhances cognitive skills, improving the efficiency of brain functioning. Multilingual persons are keen observers of the world around them and adept at interpreting their social environment.  Multilingualism is the way of life in India as people in different parts of the country speak more than one language from birth and learn additional languages during their lifetime. D P Pattanayak, the first director of the Central Institute of Indian Languages said, “In the developed world…two languages are considered nuisance, three languages uneconomical, and many languages absurd. In multilingual countries, many languages are a fact of life, any restriction in the choice of language is a nuisance, and one language is not only uneconomical, it is absurd.” Lack of internet access for 70% of the population in our country may be a blessing in disguise! People in the hinterland have not yet abandoned the multiple languages they speak. Maybe this will help in the conservation of the country’s linguistic diversity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/indias-multilingualism-faces-threats-957845.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Residents, travellers stage protest at Talapady toll plaza||The residents of Talapady and passengers from Kerala jointly protested against the termination of bus trips near Talapady Toll plaza by staging a dharna against the tollgate authority, NHAI and city bus owners’ association on Wednesday. The protesters formed a human chain and mounted pressure on toll plaza staff to allow the city buses through the toll gates and end trip at Talapady station without paying toll throughout the day. Former member of zilla panchayat Vinay Naik, addressing the protesters, recollected that the officials had purchased eight acres of land by paying just Rs 12,000 per cent during the construction of the toll plaza. “The toll plaza has also encroached upon the government land,” he charged and said that now they were forcing unnecessary hardships on local residents by charging toll fare from city buses. “The city buses, without ending the trip at Talpady bus stop, terminate near the toll plaza. Thus, the elderly and children are forced to walk for over a kilometre to board another bus. The district administration should immediatelyrespond to this issue,” heurged. Zilla Panchayat member Surekha Chandrahas said, “As elderly people and students walk under the scorching heat, the district administration has turned a blind eye to the sufferings. If this continues, the residents will be forced to intensify the protest.” Siddiq Talapady of Gadinadu Rakshana Vedike urged the toll plaza staff to hold discussions with the bus owners’ association and resolve the issue amicably. Talapady Bus Owners’ Association president Karim said the buses had agreed to pay a collective monthly toll of Rs 2 lakh for 31 buses. But the Navyug company is insisting that each bus had to pay a monthly toll of Rs 20,000 (Rs 10,000 for minibus). “The bus owners are not in a position to pay such huge monthly toll,” he said and added that Navyug officers had not participated in two meetings held in the police station and the DC’s office. After the protest meeting, a human chain was formed from the spot where the Talapady route buses end the trip up to the toll gate. The protesters got into a verbal argument with the toll plaza staff on the issue of allowing the city buses to ply through the toll gate and end the trip at Talapady bus stand without paying the toll. Ullal station house officer Sandeep rushed to the spot and allowed the buses to pass through the toll gate without paying any toll for rest of the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/residents-travellers-stage-protest-at-talapady-toll-plaza-957805.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Truck driver fined for dumping garbage on NH 66 near Nittur||A truck driver, who was caught dumping waste on NH 66 near Nittur, was slapped a fine by officials from health department of Udupi city municipal council on Wednesday. CMC Senior Health Inspector Shashirekha and other officials have been conducting regular visits to different areas vulnerable to dumping of garbage. Udupi Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu, who was travelling near Nittur, witnessedthe CMC officials in actionand took the truck driver to task. He also warned the truck driver of initiating tougher measures if he was found repeating the mistake. The ADC then instructed the CMC health department officials to penalise the offender under stringent laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/truck-driver-fined-for-dumping-garbage-on-nh-66-near-nittur-957808.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||19 fresh Covid cases in Dakshina Kannada||Nineteen people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district on Wednesday. The total deaths in the district stood at 740. The total number of cases in the district has increased to 34,487, while total number of discharges stands at 33,551, DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V stated in a press release. The district has 196 active cases with patients being treated in different hospitals. So far, 35,102 cases have been registered against people who violated mandatory mouth mask rule and a fine amount of Rs 36,17,410 has been collected from the violators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/19-fresh-covid-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-957813.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA convenes meeting to broker peace between MRPL and contractors||Following complaints that Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) was neither awarding works to local contractors nor hiring local residents on a contract basis, Moodbidri-Mulki MLA Umanath Kotian convened a meeting of MRPL officials and contractors on MRPL premises on Wednesday. The MLA, after listening to both MRPL officials and contractors, said priority should be given to filling up 75% vacant posts with local candidates. Local contractors should be given priority while awarding contracts, he stressed and added that the final decision on the issue will be taken in a meeting convened by the deputy commissionersoon.  MRPL general manager Krishna Hegde, Chelyaru Gram Panchayat former president Pushparaj Shetty, Chelyaru MRPL rehabilitation colony former president Gangadhar Poojary, Contractors’ Association president Suresh Babu, former president Santosh Kumar Poonja, among others, were present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-convenes-meeting-to-broker-peace-between-mrpl-and-contractors-957843.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MAHE role model for other institutions: Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Sarsanghchalak Mohan Madhukar Bhagwat said it was heartening to see that all elements needed to strengthen foundation of Indian education and student life were present at MAHE (Manipal Academy of Higher Education) campus. “To make India Atmanirbhar, goodness, self confidence, intent to serve the people and respecting elders is required, and I am happy to witness that all these essential elements are all being practiced and implemented at MAHE. In fact, MAHE has become a role model for other institutions in building a strong future for students,” Bhagwat said. He visited Manipal Destination experience theatre and various academic and research facilities of MAHE. Bhagwat also interacted with the faculty members of MAHE during his visit. The RSS leader also visited the Museum of Anatomy and Pathology (MAP) of Kasturba Medical College, Manipal and inaugurated the Digitization process of MAP. The museum is a popular destination in coastal Karnataka for educational trips of schools and colleges. Impressed with the MAP, the RSS leader said the museum has been meticulously maintained. The new digitisation effort will help students of health sciences across the nation to study Anatomy in a detailed fashion free of charge, he added. Bhagwat later visited the house of RSS leader Narayan Shenoy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mahe-role-model-for-other-institutions-mohan-bhagwat-957852.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||2 labourers buried alive as earth caves in in Mangaluru, 1 dead||A labourer died after being buried alive under a mound of mud in Kemaje in Panaji village of Mangaluru district on Thursday. Two labourers in their attempt to mend a chicken waste dumping pipe fell into a pit, eyewitnesses told police officials. Heaps of soil from the area excavated slid into the pit, burying the labourers alive. The body of the labourer found from the debris was identified as Ravi. The search for another labourer Babu is on, police sources said. Police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-labourers-buried-alive-as-earth-caves-in-in-mangaluru-1-dead-957991.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police arrest three persons for theft in Mysuru||Vijayanagar Police have arrested three persons in connection with two wheeler theft and recovered 11 bikes from them. The police arrested Shivaraju, 34, of Maidanahalli in Mysuru taluk, Shekar, 20, of Beerihundi and Chandra, 39, of Shetty Nayakanahalli in Mysuru taluk. According to the Police, the trio were involved in various theft cases that were reported in the city and Mysuru rural.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-arrest-three-persons-for-theft-in-mysuru-958006.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Illegal Goshala in Kenjar demolised||An illegal `Goshala' in Kenjar, posing hurdles in acquisition of land for the first ever Coast Guard Training Academy, was demolished by the district administration on Thursday. At the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting, held about 10 days ago, Dakshina Kannada (DK) Deputy commissioner Dr Rajendra K V had promised to evict the encroachers from the land allotted for academy. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel present in the meeting had declared the goshala as illegal. Prakash Shetty of Sumeda Trust, which runs Kapila Park Gau shala in Kenjar, accused the district administration of demolishing the goshala without serving any notice. "There are 300 cattle in my goshala. Where should I find an alternative land for the cattle? The least government could have done is to provide an alternate land for the goshala," he said.  "This cruel act of the administration and representatives is a betrayal to Hindutva and humanity. They are worse than Mughal rulers,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/illegal-goshala-in-kenjar-demolised-958027.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kendriya Vidyalaya at Sadalaga to start functioning from 2021-22 academic year||Kendriya Vidyalaya at Sadalaga in Belgavi district will start functioning from the 2021-22 academic year, initially for Classes I to V. The Kendriya Vidyalaya, which comes under the Chikkodi Lok Sabha segment, starts functioning in a building provided by the state government till the school constructs its new building. The school will grow consequentially up to Class XII. Besides Sadalaga, Kendriya Vidyalaya will also start functioning from the 2021-22 academic year at Ropar in Punjab as well. “When these Vidyalayas start functioning in full capacity, around 1000 students of the area will be benefited in each school. The Admission process in both the Vidyalayas will start in the academic session 2021-22,” an Education Ministry statement said. “It gives me immense pleasure to announce that the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan is starting two new schools in Karnataka and Punjab,” Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. From 20 schools in the year of establishment-1963, the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan now has 1,247 schools till the year 2020-21 including three KVs abroad – Moscow, Kathmandu, Tehran. The Kendriya Vidyalaya for Sadalaga and Ropar were approved by the Union Cabinet in March 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. The Cabinet had approved a proposal to set up 50 new Kendriya Vidyalayas under the civil and defence sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kendriya-vidyalaya-at-sadalaga-to-start-functioning-from-2021-22-academic-year-958114.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri warns against use of banned plastic||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has warned against the use of single-use plastics. In a meeting with the heads of local bodies, including Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), on Thursday, the DC gave a month deadline to put an end for using banned plastic. Stringent action would be taken on those violating the orders from April 5, the DC warned.   It is inevitable to control the use of banned plastic to protect the environment. All the shops across the district must use alternatives like cloth or paper bags for plastic, she suggested. A one month deadline has been given to the shopkeepers to shift from banned plastic to paper or cloth material. Initially, the move will be implemented effectively at MCC limits and then in rural Mysuru, the DC said. The DC also warned action against discharging waste water to the rivers without treatment. Waste water from Hunsur, Nanjangud, T Narasipura and Bannur towns should not be discharged directly to Cauvery, Kapila and Lakshmanthirtha rivers. The water should either be released after treatment or it should be recycled, she suggested.  MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag, Superintendent Engineer Biligiri Rangaswamy and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dc-rohini-sindhuri-warns-against-use-of-banned-plastic-958142.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||One year on, road work remains incomplete due to official apathy||It’s more than one and a half year, the residents of Manchegowdana Koppal, near Vijayanagara Water Tank, vendors of the area and motorists face hardship due to air pollution as a result of incomplete road works. The road that was dug up for laying of water pipeline from Ring Road via Abhishek Circle, remain neglected. The residents and the motorists are facing the brunt of rising air pollution and many have developed health issues. The residents are forced to cover their face with masks not because of Covid-19, but due to dust. The aged citizens and the children of the area complain about health issues such as asthma. The authorities dug-up the roads to lay a pipeline between Manchegowdana Koppal and Ring Road, via Abhishek Circle, nearly one and a half year back. But, a portion of the road is yet to be fixed. The stretch connects Hebbal Industrial Area and thousands of people depend on it reach their workplace. A majority of them use two-wheelers. Even street food vendors face a problem due to the bad road and dust. Srinivasa, a street food vendor, said, "The condition of the street is a mirror to the irresponsibility of the officials and people's representatives. We have to cover our face throughout the day. Many vendors suffer from health issues. It has become difficult to serve clean and good food.” Corporator Prema Shankaregowda said, "The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) had sanctioned Rs 5 crore to asphalt the road from Kalidasa Road to Ring Road, but the works are pending. The work on laying of pipeline is completed. Asphalting near Abhishek Circle was also completed two months back. The works near the water tank was supposed to be completed by now." An officer said, "The works were delayed due to Covid-19 and technical issues. The works will be completed soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-year-on-road-work-remains-incomplete-due-to-official-apathy-958143.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA seeks Rs 500 cr for Mysuru||MLA L Nagendra said that the BJP leaders have requested Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to announce Rs 500 crore in the budget for Mysuru, to take up development works. “We have asked to announce funds for the development of Mysuru airport in Mandakalli, KR Hospital, establishment of film city in Mysuru, to take up works of the dilapidated Devaraja Market and Lansdowne Building among others. The film city is shifted to Bengaluru, but we have urged to develop it in Mysuru itself," he said. The MLA said, "Rs 5.5 crore was sought for the works of Mysuru Medical College Hostel. In addition, funds are demanded to construct a compound to Maharaja’s and Maharani’s colleges."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-seeks-rs-500-cr-for-mysuru-958144.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Calves offered for temple face threat by wild animals||After the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill - 2020, was passed by the state government, a number of calves offered to Gavi Ganganathaswamy temple in K R Pet taluk, are facing a threat from wild animals. The temple is located at the Santhebachahalli forest area. Offering calves to the temple is a custom being followed by the farmers since long. Earlier, only desi breed calves were offered. But, after the Act came into force, other breed calves are also being offered. Some, just abandon them, especially male calves, on the temple premises. According to a farmer, the male calves are abandoned by the farmers as it consumes one to two litres milk in the morning and evening from the cow, which is not affordable. Besides, the bullocks are not of use to the farmer, as it cannot reproduce. The temple belongs to Muzrai department. Every year, the offered calves are auctioned by the Tahsildar. The calves are sold on a condition that it should not be sold to slaughter houses. When the farmers delay transporting the calves, they are killed by wild animals like leopards, which stray from the forest nearby. The skeletons and carcasses of the calves are found at several spots nearby, alleged locals. A farmer had purchased 20 calves during auction recently. As the members of local outfits (Gau rakshaks) did not allow him to transport them, the calves are being looked after at a Goshaala near the temple. K R Pet tahsildar K Shivamurthy said, "We don't sell the calves, but we give ownership to farmers through auction. Cases would be registered against those, who try to sell them to slaughter houses."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/calves-offered-for-temple-face-threat-by-wild-animals-958145.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hundreds of acres of forest damaged in Mysuru wildfire||Just as the summer sets in, incidents of wildfire are being reported at several places in the Mysuru region, destroying vegetation on acres of forests. The forest department had taken safety measures to prevent fire mishaps, by creating fire lines and deploying additional staff, well in advance. Man-made fires are said to be the main cause of such mishaps. On Wednesday, a wildfire that spread fast, destroying forest at Antharasanthe Wildlife division, H D Kote taluk, Mysuru district. It was brought under control on Thursday. According to locals, hundreds of acres of forest has been gutted. But, Nagarahole Tiger Project Director Mahesh Kumar, who denied this, said, “Miscreants have set fire to the forest and only around 20 hectares of vegetation is damaged”. A resident of Udburu said the fire spread to around four-kilometre distance, from Udburu near Antharasanthe to Karapur on Mysuru-Manandavadi Road. Hundreds of acres must have been destroyed. More than 500 personnel from the forest department and fire and emergency services tried to douse the fire via the ‘Counter fire’ method. The department personnel were on patrol the whole night to ensure that the fire does not erupt again, the officials said. Around six hectares of forest was damaged at Konanuru in Nanjangud taluk, according to Range Forest Officer Rakshith. But, the trees planted by the forest department are not affected. Only lantana plants and bushes are destroyed, he said. Banana plants at a few plantations were affected due to the fire, the villagers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hundreds-of-acres-of-forest-damaged-in-mysuru-wildfire-958160.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ramesh Jarkiholi is 4th minister to resign over ‘impropriety’ in Karnataka||Ramesh Jarkiholi is the latest addition to the list of elected representatives suffering a fall from grace due to allegations of ‘impropriety’. He will be the fourth minister to resign from the Cabinet over such charges, since the first case in 1973.  The saga of such ministerial misconduct started when R D Kittur, a minister in the Devaraj Urs government, was forced to step down. It was following complaints that he had housed a woman who was missing.  Such cases have been few and far between. While there has been some criticism over the timing of the video release in Jarkiholi’s case, political observers feel that such incidents are a cause for shame, not only to politicians and political parties, but also to the people of the state. After the Kittur case, it took close to four decades for another such scandal to surface, which cost the Cabinet berth of a minister. Hartal Halappa, the then Food and Civil Supplies Minister in the BJP government (2008-13), was forced to resign from the Cabinet in 2010 after rape allegations were leveled against him. He was subsequently acquitted. Six years later, in 2016, a CD of the then excise minister H Y Meti was released by an RTI activist, purportedly showing the minister in a compromising position with a woman, who allegedly approached him seeking help. Meti quit the Siddaramaiah cabinet.  Several other cases have surfaced over the years, including those involving BJP MLA Renukacharya and the porngate episode involving three ministers of the 2008-13 BJP government, among others.  Speaking to DH, Chambi Puranik, a retired political science professor, expressed concern that such cases were becoming more frequent. “This has caused a new level of ridicule aimed at politicians, apart from damaging their image,” he said. Such incidents, which might have some mala fide intent, are a cause of embarrassment for the people of Karnataka, which is considered a politically enlightened state, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ramesh-jarkiholi-is-4th-minister-to-resign-over-impropriety-in-karnataka-957818.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yes, we are RSS, even PM Modi is from RSS: Yediyurappa tells Congress in Karnataka Assembly||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday slammed the Congress for raising slogans against the BJP and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in the Assembly and said the Opposition party had no right to speak against the RSS. Bedlam prevailed as Congress members trooped into the well of the House, terming the debate on 'One Nation, One Election' an RSS conspiracy to end democracy in the country. As the Congress MLAs raised slogans flaying BJP and the RSS, the Chief Minister said Congress has no right to speak against the RSS. "Yes we are RSS. Even the Prime Minister is from RSS. Do you have the moral right to speak about RSS?" Yediyurappa asked. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri too sought to know why the Opposition was dragging the name of the RSS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yes-we-are-rss-even-pm-modi-is-from-rss-yediyurappa-tells-congress-in-karnataka-assembly-958087.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||‘One Nation, One Election’ throws Karnataka Assembly out of gear||Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa made a case for ‘One Nation, One Election’ on Thursday amid protests by the Opposition Congress that spurned the idea, calling it “the agenda of the RSS”. Thus marked the start of the Budget session of the Assembly where the ‘One Nation, One Election’, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is pushing for, was to be debated and discussed. Kageri was keen to discuss this following a suggestion made at a recent Speakers’ conference. The Congress, however, was not onboard with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah seeking to know under what rule or provision the ‘One Nation, One Election’ was taken up. The Speaker, disregarding senior Congressman HK Patil’s point of order, began his speech that resulted in bedlam. “Simultaneous election to Lok Sabha and state assemblies was first held in 1952. Between 1952 and 1967, elections were held simultaneously. In Karnataka, too, the simultaneous election was held in 1989,” Kageri said in his speech amid sloganeering from the Congress members who were in the well. Kageri said the ‘One Nation, One Election’ in countries such as the USA, Sweden, South Africa, Germany, Spain, Hungary and Belgium should be studied. “Simultaneous elections save manual labour, time and costs,” he said, pointing out that elections to the Lok Sabha and three state assemblies cost Rs 60,000 crore in 2019. Yediyurappa, who also spoke despite the pandemonium, said repeated elections and the model code of conduct prevent elected representatives and officials from carrying out development works. In all this, the Congress members shouted slogans: Down, down Speaker with RSS agenda...This is Vidhana Soudha, not the RSS headquarters. Some of them even tore the agenda and threw its pieces into the air. “This is the agenda of the RSS. You’re moving towards a dictatorship,” Siddaramaiah shouted, accusing the BJP of being Hitler-like fascists. Yediyurappa said Congress has no faith in anything. “What’s keeping you from participating in the debate and expressing your views? This is shameful and people won’t forgive you,” he said. Speaking to reporters later, Siddaramaiah said his party was opposed to how 'One Nation, One Election’ was thrust upon the Assembly to discuss. “They just want to bulldoze and show dictatorship,” he said.  Patil said his point of order was based on a directive the Assembly Secretary had issued asking members to confine themselves to ‘One Nation, One Election’. "This is unprecedented. Only the Speaker can issue such a directive," he said. Yes, we're from RSS: CMYediyurappa lashed out at the Congress for dragging the RSS, the BJP’s ideological parent, into their protest. He said the BJP members were "proud" to have an RSS background. "Why are you bringing the RSS into your protest? Even the Prime Minister of this nation is from RSS. We are from RSS and we are proud of that," he said. JD(S) walks outThe JD(S) staged a walkout protesting against the ‘One Nation, One Election’ idea. JD(S) deputy floor leader Bandeppa Kashempur said his partymen waited eagerly since morning to take part in the debate and register their opposition. "National parties have hijacked the show. Hence, we are staging a walkout. We want to state it for the record that we are against the idea of ‘One Nation, One Election’," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/one-nation-one-election-throws-karnataka-assembly-out-of-gear-958128.html
04-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt thinking of making Covid vaccine available at PHC and CHCs: Sudhakar||The government was mulling extending the availability of Covid-19 vaccines to the primary and community health centres to cover more people during the vaccination drive, Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Thursday. "At present Covid vaccine is being administered at Taluk hospitals, we are considering extending the service to PHCs and CHCs so that more and more members of the public can get the vaccine at the earliest," the minister said in a statement. He said he would discuss the availability of coronavirus vaccines in PHCs and CHCs for speedy vaccination of senior citizens. Sudhakar said the government is encouraging people above 60 and those over 45 with comorbidities to get the vaccine voluntarily. He pointed out that when Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken the vaccine made in India, people should take it without doubting its efficacy. Sudhakar said no adverse effect has been reported so far. The vaccination drive for the general public started in the state on March 1 and so far 38,811 people above the age of 45 have been vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-thinking-of-making-covid-vaccine-available-at-phc-and-chcs-sudhakar-958129.html
04-03-2021||Main Article||Decentralise for Net Zero Bengaluru||The announcement makes Bengaluru the first city in India to explicitly commit to the Paris Agreement and announce a carbon neutrality target. While the move is welcome, we must ask if the plan will be formulated and implemented in an equitable and inclusive manner. This is necessary in light of India’s recent experience with climate action, where afforestation projects and mega solar parks with questionable ecological impacts are being promoted to meet national climate action commitments under the Paris Agreement. The expansion of ‘Big Solar’, particularly, is also causing considerable social impacts in some cases. For instance, in Pavagada, Karnataka, where the setting up of solar projects has disrupted traditional pastoral livelihoods. Looking at the recent history of environmental governance efforts like lake rejuvenation and waste management in Karnataka can indicate how inclusive and equitable Bengaluru’s climate plan could be, as these sectors might feature prominently in the proposed climate action plan. Lakes, when functioning optimally, can act as key agents of carbon capture. When not, they can even become sources of GHGs. The waste sector is also a contributor to GHG emissions. According to GHG Platform India, this sector had contributed about 4% of India’s total GHG emissions in 2015. Around a decade ago, civil society groups mounted heavy resistance against the privatisation of lakes being done on the pretext of limited government resources to restore and maintain lakes. While the companies would have benefitted by collecting revenue from creating beautified lakes and marketing them as tourist spots, traditionally dependent communities like fisherfolk would have been completely denied access to the lakes. Further, rejuvenation proposals, including measures like concretising lake foreshores and promoting boating and other water-sport activities, which would severely impact lake biodiversity. The High Court of Karnataka, acting upon public interest litigation initiated by the Environment Support Group questioning such privatisation, took into account the state government’s undertaking to not privatise any more lakes, as recommended by the court-appointed Expert Committee headed by Justice N K Patil. The committee had recommended that corporate involvement in lake rejuvenation be limited to contributing funds under corporate social responsibility, and corporates not be allowed to commercially exploit lake commons. However, contrary to its previous undertaking, the government has over the past two years given a fresh push to privatisation efforts, once again attracting judicial and public scrutiny. Agreements have been entered into with different corporates outsourcing core governmental functions of lake maintenance. In one instance, the corporate is given the right to remove “obstacles” posed by people exercising traditional rights of use and access of the lake, like the fisherfolk mentioned above. This model of privatisation is being extended to rejuvenation of lake rajakaluves (storm drains) too, as recent tenders floated by the government indicate. How do we design inclusive and representative decision-making processes that effectively test the environmental and social impacts of environmental solutions? Take the case of urban waste management in Karnataka, being monitored by the High Court since 2012. Last year, the court directed the state government to finalise the solid waste management policy for Karnataka, as required by law. Many civil society groups and organisations, trade unions, and collectives of waste workers worked with the state government and municipalities to evolve an environmentally and socially progressive working draft of the policy. Even so, the final solid waste management policy approved by the state government dropped climate and public health-friendly proposals from the working draft, like banning incineration-based waste-to-energy conversion. In fact, the first waste-to-energy plant in Karnataka has already been set up at Bidadi, near Bengaluru. Emissions from incineration are a potential public health disaster, and transportation of waste over vast distances for burning increases the carbon footprint of waste management. Similarly, specific proposals in the working draft to empower waste workers have been omitted -- for instance, those allowing informal waste workers to run local waste treatment plants. This would have also increased job security by doing away with contractual and casual employment. As long as decision-making processes are centralised, the balance of power will always be skewed against citizens who live through the impacts of decisions. What we need instead is a rejuvenation of local governance, based on decentralised democracy as envisaged in the Constitution. For cities, this is intended to be achieved through Ward Committees that distribute micro-level governance amongst corporators and members of the public. This decentralised approach will be useful in integrating climate resilience approaches into city planning and governance. For example, efforts to adapt to the impacts of climate change need to cater to the varying needs of different areas and diverse communities in the city, since the effects of climate change on them, and their capacity to respond, will vary. A centralised governance model cannot respond in granular detail to such needs. However, recent moves that take power further away from people, such as the creation of corporate bodies for smart city planning and waste management, indicate that climate action initiatives, too, may fall prey to a centralised, corporatised governance model. Achieving inclusive and decentralised governance will therefore require a pushback from civil society, and wide engagement across communities against such initiatives. The writer is a lawyer working with Environment Support Group, a policy research and advocacy initiative||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/decentralise-for-net-zero-bengaluru-957847.html
04-03-2021||National||Muraleedharan slams Tharoor for tweet taking dig at PM, Congress leader hits back||Union minister V Muraleedharan slammed Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday for his tweet taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his beard, with the Congress leader hitting back, saying a lack of sense of humour appears to be a chronic condition for "Sanghis". Tagging a tweet by Tharoor that had a graphic illustration of the dipping GDP curve along the growing length of Modi's beard, Muraleedharan tweeted, "Get well soon @ShashiTharoor. I Will put in a word at hospitals under #AyushmanBharat for you." "Get Well Soon from your sickness," the Minister of State for External Affairs said. Hitting back, Tharoor tweeted, "I'm sure whatever ails me is curable, but the lack of a sense of humour, alas, appears to be a chronic condition for Sanghis like you." "...And for that, there is, alas, no cure, even under Ayushman Bharat," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muraleedharan-slams-tharoor-for-tweet-taking-dig-at-pm-congress-leader-hits-back-957803.html
04-03-2021||National||Need to work on mission mode to overcome language barriers for allowing talent to flourish: PM||Asserting that the new National Education Policy (NEP) encourages the use of local languages, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said work needs to be done on a mission mode to overcome linguistic barriers in the education system so that the talent of those from rural areas and the poor is allowed to flourish. Addressing a webinar on the effective implementation of the provisions in the Union Budget for the education sector, Modi said it is the responsibility of the academics and experts of every language to make available the best content in the country and the world in Indian languages. Limiting knowledge and research is a big injustice to the country's potential, he said. "With this thinking, the doors of several sectors such as space, atomic energy, DRDO, agriculture, are being opened for our talented youngsters," the prime minister said. Modi said education, skill, research and innovation were the second biggest focus of the budget after health. "The Union Budget has broadened our efforts to link education with employability and entrepreneurial capability," he said. As a result of these efforts, he said, India is now among the top three countries in the world in terms of scientific publications, the number of PhD scholars and the start-up ecosystem. Modi said India has joined the top 50 countries in the Global Innovation Index and is continuously improving. To build a self-reliant India, it is important that youngsters have confidence in themselves, he said, asserting that it comes only when they have complete faith in their education and knowledge. Stressing the importance of local languages in the education system, Modi said experts know that language plays an important role in understanding a subject. Underlining that the new NEP encourages greater use of local languages, he said it is now the responsibility of the academics and experts to make the best content of the country and the world available in Indian languages. This is definitely possible in this era of technology, he added.  "From primary to higher education, we have to ensure that the best content is available to the youngsters of the country in Indian languages," Modi said. It is necessary to produce content in Indian languages ​ for every area of expertise, be it medical, engineering, technology or management, he added. Asserting that there is no dearth of talent in the country, Modi said those living in villages and the poor, who do not know any language other than their local language, have no shortage of talent. "We should not let the talent of our villages, our poor die due to language (difficulties)," he said. Those from the villages and the poor should not be deprived of the country's development journey, he added. Overcoming the language barrier, there is a need to work on a mission mode to provide opportunities in local languages for talent to flourish, Modi said. The National Language Translation Mission announced in the budget will provide a lot of encouragement for this, he noted. Modi stressed the need to implement all the provisions of the NEP from the pre-nursery to the PhD level quickly and said the budget will be of immense help in this regard. He also called for better synergy between colleges and universities. The emphasis placed in the budget on skill development, upgradation and apprenticeship is unprecedented, Modi said. He said new opportunities are growing for students and young scientists with a constant focus on higher education, research and innovation. The prime minister said for the first time, the focus is on issues ranging from the Atal Tinkering Laboratories in schools to the Atal Incubation Centres in institutes of higher education. A new tradition of hackathons for startups has been created in the country, which is becoming a huge force for both youngsters and the industry, he said. Modi also informed that through the National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovation, over 3,500 startups are being nurtured. "Similarly, under the National Super Computing Mission, three supercomputers: Param Shivay, Param Shakti and Param Bramha have been established in IIT BHU, IIT-Kharagpur and IISER, Pune," he said. Modi added that over a dozen institutes in the country are proposed to get such supercomputers. He said the National Research Foundation is being built in the country for which Rs 50,000 crore have been allocated. "This will strengthen the governance structure of the research-related institutions and improve the linkages between research and development, academia and industry," he said. The prime minister said the more than 100 per cent hike in biotechnology research is indicative of the government's priorities and called for increasing the scope of such research in relation to food security, nutrition and agriculture.  Noting the demand for Indian talent, Modi emphasised the need for mapping skill sets and preparing youngsters accordingly through the adoption of best practices, inviting international campuses and industry-ready skill upgradation. He also said future fuel and green energy are essential for India's self-reliance in energy. "For this, the Hydrogen Mission announced in the budget is a serious pledge," he said. India has tested a Hydrogen vehicle, Modi said and called for concerted efforts for making hydrogen as a fuel for transport and to make the citizens industry-ready for this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-work-on-mission-mode-to-overcome-language-barriers-for-allowing-talent-to-flourish-pm-957884.html
04-03-2021||National||Speak Out - March 4, 2021||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s remarks comparing the RSS with radical Islamist outfits in Pakistan drew a sharp riposte on Wednesday from the BJP, which slammed the Congress leader and hailed the Hindutva outfit as the “world’s biggest school of patriotism”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-march-4-2021-957886.html
04-03-2021||National||First extension of Ram Janmabhoomi premises; trust purchases 7,285 sq ft land for Rs 1 crore||The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra has purchased a 7,285 square feet land adjacent to the Ram Janmabhoomi premises here, in accordance with its plan to expand the temple complex area to 107 acres from the present 70 acres, an official of the trust said on Thursday. The trust that is constructing a grand temple for Lord Ram in this holy town of Uttar Pradesh has paid Rs one crore for the 7,285 square feet land to its owner at a rate of Rs 1,373 per square foot, the official said. Talking to PTI, trustee Anil Mishra said, "We have purchased the land as we need more space for the Ram temple." The land purchased by the trust is located next to the Asharfi Bhawan. Its owner Deep Narain signed a registry deed for the 7,285 square feet land in favour of Champat Rai, the secretary of the trust, on February 20 with Mishra and Apna Dal MLA Indra Pratap Tiwari as witnesses, S B Singh, the sub-registrar of Faizabad in whose office the deed was signed, said. "I was fortunate to be part of the first purchase deed of the Ram Mandir trust," Tiwari said. According to sources, the trust plans to acquire more land and is in talks with the owners of temples, houses and open land adjacent to the Ram temple complex. The sources said the trust wants to expand the project to 107 acres and it still has to acquire 14,30,195 square feet of land to achieve the target. The main temple will be constructed on five acres of land and the remaining land will be used to develop various facilities, including a museum and a library.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-extension-of-ram-janmabhoomi-premises-trust-purchases-7285-sq-ft-land-for-rs-1-crore-957924.html
04-03-2021||National||Record high petrol, diesel prices threaten India's road to recovery||By Anirban Nag, India’s record pump prices of gasoline and diesel are the newest threat to the economy’s nascent recovery, as high local taxes on retail fuel risk fanning inflation and driving a wedge between the objectives of fiscal and monetary policy makers. Gasoline prices were at an all-time high of 97.6 rupees ($1.3) a litre in Mumbai Tuesday, while diesel — the bellwether of industrial activity — sold for a record 88.6 rupees, data from state-run Indian Oil Corp. show. Taxes make up more than half of that cost and represent a sore point for the inflation-targeting Reserve Bank of India, which has vowed to keep borrowing costs low for as long as needed to support economic growth.  “Persistently higher prices could lead to a generalised inflationary environment, making it difficult for the RBI to hold on to its growth commitment,” said Priyanka Kishore, chief India and South-east Asia economist at Oxford Economics in Singapore. “Rising fuel taxes, alongside the pick-up in global oil prices, could threaten India’s recovery.” While revenue gains from taxes on retail fuel are key for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and India’s states to boost spending in the economy that exited a rare recession last quarter, the RBI sees those levies, along with elevated crude prices, already pushing core inflation higher. Any withdrawal of the easy monetary policy to combat price-growth will lead to a spike in borrowing costs, in turn hurting consumption and business activity at a time when millions of Indians are still out of work due to the pandemic. “Enabling a calibrated unwinding of high indirect taxes on petrol and diesel – in a co-ordinated manner by centre and states – are critical to contain further build-up of cost-pressures in the economy,” Governor Shaktikanta Das said, according to the minutes of the latest monetary policy meeting. Fuel taxes now make up nearly a fifth of New Delhi’s gross tax revenues, up from less than 10% nearly six years ago, according to calculations by economists at ICICI Securities and Primary Dealership. While consumer price inflation is within the RBI’s 2%-6% target range for now, economists see the second round effects of higher pump prices on transportation and manufacturing sectors soon feeding into the headline print. “Rising inflation could limit room for the Reserve Bank of India to inject liquidity to keep monetary conditions accommodative, India economist  Abhishek Gupta said.  Modi and his Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan have for now shifted the blame for high prices on previous governments and production cuts by some oil exporting nations. Prices of Brent crude exceeded $60 a barrel last month, up from about $20 last April. India is the world’s third-biggest buyer of oil and higher prices inflate the import bill, and can cause the rupee to weaken. That in turn means higher input costs for other goods the country needs from overseas. “With petrol and diesel prices at record levels and broad-based increases in the cost of industrial raw materials and intermediates, the risk of firms passing on input price increases to final goods and services remain, especially as the economic recovery gathers further traction and activity normalizes to pre-Covid levels,” the RBI said in its latest monthly bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-high-petrol-diesel-prices-threaten-indias-road-to-recovery-957927.html
04-03-2021||National||India sees 17,407 new Covid-19 cases, 89 deaths||The daily new cases of Covid-19 in India were recorded above 17,000 after a little over a month taking the total tally of cases to 1,11,56,923, while the recoveries surged to 1,08,26,075, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 17,407 infections were reported in a day. The death toll increased to 1,57,435 with 89 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The Covid-19 active caseload has increased to 1,73,413 which comprises 1.55  per cent of the total infections, the data stated.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,26,075 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.03 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent.   India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,91,78,908  samples have been tested up to March 3 with 7,75,631 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 89 new fatalities include 42 from Maharashtra, 15 from Kerala and 12 from Punjab. A total of 1,57,435 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,280 from Maharashtra followed by 12,504  from Tamil Nadu, 12,346 from Karnataka, 10,914 from Delhi, 10,272 from West Bengal, 8,728 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,170 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-17407-new-covid-19-cases-89-deaths-957929.html
04-03-2021||National||How does Covaxin stack up against other Covid-19 vaccines?||Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, which faced flak for being approved without late-stage efficacy data, has shown an interim efficacy of 81 per cent against the novel coronavirus in Phase III clinical trials.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 1, 2021, took the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine and was the first to get the jab leading India's inoculation drive in its second phase. Applauding the Prime Minister, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said by taking Covaxin, he has effectively ended any spread of misinformation and it would also eliminate hesitancy from the minds of people about this home-grown vaccine. Here is how does Covaxin stack up against other Covid-19 vaccines: In January, along with Covaxin, India's drugs regulator had approved Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, marketed as Covishield in India, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, for restricted emergency use in the country. Meanwhile, the USFDA has given emergency authorisation to the Johnson & Johnson, Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. Efficacy data The Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University showed an average efficacy of 70.4 per cent in a pooled analysis of interim data from late-stage trials. The half-dose first regimen was found to be 90% effective in a subset of trial subjects. The success rate was 62% with the originally planned two full doses, based on interim data.  Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech's interim efficacy trend of 81 per cent, analysed as per the protocol approved by the DCGI, put it at par with other global front-runner vaccines.  The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines were found to be more than 90 per cent effective. Efficacy against variants Preliminary research shows the two vaccines against Covid-19 approved in India, Covaxin and Covidhsield, are effective against the UK variant of the novel coronavirus but there is no data on their efficacy against the South African and Brazilian mutations detected in the country. Pfizer-BioNTech's vaccine, based on a different technology than AstraZeneca's vaccine, is expected to be much more effective in protecting against the onset of Covid-19 transmitted through the South African variant. Moderna’s vaccine is effective against new variants of the coronavirus that have emerged in Britain and South Africa, the company announced. But it appears to be less protective against the variant discovered in South Africa, and so the company is developing a new form of the vaccine that could be used as a booster shot against that virus. Cost of the vaccines Moderna said that they would charge governments between $25 and $37 per dose. Pfizer Inc, which had withdrawn an application for emergency-use authorisation of its Covid-19 vaccine in India, is priced at $37 per dose in the US.  Meanwhile, the coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford costs $3-4 per shot (Rs 219-292) to the Indian government and will be priced at double that rate in the private market ones such sales open up. The Indian Health Ministry has said that all vaccines provided to beneficiaries at government health facilities will be entirely free of cost, while private facilities cannot charge the beneficiary a sum above Rs 250 per person per dose (Rs 150 for vaccines and Rs 100 as operational charges).  Analysts estimate that India may buy about 680 million doses of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine, which means it would spend about $1.9 billion if the vaccine was priced at $3 per dose. Pfizer's vaccine at $37 per dose, would up the price by 12 times to a whopping $22.8 billion. Side effects For Covishield, possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) are injection site tenderness, injection site pain, headache, fatigue, myalgia, malaise, pyrexia, chills and arthralgia, and nausea. Very rare events of demyelinating disorders have been reported following vaccination with this vaccine without the causal relationship establishment. For Covaxin, AEFIs include injection site pain, headache, fatigue, fever, body ache, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, dizziness-giddiness, tremor, sweating, cold, cough and injection site swelling. Although not seen in its clinical trial, Pfizer's vaccine has been linked with a few cases of severe allergic reactions as it has been rolled out in the UK and the United States. Britain's medical regulator has said anyone with a history of anaphylaxis, or severe allergic reactions to medicine or food should not get the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-does-covaxin-stack-up-against-other-covid-19-vaccines-957932.html
04-03-2021||National||India tops the global ‘shame’ list with 109 internet shutdowns in 2020: Report||Around the world, shutting down the internet has become an increasingly popular tactic of governments to stifle dissent, raising concerns about restricting freedom of speech and expression. When talking about internet blockades, one can’t forget India where there have been multiple instances of state-ordered shutdowns, affecting lakhs of citizens and communities. The internet blackout in Jammu and Kashmir became the world’s longest internet shutdown in a democratic country, which after 18 months, was restored in the Union Territory. “This kind of shutdown not only cuts people off from the internet during conflict when residents are in danger and struggling to stay safe, but it also expands the digital divide among people of different classes and income levels,” said the digital rights campaign in its report. Apart from J&K, even during the coronavirus pandemic, the government restricted access to the internet across the country for different reasons, the recent one being the farmers’ protest. Internet access was restricted to people protesting at Delhi borders for almost a week. “The Indian government may justify most shutdowns as precautionary, but India has a history of ordering shutdowns targeting political demonstrations, a trend that appears to be accelerating and spreading across all Indian states and union territories,” the report stated. Internet shutdowns across the world Even during the coronavirus pandemic, when there were lockdowns across the world, at least 115 internet shutdown incidents were reported in 29 countries, the report stated. Besides India, countries like Bangladesh, Myanmar, Yemen, Ethiopia, and others entrenched the use of shutdowns even during the pandemic. Not just that, countries like Tanzania and Cuba that never shut the internet down earlier also joined the list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tops-the-global-shame-list-with-109-internet-shutdowns-in-2020-report-957936.html
04-03-2021||National||Taj Mahal premises evacuated after hoax bomb call||The Taj Mahal complex in Agra was temporarily shut after a man called the control room saying a bomb has been placed on the premises, which would explode soon. The police said an unidentified person called the 112 emergency response number of the Uttar Pradesh police at around 9 am and claimed that a bomb was kept inside the monument that is conserved by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and protected by armed personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). "We'd received info from the control room that a man called them up saying that there are discrepancies in military recruitment and he wasn't recruited. A bomb is kept at the Taj Mahal which will explode soon. A security check is being done around Taj Mahal," Shiv Ram Yadav, SP (Protocol) Agra, told ANI. The Uttar Pradesh police immediately informed the CISF personnel, who asked the visitors to vacate the premises of the iconic 17th-century monument and launched anti-sabotage checks around 9:15 am. "Nothing suspicious has been found and the checks are almost done," a senior CISF officer said in Delhi.  The hoax call has been traced to Firozabad in Uttar Pradesh, another officer said.  Further investigation is underway. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taj-mahal-premises-evacuated-after-hoax-bomb-call-957938.html
04-03-2021||National||Petrol price can come down to Rs 75 if brought under GST, say SBI economists||Petrol price can go down to Rs 75 a litre across the country if brought under the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), but there is a lack of political will, which is keeping Indian oil product prices at one of the highest in the world, economists at SBI said on Thursday. Diesel will come at Rs 68 a litre and the revenue loss for the Centre and states will be only Rs 1 lakh crore or 0.4 per cent of GDP, according to the calculation by the economists made under the assumption of global crude prices at $60 a barrel and exchange rate at Rs 73 per dollar. At present, every state has its own way of taxing fuels, while the Centre also collects its own duties and cess. Petrol prices have touched Rs 100 per litre in some pockets of the country and concerns are being expressed about the high taxation which is making the fuels dearer. The SBI economists said bringing petrol and diesel under the goods and services tax is an unfinished agenda of the GST framework and getting the prices under the new indirect taxes framework can help. "Centre and states are loathe to bring crude oil products under the GST regime as sales tax/VAT (value-added tax) on petroleum products is a major source of own tax revenue for them. Thus, there is lack of political will to bring crude under the ambit of GST,” they said. At present, states choose to levy a combination of ad valorem tax, cess, extra VAT/surcharge based on their needs and these taxes are imposed after taking into account the crude price, the transportation charge, the dealer commission and the flat excise duty imposed by the Centre, they explained. Assuming for the crude prices and dollar rate, transportation charges at Rs 7.25 for diesel and Rs 3.82 for petrol, dealer commission of Rs 2.53 for diesel and Rs 3.67 for petrol, cess of Rs 30 for petrol and Rs 20 for diesel which will be divided equally between the Centre and states, and GST rate at 28 per cent, the economists came at the final price estimates. Growth in the consumption – diesel going up 15 per cent and petrol by 10 per cent – has been used to assess the Rs 1 lakh crore fiscal impact of getting petroleum prices under GST, it said. An increase of $1 in the crude oil prices will push up the petrol price by around 50 paise and diesel prices by around Rs 1.50, and bring down the overall deviation by around Rs 1,500 crore under the baseline scenario, it said. States, which have the highest share of tax revenues at present, will be the biggest losers if the system shifts to GST, it said, quickly adding that such a move will help consumers pay up to Rs 30 less. Interestingly, the simulation exercise suggests that when crude oil price declines by $10 per barrel, Centre and states could save close to Rs 18,000 crore, if they keep the petrol prices at baseline prices without passing the benefit to consumers, which is higher than the savings of Rs 9,000 crore when the crude prices go up by the same measure. "We thus recommend the government build up an oil price stabilisation fund which can be used in bad times for compensating revenue loss by cross-subsidising fund saved from good times, without hurting the consumer," it said. For the LPG cylinders, the economists proposed an increased and graded subsidy may be provided to poor consumers which can be tapered off over a period of, say, 5-years. Meanwhile, the note said the latest revenue and expenditure numbers could lead to lowering of fiscal deficit to 8.7 per cent in FY21, down from 9.5 per cent in the revised budget estimates. It is highly likely that the Government might cancel its Rs 49,000 crore borrowing planned in the last fortnight of March, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-price-can-come-down-to-rs-75-if-brought-under-gst-say-sbi-economists-957951.html
04-03-2021||National||SC directs private hospitals to give priority in treatment to elderly amid pandemic||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed that elderly people be given priority in admission and treatment at private hospitals besides at government medical institutions amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy modified its earlier order of August 4, 2020, by which it had directed only government hospitals to give priority in admission and treatment of elderly people looking at their vulnerability to coronavirus. The bench took note of the submission of senior advocate Ashwani Kumar, petitioner in-person that except Odisha and Punjab no other state has given details about the steps taken in pursuance of the earlier directions issued by the top court on his plea. The top court granted three weeks’ time to all the states to respond to the fresh suggestions made by Kumar to provide relief to the elderly people. During the hearing, Kumar said the states need to issue fresh Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in pursuance of the directions issued by the court. He said the court may issue directions to the health and social welfare departments of all states in this regard. The order was passed on the plea filed by former Union minister and senior advocate Kumar, who has sought directions with regard to elderly people saying they need more care and protection amid the pandemic. The top court had last year directed that all eligible old age persons should be regularly paid pension and states should provide them necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The apex court had said that looking at their vulnerability to coronavirus, elderly people should be given priority in admission in a government hospital and in the event of any complaint made by them, the hospital administration shall take immediate steps to remedy their grievances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-private-hospitals-to-give-priority-in-treatment-to-elderly-amid-pandemic-957967.html
04-03-2021||National||Six states account for over 85% of fresh Covid-19 cases, Union Health Ministry says||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka continue to report a surge in daily new Covid-19 cases, accounting for 85.51 per cent of fresh cases, the Union Health ministry said on Thursday. A total of 17,407 new infections have been registered in a day. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 9,855. This is the highest number recorded in the state since  October 18 when 10,259 new cases were reported. It is followed by Kerala with 2,765 while Punjab reported 772 new cases.The total number of cases with UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of SARS-CoV-2 in the country as on date has reached 242, the ministry said. India's total Covid-19 active caseload has reached 1,73,413 comprising 1.55 per cent of India's total cases. "Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh are showing a rise in active cases," the ministry said. Showcasing the change in active cases for states and UTs in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and Assam witnessed a reduction in the active cases in 24 hours. However, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat displayed a rise in active cases during the same time period, it said. India's cumulative recovered cases are following a steadily rising trajectory and have surged to 1,08,26,075. More than 1.66 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 3,23,064 sessions, as per the provisional report till Thursday 7 am. These include 67,90,808 health care workers (HCWs 1st dose), 28,72,725 HCWs (2nd dose), 58,03,856 front line workers (FLWs 1st dose) and 4,202 FLWs (2nd Dose), 1,43,759 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) and 10,00,698 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on day-47 of the vaccination drive (March 3), nearly 10 lakh vaccine doses were given. Of these, 8,31,590 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 10,849 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 1,62,862 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine. Besides, 89 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 88.76 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (42). Kerala follows with 15 daily deaths and Punjab reported 12 deaths in the last 24 hours. Twenty-three states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Assam, Lakshadweep, Nagaland, Sikkim, Ladakh, Tripura, Andaman Nicobar Islands, Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-states-account-for-over-85-of-fresh-covid-19-cases-union-health-ministry-says-957980.html
04-03-2021||National||New Delhi Municipal Council tops Centre's performance index||New Delhi Municipal Council ranked top on the government's Municipal Performance Index in less than million population category, according to PTI. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-delhi-municipal-council-tops-centres-performance-index-957986.html
04-03-2021||National||Few OTT platforms show pornographic content at times, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday favoured some screening of web series and OTT (Over The Top) platforms, saying in some cases even pornography was being shown over there. The top court asked the Centre to place before it on Friday the regulations passed on February 25 for the OTT platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime. "We want to see the regulations because we are of the view that there should be some screening of these types of films/shows... What are they showing? They are showing pornography in some films. There should be some regulations. Balance has to be maintained," a bench presided over by Justice Bhushan said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for Centre told the court that these platforms are showing filthy things with abuses too.  The court was hearing an appeal of commercial head of Amazon Prime Video, Aparna Purohit, against the Allahabad High Court order of February 25 that rejected her anticipatory bail plea, in the ongoing investigation against the web series 'Tandav'. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Purohit, contended that regulations have come and Allahabad High Court order was not based on OTT regulations, but is related to freedom of speech and expression. He said Purohit was just an employee of Amazon and not the producer. Only publicity seekers were filing cases all over the country, he said. The High Court in its order has noted that "people make the revered figures of the religion of majority community source of earning money in most brazen manner taking benefit of the liberal and tolerant tradition of country." The High Court said the applicant's conduct showed scant respect for the law of the land and her conduct disentitled her to any relief. Earlier on January 27, the Supreme Court had refused to grant interim protection from arrest to actor and makers of web series ‘Tandav’ and allowed them to approach high courts for relief from arrest or quashing of FIRs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/few-ott-platforms-show-pornographic-content-at-times-says-supreme-court-957993.html
04-03-2021||National||FM Nirmala Sitharaman takes first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday took the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. "Got my first dose of the vaccination against Covid-19 this morning," Sitharaman tweeted. She also thanked sister Ramya PC for her "care and professionalism". "Fortunate to be in India, where development and dissemination have been prompt and affordable," she added. The government on Wednesday had announced that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1, for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. Citizens can register and book an appointment for vaccination using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through the Aarogya Setu app. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad have also got vaccinated against Covid-19 so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-takes-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-957996.html
04-03-2021||National||Budget passed in UP Assembly; House adjourned sine die||The Uttar Pradesh legislature was adjourned sine die on Thursday after the Assembly passed the annual budget for 2021-22 with the largest ever outlay and the Council returned it. The government had presented the last budget of its current tenure last week with an outlay of Rs 5,50,270.78 crore. The first paperless budget of Uttar Pradesh, which intends to make the state "aatmanirbhar" (self-reliant), as Finance Minister Suresh Khanna put it, includes new schemes worth Rs 27,598.40 crore. The brief session, which was to conclude on March 10, was curtailed following request from lawmakers to wrap up the proceedings so that they could campaign for the upcoming panchayat elections in the state. Hours after the Assembly was adjourned sine die, the Upper House of the bicameral state legislature too followed suit after completing the listed business. As soon as the Assembly met for the day, Khanna who is also the Parliamentary Affairs Minister, said that due to the upcoming panchayat polls and recurrence of COVID-19 cases in some states, the proceedings of the House will be completed and the House will be adjourned on Thursday. Leader of the Opposition Ram Govind Chodhury termed it "murder of democracy" and said that assembly members did not have to contest panchayat polls and the House should be run till March 10 as decided earlier. BSP leader Lalji Verma and Congress legislature party leader Aradhna Mishra Mona too cited rules and said that proceedings should continue and there was no reason for curtailing the session. Khanna, however, cited examples of 2009, 2006 and 1991 and said that as the cases of coronavirus were also rising, the budget should be passed and the House adjourned sine die. Dissatisfied with the "undemocratic" move of the government, the opposition SP, BSP, Congress and Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) staged a walkout. Later, budget and related appropriation bills were passed by voice vote. Several amendment bills were passed before the House was adjourned sine die. The session commenced on February 18 with the governor's customary address to the joint sitting of both the Assembly and the Legislative Council, but it was marked by opposition protests and walkout. While replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the governor for her address, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath slammed the opposition for their "behaviour". Later, while speaking on the budget, the chief minister flayed the Samajwadi Party, accusing it of presenting "directionless" budgets in the past, unlike his budget which was "lauded by various chambers of commerce and welcomed by all sections of the society". Opposition parties, on the other hand, said the budget was anti-poor and anti-farmer. As the opposition tried to corner the government on the issue of law and order, Adityanath on Wednesday sought to turn the tables on the SP over incidents of crime in the state, asking why the word "Samajwadi" gets tagged to every criminal. Adityanath referred to the Hathras incident in which a man out on bail after his 2018 arrest in a molestation case allegedly shot dead the victim's father. The Assembly on Monday passed two key bills, including one that relates to recovery of damages to public and private properties from protesters, amid opposition demands that it be referred to a select committee. According to the statement of reasons and object of the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Property Bill, 2021, protesters found guilty of damaging government or private properties will face imprisonment of one year or a fine ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 1 lakh. The House also passed the Uttar Pradesh Goonda Control (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to empower joint and deputy commissioners of police to act under the legislation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-passed-in-up-assembly-house-adjourned-sine-die-958007.html
04-03-2021||National||After enhancing ties with Australia, ISRO eyes new opportunities with Italy||Close on the heels of the launch of a Brazilian satellite by ISRO, India and Italy have decided to explore opportunities in the field of earth observation, space science and robotic and human exploration. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) held a bilateral meeting with Italian Space Agency (ASI) on virtual mode on Wednesday, as part of its strategy to strengthen international partnerships. ISRO Chairman and Secretary in the Department of Space (DoS) K Sivan and ASI President Giorgio Saccoccia led their respective delegations. "Both sides reviewed the on-going cooperation and agreed to form more thematic working groups to explore cooperation opportunities in earth observation, space science, robotic exploration and human exploration", Bengaluru- headquartered ISRO said in a statement. On February 28, ISRO successfully launched the 637-kg Brazilian satellite Amazonia-1 on board PSLV-C51 rocket from Sriharikota spaceport. Brazil's Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Marcos Pontes visited ISRO's Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh's Nellore district, about 100 kilometres from Chennai, and witnessed the launch. The Minister and his delegation later had a meeting with an ISRO team led by Sivan, and both sides agreed to work together to enhance the bilateral space cooperation and take it to the higher level. Union Minister Jitendra Singh, who heads the DoS, also had a virtual interaction with Pontes and officials of the Brazilian space agency. "Brazil has requested India's support in procurement of material and systems for its launch vehicle programme," a DoS statement said. "Cooperation possibilities in future space science missions, utilising ISRO's PS4-orbital platform (PS4-OP), space weather studies etc. were discussed", the official statement said. PS4-OP refers to a novel idea formulated byISROto use the spentPS4stage (fourth stage of PSLV) to carry out in-orbit scientific experiments for an extended duration of one to six months. Sivan also had a virtual meeting with the Head of Australian Space Agency, Enrico Palermo, on February 17. "Both leaders reviewed the status of on-going cooperation activities in earth observation, satellite navigation, space situational awareness and establishment of transportable terminal in Australia to support India's 'Gaganyaan' programme", ISRO had said at the time. According to ISRO, India has always recognised that space has dimension beyond national considerations, which can only be addressed along with international partners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-enhancing-ties-with-australia-isro-eyes-new-opportunities-with-italy-958008.html
04-03-2021||National||PM Modi to address conference of top military leadership; jawans to participate for the first time||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a conference of the county's top military leadership in Gujarat's Kevadia on Saturday, which will also see the participation of jawans and junior commissioned officers (JCOs) for the first time, according to an official statement on Thursday. The Combined Commanders' Conference, a premier brainstorming event of the military officials, is taking place after three years in Kevadia from Thursday to Saturday, the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) said in a statement. It said that in a major departure from the past, the scope of this year's conference has been expanded to make it a "multi-layered, interactive, informal and informed event with the added participation of about 30 officers and soldiers of various ranks from the three services." Jawans and JCOs will be attending specific sessions related to human resource issues during the conference. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, the military commanders, and a team of secretary-level officers from the Ministry of Defence will join deliberations from Friday onward, the DMA noted. "The valedictory session on the third and final day will be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval also in attendance," the DMA mentioned. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Army Chief General M M Naravane, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh will attend the conference. The DMA said the combined apex level military leadership of the country will review "the security situation and defence preparedness of the armed forces" and deliberate on "pertinent organisational issues for evolving a joint military vision for the future" during the conference. Since 2014, this conference has been taking place in different locations of the country other than Delhi.  The conference was held on board INS Vikramaditya in 2015 and at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun in 2017.  The last edition of the conference was held in 2018 over a period of two days at the Air Force Station in Jodhpur.  The top military meet is taking place in Kevadia at a time when India and China are engaged in talks on disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh. A border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as military and diplomatic-level talks continued between the two neighbours. Last month, armies of the two countries had concluded withdrawal of troops and weapons from north and south banks of Pangong Tso in the high-altitude region. At the subsequent 10th round of the senior commanders' meeting, India is learnt to have insisted on a faster disengagement process in areas such as Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to defuse tension in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-conference-of-top-military-leadership-jawans-to-participate-for-the-first-time-958012.html
04-03-2021||National||Ex-PM Manmohan Singh, wife take Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday took his first dose of Covid-19 vaccination at AIIMS here. Singh was accompanied by his wife Gursharan Kaur, who also took the vaccine shot. They were administered Covaxin, India's first indigenously developed vaccine by Bharat Biotech. The 88-year-old Congress leader remained in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for around half an hour after being administered the vaccine. Sources close to him said he was fine and returned home thereafter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-pm-manmohan-singh-wife-take-covid-19-vaccine-at-aiims-958016.html
04-03-2021||National||Delhi High Court dismisses man's plea on receiving unsolicited e-mails from central govt departments, asks him to unsubscribe||The Delhi High Court Thursday dismissed a man's plea claiming that unsolicited emails are being sent to him from various government departments and authorities, including the Prime Minister Office (PMO). A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said the simple mechanism available with the petitioner is to unsubscribe to those emails. The division bench said it was in full agreement with the reasons given by a single judge in the January 12 order by which the man’s plea was disposed of with a direction to him to write to sampark.support@gov.in in order to ensure that no further unsolicited e-mails are received by him. Upon the said e-mail being sent, the authorities shall ensure that no unsolicited e-mails are sent to the petitioner, the single judge had said. Petitioner Soibal Gupta challenged the single judge’s order before the division bench on the ground that it was bad in facts of the case and in law. In his appeal, he said that in the absence of any data protection/ anti-spam law in India the single judge’s judgment has legalised email-address harvesting. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, said that the simple mechanism for the petitioner was to unsubscribe himself from the emails being received by him. The single judge had earlier asked the petitioner to send an email to 'sampark.support@gov.in' requesting not to be sent any emails under the 'e-sampark' mechanism of the government under which public service messages and various schemes are communicated to the general public. The court had also directed the central government to ensure that on receipt of the request from the petitioner, no unsolicited emails be sent to him from any department or authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-dismisses-mans-plea-on-receiving-unsolicited-e-mails-from-central-govt-departments-asks-him-to-unsubscribe-958029.html
04-03-2021||National||Delhi HC asks Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech to disclose capacity to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to disclose their capacities to manufacture Covaxin, Covishield vaccines. The high court also asked the Centre to explain in affidavit the rationale behind keeping strict control over class of persons who can be vaccinated against Covid-19 currently as under the present system those above the age of 60 years or between 45 to 60 years with comorbidities can receive vaccination. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the two institutes-- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech -- have more capacity to provide the vaccines but it seems that they are not exploiting it fully. "We are not utilising it fully. We are either donating it to foreign countries or selling it to foreign countries and are not vaccinating our own people. So there has to be that sense of responsibility and urgency," the bench said. It also asked the Delhi government to carry out inspection of medical facilities available in court complexes here and to report if Covid-19 vaccination centres could be set up there. The high court was hearing a PIL initiated by it to examine the demand of Bar Council of Delhi to declare all people associated with the judicial functioning, including judges, court staff and lawyers as “frontline workers” so that they could receive Covid-19 vaccination on priority and without limitations of their age or physical condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-serum-institute-bharat-biotech-to-disclose-capacity-to-manufacture-covid-19-vaccines-958031.html
04-03-2021||National||S Jaishankar discusses ways to boost bilateral relations with Bangladeshi counterpart A K Abdul Momen||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday met his Bangladeshi counterpart A K Abdul Momen and held wide-ranging discussions on ways to take forward the bilateral relations. As part of India's "Neighbourhood First" policy, Jaishankar arrived here on a day-long visit to prepare the ground for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's upcoming visit to Bangladesh. Foreign Minister Momen received Jaishankar at the Kurmitola air force base. Jaishankar, who is visiting the country at the invitation of Momen, is also expected to call on Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. Momen and Jaishankar led their respective sides at a bilateral meeting held at a state guesthouse and took stock of the progress of relations between the two countries. "EAM @DrSJaishankar held wide-ranging bilateral discussions with FM @AKAbdulMomen at State Guest House Padma," the Indian High Commission in Dhaka said in a tweet. The two leaders also discussed ways to take forward the bilateral relations. Earlier, State Minister for Foreign Affairs M Shahriar Alam on Tuesday highlighted the deepness of relations between Bangladesh and India, and mentioned that the country will host some important events from March 17-26 as part of the celebrations of 50th anniversary of the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971, the UNB new agency reported. Prime Minister Modi is likely to pay a two-day visit to Bangladesh beginning March 26 to participate in the celebrations of 50th anniversary of Bangladesh’s Independence and 50 years of Bangladesh-India diplomatic relations. Prime Minister Hasina had thanked Modi for accepting her invitation to visit Bangladesh in March. Alam on Tuesday had said that Bangladesh looks forward to Modi's visit to take forward the bilateral relations with some deliverables, the report said. Bangladeshi officials who are familiar with the visit said that during Modi's visit, the two premiers were likely to flag off a direct passenger train service between Dhaka and New Jalpaiguri in West Bengal. Hasina and Modi had held a virtual summit on December 17 when they jointly flagged off the train service between Haldibari and Chilahati. Bangladesh Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen visited India in January during which both sides extensively deliberated on Modi's visit to Dhaka. Jaishankar's visit to Bangladesh follows on the PM-level Virtual Summit in December last year and will also provide an opportunity to take stock of the progress in bilateral relations, the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi on Wednesday. Following the summit, the Indian side had said Prime Minister Modi will visit Bangladesh in March. The ties between India and Bangladesh have witnessed a major upswing in the last few years. In reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war that led to liberation of Bangladesh. Around 93,000 Pakistani troops had surrendered before the joint forces of the Indian Army and the "Mukti Bahini" on December 16, 1971 that led to the birth of Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-discusses-ways-to-boost-bilateral-relations-with-bangladeshi-counterpart-a-k-abdul-momen-958032.html
04-03-2021||National||Capgemini to cover vaccination cost for India employees, their dependents||French IT major Capgemini on Thursday said it will cover the cost of the Covid-19 vaccination for all eligible employees and their dependents. In a statement, Capgemini said health and well-being of its colleagues is the highest priority for the company and that it will cover the cost of coronavirus vaccines of all eligible employees and their dependents in strict accordance with all government-approved protocols. "Adhering to the government protocols, Capgemini will cover the cost of the vaccination for all the eligible employees and their dependents who are part of our medical benefits programme," Ashwin Yardi, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Capgemini in India, said. Capgemini India has also joined hands with competent wellness partners to assist its team members with any queries related to the vaccine including, do's and don'ts, and provide answers to any medical queries that the employee and their dependents may have. People above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with comorbidities are being immunised in the second phase of nationwide vaccination that started on March 1. Vineet Agrawal, CEO of Wipro Consumer Care & Lighting and Executive Director of Wipro Enterprises, said as the vaccination gets rolled out to more people in the country, the company will either tie up with partners or reimburse employees. "It depends on how it moves up - as of now its just over 60 and people with co-mobid conditions between 45-60 but since we don't have employees over 60, we haven't started but we will definitely start getting people vaccinated as soon as it opens to eligible people within India also," he said. Agrawal noted that as of now, the company has decided to cover the employees only. "As of now, we've taken a call for employees being covered by our scheme, but in certain cases, we have taken insurances, which covers immediate families, so that you get covered. We have not taken a full call as far as family is concerned at this stage," he said. On Wednesday, Infosys and tech giant Accenture had said they will cover Covid vaccination costs of their employees in India. Infosys co-founders N R Narayana Murthy and Kris Gopalakrishnan, and Kotak Mahindra Bank Managing Director and CEO Uday Kotak, are among the business leaders who have received the vaccination. Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield are the two vaccines that are being administered in the country. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with inoculation of healthcare workers (HCWs), while for frontline workers (FLWs) it started from February 2. More than 1.66 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 3,23,064 sessions, as per the provisional report till Thursday 7 am. These include 67,90,808 health care workers (HCWs 1st dose), 28,72,725 HCWs (2nd dose), 58,03,856 front line workers (FLWs 1st dose) and 4,202 FLWs (2nd Dose), 1,43,759 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) and 10,00,698 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/capgemini-to-cover-vaccination-cost-for-india-employees-their-dependents-958051.html
04-03-2021||National||Indian scientists reveal new mutations, proteins of novel coronavirus||A studyfrom the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) has identified multiple mutations and unique proteins in isolates of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The recent study, published in the Journal of Proteome Research, has also shown that the host produces several proteins of their own as their body launches an immunological defence in response to the viral attack, the Bengaluru-based IISc said in a statement on Thursday. To better understand how the virus is mutating and its protein biology (proteins are made using genetic information), an IISc team led by Utpal Tatu, Professor in the Department of Biochemistry, has carried out a comprehensive proteo-genomic investigation a series of analyses of SARS-CoV-2 isolates. The isolates or viral samples were recovered from nasal secretions of consenting Covid-19 positive individuals here. The genomic analysis was done using what molecular biologists like Tatu call next generation sequencing (NGS), a technology that allows for rapid sequencing of the entire genome. He says that sequencing the genomes of viral strains from around the world is important because it helps keep track of mutations that are arising constantly. His teams analysis suggests that the virus is now mutating faster than before the three Bengaluru isolates had 27 mutations in their genomes with over 11 mutations per sample, more than both the national average (8.4) and global average (7.3). To understand the spread and evolutionary history of the virus, the team constructed a global phylogenetic tree, or a tree of relatedness, of viral isolates using the sequence data. The phylogenetic analysis found that the Bengaluru isolates are most closely related to the one from Bangladesh. It also showed that the isolates in India have multiple origins rather than having evolved from a single ancestral variant, the statement said. The SARS-CoV-2 genome codes for more than 25 proteins, but only a handful of these proteins have been identified so far, it said. "Studying viral proteins provides functional information which is currently not well represented," says Tatu. In the proteomic analysis, his team detected 13 different proteins most of them previously unidentified from clinical samples. "One such protein called Orf9b, which suppresses the hosts immune response, had been predicted, but the IISc team provided the first evidence of its expression", it said. "Just knowing how the virus functions will not be enough. We need to put it in the context of the host," Tatu says. Therefore, in the third analysis, his team explored how our bodies respond to the virus by examining host proteins. They discovered as many as 441 proteins unique to Covid-19 positive patients, many of which are speculated to play a key role in the bodys immune response. The proteomic analyses were carried out using a technique called high resolution mass spectrometry. The team is upbeat about the potential that this method has for large-scale testing. Proteins can be reliable markers of infections like Covid-19 because they are more abundant and stable as compared to RNA molecules on which the prevalent RT-PCR tests rely. Sheetal Tushir, a PhD student and the papers first author, says, "The best thing we can [hope to] see in this century is the use of mass spectrometry as a basic technique for diagnostics."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-scientists-reveal-new-mutations-proteins-of-novel-coronavirus-958069.html
04-03-2021||National||Cops submit report in court on probe against Kangana Ranaut on posts||Mumbai Police on Thursday submitted before a magistrate court a report of their inquiry into a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister for posting alleged hateful messages on social media. In October last year, the magistrate court in Mumbai asked suburban Amboli police to conduct an inquiry into a private complaint, filed by lawyer AliKashif Khan Deshmukh, related to the alleged objectionable messages and file a report by December 5. The police failed to submit their report within the time-frame given by the court. The court later extended the deadline which, too, was missed. During a hearing on February 5, the court asked the police to submit a progress report on the inquiry it had ordered into the complaint against Ranaut and her sister and posted the matter for further hearing on March 4. The police on Thursday filed a report of their probe into the matter. The court heard the arguments and kept the matter for orders on April 5. According to the complaint, Ranaut's sister Rangoli Chandel had posted an objectionable message on Twitter in April last year, targeting a particular community, following which her account was suspended. Ranaut then posted a video in support of her sister and in the clip allegedly referred to members of a particular community as "terrorists", the complainant said, seeking a police investigation and action against the two.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cops-submit-report-in-court-on-probe-against-kangana-ranaut-on-posts-958082.html
04-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: BJP picks 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan as CM face in Kerala||In your evening news brief, EPFO retains 8.5% rate of interest on provident fund deposits; 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan is BJP’s Chief Minister candidate for the upcoming Kerala Assembly elections and Bengaluru emerges as the top performer in the Million+ category in final rankings of Ease of Living Index.    Here is the top news of March 4, 2021   Retirement fund body EPFO on Thursday decided to retain 8.5 per cent rate of interest on provident fund deposits for the current financial year. EPFO has more than five crore active subscribers. The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation's (EPFO) apex decision-making body Central Board of Trustees decided to fix 8.5 per cent rate of interest for 2020-21 at its meeting in Srinagar on Thursday, sources said.   The BJP on Thursday announced 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan as its Chief Minister candidate for the upcoming Kerala Assembly elections. The 88-year-old joined the BJP last week. BJP state President K Surendran, who made the announcement, has said that Kerala will witness rapid development activities once an NDA government led by Sreedharan as Chief Minister comes to power.   Bengaluru emerged as the top performer in the Million+ category in final rankings of Ease of Living Index (EoLI) 2020 and the Municipal Performance Index (MPI) 2020. Pune, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Surat, Navi Mumbai, Coimbatore, Vadodara, Indore, and Greater Mumbai are the other cities that scored well in the list. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs released the final rankings of Ease of Living Index (EoLI) 2020 and the Municipal Performance Index (MPI) 2020 on March 4 in an online event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bjp-picks-metro-man-e-sreedharan-as-cm-face-in-kerala-958096.html
04-03-2021||National||India keen to focus on connectivity with Bangladesh and beyond for next 20 years: EAM S Jaishankar||India was keen to focus on the development of connectivity with Bangladesh and beyond for the next 20 years to change the region's geo-economic scenario, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said here on Thursday. Jaishankar, who arrived here on a day-long visit to prepare the ground for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bangladesh later this month, said that connectivity between the two countries can change the face of the region. "Fifty years (of Indian-Bangladesh ties) are over…Let’s think for the next 20 years. I would say most of all is to look at connectivity…I would pick connectivity as a big goal (for our relationship)," Jaishankar said during a joint media briefing along with his Bangladeshi counterpart AK Abdul Momen. Jaishankar, who held comprehensive discussions with Momen, said Bangladesh is central to India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy and increasingly relevant to the country's 'Act East Policy'. "The significance of our ties with Bangladesh lies in its centrality for our ‘Neighbourhood First' and its growing relevance for our 'Act East' Policy. We see Bangladesh as a key neighbour and a valued partner not only in South Asia but also in the broader Indo-Pacific region," he added. He talked about involving a third country, preferably Japan, to be a major stakeholder in the bilateral engagement in terms of connectivity as both Dhaka and New Delhi were having "very good" relations with Tokyo. "Japan is involved (as well) in connectivity projects in the Bay of Bengal (region)," he said. "I can tell you the whole geo-economics of the region will change, the Bay of Bengal will look very different." Jaishankar said that from New Delhi's perspective viewpoint, matters related to people to people contact, education, health and culture immediately followed the connectivity issue. "I think we should have a much more people-led relationship," he said. "I am very convinced that would actually give an additional impetus to our cooperation,” he said. Jaishankar said there is no domain where Bangladesh and India were not working today but yet New Delhi envisaged numerous possibilities in bilateral ties. On his part, Momen said, "we have committed to continue to work together to take our bilateral relations to newer heights under the leadership of two honourable Prime Ministers." "We focused on possible ways to materialise our commitments and how to prioritise and accommodate each other’s priorities in a mutually beneficial manner,” he said. On Prime Minister Modi’s upcoming trip to Dhaka, Momen said, "Of course, preparations for his visit has been a key element of our discussions." "This is a landmark year for our two countries. We discussed some of the important activities that we plan to undertake jointly to celebrate these historic occasions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-keen-to-focus-on-connectivity-with-bangladesh-and-beyond-for-next-20-years-eam-s-jaishankar-958102.html
04-03-2021||National||OTT industry, Centre will partner to make audience experience better, says Union Minister Prakash Javadekar||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday met representatives from the Over the Top (OTT) industry and said they have welcomed the government's new guidelines. He also said that the OTT industry will partner with the ministry towards making the experience on the platform better for audience. "Had a fruitful meeting with representatives from OTT industry and explained the provisions of the OTT rules. All representatives have welcomed the new guidelines. The ministry and industry will partner together to make the OTT experience better for all audience," Javadekar tweeted. However, more details about the meeting were not available immediately. The government had on February 25 notified new rules and guidelines for OTT platforms and digital news media, requiring them to make public their details and having a grievance redressal system in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ott-industry-centre-will-partner-to-make-audience-experience-better-says-union-minister-prakash-javadekar-958112.html
04-03-2021||National||BJP CEC meets to finalise candidates for West Bengal, Assam||The BJP is likely to contest on around 90 of the total 126 assembly seats in Assam, leaving the rest for allies AGP, which could contest on two dozen seats and eight or nine for United People's Party Liberal (UPPL). The BJP is also unlikely to field most of its 18 Lok Sabha MPs in assembly polls in West Bengal, where it is fighting a high-stake battle against Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress while it is betting big on deserters from Trinamool Congress including Suvendu Adhikari, who is likely to be fielded from Nandigram. Though the party would be keen to give tickets to mostly new faces, the party is likely to give tickets to a number of leaders, who contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but could not win. Some of these candidates are also likely to be showcased at the mega rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 7. Indications to this effect emerged at a meeting of the BJP's central election committee (CEC) that met on Thursday to finalise party candidates for the first two phases of polls in West Bengal and Assam on March 27 and April 1. BJP is likely to announce the names of around 150 candidates for West Bengal polls in next few days. With the BJP unlikely to field its Lok Sabha MPs, the saffron party has left open the leadership question in West Bengal and would prefer to seek a vote in the name of PM Modi alone, a strategy it had deployed in the past in states like UP. Maharashtra and Haryana, where it lacked a clear Chief Ministerial face. In all these states, the Chief Ministers were surprise choices that were made later. In West Bengal, most of the opinion polls, have however, given the Trinamool Congress a substantial edge than the BJP, which is however, gaining unexpected traction in comparison to its poor political past in state politics. The CEC could hold another round of meetings tomorrow and then on March 9. The CEC meeting that continued till late night and was attended by Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J P Nadda among others deliberated in detail on the candidates and political scenario in the respective regions. West Bengal is particularly high on the agenda of the BJP, which had recorded a nine-fold jump in last Lok Sabha polls there winning 18 seats from just two in 2014 general elections but the saffron party is mired by absence of a strong local face to take on Banerjee as well as poor organisation network especially in rural Bengal. In Assam the BJP came to power for the first time in 2016 and the results will show whether its Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal proves a flash in the pan or manages to retain his hold with the help of master strategist Himanta Biswa Sarma, a Congress import, who helped the BJP expand its footprint widely across the North East in last six years. The CEC is likely to clear the names of the candidates for most of the seats of West Bengal and Assam as the BJP is keen to give enough time to the candidates to prepare particularly in West Bengal, where it had won only three of the total 294 assembly seats in 2016. While the three-phased polls will conclude in Assam on April 6, the eight-phased elections in West Bengal ends on April 29. Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry go to polls in a single phase on April 6. The election in Nandigram which is likely to witness a direct contest between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari, earlier her close confidante, may have a bearing on close to three dozen seats adjoining it and hence both the parties are focussing big on the region, where farmer issue has been a sensitive subject.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-cec-meets-to-finalise-candidates-for-west-bengal-assam-958127.html
04-03-2021||National||PIL filed in SC for appointment of regular CBI director||An NGO has filed a plea in the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre to immediately appoint a regular CBI director.  The petition, filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of NGO 'Common Cause' contended that a proper appointment as per the statutory law is necessary for upholding the rule of law and for enforcement of the rights of the citizens under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. It pointed out that the CBI director is the final authority in the organisation, that is why the court and Parliament have made determined efforts to enhance his functional autonomy and limit the extent of executive discretion in the matter of appointment. The CBI director is appointed by a committee of the Prime Minister, leader of the single largest party and the CJI or his nominee. In its petition, the NGO said the government has failed to appoint a regular CBI director as per section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, on the expiry of the term of Rishi Kumar Shukla on February 2 and instead appointed Praveen Sinha as an interim director. It said that the top court has time and again entrusted important cases of corruption and violation of human rights to the CBI for investigation. The CBI has, sometimes under the monitoring of the top court, investigated important cases involving powerful and influential individuals. The plea urged the top court to issue a direction to the Centre to initiate and complete the process of selection of the CBI Director well in advance, at least one to two months before the vacancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-appointment-of-regular-cbi-director-958130.html
04-03-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan launches CSIR's Floriculture Mission||Union Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan exhorted scientists of CSIR laboratories to develop the land available at each of its institutes across the country as a model under the 'CSIR Floriculture Mission', an initiative he launched on Thursday. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research's (CSIR) Floriculture Mission has been approved for implementation in 21 states and Union Territories wherein available knowledge base in CSIR Institutes will be utilised and leveraged to help the farmers and industry re-position themselves to meet import requirements, a statement said. The CSIR Floriculture Mission is expected to create opportunity for entrepreneurship development in floriculture, the statement said. Infusion of latest technologies in the field of floriculture can be successfully led by CSIR. The mission will focus on commercial floral crops, seasonal/annual crops, wild ornaments and cultivation of flowers for honey bee rearing. Some of the popular crops include gladiolus, canna, carnation, chrysanthemum, gerbera, lilium, marigold, rose and tuberose. The Indian floriculture market was worth Rs 15,700 crore in 2018. The market is projected to reach Rs 47,200 crore by 2024, the statement said. This mission is being implemented in collaboration with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-Directorate of Floriculture; Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC); Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), Ministry of Commerce; Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India Ltd. (TRIFED); Fragrance and Flavour Development Centre (FFDC), Kannauj, Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and universities. "Farmers have little knowledge about floriculture which can give five times more return than the traditional crops. "Floriculture has the potential to provide employment to a large number of people through nursery raising, floriculture farming, entrepreneurship development for nursery trade, value addition and export," Vardhan told the gathering at the launch of 'CSIR Floriculture Mission' through virtual mode. He pointed out that despite India having diverse agro-climatic and edaphic conditions, and rich plant diversity, it shares only 0.6 per cent of global floriculture market. At least USD 1,200 million worth of floriculture products are being imported by India every year from different countries, the minister noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-launches-csirs-floriculture-mission-958132.html
04-03-2021||National||SC sets aside compulsory retirement of officer||Setting aside compulsory retirement of a postal department officer for procedural lapses in discharge of duties, the Supreme Court on Thursday said that anyone can make mistakes and the consequences of mistakes should not be unduly harsh. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said considering the findings of procedural lapses, the appropriate punishment could only be a minor penalty and not a major penalty.  The court upheld the Central Administrative Tribunal's decision terming the punishment of compulsory retirement against R Balasubrahmanyam as unduly harsh and shockingly disproportionate as none of the bribery charges against him had been found sustainable.  The court directed that the order of the disciplinary authority was set aside with a direction to impose an appropriate minor penalty within eight weeks. "The nature of charges found against the officer can hardly be one to call for a major penalty, keeping in mind that there was no bribery charge," the court added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sets-aside-compulsory-retirement-of-officer-958139.html
04-03-2021||National||Congress, BJP locked in idiom battle over I-T raids on Bollywood celebrities||The I-T raids on actor Taapsee Pannu and director Anurag Kashyap sparked off a war of idioms between the Congress and the BJP. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi accused the Modi government of targeting the Bollywood duo, who had spoken in favour of the farmers agitating against the farm laws, using a popular Hindi phrase. “Khisiyani billi khamba noche (an embarrassed cat displays anger): the manner in which government orders raids on supporters of farmers,” Gandhi said referring to the I-T raids on Pannu and Kashyap. कुछ मुहावरे: उँगलियों पर नचाना- केंद्र सरकार IT Dept-ED-CBI के साथ ये करती है। भीगी बिल्ली बनना- केंद्र सरकार के सामने मित्र मीडिया। He also accused the government of making the central probe agencies I-T, ED, CBI – “dance to its tunes”. I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar hit back at the Congress leader using the idiom – ‘Sau choohe kha kar billi haj ko chali’ (a cat embarks on a pilgrimage after committing 100s of sins). “Congress, which stifled media freedom during Emergency, is dishing out sermons on media freedom,” Javadekar said. He also dubbed the Congress as ‘ranga siyar’ (coloured jackal). “The most communal party pretends to be secular. The party of one family is giving lessons on democracy,” Javadekar said. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said that the Modi government has given complete freedom to probe agencies, and no one is a Bollywood star or a celebrity in their eyes. “Everybody now gets the same treatment while it is the Congress’s character to bend laws to help certain people and spare even criminals if they sing praises of the Gandhi family,” Bhatia claimed. In a separate tweet, Gandhi cited another media report on the government’s handling of the border issue with China to attack the Centre. “GOI believes media management is a substitute for geopolitical strategy. China has already made us pay a price for this. Continuing down this path will be disastrous for India,” the Wayanad MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-bjp-locked-in-idiom-battle-over-i-t-raids-on-bollywood-celebrities-958194.html
04-03-2021||National||Teenage girl's beheading spurs calls for 'honour killings' law in India||Police in northern India said on Thursday they had arrested a man who beheaded his daughter and carried her severed head to the village police station, a case that spurred calls for a new law against so-called honour killings. The man told police he had attacked his 17-year-old daughter with an axe on Wednesday in anger over her relationship with a man. "He has confessed to his crime," he said. Images of the man carrying the girl's head were shared widely on social media, reigniting demands from women's campaigners for a specific law against honour killings to help protect potential victims and improve police investigations. Human rights groups say thousands of women and girls are killed across South Asia and the Middle East each year by family members angered at perceived damage to their "honour". Perceived offences can include eloping, fraternizing with men or any transgression of conservative values regarding women. Last month, a woman was burnt alive by family members over an inter-faith relationship in Uttar Pradesh, local media reported, quoting police officials. "Daughters in India are seen as a sign of family honour, which results in such crimes," said Madhu Garg, vice president of All India Democratic Women Association's Uttar Pradesh chapter. "The issue of the right to choice needs immediate attention and a separate law should be made for dealing with honour killing," she added. India recorded 24 honour killings in 2019, with Uttar Pradesh accounting for no cases. Two years earlier, the state registered 14 of the country's 92 such killings, recent government crime data shows. Campaigners say government statistics on honour killing mask the scale of the crime, with women at greater risk than men. "Almost 70% of the victims in honour killings are women, and almost all of them are from the upper caste," said Arockiya Samy Kathir, founder of non-profit Evidence, which has for years worked on honour killings in South India. The Indian government in 2018 asked all states to set up special cells comprising police and welfare officers and a 24-hour helpline to help couples facing harassment or those seeking protection, but campaigners said compliance has been poor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teenage-girls-beheading-spurs-calls-for-honour-killings-law-in-india-958197.html
04-03-2021||National||You don't have to visit RTO for certain services regarding driving license now||The Centre has launched Aadhaar-based authentication for 18 services offered by Regional Transport Offices (RTO) that includes driving license services, driving license renewal and vehicle registration, among others. As per notification by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), public do not need to visit RTO office for several services as they can do it online using Aadhaar authentication. The earlier draft order stated that the people could link their driving license and RC (registration certificate) with their Aadhaar number. Services that include getting learner’s license, renewal of driving license, change of address in driving license, duplicate driving license, availing an international driving permit, applying for temporary registration, applying for registration, obtaining RC or surrendering driving license can be obtained without visiting RTO office. "Any individual desirous of availing various contactless services, through the portal, is required to undergo Aadhaar authentication," the ministry said in its notification. "Provided that till the time Aadhaar is assigned to the individual, benefits of contactless services shall be given to such individual subject to the production of Aadhaar Enrolment ID slip," it further stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/you-dont-have-to-visit-rto-for-certain-services-regarding-driving-license-now-958198.html
04-03-2021||National||India's vaccination drive gathers pace as Covid-19 cases rise; 10.93 lakh get jabs on Thursday||Covid-19 cases are on the rise again as India added 17,407 new patients of the infectious disease, including 29 fresh cases of the UK, Brazil and South African variants of the SARS-Cov-2 virus. According to the Health Ministry data, India had last reported more than 17,407 cases on January 29 when the country had witnessed 18,855 new infections within a span of 24 hours. Ten states – Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal – reported the highest number of cases in the past 14 days, as per the data available on Thursday morning. The Covid-19 active caseload has increased to 1,73,413, which comprises 1.55% of the total infections. The Ministry said India now had 242 patients with the UK, Brazil and South Africa strain of the virus – 29 new cases since the numbers of such cases were last released on Monday. On the vaccination front, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and his wife Gursharan Kaur were administered the home-grown Covaxin at the AIIMS here. The couple spent an hour at the hospital under medical observation. Vaccination against Covid-19 picked up pace with 10.93 lakh persons being administered the jabs till 7:00 p.m. on Thursday. Till now, more than 1.77 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been given to the beneficiaries. Of the 10.93 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated on Thursday, 4,93,999 were those above 60 years, while 75,147 were those between 45-60 years with comorbid conditions. Out of the total 10,93,954 doses administered on Thursday, 8,34,141 were vaccinated for the first dose, while 2,59,813 healthcare workers and frontline workers received the second dose. Meanwhile, Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 9,855. This is the highest number recorded in the state since October 18 when 10,259 new cases were reported. It is followed by Kerala with 2,765 while Punjab reported 772 new cases. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-vaccination-drive-gathers-pace-as-covid-19-cases-rise-1093-lakh-get-jabs-on-thursday-958200.html
04-03-2021||National||NEP right step towards making India's younger generation world's precious human capital: MoS MEA||The new National Education Policy is a right step towards gearing up India's younger generation as the world's most precious human capital, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said on Thursday. In his address at the inauguration ceremony of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) Regional Centre, Delhi University, he said the learning experience that India offers to foreign students is unique.  "We welcome more and more foreign students to come and study in India. When they come here, we treat them as our family. In the process, they take back a bit of 'India' along with them," he said.  For India, the whole world is one family and the country nurtures all students - Indian or foreign - as its own students, with the spirit of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam', the minister said. "As you all would appreciate, the new National Education Policy 2020 is a right step towards gearing up our younger generation as the most precious human capital of the world. It would transform higher education by making it more holistic and multidisciplinary with a focus on skilling, entrepreneurship and excellence in quality, including in vocational courses," Muraleedharan said. The New Education Policy 2020 emphasises on developing an Indian approach to internationalisation of higher education, he said.  This joint collaboration between the ICCR and the Delhi University is a welcome step in that direction, he said. As both the ICCR and the university have a common objective of development and dissemination of knowledge, this setting up of the centre will provide further impetus to the ongoing efforts of both the institutions, he said. "I was told that there are more than 2,000 overseas students at this university. I am glad to note that the university's intake through the ICCR scholarship has seen a massive increase of almost 300 per cent in the year 2020-21," he said. The Regional Centre right in the heart of the University of Delhi would help ensure smoother coordination and requisite liaising between the ICCR, students and the university, he said. The ICCR with a mandate to propagate India's rich cultural and educational heritage, operates various programmes, which also include administering of scholarship programmes of the government, Muraleedharan said. Under the scholarship programme, it annually awards close to 4,000 scholarships under 26 different schemes to foreign students from about 140 countries, he said. The courses offered for studies are for under-graduation, post-graduation and M. Phil/PhD levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-right-step-towards-making-indias-younger-generation-worlds-precious-human-capital-mos-mea-958203.html
04-03-2021||National||GoM report suggesting steps to 'neutralise' narrative against Centre triggers row||A report of the ministerial panel, suggesting steps to “neutralise” the negative narrative against the government, kicked off a political row with the Congress dubbing it as a “naked attempt to attack free press” and a bid to “weaken democracy”. The report of the Group of Ministers has suggestions of “tracking 50 negative and 50 positive influencers” on social media and “neutralise people who are writing against the government without facts to spread fake news”. The GoM, comprising nine ministers – Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani, S Jaishankar, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Hardeep Singh Puri, Babul Supriyo, Anurag Thakur and Kiren Rijiju, held six meetings between June 14 and July 19 before putting together the 97-page report. “...this certainly seems to be a very-very blatant naked attempt to attack free press and free voices,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told reporters and demanded the resignations of I&B Minister Javadekar and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. She claimed that some of the suggestions from the report were also included in the Information Technology (Intermediary guidelines and digital media ethics codes) Rules 2021 under the IT Act 2000. “Some of the suggestions of the committee were actually made into law, this is a breach of privilege, it is keeping Parliament in the black,” she said. Shrinate said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “actually preparing to stab us in the back by compromising the freedom of speech and expression in the country by first controlling free press”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gom-report-suggesting-steps-to-neutralise-narrative-against-centre-triggers-row-958205.html
04-03-2021||National||India wants Chabahar Port in North-South Transport Corridor to counter China’s moves to link it with Belt-and-Road Initiative||Amid signs of a growing partnership between Beijing and Tehran, New Delhi has proposed the inclusion of the Chabahar Port on the southeastern coast of Iran in the International North South Transport Corridor (INSTC), which is being seen as a counterweight to the Belt-and-Road Initiative (BRI) of China. With China wooing Iran to take part in its ambitious but controversial cross-continental connectivity project, India has called for expansion of the INSTC to include Uzbekistan and Afghanistan. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday said India welcomed the interest of Uzbekistan and Afghanistan to join the INSTC. “India has also proposed the inclusion of Chabahar in the INSTC route. I am hopeful that during the INSTC Coordination Council meeting, member states would agree to the expansion of the INSTC route to include the Chabahar Port and also agree on expanding the membership of this project,” he said, addressing the Maritime India Summit hosted by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi. India, Russia and Iran had jointly conceived the INSTC in September 2000 as a multi-modal transportation corridor, which would link the India Ocean and the Persian Gulf with the Caspian Sea through Iran and move onward to North Europe via Russia. Belarus, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Oman, Armenia, Syria, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan joined the ambitious project later. Bulgaria joined the bloc as an observer. Though the INSTC project has not made much progress on the ground over the past two decades, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi is learnt to have now decided to fast-track it, ostensibly to counter China’s BRI, which has been mired in controversies due to the communist country’s predatory lending policies that lure smaller nations into debt-traps. India remains opposed to the BRI, as its flagship project, China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), runs through Jammu and Kashmir areas, which it claims to be its own, but accuses the neighbouring Islamic Republic of illegally occupying. Jaishankar on Thursday also suggested establishing an eastern corridor of the INSTC through Afghanistan in order to maximize its potential. Beijing’s plan to ink a deal with Tehran for a whopping $ 400 billion investment by China in infrastructure and energy sectors in Iran over the next 25 years sent the alarm bells ringing in New Delhi a few months back. India is also worried over purported moves by China and its “iron brother” Pakistan to get a toehold in the Chabahar Port of Iran. India is participating in the development of the first phase of Shahid Beheshti Port in Chabahar in cooperation with Iran. The port opens up sea-land connectivity between India and Afghanistan as well as Central Asia and beyond, bypassing Pakistan. The India Ports Global Limited took over port operations at the Shaheed Beheshti Port in Chabahar in December 2018 and has been handling cargo since then. Afghanistan also started using the port facility to send its first export consignment to India early last year. New Delhi is concerned over the prospect of Islamabad and Beijing expanding footprints on Chabahar Port if it is connected with Gwadar Port in Pakistan as proposed by Iran. India perceives Chabahar Port in Iran as a counterweight to the Gwadar Port, which China developed as part of its “String of Pearls” policy to develop strategic assets encircling India. What also made New Delhi worried is the possibility of the Chabahar Port being linked to the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) of China, if it is connected with the Gwadar Port – the endpoint of the CPEC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wants-chabahar-port-in-north-south-transport-corridor-to-counter-china-s-moves-to-link-it-with-belt-and-road-initiative-958210.html
04-03-2021||National||RailTel launches prepaid Wi-Fi service at 4,000 railway stations||RailTel on Thursday formally launched its paid Wi-Fi service plans  which will enable users to access high-speed internet at 4,000 railway stations across the country. RailTel already provides free Wi-Fi service at more than 5,950 stations in the country, and the facility can be availed by anyone with a smartphone and an active connection after an OTP-based verification. With the launch of these prepaid plans, a passenger can now use up to 30 minutes of free Wi-Fi per day at 1 Mbps speed. But for higher speed of up to 34 Mbps, an user will need to choose a plan at a nominal fee. The plans include Rs 10 for 5 GB data in a day; Rs 15 for 10 GB data in a day; Rs 20 for 10 GB data, valid for five days; Rs 30 for 20 GB data, valid for five days; Rs 40 for 20 GB data, valid for 10 days; Rs 50 for 30 GB data, valid for 10 days, and Rs 70 for 60 GB data, valid for 30 days. "We intend to launch the prepaid plans for all the stations with our RailWire Wi-Fi this financial year," said RailTel CMD Puneet Chawla in a statement. Chawla said that before Covid-19, more than three crore people were using the service monthly. Once the situation normalises and footfall at stations becomes regular, a revenue of Rs 10-15 crore annually is expected from the paid Wi-Fi service, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railtel-launches-prepaid-wi-fi-service-at-4000-railway-stations-958212.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Congress trapped in secularism vs soft Hindutva dilemma||Facing a rising BJP with Hindutva plank on one side and erosion of its minority vote-bank by regional parties—most recently by Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM, which won 17 seats in three municipalities even in Gujarat, the secularism dilemma of Congress has been growing constantly. Be it its dispirited defence of alliance with Abbas Siddiqui-led Indian Secular Front (ISF) in West Bengal, or about the tie-up with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra last year, Congress has betrayed the discomfiture with the political compulsion to move from one extreme to another. The leadership vacuum at the Congress central level has given rise to a section of leaders publicly voicing their opinions against the leadership. Congress leader Anand Sharma publicly disapproved of the party's alliance with ISF. Calling the alliance with ISF unfortunate, Sharma said the Congress cannot be selective in fighting the communal forces, and the alliance with parties like ISF is against the core ideology of the party -- Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism. With this, the BJP now has a stick to beat the Opposition party, and spares no opportunity to do so as election campaigning picks up for West Bengal. BJP leader Sambit Patra jumped in to flag the "insult" to Ghulam Nabi Azad after some youth Congress leaders close to Rahul Gandhi objected to Azad's comments on Modi. As Congress grapples with its secularism dilemma, the party has often been speaking in multiple voices, often contradictory to each other. This contradiction has always been present in Congress, according to experts. Being a centrist party, it cannot be over-inclined towards one section. However, many leaders have been batting for a clear stand by the party on secularism. The A K Antony panel appointed to look into the 2014 defeat of Congress flagged 'Muslim appeasement' as a major reason for the defeat. The Congress then started projecting Rahul Gandhi as a 'janeudhaari brahmin' and 'Shivbhakt' and repeated distancing of the party from "Hindu terror" and "saffron terror" remarks made by some of its senior leaders. Political analyst Rasheed Kidwai says: "The Congress has to take care of its long term interests as well as win elections now. So somewhere a balance has to be there. It is down in the dumps and hence will have to make pragmatic alliances to win polls to stay relevant." The emergence of Akrabuddin Owaisi-led AIMIM and ISF is yet another challenge for the party which now needs to do a tightrope walk. However, Kidwai feels that the politics of competitive communalism will not yield any gains to Congress as it cannot go to the extent of hardline Hindutva politics like BJP. "Congress can come back on issues like employment and forging state-level alliances and it has to take decisions boldly and upfront," he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-trapped-in-secularism-vs-soft-hindutva-dilemma-957879.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Political will to bring fuel under GST lacking, say SBI economists||Alleging that there is a lack of political will to bring fuel under the ambit of the GST regime, economists at SBI said that petrol price can go down to Rs 75 a litre across the country if was under GST. "Centre and states are loathe to bring crude oil products under the GST regime as sales tax/VAT (value-added tax) on petroleum products is a major source of own tax revenue for them. Thus, there is a lack of political will to bring crude under the ambit of GST,” they said. At present, states choose to levy a combination of ad valorem tax, cess, extra VAT/surcharge based on their needs and these taxes are imposed after taking into account the crude price, the transportation charge, the dealer commission and the flat excise duty imposed by the Centre, they explained. Diesel will come at Rs 68 a litre and the revenue loss for the Centre and states will be only Rs 1 lakh crore or 0.4 per cent of GDP, according to the calculation by the economists made under the assumption of global crude prices at $60 a barrel and exchange rate at Rs 73 per dollar. At present, every state has its own way of taxing fuels, while the Centre also collects its own duties and cess. Petrol prices have touched Rs 100 per litre in some pockets of the country and concerns are being expressed about the high taxation which is making the fuels dearer. The SBI economists said bringing petrol and diesel under the goods and services tax is an unfinished agenda of the GST framework and getting the prices under the new indirect taxes framework can help. Assuming for the crude prices and dollar rate, transportation charges at Rs 7.25 for diesel and Rs 3.82 for petrol, dealer commission of Rs 2.53 for diesel and Rs 3.67 for petrol, cess of Rs 30 for petrol and Rs 20 for diesel which will be divided equally between the Centre and states, and GST rate at 28 per cent, the economists came at the final price estimates. Growth in the consumption – diesel going up 15 per cent and petrol by 10 per cent – has been used to assess the Rs 1 lakh crore fiscal impact of getting petroleum prices under GST, it said. An increase of $1 in the crude oil prices will push up the petrol price by around 50 paise and diesel prices by around Rs 1.50, and bring down the overall deviation by around Rs 1,500 crore under the baseline scenario, it said. States, which have the highest share of tax revenues at present, will be the biggest losers if the system shifts to GST, it said, quickly adding that such a move will help consumers pay up to Rs 30 less. Interestingly, the simulation exercise suggests that when crude oil price declines by $10 per barrel, Centre and states could save close to Rs 18,000 crore, if they keep the petrol prices at baseline prices without passing the benefit to consumers, which is higher than the savings of Rs 9,000 crore when the crude prices go up by the same measure. "We thus recommend the government build up an oil price stabilisation fund which can be used in bad times for compensating revenue loss by cross-subsidising fund saved from good times, without hurting the consumer," it said. For the LPG cylinders, the economists proposed an increased and graded subsidy may be provided to poor consumers which can be tapered off over a period of, say, 5-years. Meanwhile, the note said the latest revenue and expenditure numbers could lead to lowering of fiscal deficit to 8.7 per cent in FY21, down from 9.5 per cent in the revised budget estimates. It is highly likely that the Government might cancel its Rs 49,000 crore borrowing planned in the last fortnight of March, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-will-to-bring-fuel-under-gst-lacking-say-sbi-economists-957955.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Jaishankar arrives in Bangladesh to prepare ground for PM Modi's visit||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar arrived here on Thursday to prepare the ground for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's upcoming visit to Bangladesh, and hold talks with his counterpart on the progress of bilateral ties. Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen received Jaishankar at Kurmitola air force base here. The two counterparts are set for a meeting during the day. “This is an important meeting as it is expected to lay the groundwork for the upcoming visit of Indian Prime Minister Modi and his talks with our Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina,” a Bangladesh foreign ministry official said. Jaishankar, who is visiting the country at the invitation of Foreign Minister Momen, is also expected to hold talks on a host of bilateral and regional issues. Prime Minister Modi is likely to pay a two-day visit to Bangladesh beginning March 26 to participate in the 50th anniversary celebrations of the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971. According to officials familiar with the visit, Jaishankar would call on Prime Minister Hasina during his stay here. The two foreign ministers would take an overview of bilateral MoUs that are likely to be signed during Prime Minister Modi's visit on March 26-27, they said. The officials said that during Modi's visit, the two premiers were likely to flag off a direct passenger train service between Dhaka and New Jalpaiguri in West Bengal. Hasina and Modi had held a virtual summit on December 17 when they jointly flagged off the train service between Haldibari and Chilahati. Bangladesh Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen visited India in January during which both sides extensively deliberated on Modi's visit to Dhaka. Jaishankar's visit to Bangladesh follows on the PM-level Virtual Summit in December last year and will also provide an opportunity to take stock of the progress in bilateral relations, the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi on Wednesday. Following the summit, the Indian side had said Prime Minister Modi will visit Bangladesh in March this year to join the celebrations for 50 years of Bangladesh’s Independence and India-Bangladesh diplomatic relations. The ties between India and Bangladesh have witnessed a major upswing in the last few years. In reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war that led to liberation of Bangladesh. Around 93,000 Pakistani troops had surrendered before the joint forces of the Indian Army and the "Mukti Bahini" on December 16, 1971 that led to the birth of Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jaishankar-arrives-in-bangladesh-to-prepare-ground-for-pm-modis-visit-957960.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi uses Hindi idioms to target Centre for raiding 'pro-farmer' voices, BJP hits back||Hindi idioms took centre stage in a political slugfest between the Congress and the ruling BJP on Thursday as Rahul Gandhi cited them to accuse the government of using probe agencies to target critical voices, prompting Union minister Prakash Javadekar to invoke a few sayings to hit back. A day after income-tax raids at the homes and offices of Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu, filmmaker Anurag Kashyap and others, Gandhi used the hashtag 'ModiRaidsProFarmers' with his tweet in Hindi to take a dig at the government. Putting out three popular Hindi idioms -- 'Ungliyon pe nachana', 'Bheegi billi banna' and 'Khisiyani billi khamba noche' -- Gandhi stated what he believes they mean in the current context. In his three-pronged attack, he alleged that the central government makes the income tax department dance to its tunes, friendly media gets cowed down before the Centre and the central government raids those supporting farmers. Pannu and Kashyap are known to be outspoken in their views on a range of issues. कुछ मुहावरे: उँगलियों पर नचाना- केंद्र सरकार IT Dept-ED-CBI के साथ ये करती है। भीगी बिल्ली बनना- केंद्र सरकार के सामने मित्र मीडिया। Hitting back, Javadekar asked Gandhi to recall three more Hindi idioms -- 'Sau chuhe khakar billi chali Haj ko', 'Ungliyon per gine ja sakna' and 'ranga siyar' -- to target the Congress. He used the first saying to mock the Congress for giving a lesson in media freedom after stifling it during the Emergency, the second for the current political standing of the party and the third for a "family party" like it lecturing on democracy and "the most communal party" pretending to be secular. The searches against Pannu and Kashyap as well as his partners who launched the now-shuttered production house Phantom Films were carried out across 30 locations in Mumbai and Pune. They were part of a tax evasion probe against Phantom Films, officials said. Pannu and Kashyap were shooting in Pune and are understood to have been questioned by the tax sleuths as part of the preliminary questioning that takes place during raids. The raids also covered Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhasish Sarkar and some executives of celebrity and talent management companies KWAN and Exceed. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said that the Modi government has given complete freedom to probe agencies, and no one is a Bollywood star or a celebrity in their eyes. Everybody now gets the same treatment while it is the Congress's character to bend laws to help certain people and spare even criminals if they sing praises of the Gandhi family, he claimed. If somebody breaks the law, evade tax or conspire against the country, then probe agencies will do their job, he said. The Congress destroys institution when in power and tries to discredit them when in opposition, Bhatia alleged. He cited cases against Sudha Bharadwaj, an activist arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case, Sharjeel Imam, booked for sedition, and Umar Khalid, an accused in a Delhi riots case, to say they have failed to get any relief from courts and remain behind bars even though probe agencies were criticised for action against them. Asked about bail given to climate activist Disha Ravi, he said bail does not absolve an accused of charges and probe agencies can always approach higher courts. The Congress is practising politics of "anarchy" by targeting institutions, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-uses-hindi-idioms-to-target-centre-for-raiding-pro-farmer-voices-bjp-hits-back-957963.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Mamata real Bengal tigress: Shiv Sena to not contest West Bengal Assembly election||Describing the West Bengal polls as "Didi vs All", Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has decided not to field candidates for West Bengal elections 2021.  The party, in a statement, said that Shiv Sena stands by Mamata Banerjee in her fight in the upcoming Bengal elections. "We wish Mamata Didi a roaring success, 'cos we believe she is the real Bengal tigress!!" Thackeray aide and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut made the announcement on Twitter.  The relation between the Thackeray family and Banerjee, a former union minister, go back to several decades.  "Looking at the present scenario, it appears like a "Didi vs All" fight. All 'M's - muscle, money and media - are being used against 'M'amata Didi. Hence, Shiv Sena has decided not to contest  West Bengal polls and stand in solidarity with her," Raut said.  According to Sena, Mamata Didi is the real "Bengal Tigress" and the party wished her "roaring success". It may be recalled, earlier Shiv Sena had decided to field a few candidates in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-real-bengal-tigress-shiv-sena-to-not-contest-west-bengal-assembly-election-957969.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||With Sasikala out of picture, who are the key players in Tamil Nadu Assembly polls?||In an anti-climax that will cheer the AIADMK, its ousted general secretary V K Sasikala on Wednesday announced her decision to “step aside” from politics after it became clear that the current leadership of the party, once she controlled from the sidelines, was hesitant to take her back. The dramatic announcement by Sasikala comes exactly a week after she appealed to the “true loyalists” of Jayalalithaa to “unite” to ensure that the AIADMK government is voted back to power in upcoming assembly elections. Tamil Nadu is set to go to polls on April 6 in a single phase, with campaigning already in full swing among major political players in the state. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Monday finalised a seat-sharing pact with two parties — Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), and Manidhaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) — for the polls. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK sealed its alliance with Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) on Saturday by allotting 23 seats for the elections. Sasikala's exit from the race may be a matter to cheer for several Opposition parties and the AIADMK after the leader said that she never aspired for any political position. Here are some of the key players in the race to Fort St George. Palamiswami is the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and took over as the CM after the death of enigmatic AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa. He is the joint coordinator of the party with O Panneerselvam. Palaniswami entered politics as a volunteer for AIADMK in 1974 and later became an important member of the party in Salem. He won the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections four times, in 1989, 1991, 2011 and 2016. In 1998, he was elected to the Lok Sabha from the Edappadi constituency. Palaniswami became the Chief Minister after O Panneerselvam resigned in 2017 shortly after J Jayalalithaa passed away. He is now the AIADMK's CM face for the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. O Panneerselvam is the Deputy Chief Minister and joint coordinator of AIADMK. He was close to Jayalalithaa and often functioned as the CM when Jayalalithaa was unable to head the government. His first term as CM was started on September 2001 and lasted six months after the Supreme Court barred Jayalalithaa from holding office. He was again entrusted with the responsibility of being Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on 29 September 2014 when Jayalalitha was convicted in the disproportionate assets case. In 2016, he was elected as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu after Jayalalithaa passed away. However, he resigned in 2017 and was later expelled by V K Sasikala. After his expulsion, the Governor invited Palaniswami to form the government. He was speculated earlier to be the CM face for AIADMK, but sitting CM Palaniswami was chosen to be the CM if the party gained majority seats. DMK president M K Stalin is the son of former chief minister late M Karunanidhi. Stalin started his political career early with DMK and won for the first time from Thousand Light constituency in Chennai in 1989. After which, he transitioned to become the Mayor of Chennai and later on Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu under his father M Karunanidhi. He became the president of DMK after the demise of Karunanidhi. Stalin is currently the Leader of the Opposition and is set to become the CM for the first time if the DMK-Congress alliance is able to secure majority seats.  Popular Tamil actor Kamal Haasan formed Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) in 2018. MNM contested in the 2019 general election from 37 seats and lost all with a vote share of 3.72%. The party has allied with actor Sarathkumar's All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi and Paarivendhar's Indihya Jananayaga Katchi. L Murugan L Murugan is the president of BJP's Tamil Nadu unit, but ally AIADMK is the bigger party in the state and hence L Murugan may not hold a significant position in the race yet. BJP has so far not made a significant foray into Tamil Nadu, however, the National Democratic Alliance with AIADMK, DMDK and other parties may help PM Modi's party push to make an entry into the southern state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-sasikala-out-of-picture-who-are-the-key-players-in-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-957970.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Is it fair to kick the ladder you climbed to reach in life: Salman Khurshid asks Congress's G-23||The disquiet within the Congress continues to grow with senior party leader Salman Khurshid asking 'Group of 23' leaders in an 'open letter' if they were changing their goal posts and whether it was fair on their part to kick the ladder that they climbed to reach the top storey of life. Khurshid, a former Union minister, asked them to worry about how they would be judged in history than to seek a better place in the present. His remarks come after a public display of anger displayed by the G-23 leaders led by veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad in Jammu. He said they along with other Congress leaders must show the ordinary party workers across the country the path out of the present darkness towards sunshine instead of raising concerns about what they received, while noting that sacrifice cannot come with pre-conditions of success. He also quoted former US President John Kennedy's words "Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country (read party)", to say that the thousands of unnamed Congress cadres, who gave to the Congress, but unavoidably received little or nothing in return, too believe in democracy unlike the G-23 leaders who have an impressive history of achievements. "We thought the G-23 made their point and were suitably informed that party elections will be held when appropriate (something they agreed to in their interaction with the Congress president and later at the CWC). But are they changing the goal posts once again with the public display of disquiet (or reservations) in Jammu and as we are being told, very soon in Haryana," he asked in the open letter. "Gumnam of Congress too care about democracy", Khurshid said in the letter. The senior Congress leader said the growing dark footprint of communal forces has pushed the party into "forced errors" of becoming self-conscious. "As a result we shy away from speaking about minorities and put on a public display of identifying with the cultural symbols of the majority that have largely been appropriated by the BJP. We have been forced to accept 'mistakes' made by our heroes because public mood appears to require it. Obviously, this calls for careful balancing of reality and perception, strategy and ideology," he noted. Khurshid said all leaders, old and young, happy and unhappy, need to come together to deal with this challenge instead of cribbing about real and imagined democratic deficits. "They must not forget that democracy is a process, not static in time. Ultimately it is a relevant question whether it is fair to kick the very ladder you have climbed to the top storey of life from where making speeches is easy. But do think of the many who did not make it to the ladder, the elevated platforms being far beyond reach," the former minister noted. He said that there are two ways of spending these dark moments -- to count blessings and the moments of joy and comfort the party has given; or else to wing about what was not received. "If we choose the latter what conviction will we carry with the innumerable workers who continue to hope that the darkness will give way. Besides, how will we be judged by history? It might be more important to worry about that than to seek a better place in the present," Khurshid said. The senior Congressman said just as the names of national martyrs are engraved on India Gate, there are records in the Congress office where innumerable names are embossed as part of its history and "for most that is enough recognition".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-it-fair-to-kick-the-ladder-you-climbed-to-reach-in-life-salman-khurshid-asks-congresss-g-23-958057.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||UP dismisses Punjab's plea for virtual trial of gangster-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari||The Uttar Pradesh government dismissed Punjab government's contention before the Supreme Court that mafia-turned-BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari can be tried virtually saying if video conferencing was the only mode of trial for an accused to appear from anywhere, then Vijay Mallya can face trial from the United Kingdom. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan cited there are several serious cases pending against Ansari. He also slammed Ansari for making incorrect assertions that his life is in danger in UP, therefore he should be allowed to remain in a jail in Punjab. "A convict who has disobeyed the law of the land, cannot say that he cannot be transferred. Courts are not to be helpless bystanders when the laws are being challenged with impunity," Mehta said. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing the Punjab government, asserted that the state government is upholding the Constitution and it does not care anything about Ansari. He rejected Mehta's argument that there was some conspiracy between the Punjab government and Ansari. He insisted on trial through video conferencing. Ansari is lodged in district jail Rupnagar since January 2019, in connection with an extortion case. Mehta, for his part, said that if video-conference is that favourable, then even fugitive industrialist Mallya would not be extradited to India, and he can face trial from the UK. Mehta submitted before the bench that he agrees that the state does not have fundamental rights, but the state as a prosecution represents the citizens and victims and can seek justice on their behalf. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Ansari, apprehended if he was sent to UP, he would be done away with. "There are threats to my life. I am a five-time MLA...my co-accused was encountered, and they are trying to shoot a gun from the shoulders of this court. This should not be allowed," he said. Following a detailed argument, the court reserved its judgment on the plea of the Uttar Pradesh government seeking a direction to the Punjab government and Rupnagar jail authority to immediately hand over the custody of Ansari, an MLA from Mau constituency, to district jail Banda. The UP government said there are more than 30 FIRs and more than 14 criminal trials including heinous crimes of murder and Gangster Act pending against Ansari in various MP/MLA courts, where his personal appearance is sought.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-dismisses-punjabs-plea-for-virtual-trial-of-gangster-turned-mla-mukhtar-ansari-958075.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Samajwadi Party will win UP election, work towards abolishing EVMs: Akhilesh Yadav||The Samajwadi Party (SP) will win the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections by a huge majority and then 'samajwadi people' will work towards abolishing the electronic voting system, party president Akhilesh Yadav claimed on Thursday. "On EVMs (Electronic Voting Machines), I still say that no one trusts them. Recently in the USA, the polls were conducted on ballot papers, and counting took several days. People trust only ballot papers, but this fight cannot be fought right now," the SP chief said in Jhansi when asked about his views on EVMs. "We are preparing for the assembly polls through training camps. At least if all SP workers cast their votes, BJP will be defeated. And when SP government is formed, 'samajwadis' will be the first to discard EVMs," he said, addressing a press conference. Yadav, however, did not elaborate on how he will convince the Election Commission to do away with the system. Replying to another question, the SP chief said, "In UP, the situation will not be like Bihar assembly polls. In Bihar, the grand alliance government was going to be formed, but BJP did not let it happen. In UP, the BJP will taste defeat by a huge margin. The SP will win 350 seats (of a total 403 seats)." Asked about Yogi Adityanath's remark on colourful caps worn by Opposition MLAs in the Assembly, Yadav said, "We never told those having black hearts to wear black caps. The red colour of our cap is of revolution and our blood and emotions, but our CM does not have the sentiments." Taking a dig at the Opposition in the Assembly recently, Adityanath had said the House should not be taken lightly as a "drama company" with some members sporting caps in red, some blue, some yellow or even green. In an obvious reference to the SP members who wear red caps, Adityanath recalled that he had once been to village school when a child called a politician sporting a cap as "goonda" (hooligan). Akhilesh Yadav also attacked the chief minister over his remarks, saying the "tone and tenor of his language has changed". He alleged the BJP government forcibly passed the agri laws in the Rajya Sabha despite the fact that it did not have majority there. "BJP wants to kill democracy. In UP also, in the Legislative Council, where SP has majority, the government ignored it and got the bills passed there," he said. The SP chief is in Jhansi for a training camp organised for party workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samajwadi-party-will-win-up-election-work-towards-abolishing-evms-akhilesh-yadav-958083.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Book Rahul Gandhi for sedition: BJP tells EC||Accusing Rahul Gandhi of violating the Model Code of Conduct by holding “surrogate election campaign” in a school campus during his Tamil Nadu visit this week, the BJP on Thursday knocked at the doors of the Election Commission demanding that the Congress leader be “restrained” from campaigning in the state. The BJP also demanded that a case of sedition be booked against Gandhi for his comments - “what India now is going to need is another freedom struggle.” In a complaint to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Tamil Nadu BJP President L Murugan said use of educational institutions for political campaigns and rallies is strictly prohibited. He pointed out that Gandhi visited St. Joseph's Matric Higher Sec. School in Mulagumoodu of Kanyakumari district on March 1 and undertook a surrogate election campaign in the school premises. “The political campaign in educational institutions has violated provisions of model code of conduct for which strict action including prohibitory orders for his election campaign in the state of Tamil Nadu is required to be issued by your esteemed office,” Murugan said. He further added that Gandhi committed offences under section 109 and 124A of the Indian Penal Code. "There is a lot of anger that's being spread in the country, a lot of fear in the country and that is what we have to fight. We have to fight the division, the anger and the fear and once again make India happy, comfortable, fearless and united,” Murugan quoted Gandhi as having told students. The BJP leader argued that the statement "which was made with the intent to cause hatred, contempt and excite disaffection towards the government", by law amounts to inciting/abetting the youth for another freedom struggle. “The statement made by Mr. Gandhi that the Government of India today is similar to that of British rule and it has spread division, anger and fear and therefore, we require another freedom struggle to overawe the Govt. of India violates section 124A of Indian Penal Code, 1860,” Murugan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/book-rahul-gandhi-for-sedition-bjp-tells-ec-958109.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||BJP takes swipe at Congress over Covaxin efficacy data, says everyone should be proud of result||A day after Bharat Biotech said its anti-coronavirus vaccine has shown 81 per cent efficacy, the BJP on Thursday hit out at the Congress for questioning the drug regulator's decision to grant it emergency use approval and said everyone should be proud of the results shown by it. Taking a jibe at the Congress, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia claimed the Gandhi family would have been the first to get a vaccine if the Congress party was in power. The Narendra Modi government ended the VIP culture and ensured that healthcare and frontline workers will be the first to get the jab, he said.  Bhatia said no one will forget how senior Congress leaders such as Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh had questioned the indigenously developed vaccine Covaxin. After the drug regulator approved Covaxin for restricted emergency use in the country in January, some senior Congress leaders had criticised the move noting that it was given the nod without phase three trial data. The Congress government in Chhattisgarh even demanded that Covaxin should not be sent to the state, Bhatia noted and then lauded opposition leaders like Sharad Pawar and Naveen Patnaik for taking Covid vaccine and not doing politics over the issue. "They gave the message that there should be no politics over some issues," he said. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin vaccine, whose emergency use approval before finishing final stage testing had triggered a row, has shown an 81 per cent efficacy in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 disease in an interim analysis of the advanced clinical trial, the company said on Wednesday, boosting prospects of its usage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-takes-swipe-at-congress-over-covaxin-efficacy-data-says-everyone-should-be-proud-of-result-958115.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Raids on Taapsee Pannu, Anurag Kashyap unveil Rs 650 crore discrepancy: I-T department||The Income Tax Department has detected financial irregularities of over Rs 650 crore after it raided two film production companies, two talent management companies and a leading actress, the Central Board of Direct Taxes claimed on Thursday but did not take any names. A day later, without naming the people or companies searched, the CBDT said the entities searched were mainly engaged in the business of production of motion pictures, web series, acting, direction and talent management of celebrities and other artists.                 Official sources identified the entities raided as Pannu and the four former promoters of Phantom Films -- Kashyap, director-producer Vikramaditya Motwane, producer Vikas Bahl and producer-distributor Madhu Mantena. They also identified the celebrity and talent management companies as Kwan and Exceed. The second film production company that was raided belongs to Kashyap, the sources said.         “Evidence of huge suppression of income by the leading film production house compared to the actual box office collections has been unearthed," the statement from CBDT, the administrative body of the IT Department, claimed. "The company officials have not been able to explain discrepancy of around Rs 300 crore," it said.                Evidence related to "manipulation and under-valuation" of share transactions of the production house amongst the film directors and shareholders, with a tax implication of about Rs 350 crore has also been found and is being further investigated, it alleged.           "Evidence of cash receipts by the leading actress amounting to Rs 5 crore has been recovered and further investigation is going on," the CBDT claimed.           Also, "non-genuine or bogus expenditure" to related concerns by the leading producers and directors having tax implication of about Rs 20 crore has been detected, the statement said. "Similar findings have been made in the case of the leading actress also," it alleged.           The statement added that "huge amount" of digital data has been seized in the form of emails, WhatsApp chats, hard disk from the offices of the two talent management companies. A total of seven bank lockers were found and placed under restraint, the CBDT statement said. The searches against Mantena are also being carried out in context of his links with KWAN, of which he is a co-promoter, officials said. While Kwan's client list includes Deepika Padukone, Exceed manages Saif Ali Khan and Sonakshi Sinha among others. Pannu, 33, and Kashyap, 48, both known to be outspoken in their views on a range of issues, were shooting in Pune on Wednesday and were understood to have been questioned by the tax sleuths as part of the preliminary questioning that takes place during raids. Kashyap and Pannu, who worked together in the 2018 film "Manmarziyaan",  are now collaborating in the upcoming film "Dobaara". Pannu's last tweet was on March 1, when she spoke on the Supreme Court asking a man accused of repeated rape whether he was willing to marry the woman. When the court was told he is already married, he was asked to seek regular bail from the concerned court.            The actor, who has made a name for herself in films such as "Pink”, “Thappad” and “Badla", put out a strong worded post on the matter.            Kashyap, who had visited JNU and Shaheen Bagh during the anti-CAA protests last year and is also known to be vocal about his views, has been quiet on Twitter in recent times except for occasionally retweeting others.           Ruling allies Congress and NCP in Maharashtra had criticised the raids and termed them an attempt to suppress the voices of those who speak against the Narendra Modi-led government. The raids also attracted huge attention on social media platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raids-on-taapsee-pannu-anurag-kashyap-unveil-rs-650-crore-discrepancy-i-t-department-958116.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Confusion over 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan's CM candidature in Kerala||In a dramatic development, state BJP president on Thursday projected technocrat-turned-politician E Sreedharan, popularly known as 'Metro Man', as NDA’s chief ministerial candidate in Kerala, but later withdrew it. Making the announcement at a public function, BJP state president K Surendran even said that Kerala will witness rapid development activities once an NDA government led by Sreedharan as the chief minister comes to power. But Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, who is a BJP leader from Kerala, later reacted that no such announcements were made. He said that he cross-checked with Surendran and the latter said that he had not made any such announcement but only mentioned that people would like to see a person like Sreedharan as the chief minister. Surendran's announcement projecting E Sreedharan as the CM candidate was widely reported by the media. While BJP sources maintained that it was premature to make any announcements on the CM candidate as it was for the parliamentary party to elect the chief minister, difference within the BJP as well as other NDA partners is also learnt to be a reason for swiftly withdrawing the statement. The BJP is making an all-out effort to improve its presence in Kerala, which is now limited to only one seat. The party identified 35 to 40 seats as prospective ones for the party and Surendran even announced that the NDA could form government in Kerala if it wins in around 35 to 40 seats. The saffron party is also making a bid to make inroads into the state's Christian vote banks. While the NDA indicated that Sreedharan would be the CM candidate, the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the CPM-led Left Democratic Front will probably not project anyone as chief ministerial candidate ahead of the polls. Incumbent Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan could be the undisputed candidate of the LDF even as such formal announcements are unlikely to be made from the party. The UDF might not be able to make such a projection as former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy was recently brought back to the forefront to lead them during the elections. This is casting a shadow over the post-poll prospects of Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Sreedharan, who is now 88, himself had expressed his wish to be the chief minister as soon as he had announced the decision to join BJP. Though he has already said that he will be contesting in the April 6 polls, the party is yet to decide the candidates and constituencies. While projecting him as the CM candidate, Surendran had highlighted the reconstruction of the Palarivattom flyover in Kochi within five months by a team led by Sreedharan against the estimated completion time of 18 months. Sreedharan stepped down from the DMRC principal advisor post on Thursday after having a final review of the reconstructed flyover, which is likely to be reopened for traffic shortly. Meanwhile, Sreedharan's statement praising Uralungal Labour Contactors Cooperative Society (ULCCS) that carried out the work of the flyover reconstruction under his guidance had not gone down well with the BJP state leadership as ULCCS's various deals with the Left-Front government had faced corruption allegations. Surendran said that Sreedharan might be unaware of the corruption of ULCCS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/confusion-over-metro-man-e-sreedharans-cm-candidature-in-kerala-958147.html
04-03-2021||National Politics||Ashok Gehlot accuses BJP of horse-trading, says one has to do value-based politics to become CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said in the Assembly that one has to do value-based politics to get the post he holds currently, as he accused the BJP of indulging in horse-trading. It was in July last year that Gehlot's government had plunged into a crisis after Sachin Pilot, along with loyalist MLAs, revolted. The month-long crisis had ended after the intervention of party leader Rahul Gandhi. But, horse-trading has started again as BJP leaders have specialisation in finding a lacuna, he said. Facing the BJP legislators sitting in front rows, Gehlot said, "Your party people made repeated attempts to bring down the then government of Bhairon Singh Shekhawat. But, we said that we do not get into these things." "To become chief minister one has to do value-based politics... If you do not do value-based politics, then you will not be able to become chief minister, whether it is a politician sitting at the Centre or you sitting here. No one will not be able to become a chief minister," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ashok-gehlot-accuses-bjp-of-horse-trading-says-one-has-to-do-value-based-politics-to-become-cm-958193.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||Man beheads daughter in Uttar Pradesh, goes to police with head||The accused disclosed that he took the step in a fit of rage after seeing his daughter in an objectionable position, police said. Sarvesh beheaded his daughter with a sharp-edged weapon at Pandetara village and started walking towards the police station with her severed head, triggering panic in the area. The man was then brought to the Majhila police station, 143 km west of Lucknow, officials said. Superintendent of Police Anurag Vats said the father had been arrested and further action was being taken. Top police officers of the district reached the spot following the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-beheads-daughter-in-uttar-pradesh-goes-to-police-with-head-957839.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Kejriwal gets Covid-19 vaccine, says 'nothing to fear'||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who along with his parents took their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday, appealed to all eligible people to come forward and get vaccinated, asserting that there's "nothing to fear". The vaccine was first administered to Kejriwal's parents, Govind Ram Kejriwal and Gita Devi, and then to the chief minister at the government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital here. They all were given the Covishield vaccine. "I and my parents got our first dose of Covid-19 vaccine today. We had no problems and are perfectly healthy. There is nothing to fear. Doubts in people's mind (about the vaccine) no longer exist. I appeal to everyone eligible for the vaccine to come and get themselves vaccinated," Kejriwal told reporters after getting the jab. During the second phase of the inoculation drive that started on March 1, people aged 60 years and above and those in the 45-59 age group with specific comorbidities are being administered the vaccine at 192 hospitals across Delhi. The 52-year-old chief minister, who has a history of diabetes, said the hospital has made adequate arrangements for the vaccination drive. The government will increase the number of vaccination centres if needed, he added. "We are in constant touch with the Centre and are working according to the prescribed guidelines. As and when we receive further directions, we will increase the number of vaccination centres. We have enough stock of the vaccines," the chief minister said. Earlier, President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan got themselves inoculated against Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-kejriwal-gets-covid-19-vaccine-says-nothing-to-fear-957950.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||Explained | What Haryana’s 75% private sector job quota for locals means||Haryana on Tuesday notified a Bill mandating a whopping 75 per cent reservation to job seekers from the state in private companies after receiving assent from the state's Governor. The law, formally known as the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020 was passed by the Assembly late last year. It also mandates that locals be paid up to Rs 50,000 by their employers. The north Indian state is home to some of the biggest industries, most notably the auto industry - the likes of Maruti Suzuki, Honda, and the spare parts and components industries, in and around Gurugram and Manesar. Gurugram, in particular, also hosts some of the largest IT and BPO companies.  Reserving 75 per cent jobs for locals, a law billed as "populist" was a campaign promise of Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala. It has been proposed to be implemented for a 10-year period. The law is yet to define who is considered to be a local and who is not, although the state grants 'domicile' status to anyone born in Haryana or those who have lived there for 15 years. As mentioned before, Haryana is home to some of the biggest companies, many of whom have set up their headquarters in and around Gurugram. A large number of these private companies' workforce comes from outside the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explained-what-haryana-s-75-private-sector-job-quota-for-locals-means-957959.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh recruits 13 transgender constables, first ever inducted to police force||Chhattisgarh Police have recruited 13 transgender persons as constables, in an effort to boost the confidence of people from the community and change the society's perception towards them. This is the first time that transgender persons have been inducted into the state police force, a senior government official claimed. "Thirteen candidates from the transgender community have been recruited as constables on the basis of merit. Two others are in the waiting list," Chhattisgarh's Director General of Police D M Awasthi told PTI on Wednesday. Of the successful candidates, eight belong to Raipur district, two are from Rajnandgaon and one each hail from Bilaspur, Korba and Surguja districts, he said. "We welcome them and believe many others from the community would join the police force in future," he said. The examination was held in 2017-18 and the results were declared on March 1 this year, a government official said. Talking to PTI, Shivanya alias Rajesh Patel (24), one of those recruited as constable, said she is happy to be clad in police uniform after overcoming the social dogma and bias against their community. "I never thought in my dreams that I would be a cop. Despite facing various odds, 13 of us have finally made it," said Patel, who hails from Raipur. This has not only boosted the confidence of the entire community, but it would also change the perception of society towards transgender persons, the constable said. Patel narrated the challenges she faced, like bullying, taunts and harassment, in her residential locality, before joining the police force. "My father had a small cycle repair shop and my mother used to work as domestic help. The amount earned by them was spent on food and studies as we are eight siblings," she said. Patel said during school days her classmates used to make fun of the way she walked and spoke, but she did not reveal her identity to anyone at that time. After joining college, Patel decided to live freely, joined a 'badhai toli' (a group of transgenders who sing and dance and give good wishes) and started begging in trains. "I decided to let people know who I am. My parents were initially unaware of what I was doing, but they later came to know through someone in the locality," she said. Patel left the group when her parents said her activities could hamper the marriage prospects of her siblings. "I started working with my mother as a domestic help, but there also I had to face humiliation, prompting me to leave home and rejoin the toli," she said, adding that her father died last year and since then, she is taking care of her mother. Asked how she thought of joining the police force, Patel, who has done a Bachelor of Arts (BA) course, credited transgender rights activist and their community chief Vidya Rajput for it. Rajput said after several efforts made by the community, the Chhattisgarh Police gave an opportunity to them in recruitment in 2017-18 when 40 transgender persons from different districts applied for the exam. During training before the selection, other male and female aspirants initially used to laugh at the transgenders, but gradually they realised the commitment and strength of these people and mixed up with them, the activist said. "Parents of some of these aspirants scolded them for applying under the 'third gender' category and also beat them up, but their morale did not go down," Rajput said. Twenty three transgender persons had cleared the physical test for recruitment in the police force and appeared for the written exam (in 2017-18). The results were pending since then, she said. "They were a bit disappointed when results were not announced for almost two years, and all of them had to return to their previous jobs, like washing dishes in hotels and joining the 'badhai toli' for livelihood," Rajput said. Recently, the state government again conducted the physical test of candidates who had cleared the written exam and the recruitment was done, the activist said. "We have taken the first step towards equality, but there is a long way to go," Rajput said, adding the community is making efforts to get reservation in government jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-recruits-13-transgender-constables-first-ever-inducted-to-police-force-957974.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||J&K L-G Manoj Sinha gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Government Medical College hospital (GMC) here on Thursday, officials said. "I have taken the vaccine. The process was smooth. I urge all the eligible people to come forward and get vaccinated. The vaccines are safe and I congratulate all the scientists for producing the vaccines," the L-G told reporters after taking the first dose of the vaccine. He also appealed to people not to lower their guard against the viral disease and to follow all Covid-related SoPs even after getting inoculated. The world has acknowledged the ingenuity of the Indian scientists, Sinha said and expressed his gratitude to all the frontline workers, doctors and healthcare staff, who led the country's battle against Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-l-g-manoj-sinha-gets-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-957978.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||'Tandav' row: Supreme Court to hear bail plea of Amazon Prime Video's India head on March 5||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to file regulations on social media while hearing a plea in the Tandav case.  The apex court adjourned for tomorrow (March 5) an appeal of Amazon Prime's India head of original content Aparna Purohit, against the Allahabad High Court order that denied anticipatory bail to her, in the ongoing investigation against the web series Tandav. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tandav-row-supreme-court-to-hear-bail-plea-of-amazon-prime-videos-india-head-on-march-5-957984.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||Army jawan's body found hanging inside sentry post in Srinagar||An Army jawan was found dead here on Thursday in a suspected case of suicide, officials said. Rifleman Anup Kumar (28), who was posted on sentry duty at the Badamibagh cantonment in Jammu and Kashmir, was found hanging from the ceiling of the sentry post at the main gate at Batwara here with a light machine gun's loop. Kumar hailed from Haryana's Bhiwani, the officials said, adding that the reason behind his taking the extreme step was not immediately known. On Wednesday, a 24-year-old Army jawan shot himself dead in Rajouri district and an Army officer of the rank of a lieutenant colonel committed suicide at an Army depot in the Khonmoh area here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawans-body-found-hanging-inside-sentry-post-in-srinagar-957998.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||UP has got no fundamental right to seek Mukhtar Ansari’s transfer: Punjab government to SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday was told by the Punjab government and gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari that Yogi Adityanath-led government has got no fundamental right to seek his transfer from Rupnagar jail to the district jail in Banda in Uttar Pradesh. The UP government has moved the top court seeking a direction to the Punjab government and Rupnagar jail authority to immediately hand over the custody of Ansari, an MLA from Mau constituency, to the district jail Banda. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy said that it will pronounce its verdict on the plea of UP government and petition of Ansari seeking transfer of the cases against him outside the State. During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh government referred to the prison rules and said that though the State does not have fundamental rights, but it can espouse the cause and the fundamental rights of the victims and it may assume the position of the victim. He said that the submission that the State does not have any fundamental right is wrong as the State can always assume the role of the victim and the society at large. Mehta said that Ansari had flouted the jail manual rules and right of the victim and the State at large cannot be overlooked and the accused cannot be allowed to jettison the fair trial. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Ansari, argued because of his political affiliation to a party in opposition, he is being targeted. “My co-accused was encountered. Uttar Pradesh has an axe to grind against Punjab and Court should not allow shoulders of the Supreme Court to be used to fire a gun. This should not be allowed”, Rohatgi said. He said that Ansari has been appearing in all courts through Video Conferencing and “bogus arguments” have been used that trials are being stalled. “I am seeking transfer of cases outside Uttar Pradesh. They may be transferred to Delhi because of the fear of political vendetta in the state”, he said, adding that “How can the state be seeking my transfer and in any case it should be the judiciary which should be seeking my custody”. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Punjab government said, the criminal proceedings against Ansari has been going on in Uttar Pradesh for past 14/15 years and the writ petition of Uttar Pradesh is not maintainable and it be dismissed. Ansari is lodged in district jail Rupnagar in Punjab in connection with an alleged extortion case since January 2019. He is also accused in several heinous crimes cases lodged in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-has-got-no-fundamental-right-to-seek-mukhtar-ansari-s-transfer-punjab-government-to-sc-958026.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, wife get first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and his wife, Mala Bhagat, took their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at the Tirath Ram Shah Hospital here on Thursday, officials said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his parents were also administered the vaccine at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital on the day. During the second-phase of the inoculation drive that started on March 1, people aged 60 years and above and those in the 45-59 age group with specific comorbidities are being administered the vaccine at 192 hospitals across Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lieutenant-governor-anil-baijal-wife-get-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-958028.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||Send ideas to boost women safety to Noida Police, become ACP for a day||The Noida Police has invited suggestions from residents on boosting women safety and empowerment, with the one giving the best propositions standing a chance to become assistant commissioner of police for a day, officials said on Thursday. Though both men and women can send their suggestions under this initiative, the opportunity of becoming assistant commissioner of police (ACP) will be only open to women, they said. Planned in view of International Women's Day on March 8, under the initiative, "the top three winners will be given cash prizes of Rs 5,000, Rs 3,000 and Rs 2,000, respectively, and the woman with the best entry gets the chance to serve as ACP (women safety) for a day," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women Safety) Vrinda Shukla said. "Not just women, any person in Gautam Buddh Nagar district can recommend practical ideas that can be implemented in the district to boost women safety and women empowerment,” she said. The entries can be e-mailed to "dcp-polws.gb@up.gov.in" or sent on Whatsapp number 9870395200 till March 7, according to officials. Those sending suggestions should clearly mention their name, address and telephone number in their e-mails or Whatsapp messages, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/send-ideas-to-boost-women-safety-to-noida-police-become-acp-for-a-day-958039.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||ACMA wants Haryana to reconsider jobs reservation for locals in private enterprises||Auto components industry body ACMA on Thursday said Haryana's move to mandate 75 per cent reservation of jobs for locals in private sector in the state will adversely impact ease of doing business and also be detrimental to its image as an investor friendly destination. The Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA), which has many of its members located in Haryana, asked the state government to reconsider the reservation of employment for locals in private enterprises. On Tuesday, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced that state Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya has given assent to the 'Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020' providing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state. The Haryana Assembly had late last year passed the Bill, a key poll promise made by the ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party. Commenting on the development, ACMA President Deepak Jain said, "Such a move would not only adversely impact the ease of doing business in the state but also be detrimental to Haryana's image of an industry-friendly destination." The automotive industry with investments of over Rs 40,000 crore, accounts for more than 25 per cent of the state's GDP and created employment exceeding 10 lakh, he added. "The industry is keen that the state remains attractive for fresh investments, as in the last couple of years, automotive investments have been largely destined to other states," Jain said. Noting that Indian auto and auto components industry cater not only to the domestic market but to international markets including the US and Europe, Jain said," Our industry requires skilled workforce to produce high quality products that are globally competitive." Hiring in the sector is done on the basis of merit and talent rather than the domicile of the candidates, he added. "The reason for the industry employing from outside the state is due to shortage of adequately skilled, locally available manpower," Jain asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/acma-wants-haryana-to-reconsider-jobs-reservation-for-locals-in-private-enterprises-958043.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||71kg of waste found in pregnant cow's stomach, dies||Vets have extracted 71 kilograms (156.5 pounds) of plastic, nails and other garbage from a pregnant cow, but both the animal and her baby died. The case has highlighted the country's twin problems of pollution and stray cattle. An estimated five million cows roam in the cities, with many gorging on the vast amounts of plastic litter on the streets. This cow was rescued after a road accident in late February by the People For Animals Trust Faridabad. A vet soon noticed the pregnant bovine was struggling. In a four-hour operation on February 21, vets found nails, plastic, marbles and other garbage in its stomach, said trust president Ravi Dubay. They also attempted a premature delivery. "The baby did not have enough space to grow in her mother's belly so she died," Dubay told AFP. Three days later, the cow also died. "In my 13 years of experience, this is the most garbage we have taken from a cow... we had to use muscle power to get it all out," Dubay said. Previous surgeries done by the organisation based in Haryana have found up to 50 kilograms of waste in cows' stomachs. "The cow is very sacred for us, but no-one cares for their life. In every corner in every city they eat the waste," Dubay added. Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government, strictly enforced protection policies have resulted in more cows on the loose. Eating or slaughtering cows is banned in some states. Romula D'Silva, vice-president of the Karuna Society for Animals & Nature in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, said the problem of garbage-eating cows affects "every city in India, big or small". "Wherever there are cows on the streets, you can be sure they are full of plastic. My heart breaks for them as they can have very painful deaths," she told AFP. Around a decade ago, 35 cows suddenly came into Karuna Society's care, according to D'Silva. One unexpectedly died and a post-mortem examination revealed a mess of plastic and other garbage in its stomach. Further surgeries on the remaining animals found that all of them had plastic in their abdomens. Karuna Society has performed rumenotomies on around 60 cows since then, she said. There is no official, nationwide data on how many cows die every year from eating plastic. But in 2017, a Times of India report cited veterinary officials and animal welfare groups estimating that around 1,000 cows die annually just in the northern city of Lucknow from eating plastic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/71kg-of-waste-found-in-pregnant-cows-stomach-dies-958052.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||UP man hides baldness with wig during marriage, wife seeks divorce a year later||For almost a year after getting married, Rashid (name changed) managed to hide the fact from his wife that he was bald, as he always made sure to keep his wig on in her presence. As fate would have it, his wife found out the truth one day, and now she wants a divorce. The officials at the Family Counselling Centre at Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town came to know about the matter after the couple's case was referred to them. According to the reports, the woman, a resident of Ghaziabad district, told the officials that her husband had put on a wig at the time of their marriage last year. ''I could not know that he was bald for almost a year, he never took off his wig. His family members knew but none of them told me about it,'' she said. She said that a few days back, she saw her husband without the wig and was shocked to discover that he is completely bald. ' "I feel humiliated before my friends. I can not live with him any longer,'' the woman told the officials. Though the officials at the Centre tried their best to persuade the woman not to press for divorce. she remained adamant. ''We have given the couple another date. Hopefully, by that time the wife will change her mind,'' said one of the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-hides-baldness-with-wig-during-marriage-wife-seeks-divorce-a-year-later-958072.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Delimitation Commission gets a one-year extension||Indicating that the Assembly polls in Jammu and Kashmir will be further delayed, the government has extended the term of the Delimitation Commission to complete the re-drawing of Parliamentary and Assembly constituencies in the union territory. The Delimitation Commission, which is headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai, came into being after the Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state and bifurcated it into two union territories. A gazette notification extending the term of the Commission was issued on Wednesday night. The panel was set up to redraw the electoral constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. The extension is given only for Jammu and Kashmir. The government had notified the setting up of the Delimitation Commission on March 6 last year. The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 provides for increasing the number of Assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir by seven after a delimitation process. The Act has earmarked a total of 107 seats for the whole of the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, including areas in Pakistan-Occupied-Kashmir (PoK). It provides for an increase in seats from 107 to 114 through a delimitation exercise and all the seven new ones will be created in the areas which are not occupied by Pakistan. The State Assembly, which was dissolved with the bifurcation, had 87 seats with a six-year tenure while the new Assembly will have a tenure of five years only. Of the 107 seats, the Act said 24 seats falling in PoK will remain vacant and should not be taken into account for reckoning the total membership of the Assembly. This would make the effective strength of the House at 83, including six seats under the reserved category. Of the 87 seats in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, four fell in Ladakh, which is the second union territory carved out of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-delimitation-commission-gets-a-one-year-extension-958089.html
04-03-2021||North and Central||OBC quota in local bodies cannot be provisioned to go beyond 50%: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said provisions for reservations of seats for OBCs in local bodies cannot be so made as to go beyond the 50% limit. It said the quantum of reservation for backward classes ought to be local body-specific and should not exceed 50 % of seats for SCs, STs and OBCs taken together. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar read down provisions of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 to hold that reservation for OBCs may be up to 27% but subject to the outer limit of 50 % aggregate. The court quashed results of OBC reserved seats in local bodies of districts Washim, Akola, Nagpur and Bhandara and directed the State Election Commission to announce polls there within two weeks. The court pointed out the reservation for OBCs is only a “statutory” dispensation to be provided by the state legislations unlike the “constitutional” reservation regarding SCs/STs which is linked to the proportion of the population. "As regards the state legislations providing for reservation of seats in respect of OBCs, it must ensure that in no case the aggregate vertical reservation in respect of SCs/STs/OBCs taken together should exceed 50 % of the seats in the concerned local bodies," the bench said.     In case constitutional reservation provided for SCs and STs were to consume the entire 50% of seats in the concerned local bodies and in some cases in the scheduled area even beyond 50%, the question of providing further reservation to OBCs would not arise at all, the top court explained.   Referring to the Constitution Bench decision in 'K Krishna Murthy (Dr) and Ors v Union of India & Anr' (2010), the court said triple test conditions have to be fulfilled before providing reservations for the OBCs. They are to set up a dedicated commission to collect empirical data on backwardness, specify the proportion of reservation required in local body and wise in light of recommendations of the Commission, and such reservation not to exceed the aggregate of 50% of the total seats reserved in favour of SCs/STs/OBCs taken together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/obc-quota-in-local-bodies-cannot-be-provisioned-to-go-beyond-50-sc-958095.html
04-03-2021||Oasis||Peace without morality? Seems impossible||One of the main reasons why the world has no peace today, is because many nations and most individuals deny the supremacy of moral order, in their inter-personal,inter-communal and international relationships. They refuse to accept the evident, namely, that man has a conscience and that he has higher aspirations, such as the aspiration for peace, calmness and bliss. However, they fail to realise that peace, contentment, and bliss are not the qualities of bodily cells; they are the qualities of conscient self in its state of moral greatness. Thus, it can be easily said that a lack of a sense of moral responsibility is, in fact, the most sinister aspect of modern civilisation. In fact, the whole modern thinking of man is characterised by a lack of moral responsibility. A psychiatrist, today, would explain that a person committed murder because he had developed a complex after his father had beaten him with a stick when he was a small boy! So, the responsibility is of the father who had been cruel to his son! In many other forms, the attitude that 'I am not responsible', runs through every aspect of modern life. This has undermined the moral quality of life. So, if we now want world peace, the real effort lies in giving a man a sense of moral responsibility. Today we see people killing people in name of religion, but does any religion has ever taught its followers to kill innocent people? Can anyone calculate or imagine how many families lost their peace and harmony and how many cities and civilisations were ruined because of religious intolerance? If only this virtue, called Tolerance, had been sustained—all or many other virtues also would have survived, for, when tolerance is lost, man loses his patience, self-control, spirit of non-violence, etc. Therefore it is not too late in the day, for, if even now those who are mercilessly killing innocent people begin to observe this virtue, which is greater than valour and all weapons of war put together, mankind can be saved from the scourge of wars, bloody ethnic strife, communal riots and conflict on the basis of difference in religious beliefs and can be saved from extinction through a nuclear catastrophe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/peace-without-morality-seems-impossible-957840.html
04-03-2021||Panorama||Political parties are tearing away at Kerala secular fabric||As Kerala heads for Assembly polls, religious and communal issues ranging from the issue of entry of women into the Sabarimala temple to the alleged nexus of political parties with religious outfits are being widely debated. But the playing up of communal issues by political parties for electoral gains is posing a threat to the secular fabric that Kerala has always boasted of. Even as the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front reiterates that the Sabarimala row has become a non-issue, the Pinarayi Vijayan government has deviated from its earlier progressive stand on the issue and cases registered in 2018-19 against those who had indulged in alleged unlawful actions while protesting against the Supreme Court ruling allowing entry of women into the Sabarimala temple are being are being withdrawn. This indeed indicates that the Left Front, which suffered a drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, winning only one of 20 seats, is still worried over the Sabarimala issue. The Left Front triggered the present communal campaign by alleging that the Indian Union Muslim League is dictating terms in the Congress-led United Democratic Front and that the Congress was allying with outfits like Jamaat-e-Islami. Sensing the Left Front’s attempt to distance Christian and Hindu voters from the UDF, Congress raked up the Sabarimala issue, demanding that the Vijayan government clarify whether it favoured the entry of women in Sabarimala or not. The BJP, too, joined the attack. While the Left Front maintained that it would take further steps on the matter only through consensus among all sections after the SC rules on the pending revision petitions, Congress and BJP further cornered the ruling alliance by demanding withdrawal of cases against those who took part in the 2018-19 protests. By succumbing to that demand, says political analyst Joseph C Mathew, the Vijayan government is seen to have betrayed thousands of people who stood by it when itmaintained its progressive stand on the Sabarimala issue. The Left Front’s debacle in the 2019 LS election, he opines, was not due to the progressive stand but due to the way the Vijayan government handled the SC order lifting the ban on entry of women in the temple. Kerala has never witnessed the kind of communal campaign it is already seeing in the run up to the Assembly polls this time. Hindutva elements are alleged to be instigating an anti-Muslim feeling among Christian factions through campaigns like ‘love jihad’, in an attempt to distance Christians, who form around 18% of the voters in the state, from the Congress-led UDF. However, the recent local body elections saw Christians, traditionally Congress voters, shifting to the Left Democratic Front, rather than towards the BJP. This shift is being attributed to Pinarayi Vijayan’s efforts to develop a rapport with some prominent church heads as well as to the shifting of Kerala Congress (M) faction, led by Jose K Mani, which enjoys considerable Christian support in central Kerala, to the LDF. As a counter, Congress brought back former chief minister Oommen Chandy to the forefront by appointing him chairman of the party’s election management and strategy committee, while retaining Ramesh Chennithala as opposition leader and Mullappally Ramachandran as Kerala PCC president. Meanwhile, BJP is also making efforts to woo the Christian community, with no less than Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself holding well-publicised discussions with church heads and promising them to look into their grievances. With leaders of all political parties making a beeline to meet the heads of various communities to seek support, the state even saw Palakkad Bishop Mar Jacob Manathodath giving a letter to CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran recommending a local industrialist, Issac Varghese, as a candidate while the Changanassery Archbishop Mar Joseph Perumthottam cautioned Congress against finalising candidates without consulting the church. Another religious issue in the spotlight is the power tussle over churches between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. Despite a Supreme Court order in favour of the Orthodox faction, the Vijayan government has been soft-pedalling on the issue by delaying the taking over of the churches and, instead, initiating talks with the factions. This is even being used by the opposite camps, especially the BJP, to accuse the Left Front government of double standards on church and Sabarimala issues. Both Christian factions are almost equally prominent. While the Orthodox faction has already expressed resentment over the government’s soft-pedalling, the Jacobite faction also feels aggrieved due to lack of support from the government for its demand for legislation favouring it. Analysts say it is no surprise that all the major political parties are playing communal politics. The stakes are very high for all of them. For the Left and Congress, it’s their very survival in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/political-parties-are-tearing-away-at-kerala-secular-fabric-957841.html
04-03-2021||Panorama||‘The East is rising’: Xi Jinping maps out China’s post-Covid ascent||Xi Jinping has struck a confident posture as he looks to secure China’s prosperity and power in a post-Covid world, saying that the country is entering a time of opportunity when “the East is rising and the West is declining.” But behind closed doors, China’s Communist Party leader has also issued a blunt caveat to officials: Do not count out our competitors, above all the United States. “The biggest source of chaos in the present-day world is the United States,” Xi said, a county official in northwest China recounted in a speech published last week on a government website. He quoted Xi as saying: “The United States is the biggest threat to our country’s development and security.” That warning, echoed in similar recent public comments by senior officials close to Xi, reinforces how he is seeking to balance confidence and caution as China strides ahead while other countries continue to grapple with the pandemic. His double-sided pronouncements reflect an effort to keep China on guard because, despite its success at home, it faces deep distrust in Washington and other Western capitals. Although China is growing stronger, Xi has said, there are still many ways in which “the West is strong and the East is weak,” officials have recounted in speeches recently issued on local party websites. Xi will unveil a long-term blueprint for navigating China in this new global environment later this week, when the Communist Party-controlled legislature, the National People’s Congress, gathers on Friday and convenes for about a week. Xi and other Chinese leaders have recently described challenges, both short-term and long-term, that could hold back their ambitions. The Biden administration has signaled that it wants to press China on human rights and compete with it on technological advancements and regional influence in Asia. At home, China is grappling with an aging population and trying to overhaul an engine of economic growth that uses too much investment and energy for too little gain and too much pollution. Beijing also sees a threat in Hong Kong after anger at the Communist Party’s deepening control there ignited months of antigovernment protests in 2019. Underscoring Xi’s hard line against any political challenges, the Chinese legislature appears poised to back plans to drastically rewrite election rules for Hong Kong, removing the vestiges of local democracy in the former British colony. China is also looking to its next big leadership shake-up next year, when Xi, 67, appears likely to claim a third five-year term in power, bulldozing past the term limits that had been put in place to restrain leaders after Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping. China’s leaders have seized on the country’s success in extinguishing coronavirus infections as vindicating Xi’s high-pressure, top-down rule. Having emerged triumphantly from the pandemic, Xi will look to further centralize his power, said Lynette H. Ong, a political scientist at the University of Toronto. The congress is part of the party’s stagecraft this year to reinforce the view that Xi is essential to safely steering China through momentous changes. Official Chinese media have recently hailed Xi’s campaign to end rural poverty as a major success. This week, he reminded party cadres to rally behind his leadership and demonstrate loyalty to his agenda. “The looming risks and tests will not be any less than the past,” Xi told an audience of younger party officials in Beijing, according to official reports. “Our party has relied on struggle up to this day, and must rely on struggle to win the future.” And in July, Xi will preside over the centenary of the founding of the Chinese Communist Party, celebrations that are likely to cast him as a historic leader like Mao and Deng. Adding to the aura of success are China’s plans next year to hold the Winter Olympics and to have a space station in orbit. Xi has portrayed China as moving closer by the year to regaining its rightful historic status as a great power, while established powers are riven by dysfunction. He urged officials late last year to “grasp clearly the grand trend that the East is rising while the West is declining,” Zhou Ye, a party cadre at Fudan University in Shanghai, recently told a meeting, according to an online account. “There is a vivid contrast between the order of China and the chaos of the West.” For years, Xi and other Chinese officials have sometimes used swaggering rhetoric, setting East against West. But officials have used such phrases markedly more often in recent months, underscoring the confidence — critics say hubris — enveloping the Chinese government. The health of the economy will be crucial to whether that confidence survives. Government advisers have suggested that average growth could be 5 percent or higher over the next five years, if things go well. But the country might not sustain that level of growth unless it becomes more innovative and reduces its reliance on investment in heavy industry and infrastructure, economic advisers in Beijing say. The country also faces serious demographic challenges. For decades, China has benefited from a young labour force that streamed into its factories and cities. But China’s aging population will place growing demands on pension funds, health care and accumulated savings. Such economic pressures could corrode public support for the party in the years ahead, said Andrew G. Walder, a professor at Stanford University who has contributed to a book on the “Fateful Decisions” facing China. “We shouldn’t be too lulled by stability in public approval of the Communist Party’s performance,” he said. Leaders in Beijing appear much more focused on the United States, which they see as remaining bent on hobbling China’s ascent, regardless of who is in the White House. Chinese policymakers were alarmed when the Trump administration pulled back Chinese companies’ access to American technology. Many say that the United States will keep trying to hold back China by restricting its access to “chokehold technologies,” such as advanced semiconductors and the machines to make them. “Containment and oppression from the United States is a major threat,” said Chen Yixin, a security official who served as  Xi’s policy enforcer in Wuhan, where the coronavirus emerged. Lecturing officials about  Xi’s ideas in January, Chen used military language to emphasize the dangers: “This is both an unplanned clash and a protracted war.” Xi’s plan for addressing these shortcomings is to expand domestic innovation and markets to be less dependent on high-tech imports. But building up the capacity to design and make advanced high-tech components is costly, with no guarantee of success. The prospects for Xi’s plans also depend on questions that go unmentioned in official pronouncements: How long does he intend to rule? And who will he appoint to succeed him? In 2018, Xi rammed through a constitutional change abolishing term limits on the presidency, opening the way for him to stay in power for more than a decade as president as well as party leader. China’s political and economic elites are likely to grow increasingly jittery in private about when and how Xi will promote a potential successor, or stable of successors. He could dominate for years yet, making his decisions, or misjudgments, all the more consequential. “Internally there are now few sources of opposition — no sources of opposition,” Xiao Gongqin, a historian in Shanghai, said in a telephone interview, “so the leader must be able to stay even-keeled.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-east-is-rising-xi-jinping-maps-out-china-s-post-covid-ascent-957842.html
04-03-2021||Panorama||Development and disasters||In India, it took more than half a century to come up with a comprehensive disaster management Act, that is the National Disaster Management Act of 2005. It was the first exclusive plan aiming at disaster preparedness and mitigation which was influenced by the United Nation’s declaration of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction (IDNDR). On the other hand, the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) paved the road for the climate regulation act in the country. The recent flash flood in the Rishiganga river in Uttarakhand reminds us about the fragility and the vulnerability of the mountain ecosystems and the need for a Disaster Management plan which takes into account developmental projects and their aggravating impact on disasters. Out of the eight missions stated in the NAPCC, a special plan named National Mission for Sustaining Himalayan Ecosystem (NMSHE) is fully dedicated to the management and monitoring of mountain ecosystem of 13 states. A five-year plan for the project was dedicated to a budget of Rs. 550 crore which includes monitoring, the conduct of workshops and production of reports on site-specific studies. If we look at the major goals of this mission; those are mostly development-oriented such as land-use planning, sustainable agriculture, identifying best practices for infrastructure and sustainable tourism. With the demolishing of the Rishiganga hydropower project, ‘temples of resurgent India’ are again at the centre of the debate and putting the concept of ‘sustainable development’ into a doubtful position. Dams are usually built to control the flow of water and expected to control the flood as well. However, recent experiences like the 2018 Kerala flood and the 2016 Bihar flood bears proof that dams are causing more devastation and acting as an agent in the progression of hazard and vulnerability. In this context, it is crucial to recognise Uttarakhand -the ‘water tower of India’ hosts several rivers and most of them are in their youth phase. The area also falls under zone of seismic activities, periglacial activities etc. Hence, a thorough investigation is required before moving ahead with the proposal of new hydropower projects, bridges, road construction and widening project like the ‘Char Dham’. We need to remember that development always comes with a cost to either human or the environment. Natural hazards are typical events that are caused by a sudden or cumulative change in hydrological, geological and climatological factors. It is only when a large number of people and their losses comes into consideration, hazards transform into disasters. As a result, vulnerability assessment should become a major aspect of disaster-related policy initiative. With the recent changes made in the Environment Impact Assessment Act, such as the reduced role of public opinion and less complex steps for clearance of projects, our hope in this aspect seems very bleak. However, area-specific projects like NMSHE are encouraged with some modifications. We also need to acknowledge that stakeholder participation is crucial in both information generation and dissemination. It was reported in the recent flash flood that people stayed away from their home after hours of the flash flood occurrence. It is due to a lack of enough information about the geographical episodes occurring in their area of residence. On the other hand, it is also necessary to respect the indigenous and local knowledge base of the people. It is the same place where India’s environmental Chipko movement started and civil organisations were already raising their concern about the hydropower projects. Integration of Traditional Ecological Knowledge with western scientific knowledge would be the first step towards acknowledging and respecting local needs. Besides, strengthening the early warning system would be a novel step to shift away from the regular disaster management approach, which generally focuses on the post-disaster management system. Although it is very difficult to provide early warning for seismic hazards or flash floods, a beneficial path would be to identify hazard-prone zones with the help of advanced technologies like Geographic Information System (GIS), Remote Sensing etc. Hazard-zone mapping along with social vulnerability analysis can help to avoid future devastations. A comprehensive and inclusive policy is required which combines the wisdom from both STEM and social sciences. It is also crucial that we redefine the concept of ‘sustainable development’ altogether. There are ample examples of developmental projects turning into disasters (Chernobyl, Fukushima, Bhopal) in the past and hence we are in need of a special action plan for situations when developmental projects turn into disasters. (The writer is a PhD Scholar in Development Studies from Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/development-and-disasters-957876.html
04-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Little known star||In the Global Calendar, March is dedicated to women of substance and achievers. Such women must be identified, honoured and valued even inside a small hut. These days I spend most of my time on the balcony of my apartment. We even have a treadmill placed there as we super senior citizens are not able to go out for a walk due to Covid! Most of my jobs are done on my balcony only and I call it my haven. Whenever the three-wheeler garbage auto stops near our apartment complex, I watch it curiously because the way they separate wet, dry and plastic is interesting. Every time I see them I feel like lauding their effort. Recently, I saw a familiar face near the garbage van, giving instructions to the workers, but could not place when and where I had seen him. So, I called my husband and pointed out the man to him. Recognising him instantly, my husband (after wearing his mask) went down to meet the chap. Maintaining social distance, they began talking to each other, during which the man looked up at our balcony and greeted me with folded hands. Later when my husband came up he narrated his conversation. About twenty years back, when we were living in Banashankari, the same man Jaggesh had been engaged by city corporation to collect garbage, painfully dragging his heavily padded right foot which was gangrene-affected.  After work, he would come to our compound for some much-needed rest when we would often give him some snacks. Touched by his pathetic condition, my husband introduced him to his specialist doctor friend. Soon afterwards we lost touch with Jaggesh as we moved over to Basavanagudi. Jaggesh too was visibly happy to see us after a long time. He narrated the tale about his Jaipur foot and how his girlfriend Yashu, a daily wage worker, who loved him ardently, had urged him to undergo amputation of his affected leg, nursing him all through. The grateful Jaggesh married the girl of his love Yashu who brought ‘yashas’ to his life. Now, because of his Jaipur foot, he had got a supervisor’s job on compassionate grounds while wife Yashu is an aaya in that very hospital where he had got his Jaipur foot fixed. Also, she has gifted him with two lovely children and their’s is a happy family now. He gives all the credit to his wife and calls her the Lakshmi of his life. Yashu grew up in an orphanage, she is seen as a model, beaming the message that human divinity is above the social disposition of individuals. May their tribe increase!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/little-known-star-957848.html
04-03-2021||Second Edit||Step up on sewage treatment||Despite the dangerous consequences that untreated sewage has for our health and environment, Karnataka is leaving much of its sewage untreated. According to the National Green Tribunal’s Central Monitoring Committee (CMC), the state is treating 1,513.5 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage, leaving a larger fraction of some 1,843 MLD untreated. In other words, just 45% of the roughly 3,356 MLD of sewage generated by Karnataka’s cities is being treated, the CMC report says. So where does all the untreated sewage go? It pours into our lakes and rivers. Untreated sewage is the leading polluter of water sources in India, and although this contaminated water is unsafe for consumption by humans or animals or for use in irrigation of crops, it ends up getting used for these very purposes. Contaminated water causes diseases like diarrhoea, cholera, typhoid fever and rotavirus. Diarrhoea alone is responsible for 297,000 deaths per year of children under the age of five, and while the problem of water contamination due to untreated sewage is a global problem, its magnitude is most severe in countries like India, where millions of people living in hutments along ‘rivers’ that carry high levels of sewage consume this water daily. Water authorities often say that there is a shortage of sewage treatment plants (STPs). The BWSSB has 24 STPs. This is said to be inadequate to treat the massive amounts of sewage the city produces daily. But even so, the problem seems to be one of under-utilisation of existing capacity because much of that infrastructure is not functional. While authorities build STPs with great enthusiasm, little is done about maintaining them. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, less than half of India’s STPs work effectively. Besides, frequent power cuts result in STPs lying idle for hours. Treated sewage water can be used for recharging lakes and for industrial and horticultural use. Moreover, experts describe treated sewage as ‘liquid gold’, for which there is demand from industry. By not treating a large fraction of sewage daily, we are not putting sewage to good use. Can its economic dividend at least drive our municipal authorities to pursue sewage treatment more assiduously? While civic bodies need to do more to step up use of available STP capacity, there is also a need to put in place systems and capacity for the long term. Our current sewage treatment system is highly centralised and capital intensive. Governments and municipal authorities must consider treatment systems that are localised and less expensive. They must focus on treating sewage close to the point of generation and enabling its more effective use for toilet flushing and gardening?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/step-up-on-sewage-treatment-957851.html
04-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu election: In talks with 'like-minded' parties for alliance, says Kamal Haasan||Veteran actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Wednesday said he is in talks with “like-minded” parties for a possible electoral alliance for the April 6 assembly election. Reiterating that he is keen on forging ties with “good people”, Haasan said several parties have initiated discussions for a possible alliance with the MNM and he “shook hands” with the All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK). “Many parties are holding discussions and some like the AISMK shook hands. We will decide on alliance first before a confab on seat-sharing,” Haasan told reporters here when his attention was drawn to AISMK founder R Sarath Kumar’s assertion that an alliance between the two parties has been firmed up. Addressing his party’s general council meeting in the southern coastal district of Thoothukudi earlier in the day, Sarath Kumar claimed his party has firmed up an electoral alliance with the MNM and that Haasan will be its chief ministerial candidate. “After hectic talks, poll ties was confirmed five minutes before midnight yesterday. In principle, we have decided to journey together. Kamal Haasan will be the chief minister candidate for the emerging alliance,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, Haasan announced that former President A P J Abdul Kalam’s scientific advisor V Ponraj, who has joined the MNM, will be the vice president of the party. Announcing his party’s poll assurances, Haasan said MNM is committed to ensuring the dignity and recognition of homemakers. There will be 50 percent reservation for women in the uniform sector. Hostels will be made available in every district for free emergency overnight stay for women in distress, he said. Establishing banks that will be run by women and for women, too, figured in the party’s agenda which also promised jobs to 50 lakh youth and monetisation of households. Haasan on Wednesday evening launched his electoral campaign and trained guns at the BJP and AIADMK, saying the saffron party thinks that Tamils could be convinced to vote for by "tweaking" Tamil pride while the AIADMK government's promise of jobs to youth has remained far from reality. “Tamils are not for sale, their votes are also not for sale,” he said and urged the people to give a mandate to his party to establish a corruption-free government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-election-in-talks-with-like-minded-parties-for-alliance-says-kamal-haasan-957801.html
04-03-2021||South||Kerala FM slams Nirmala Sitharaman for 'misusing' ED||Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac slammed Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman alleging that she is misusing the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for political motives thus flouting election norms. The senior CPM leader added that a political ploy was suspected in ED’s actions against the Kerala government as the officer heading ED in Kerala is the son of a BJP leader in Rajasthan. The ED recently initiated a probe against Kerala government’s infrastructure funding body, Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and summoned top officials of the Board. Sitharaman had snubbed KIIFB at a BJP function in Kochi a few days ago. The ED’s action against KIIFB came close on the heels of Comptroller and Auditor General pointing out flaws in Masala Bonds issued by KIIFB for raising foreign funds. Isaac said on Wednesday that the government would stand by KIIFB officials as they are working as per the norms, and attempts to scare the state government by the Centre, as they do in northern states, would not work in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-fm-slams-nirmala-sitharaman-for-misusing-ed-957883.html
04-03-2021||South||'Amit Shah Chanakya of politics': How netizens reacted to Sasikala's move to 'step aside' from politics||Ousted AIADMK leader V K Sasikala's sudden announcement to "stay away from politics" weeks ahead of Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, has taken everyone by surprise. Since the move comes just a week after she appealed to the “true loyalists” of Jayalalithaa to “unite” to ensure that the AIADMK government is voted back to power in the April 6 assembly elections, netizens are busy exploring the reasons behind the move. While some hailed Home Minister Amit Shah as the "Chanakya of politics" and pointed out that Sasikala's "game ended without even starting", others claimed that that the close aide of Jayalalithaa is only "staying away" not quitting from politics. Amit Shah: The "Chanakya of politics"  'Stalin shocked' Sasikala Retired.. In her statement, Sasikala called for unity among the "true supporters" of late AIADMK supremo Jayalalithaa to keep the "common enemy" DMK away from power. Twitterati wondered whether her move is solely to benefit the AIADMK-BJP alliance in the Assembly polls which will be held in a single-phase on April 6, 2021. Exploring the "game-plan", a social media user said that Sasikala's move is the most logical way to make  "a formidable alliance" because whether she stands with or against the AIADMK, it would create trouble for the alliance. With Sasikala announcing exit from politics now deck is cleared for AIADMK - BJP - PMK - AMMK alliance. If this happens it will be formidable one. With DMK - Cong alliance nearly moving for divorce Tamil Nadu is becoming interesting daily. Seems Mota bhai playing card well. The announcement came as a bolt out of the blue especially after her grand return from Bengaluru last month led to expectations that she would play a big role in the run-up to the elections in which the ruling AIADMK is eyeing a record third term. Some users claimed that she will be back after the 2021 Assembly polls as she never mentioned "quitting". Political observers are also of the view that the AIADMK would benefit from the decision of Sasikala, whose bid to become Chief Minister in February 2017 came to nought with the Supreme Court sentencing her to four-year imprisonment in the Rs 66.65 crore assets case. "I will stay away from politics and keep praying my sister Puratchi Thalaivi (Jayalalithaa), whom I consider as God, and the Lord Almighty for the establishment of the golden rule of Amma," Sasikala said.  The 69-year-old, considered a powerful confidante of Jayalalithaa and said to have enjoyed a say in party affairs, insisted she never yearned for power or authority. "I have never yearned for power or authority. I will be ever indebted to Puratchi Thalaivi and the people of Tamil Nadu," she said. The DMK, eyeing to capture power after being in the Opposition for ten years, are in talks with Congress over seat-sharing for the upcoming polls. After party leader Rahul Gandhi did not speak about the DMK alliance during his recent campaign in Tamil Nadu, it is speculated that there is a possible rift between the allies. The surprise announcement will come as a disappointment to DMK which was hoping that Sasikala's “re-entry” into politics will create confusion within the AIADMK. Sasikala had earlier said she would be in active politics. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shah-chanakya-of-politics-how-netizens-reacted-to-sasikalas-move-to-step-aside-from-politics-957911.html
04-03-2021||South||'Metro Man' E Sreedharan is BJP's Kerala CM candidate||The BJP on Thursday announced 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan as its Chief Minister candidate for the upcoming Kerala Assembly elections. The 88-year-old joined the BJP last week. BJP state president K Surendran, who made the announcement, has said that Kerala will witness rapid development activities once an NDA government led by Sreedharan as Chief Minister comes to power. He has highlighted the completion of the reconstruction of the Palaraivattom flyover in Kochi within five months by a team led by Sreedharan while the estimated time for completion was 18 months. It may be recalled that Sreedharan himself had earlier expressed his wish to be the chief minister. Though he already said that he will be contesting in the April 6 Assembly elections, the party is yet to decide the constituency. Sreedharan stepped down from the DMRC principal advisor post on Thursday.  Meanwhile, Sreedharan's statement praising Uralungal Labour Contactors Cooperative Society (ULCCS) that carried out the work of the flyover reconstruction under his guidance had not gone down well with the BJP state leadership as ULCCS's various deals with the Kerala Left-front government had faced corruption allegations. BJP state president said that Sreedharan might be unaware of the corruptions of ULCC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/metro-man-e-sreedharan-is-bjps-kerala-cm-candidate-958002.html
04-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls: VCK inks deal with DMK, gets six seats||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) on Thursday inked an agreement with DMK, leader of the Opposition alliance in Tamil Nadu, to contest six seats in the April 6 assembly elections, despite not being “fully satisfied” with the number given to it. The signing of the seat-sharing agreement was preceded by protests by the cadre of VCK against the DMK for giving only six seats to the party. However, party chief Thol. Thirumavalavan said it was imperative on the part of VCK to stand with the DMK in defeating the AIADMK-BJP alliance and hence the offer of six seats was accepted. “The BJP has been trying to get a foothold in Tamil Nadu for the last few years. They have not been able to make inroads into the land where social justice prevails. The BJP plays dirty games and it is imperative on the part of secular parties to fight against the forces that propagate Sanatana dharma,” Thirumavalavan told reporters. The agreement for six seats as against the demand for 10 was signed between DMK President M K Stalin and Thirumavalavan. VCK contested and won two seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in an alliance with the DMK. Thirumavalavan accused the BJP of “weakening” the AIADMK by being part of the alliance and said the Dravidian party coming to power in Tamil Nadu is like BJP ruling the state. “There is no difference. Vote to AIADMK is a vote to BJP. People should understand this,” he added. With this, VCK has become the third party in the DMK alliance to finalise the seats after IUML (3), and MMK (2). Meanwhile, the Communist Party of India (CPI), which held talks with the DMK, said a deal will be inked on Friday during which the number of seats to be contested by the party will be announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-vck-inks-deal-with-dmk-gets-six-seats-958018.html
04-03-2021||South||Five YSRC candidates file nominations for Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council elections||Five candidates of the ruling YSR Congress on Thursday filed their nominations for the biennial election to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council. The sixth candidate filed his papers for the by-election to the Council. Accompanied by ministers Botsa Satyanarayana, Buggana Rajendranath and Government Advisor (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, the six candidates completed the formality on the last day of the nomination process. Earlier, YSRC president and Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy handed the candidates the party's requisite authorisation in Form-B. The YSRC re-nominated sitting MLC Shaik Mohammed Iqbal of Kurnool district, besides bringing back political heavyweight C Ramachandraiah of Kadapa to the Council. It also nominated Balli Kalyan Chakravarthy, son of deceased Tirupati MP Durga Prasada Rao, and leaders Mohammed Karimunneesa from Vijayawada and Duvvada Srinivas from Srikakulam for three other seats. Five Council seats will fall vacant on March 29, at the end of the six-year term of the sitting members, three of whom belong to the main opposition Telugu Desam Party. The YSRC fielded Challa Bhageerath Reddy (Kurnool) for the by-election to the Council, to fill the vacancy caused due to the death of his father Ramakrishna Reddy, who succumbed to coronavirus in January. He will fill the slot till March 29, 2023. Election of these six candidates is now a mere formality as no other nominations have been filed. It will be a gain of three seats for the YSRC, whose overall strength in the 58-member House will increase to 14, including two nominated members. Iqbal, a retired IPS officer, was first elected to the Council on August 19, 2019. Since he had a short tenure in the first term, Iqbal got re-nominated for a fuller term of six years. Ramachandraiah's re-entry will be a major boost for the YSRC in the Council, given his vast legislative experience and political acumen. He had earlier served as Leader of Opposition in the Council on behalf of the Congress party. He had served in the TDP and the erstwhile Praja Rajyam Party of actor Chiranjeevi, and later the Congress before joining the YSRC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-ysrc-candidates-file-nominations-for-andhra-pradesh-legislative-council-elections-958040.html
04-03-2021||South||Timeline | The rise and fall of Sasikala in Tamil Nadu politics||Weeks ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly elections, expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala recently announced that "she will stay away from politics," but would pray for the "golden rule" of the late party supremo Jayalalithaa. In a sort of a u-turn from her earlier statement of engaging in active politics after completion of her four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets case, the close aide of Jayalalithaa also called for unity among the "true supporters" of the late leader to keep the "common enemy" DMK away from power. The sudden announcement came as a bolt out of the blue especially after her grand return from Bengaluru last month led to expectations that she would play a big role in the run-up to the April 6 elections in which the ruling AIADMK is eyeing a record third term. Here’s a timeline of Sasikala who was once considered a powerful confidante of Jayalalithaa:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/timeline-the-rise-and-fall-of-sasikala-in-tamil-nadu-politics-958044.html
04-03-2021||South||Sasikala's exit will help to fulfil Jaya's dreams: C T Ravi||BJP on Thursday hailed the decision of expelled AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala to quit politics and said her exit will help fulfil late chief minister J Jayalalaithaa's dream of a progressive and prosperous Tamil Nadu. Pointing out that it was entirely Sasikala's decision to relinquish politics, BJP national secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu C T Ravi said "our party welcomes her decision. Her decision will fulfil Amma's (Jayalalithaa) dreams." "The BJP's aim is to strengthen the NDA in Tamil Nadu and strive for victory in all the 234 constituencies. Our major intention is to defeat the DMK and ensure the return of AIADMK," Ravi said. AIADMK should return to power to carry forward Jayalalithaa's dreams because "the DMK will think of their family progress and prosperity if they come to power," the BJP leader said. "Amma always dreamt of a united and strong AIADMK and a progressive and prosperous Tamil Nadu," he said. Speaking to reporters here, Ravi exuded the hope that her nephew T T V Dhinakaran would also decide to fulfil Jayalalithaa's dream. He also hoped the AIADMK-NDA combine in Tamil Nadu will fulfil Amma's dream under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "....and chief minister K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who are like two leaves of the AIADMK (party symbol) will carry forward her dream," he added. On Wednesday, Sasikala issued a statement announcing she was quitting politics and that she would always pray to Amma and god to keep her (Jayalalithaa) golden rule alive. She called upon the AIADMK members to face the April 6 Assembly election unitedly and continue Jayalalithaas rule in Tamil Nadu for 100 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikalas-exit-will-help-to-fulfil-jayas-dreams-c-t-ravi-958080.html
04-03-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh government orders return of 2,180 acres of land to farmers||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday issued an order for returning 2,180 acres of land, which was originally sought to be acquired for the Kakinada Special Economic Zone (KSEZ) way back in 2007, to the farmers following a protracted struggle. The farmers who owned the land refused to part with their property nor receive compensation and carried out an agitation for many years. Based on the recommendations made by a six-member committee headed by Agriculture Minister K Kanna Babu, the government ordered that the 2,180 acres of land be returned to the farmers so that the KSEZ could go ahead and industries established. The Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry notified the KSEZ in the year 2007 for establishing a port-based Multiproduct SEZ spread over several villages under U Kothapalli and Thondangi mandals in the East Godavari district. The KSEZ could not take off as intended because of many unresolved issues, mainly that related to land. As the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government sought to fast- track the KSEZ project, it constituted a six-member committee to talk to the aggrieved farmers and resolve the issues. The committee submitted its final report to the government last month and the Cabinet approved it in toto. Accordingly, the Industries and Commissioner Department Special Chief Secretary R Karikal Valaven issued an order stating that habitations in Srirampuram, Badipeta, Mummidivaripadu, Pativaripalem, Ravivaripadu and Ramaraghavapuram (part) villages would not be disturbed. Only in the case of Ramaraghavapuram, the habitations could be shifted to Ravivaripadu village if necessary, he said. On the committee's recommendation, the government ordered payment of total compensation of Rs 10 lakh per acre for 657 acres of assigned lands that were taken for the KSEZ in Kona village. The committee also recommended payment of the same amount of compensation for assigned lands taken for the Divis unit in the region. The patta lands in these villages would also be removed from the list of prohibited properties that would enable sale and purchase. The Special Chief Secretary said the AP Employment of Local Candidates in the Industries and Factories Act, 2019 has to be implemented providing 75 per cent of jobs (in KSEZ) to the local unemployed youth. The KSEZ would also have to establish a skill development centre for the locals to acquire necessary skills fit for the employment. The government also directed that industries proposed to be set up in KSEZ or in the vicinity, including the Divis Labs unit, take all necessary precautions for proper treatment of effluents and shift the marine outfall to a farther point so as not to adversely affect the local hatcheries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-orders-return-of-2180-acres-of-land-to-farmers-958163.html
04-03-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan calls ED probe against him a 'political ploy'||The collision between the CPM government in Kerala and the Enforcement Directorate is aggravating further with the central agency initiating a preliminary inquiry into the decades-old SNC Lavalin corruption case against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan while the probe against the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), the infrastructure funding agency of the state government, had already triggered a row. Vijayan had alleged that the ED’s recent decision to initiate a probe against KIIFB for raising foreign funds for infrastructure development, was a political ploy by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. He had also written to the Election Commission alleging that it was against the election code of conduct. He alleged that ED officials were using descent remarks against KIIFB officials, including women, and threatening them with physical interrogations. The issue would be dealt with legally. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Vijayan also flayed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who he claimed was taking a double standard on the allegation against central agencies. Congress leaders, including Rahul, had earlier alleged that the BJP was misusing central agencies to tarnishing non-BJP governments.  But now Rahul alleged that central agencies were not probing against the Left-front government in Kerala, he said. The ED was learnt to have issued notice to a scribe to give any proof for allegations against Vijayan in the SNC Lavalin case Vijayan said that the CBI had already probed into those allegations and the allegations against him were rejected by the court and hence he was least bothered about the ED probe into allegations. The allegation pertained to a Rs 374.5-crore deal between the Kerala State Electricity Board and Canadian firm SNC Lavalin for the renovation of three power projects in 1995 that was finalised when Vijayan was the power minister. The CBI's petition against the Kerala High Court order discharging Vijayan is pending before the SC. Vijayan also alleged that the Congress and the BJP were trying to sabotage the KIIFB which was initiating development work to the tune of Rs. 63,250 crore in Kerala. Meanwhile, KIIFB officials, who were served notice by the ED to appear and give details regarding the allegations over raising foreign funds by issuing Masala bonds, are unlikely to appear before ED.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-calls-ed-probe-against-him-a-political-ploy-958178.html
04-03-2021||South||Day after Sasikala's exit, theories abound on her decision||The move of expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala to stay away from politics has fuelled various theories on her decision while the ruling party confined itself to poll related work like holding interview for ticket aspirants. As AIADMK headquarters here was swarmed with ticket aspirants, the party said the scenario is advantageous to it. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam addressing aspirants, cited 'succesful implementation of welfare measures' by Chief Minister K Palaniswami. Praising the CM, he said an 'advantageous' situation has emerged for the party. Asked on Sasikala's move, AIADMK leaders remained tight-lipped. "We have been advised to not speak about it," a former Minister and a senior office-bearer said. The party at the moment is busy finalising seat-sharing arrangement with allies and selecting candidates out of 8,240 applications, he said. Such tasks were expected to be completed in about 3-4 days, he told PTI. Weeks ahead of Tamil Nadu assembly elections, Sasikala on Wednesday announced "she will stay away from politics," but would pray for the "golden rule" of the late party supremo Jayalalithaa. Chief Minister K Palaniswami addressing aspirants said a slew of welfare schemes were being implemented which has earned the AIADMK people's good will. Though the party has been in power for about 10 years there was no anti-incumbency sentiment among the people in view of efficient governance, he said. Describing the Assembly election as 'very important' he said if the party emerged victorious no party would have the power to oppose the AIADMK, he said adding in the same breath, 'we will win for sure.' He asked party office-bearers and ticket aspirants to work unitedly to post victory. Though several conspiracies were hatched following the demise of 'Amma' Jayalalithaa in 2016, the government successfully completed four years in office, he said. The BJP hailed Sasikala's decision and said her exit would help fulfil late chief minister J Jayalalaithaa's dream of a progressive and prosperous Tamil Nadu. Supporters of Sasikala, meanwhile, turned up at her close relative's house here, where she is currently staying, and held placards requesting her to re-consider her move. Some loyalits claimed in social media that it was a very 'generous' move, and a 'political master stroke' aimed at preventing the DMK from coming to power and at same time one that could help unite pro-AIADMK votes. They also pointed out that she did not take a stand in favour of her nephew Dhinakaran, who is heading the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam. Divakaran, Sasikala's brother alleged that Dhinakaran was behind her move and he had thrust his decision on her aunt. This was because Dhinakaran sought primacy in everything, he claimed. "She (Sasikala) is 67-year old," Divakaran told 'Puthiya Thalaimurai' news channel and underscored that at this age, her health was more important than politics. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi chief Thol Thirumavalavan wondered if her decision was aimed at leading a peaceful life or if the BJP indirectly 'intimidated' her or brought 'pressure' on her. Her announcement also indicated that she wanted the AIADMK and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam to come together, he said. BJP spokesperson Tirupati Narayanan sought to know the rationale behind blaming his party for every development related to Sasikala. "The same people said BJP is pressurising AIADMK to accommodate Sasikala in its alliance. When she announced to stay away from politics, they claim that BJP has exerted pressure," he told PTI. "Our question is what is the meaning, the intent behind dragging the BJP for everything?" he asked. They targeted the BJP when she went to jail in the assests case and also claimed that she was freed recently only because of his party, he said. Political analyst M Bharat Kumar said in case the AIADMK lost the polls, Sasikala may have an opportunity to say that she stood for unity all along and had Palaniswami and Panneerselvam accepted her leadership, the party would have won polls. "She tried her best for reconciliation with the AIADMK leadership, but they remained stubborn in keeping her at bay," he said adding hence she had no other option.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/day-after-sasikalas-exit-theories-abound-on-her-decision-958179.html
04-03-2021||South||Extra leaves to discounts on mobile purchases, Andhra CM makes many announcements to mark International Women's Day||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has decided to give a special day off for all the women working in the state police department to celebrate the International Women’s Day on March 8. The CM also agreed to allow five casual leaves additionally to all the women employees working in the government. During a review meet held on Thursday in Amaravati, the CM said that the government will organise an annual health checkup for the Anganwadi workers. A 10 percent discount would be offered on the purchase of mobile phones at select shopping malls on March 8 to women who download Disha, an app for women safety brought into use last year. 2000 stands with QR code would be set up for easy download of the app. Short film competitions would be conducted on women's safety and empowerment. According to the CMO officials, the government has decided to celebrate the International Women’s Day on a grand note and took several key decisions towards strengthening women's safety, welfare and empowerment in the state. On the eve of International Women’s Day, candle-light marches would be held across the state and two women constables from each wing would be felicitated. The Chief Minister has also announced Rs 5 lakh on behalf of the government to the Non-Gazetted Women Employees Union. An MoU would be reached with Hindustan Lever company to ensure sanitary pads are made available in the YSR Cheyutha kiosks at a more affordable price. The government will also put special focus on the training of girls in Plus-1 and Plus-2 standards to prepare them for various competitive exams, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/extra-leaves-to-discounts-on-mobile-purchases-andhra-cm-makes-big-announcements-for-women-958180.html
04-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly elections: Congress mulls options as seat-sharing agreement with DMK hits a roadblock||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) held hectic consultations with its leaders on Thursday to elicit their views on the hard stand taken by the senior ally in the state, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), in the allocation of seats for the April 6 assembly elections. With the DMK sticking to its offer of less than 25 seats, a section within the Congress feels it would be better for the party to walk out of the alliance rather than “stomaching the insult.” Another section feels the party should meet the DMK “half-way” and agree for around 27 assembly seats going by the formula of 3 constituencies per Lok Sabha seat that alliance partners got in the DMK alliance in 2019. AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Dinesh Gundu Rao, held discussions with senior leaders of the party through the day on Thursday during which many are understood to have said that the Congress should accept the offer from DMK only if it is “respectable.” While Congress wants 35 seats, the DMK is not willing to go beyond 25. With both parties sticking to their known stands, the deadlock is yet to be broken. For the record, Rao told DH that Congress wants to continue the alliance with the DMK to defeat the AIADMK-BJP combine. “We want the secular forces to be together and fight the elections. However, any alliance is based on mutual respect and that respect needs to be maintained,” Rao added. A Congress MP told DH on condition of anonymity that the DMK was “adamant” on its stand. “They are not increasing the number of seats. Their offer remains the same. How can we just accept what they give? They should understand we have been with them for over a decade,” he said. However, the MP evaded a direct reply when asked whether walking out of the alliance was an option at this stage. DMK also maintained that the alliance was “strong” and the party does not want Congress to leave. “We do not want Congress to leave. But the Congress should understand that DMK is under compulsion to contest maximum seats. They (Congress) should not harp on the number of seats they get, but should think about winning 90 per cent of the seats that are offered,” the leader told DH. Congress which contested 41 seats in 2016 won only in 8 and the DMK seems to be using this among many other developments like party MLAs joining BJP in Puducherry as the reason for offering less number of seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-congress-mulls-options-as-seat-sharing-agreement-with-dmk-hits-a-roadblock-958182.html
04-03-2021||South||Walayar case: Mass tonsure protest seeks action against Kerala cops||Over 100 people, including women and children, on Thursday tonsured their heads here seeking action against the police personnel who had committed lapses in the probe into the death of two minor Dalit sisters after alleged sexual assault in Walayar four years ago. ‘ The mass tonsure protest in front of the District Collectorate was held under the aegis of Bharatiya Pattika Jana Samajam (BPJS), expressing solidarity with the parents of the girls, who were found hanging in their hut in northern Palakkad district in 2017. After the Kerala High Court recently ordered a re-trial in the case observing that there were serious lapses in the investigation and there has been a miscarriage of justice, the state government last month handed over it to the CBI. BPJS Ernakulam district secretary Rajitha Animon was the first one to tonsure her head, following which over 100 people, including several other women and children, got their heads shaved demanding justice for the girls. The outfit later announced it would continue with similar agitations until the police personnel were removed from service and authorities took necessary action against them. The mother of the deceased girls had recently tonsured her head to protest the alleged government inaction against the police. She had shaved her head on February 27 after staging a month-long satyagraha in her home district Palakkad. The HC had set aside an October 2019 order of the (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) POCSO Court acquitting five accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/walayar-case-mass-tonsure-protest-seeks-action-against-kerala-cops-958185.html
04-03-2021||South||Congress revamps Puducherry unit ahead of Assembly polls||Ahead of the assembly polls, the Congress on Thursday revamped its Puducherry unit, appointing various office bearers, executive committee members and district presidents. Congress president Sonia Gandhi made the new appointments. The Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee now has one president, two working presidents, one senior vice president, seven vice presidents, one treasurer, 20 general secretaries, 34 secretaries, six DCC presidents and 18 executive committee members. The PCC is headed by A V Subramanian. The counting of votes for Puducherry will take place on May 2 along with that of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-revamps-puducherry-unit-ahead-of-assembly-polls-958187.html
04-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls: AIADMK elated over Sasikala 'stepping aside' from politics, but TTV still a concern||The mood in Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK camp was jubilant on Thursday with senior leaders welcoming V K Sasikala's decision to “step aside” from politics as a “positive development” for the party, which is facing an acid test in the April 6 Assembly polls. The leaders who spoke to DH on the condition of anonymity said that the two-page statement by Sasikala, who once controlled the AIADMK from the sidelines, will ensure that the “core vote bank” of the party does not get split this time, unlike in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “The statement will help us immensely in the elections and it comes just a month before the party faces its most crucial test in recent years. Though Sasikala did not mention the AIADMK in her statement, her appeal to true loyalists of J Jayalalithaa to ensure the continuance of Amma's rule will force her sympathisers to side with us,” a senior party leader said. Sasikala pointing out that the “common enemy” for Jayalalithaa's loyalists is DMK will also help the AIADMK and Palaniswami, who is the chief ministerial face of the alliance led by the party, the leader added. Sasikala “stepping aside” from politics has come as a shot in the arm, albeit for now, for Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who stonewalled every effort by the BJP and others to get his former boss back into the AIADMK fold. The decision gives enough room for him to further consolidate his position within the AIADMK before the elections and call the shots in the candidate selection. Palaniswami was visibly relieved and happy on Thursday when he addressed ticket aspirants from the AIADMK. “There is no force that can defeat us if we win this Assembly election. Everyone should consider themselves as the candidate and work for the party,” Palaniswami said, even as O Panneerselvam endorsed his leadership yet again. Sasikala's announcement is a body blow to her nephew T T V Dhinakaran, who now heads Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). The party that he launched to “retrieve” AIADMK failed to have much impact in the 2019 Lok Sabha and by-elections, leading to many leaders seeking refuge with the parent party. “Dhinakaran might be terribly upset and shattered. It will be very difficult for him to keep his flock together now. There would have been an immediate exodus from the AMMK to AIADMK if Sasikala's statement had mentioned that both parties should work together. The exodus might now take time,” another senior leader said. Asked whether “stepping aside” means Sasikala is keeping the door open to take the political plunge in the event of AIADMK losing the election, the leader said: “The decision is good for us in the current situation. If there emerges a different situation a few months later, we will deal with it. We will cross the bridge when it comes.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-aiadmk-elated-over-sasikala-stepping-aside-from-politics-but-ttv-still-a-concern-958190.html
04-03-2021||South||Andhra Municipal polls: TDP promises safe, free drinking water||Days ahead of the municipal polls in Andhra Pradesh, the Telugu Desam Party stated that it would provide safe, clean drinking water to the urban residents free of cost and as their right. The Opposition party has cited the Eluru incident where hundreds of locals had fallen ill under mysterious conditions in December. Though the exact reason is yet to be established, the illness was preliminarily attributed to various spurious contaminants. Elections to 12 municipal corporations and 75 municipalities in the state are scheduled to take place on 10 March. The TDP has intensified its campaign for the polls with party supremo Chandrababu Naidu beginning his election campaign tour with a roadshow in Kurnool on Thursday. Naidu alleged that Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy was focused on destroying the state, which he “was developing on various fronts during his tenure.” Meanwhile, Kala Venkata Rao, a TDP politburo member and former AP unit chief, has in a statement, exuded confidence in winning several municipalities and corporations. Rao said that they would provide free drinking water as a right of citizens if elected. “Reddy's government has failed completely in ensuring safe water to the people. Contamination of drinking water resulted in the Eluru mysterious disease. More than 700 people fell sick in Eluru town alone and were admitted in hospitals,” Rao said while further alleging that about 2.4 lakh people from Eluru were impacted by the disease. “In Kurnool, consumption of contaminated water resulted in 50 people falling sick and one person's death. Improper sanitation, damaged water pipelines are polluting drinking waters. Major municipalities in Prakasam district like Ongole, Giddalur, Markapur are staring at the face of a severe water crisis because of the state government’s negligence to clear the drinking water supply bills,” the former minister criticised. The senior TDP leader said that “during Chandrababu Naidu's tenure, Rs 1,449 crore was spent through JNNURM projects in 12 municipal corporations for the supply of water and management of sewerage, roads, drains and solid waste.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-municipal-polls-tdp-promises-safe-free-drinking-water-958204.html
04-03-2021||South||Over half of Hyderabad's population exposed to Covid-19, says study||Over half of the Hyderabad population has developed antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, a seroprevalence study by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology and National Institute of Nutrition in collaboration with Bharat Biotech has revealed. The estimate is based on a multistage random sampling study conducted on 9,000 people in the city. Dr Rakesh Mishra, director of CCMB said the “data is indicative that Hyderabad population might be slowly moving towards herd immunity, which will be certainly accelerated by the ongoing vaccination drive.” Around 54% of Hyderabadis show antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, indicating prior exposure to the coronavirus, the scientists from the three Hyderabad-based organizations said on Thursday. The researchers have checked for antibodies against the virus in people living in 30 wards out of 150 municipal wards in the Hyderabad corporation. Three hundred people, from each ward, all of them older than 10 years of age, were tested. Most of the wards showed a similarly uniform range of seroprevalence, from 50-60%. However, a few wards showed as high as 70% while some are as low as 30%. “Our study shows that more than 75% of the seropositive population did not know that they had contracted coronavirus infection in the past. This suggests seroconversion, that is antibody formation has happened even with silent infections,” said Dr R Hemalatha, director, NIN. According to the collaborative study, individuals who suffered from prominent Covid-19 symptoms, as well as those who were asymptomatic, had an equivalent seroprevalence of around 54%. 18% of the study group had been tested earlier and found positive for the coronavirus. 90% of them were found to be seropositive, suggesting that they retained the antibody response. Other findings Women developed a marginally higher seropositivity rate of 56% than men (53 %). Persons above 70 years of age showed lower seropositivity (49 %), “perhaps because of limited mobility and extra precautions taken during the pandemic". Families with positive cases in their households showed the maximum seropositivity of 78%, followed by those with known Covid-19 contacts outside their household (68 %). Dr A Laxmaiah, a scientist from NIN observed that households with a larger number of rooms and smaller family size resulted in a low prevalence of coronavirus infection. Meanwhile, the total number of positive cases in Telangana inched closer to the three-lakh mark. On Thursday morning, the state health department has reported a cumulative 2,99,406 cases, including 152 cases added on Wednesday. While active cases are 1948, 835 persons are kept in-home or institutional isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-half-of-hyderabads-population-exposed-to-covid-19-says-study-958207.html
04-03-2021||South||Setback to BJP’s bid to make inroads into Christian vote bank in Kerala||The BJP’s efforts to make inroads into the Christian vote bank areas of Kerala suffered a setback on Thursday as the prominent Syro Malabar Church flayed the BJP on several issues ranging from fuel price hikes to Stan Swamy’s arrest. It was in an article in the church’s mouthpiece ‘Sathya Deepam’ that the church attacked the BJP. BJP state President K Surendran and Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan called on Syro-Malabar Church Cardinal George Alencherry in Kochi the other day, reportedly seeking support during the election. Flaying the fuel price hike, the church asked whether the ongoing ‘Vijay Yatra’ by the BJP state president was to celebrate petrol price touching the Rs 100 mark. The moves to cut ration beneficiaries would affect many in Kerala. Why was human rights activist Stan Swamy put behind the bars for a long time? asked the article. The article also accused that all political parties were competing to meet religious heads to ensure votes and later accusing each other of being communal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/setback-to-bjp-s-bid-to-make-inroads-into-christian-vote-bank-in-kerala-958213.html
04-03-2021||State||Ramesh Jarkiholi sex scandal: Police on the lookout for woman||The police are yet to register an FIR in the Ramesh Jarkiholi sleaze tape case. They are making efforts to trace the woman appearing in the video. According to the police, the clips provided by activist Dinesh Kallahalli appear to have been edited as per a preliminary analysis. “We are verifying the source of the video, who recorded and edited it and who gave it to Kallahalli,” said a senior official from the Cubbon Park station.   “The woman in the video is said to have moved out of the paying guest  accommodation at RT Nagar. Kallahalli has also not revealed the name of the relative or the woman herself, so that we can contact them and record their statements. If we register an FIR and there is no statement from the woman, the case won’t stand in court,” the officer said.  The Cubbon Park police served a notice on Kallahalli on Wednesday, asking him to appear before them for questioning as they need more information about his complaint.  On Wednesday, Kallahalli welcomed the government’s decision to seek Jarkiholi’s resignation. He told media persons that he had faith in the police and the government that they would investigate the case thoroughly and take necessary action. “I  have provided them with whatever I had. If they call me again, I will cooperate with them,” he said.  He said he had more videos of another minister and two prominent leaders indulging in illegal acts, but would not release them or file a complaint now. Kallahalli said he would take advice from his advocates and then file a complaint at the righttime.  The activist has approached Ramanagara superintendent of police S Girish, seeking protection to him and his family, as he was receiving threats after filing the complaint. Girish has reportedly directed Kallahalli to file a complaint with the jurisdictional police.  Kallahalli, in his complaint, said he had been receiving threats from Jarkiholi and his followers. A group of unknown people are following him near his house and wherever he goes, it said. A pro-Kannada organisation has filed a complaint with the Cubbon Park police against Kallahalli for releasing the video. It was filed by Puttegowda, president of Kannada Sanghatanegala Okkota. Kallahalli had filed a complaint in an issue that had nothing to do with him, the complaint said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ramesh-jarkiholi-sex-scandal-police-on-the-lookout-for-woman-957815.html
04-03-2021||State||Karnataka: 9,903 senior citizens vaccinated on Day 3||As many as 9,903 senior citizens and 1,350 comorbid individuals were vaccinated on day 3 of vaccination. So far 8,53,357 have been vaccinated across the state in 47 days. In BBMP limits alone, 416 comorbid individuals and 4,067 senior citizens were vaccinated on Wednesday. Governor Vajubhai Vala received his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at KC General Hospital. He was administrated Covishield. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar also got vaccinated at the same hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-9903-senior-citizens-vaccinated-on-day-3-957816.html
04-03-2021||State||2 burnt alive after MUV hits electricity pole||Two persons including an elderly woman were burnt alive after the vehicle they were travelling in crashed into a electricity pole near Jalibera in Mudhol taluk on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Eravva Ganiger (70) and Annakka Ganiger (58), both residents of Mudhol. The accident occurred while they were returning from a wedding. There were more than 20 passengers in the multi-utility vehicle they were travelling. The driver of MUV, in his attempt to overtake another vehicle crashed into an electricity pole by the side of the road. The vehicle caught fire due to sparks from the electricity line, killing two on the spot. Eleven people injured in the accident have been admitted to the taluk hospital in Mudhol. Lokapur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-burnt-alive-after-muv-hits-electricity-pole-957821.html
04-03-2021||State||Congress woos farmers at Janadhwani Yatra ||The D K Shivakumar-led Congress on Wednesday launched its ambitious Janadhwani Yatra from the Devanahalli Assembly constituency, where the party tried to woo farmers.  The Congress will hold the Janadhwani Yatras in 100 assembly constituencies, especially those where it is weak, as part of a massive organization-building exercise. “The international airport is here in Devanahalli. Who got it done? I was the district in-charge minister and it was our (Congress) MLA Muninarasimhaiah. I held a meeting and fixed Rs 6 lakh per acre for 2,000 acres. Today, if your land is valued at Rs 6 crore, it’s because of the Congress government. You can’t forget that,” Shivakumar said.  He also told milk producers that it was the Congress government that hiked the subsidy to Rs 5 per litre.  “On the way here, we met some farmers and they gave us a representation. They said they can’t sell their aged ox. They said they didn’t get the right price for their vegetables during the Covid-19 lockdown. They didn’t get their MSP,” he said. “We also got a representation from taxi drivers. We asked the BJP government to give Rs 10,000 aid. The government announced Rs 5,000. Did it reach everyone,” he asked.  ‘Tipu is a patriot’ Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah hailed erstwhile Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan as a ‘patriot’. “Devanahalli is Tipu’s birthplace. He fought the British who laid down his life as a patriot and freedom lover,” he said. He also remembered Bengaluru founder Kempegowda who ruled over Devanahalli. “When we were in power, we celebrated Tipu Jayanti and Kempegowda Jayanti. Not just that, it was the Congress government that named the airport after Kempegowda,” he said.  Terming the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government as “illegitimate”, Siddaramaiah said no development works were going on in the state. “They have not been able to fulfil a single promise they made to the people of the state,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-woos-farmers-at-janadhwani-yatra-957825.html
04-03-2021||State||Centralised admission for PU courses on cards||Meritorious students, seeking admission at their favourite pre-university colleges, need not to give up their dreams on account of exorbitant fee as the Department of Pre-university Education is planning centralised admissions. Though the seat allotment is based on merit and follows all the reservations criteria in the existing system, most of the poor meritorious students are forced to give up their dream of joining the top colleges due to exorbitant fee decided by the college managements. According to the plan, the department seeks to change the entire admission process by adopting the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) professional colleges seat allotment model for the academic year 2021-22. Sources in the department told DH that this has been discussed in the recent meeting with representatives of private PU college managements. The department has to come to an agreement with private colleges by sharing the seats as government quota and management quota and fixing the fee for both the quotas. Supreeth B R, principal of Oxford Independent PU College in Kengeri, Bengaluru, said, “Even we have suggested the department to conduct centralised admissions pin code/postal code wise and give options for students to choose collegeslike KEA.” Another principal of a private PU college in Bengaluru said, “We have witnessed students attempting suicides just because they failed to get a seat at a particular college. We have also seen parents taking a loan to admit their kids to some prime colleges. Centralised admissions through seat sharing and signing the agreement with colleges by fixing the fees.” Marilingegowda Mali Patil, a social activist, said the plan has to be implemented. “It is surprising that government quota exists in ITI, Diploma, engineering, but not at the PUC level? When the government has implemented fee regulation at the school education level why not at the PUE level? We are planning to file a PIL on the same in the High Court requesting to direct the department to fix fee structure.” A few years ago, the then director of the department of PUE Rashmi Mahesh proposed this Centralised admission concept, but it was not implemented due to her transfer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centralised-admission-for-pu-courses-on-cards-957833.html
04-03-2021||State||Rename Mysore airport after Jayachamaraja: Somashekar||Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar has written to the state government urging it to rename Mysore Airport at Mandakalli after Jayachamaraja Wadiyar - the 25th Maharaja of Mysore before monarchy was abolished in the country. The request by Somashekar, who is also district-in-charge for Mysuru district, was based on a letter by Pramoda Devi Wadiyar to the minister. In the letter, she has also urged Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to install a photograph of Jayachamaraja at the Legislative Assembly in Vidhana Soudha. Somashekar on Tuesday, wrote to both Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Kageri conveying the requests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rename-mysore-airport-after-jayachamaraja-somashekar-957834.html
04-03-2021||State||Trial blast: Geologists inspect mining areas near KRS||A team of scientists from the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research-Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CSIR-CIMFR), Dhanbad, Jharkhand, visited the mining sites in the district on Wednesday to undertake a study on the impact of mining activities on Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam. The team, led by two scientists, inspected the crushing units at a radial distance of 20 km from the KRS dam. They also inspected the mining sites at Neelanakoppal in Srirangapatna taluk, Bebi Betta in Pandavapura taluk and Bannangadi mining area. Senior geologist T V Pushpa of the mines and geology department, Cauvery Neeravari Nigam superintending engineer Vijay Kumar and local police accompanied the team. Deputy Commissioner S Ashwathi said, “A team of scientists has inspected the mining region. A decision on trial blast will be taken later”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/trial-blast-geologists-inspect-mining-areas-near-krs-957837.html
04-03-2021||State||Ramesh Jarkiholi's supporters go berserk, call for Gokak bandh on Thursday||Alleging that BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi’s purported intimate video clips and photographs with a woman was fake and a ‘conspiracy’ by his political rivals, supporters of the five-time Gokak MLA staged a protest in the town on Wednesday. The agitators urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to not accept Ramesh Jarkiholi’s resignation as Water Resources minister. A few supporters tried to immolate themselves at Basaveshwara Chowk in the town. As many as 13 buses, including seven from Gokak depot, have been damaged in the stone pelting incidents. The school/college students and passengers were left stranded at the bus stand as the bus service was stopped as a precaution. A group of people, said to be the supporters of Ramesh Jarkiholi, forced the traders to shut shop. Some miscreants pelted stones at the buses. A bandh-like situation prevailed in the town. The police detained 20 people, including the one who tried to immolate himself, and released them later. The supporters have called Gokak bandh on Thursday, demanding a thorough enquiry into what they call a fake video, and stringent action against those behind the ‘conspiracy’. Earlier in the day, the Congress and the JD(S) workers staged demonstrations in the town, demanding strict legal action against the BJP leader in the question. A similar protest was staged by the Congress workers in Belagavi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ramesh-jarkiholis-supporters-go-berserk-call-for-gokak-bandh-on-thursday-957872.html
04-03-2021||State||DH Toon | 'Karnataka minister resigns on moral grounds'||Ramesh Jarkiholi tendered his resignation as Water Resources Minister on Wednesday, following the controversy over the alleged 'sex for job' scandal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-toon-karnataka-minister-resigns-on-moral-grounds-957901.html
04-03-2021||State||DH Radio | The Lead: Minister of Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani on mining issues in Karnataka||In this episode of The Lead, Minister of Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani speaks on the issue related to mining in the state.  Akram Mohamed: Today we have with us a multi-faceted personality Mr Murugesh Nirani. He is currently the Minister of Mines and Geology and formerly the minister of Industries. Mr Nirani is here as part of the DH campaign that DH has been running called "Mayhem in Mines". First, we will start with the devastating incident that happened recently in Shivamogga. An investigation was launched, what happened with the probe Murugesh Nirani: They had got illegal explosives from Andhra Pradesh. It's an unfortunate incident (at Shivamogga)... To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-radio-the-lead-minister-of-mines-and-geology-murugesh-nirani-on-mining-issues-in-karnataka-957953.html
04-03-2021||State||Leopard caught in a snare dies in Hunsur||A leopard died after getting caught in a snare, laid by poachers at Hosavaranchi, Hunsur's Gurupura hobli, on Thursday. The male leopard was found dead on land belonging to Sadiq Iqbal. Miscreants had fixed a snare to the fence of the land, and the leopard got entangled in the snare and died. The wild cat is said to be four years old, according to the Forest Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/leopard-caught-in-a-snare-dies-in-hunsur-958058.html
04-03-2021||State||Only locals allowed in M M Hills temple on Mahashivaratri||Even though the government has lifted the restrictions and given permission to hold fairs and festivals in the state, the Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple authority and the district administration have decided to celebrate the Mahashivaratri festival in a simple manner, as per the tradition, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. As per the directions of the technical advisory committee, a decision has been taken to celebrate all festivals including rathotsava and others. But, only the people coming under Mahadeshwara Hill Gram Panchayat limits will be allowed to participate in the festival. The Mahashivaratri festival is being celebrated at M M Hills from March 10 to 14. A meeting, chaired by District in-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar, was held a month ago, to discuss Shivaratri and Ugadi fairs. He had directed the officials to make arrangements for the festivals. However, a meeting presided over by Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi recently, decided to limit it to the Gram Panchayat level and allow only locals into the temple during the fair.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/only-locals-allowed-in-m-m-hills-temple-on-mahashivaratri-958079.html
04-03-2021||State||60-hectare forest destroyed in fire in Kappatagudda||Around 60 acres of forest were destroyed in a fire at Kempugudda near Doni in the hobli near Kappatagudda on Thursday afternoon.  More than 70 forest department personnel from Mundargi, Shirahatti and Gadag ranges took part in the fire extinguishing operation which went on till midnight.  Forest department staffer Pradeep Pawar said some miscreants had set the forest on fire as cases have been booked against those who are cultivating the land by encroaching upon the Kappatagudda.  An officer, under the condition of anonymity, said such incidents are repeating of late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/60-hectare-forest-destroyed-in-fire-in-kappatagudda-958155.html
04-03-2021||State||Retired ISRO scientist drowns in Swarna river in Udupi||A 63-year-old man, who had retired as a scientist from ISRO, drowned in the Swarna river at Yerlapady village on Wednesday evening. The deceased has been identified as Rathnakar S C (63) from Basavanagudi in Bengaluru. Rathnakar was staying as an inmate at Sri Ramakrishna Ashram in Yerlapady in Karkala taluk for some time. He had gone to take a bath in the Swarna river flowing next to the Ashram at around 10.40 am on Wednesday. He accidentally slipped and drowned in the river. His body was fished out from the river around 4 pm.  A case was registered at Karkala town police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/retired-isro-scientist-drowns-in-swarna-river-in-udupi-958156.html
04-03-2021||State||2 KFD cases surface in Shivamogga district||The Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, which was confined to the Malnad region of the district (Thirthahalli, Sagar and Hosanagar taluks), has surfaced in Bhadravathi, which is semi-Malnad. This has turned out to be a headache for officials of the Health department. KFD officer Kiran Kumar told DH that two cases have been reported this season so far, one from Thirthahalli taluk and the other from Bhadravathi taluk.  A 36-year-old man from Ranganathapura in Bhadravathi taluk has tested positive for KFD. Initial reports suggested that he had no travel history to any forest. People usually contract the disease on being bitten by ticks in forests. Also, the taluk has no thick forest. So, officials are investigating as to how the man got infected. The KFD vaccination drive will be undertaken in Ranganathapura village soon, officials said. He said one case of KFD was reported in Bhadravathi taluk in 2019. The fresh case has caused fear among people of the taluk. Summer is the peak season for KFD. The Health department is taking all measures to control the population of ticks in the region, so as to prevent the disease.  A total of 185 KFD cases and four deaths were reported in the district last year. Of the four deaths, three were in Thirthahalli taluk and one in Sagar taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-kfd-cases-surface-in-shivamogga-district-958157.html
04-03-2021||State||ED attaches properties of Income Tax officer||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached the properties of Income Tax officer Abhishek Tripathi under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. Three immovable properties and bank balance worth Rs 79.7 lakh of Tripathi and his family members have been attached in a disproportionate assets case. The immovable properties are located at Lakhimpur Kheri and Lucknow district in Uttar Pradesh. Investigation into money laundering was taken up on the basis of a charge sheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in Bengaluru in a case registered in 2016.  ED officials said investigation revealed that Tripathi, during December 2008 to April 2016, had misused his official position to enter into a number of suspicious transactions and acquired huge movable and immovable properties in his names and those of his family members, which are disproportionate to his known sources of income.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ed-attaches-properties-of-income-tax-officer-958158.html
04-03-2021||State||'Ainmane', heritage house of Kodagu, gets a facelift||‘Ainmane’, the heritage house of the Kodagu, is being renovated in the district.  ‘Ainmanes’ have been a part of the culture of the district since time immemorial. The heritage houses were the ancestral houses of the Kodava and Gowda families. They were basically the dwelling places of joint families in the past. The majestic ‘Ainmanes’ are still revered by the people of Kodagu and have a lot of sanctity. Understanding the relevance of these houses, many families have now been reviving the Ainmane houses built by their forefathers.  The Maleyanda family members at Nelaji village have revived their Ainmane which has a history of 400 years. The wooden doors, windows, pillars and other structures of the houses are either replaced or repaired to retain the glory. Maleyada family development committee Chairman Maleyanda Ayyappa said that the original structure is being maintained while repairing the Ainmane.  Around Rs 60 lakh was spent on the repair and there are 160 members in the family. All members have contributed to the revival of the house, he added. He said “The need for preserving the house for felt for its precious wooden carvings. Earlier, there was no road approach for the house. But now, a concrete road has been laid. The house has to be handed over to the next generation. It is the duty of every family to preserve their Ainmane”, he said. In the past, the elders in the family used to build Ainmanes which had a number of rooms. As there was an increase in the number of family members, they later built small rooms adjacent to the ‘Ainmane’.  The Ainmanes were generally built near the paddy fields and at a place where there was a facility of water. Most of the houses did not have road connectivity. As the times changed, the people started constructing houses in the vicinity of the roads. However, many Ainmane houses were dilapidated due to lack of maintenance. Now, several Ainmanes are being renovated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ainmane-heritage-house-of-kodagu-gets-a-facelift-958162.html
04-03-2021||State||State cannot de-reserve forest without Centre's nod: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday held that the state government cannot de-reserve a forest land without obtaining prior approval of the central government. The court quashed the order of the state government passed on February 23, 2017, de-reserving a portion of the forest land for rehabilitation purposes in Malnad region. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said that the state government cannot exercise powers under Section 28 of the Karnataka Forest Act, 1963, ignoring the provisions under Section 2 of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, a central Act. The petition filed by Gireesh Achar, a resident of Hosanagar taluk in Shivamogga district, challenged the constitutional validity of Section 28 of the state Act, on the ground that it is repugnant to Section 2 of the central Act. The bench observed that the central Act starts with a non-obstante clause and overwrites the state law and therefore the power with the state government has been circumscribed by Section 2 of the central Act. The court said the decision taken by the state government also violates the order of the Supreme Court in the Godavarman case. “Thus, unless there is prior approval of the central government to an order under Section 28 of the said Act of 1963, the order under the said section will not be a valid order which can be acted upon. In fact, any such order made in exercise of power under Section 28 of the said Act, without seeking prior approval, will not only be illegal but also attracts legal consequences under Section 3 A or Section 3 B, as the case may be, under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980,” the bench said. The bench reminded the state government of Article 48A, which is part of Directive Principles of State Policy. “The officials of the state who did the exercise of initiating and completing the process under Section 28 of 1963 Act were also duty bound to protect the forest. The minimum which was expected was they will not indulge in de-reservation of forest in complete violation of Section 2 of the 1980 Act,” the court said while directing the concerned officers to set criminal law into motion if any of the officers are responsible for allowing non forest activities. The state government had de-reserved 2,247.12 acres of forest land from Shettihalli Wildlife Sanctuary to rehabilitate displaced people for Linganamakki reservoir, a main feeder for the Mahatma Gandhi Hydroelectric Power Unit. The order was passed on February 23, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-cannot-de-reserve-forest-without-centres-nod-karnataka-hc-958164.html
04-03-2021||State||Shivaratri: Only locals to be allowed to Male Mahadeshwara Hill||Though the government has lifted the restrictions and given permission to hold car festivals, Male Mahadeshwara (MM) Hill Temple Authority and the district administration have decided to celebrate Mahashivaratri in a simple manner, as per tradition, in the wake of the Covid pandemic. According to the directions of the technical advisory committee, a decision is taken to conduct all festivities, including the Rathotsava. But, only people of villages under Mahadeshwara Hill Grama Panchayat will be allowed to participate in the festival.   Mahashivaratri will be celebrated at MM Hill from March 10 to 14. A meeting, chaired by District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar, a month ago, directed the officials to make arrangements for Shivaratri andUgadi festivals. However, a meeting presided over by Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi recently, decided to limit it to the Grama Panchayat level and only locals are allowed into the temple during the Jatra. Speaking to DH, Ravi said, “Entry to the temple is banned for devotees from other districts. However, the officials on duty and dignitaries will be allowed. There will be no permission either for overnight stay or cooking on the temple premises and surrounding areas. The devotees, who walk to the temple, padayatra, should cooperate”. Salur mutt’s Shanthamallikarjuna Swami, Additional Superintendent of Police Anitha Haddannanavar, Assistant Commissioner Girish Dilip Badole, DySP Nagaraju and Hanur tahsildar G H Nagaraju were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivaratri-only-locals-to-be-allowed-to-male-mahadeshwara-hill-958165.html
04-03-2021||State||Kendriya Vidyalaya at Sadalaga from next year||The Kendriya Vidyalaya will start functioning from the 2021-22 academic year at Sadalaga in Belagavi district, initially for classes I to V. The school at Sadalaga, which comes under the Chikkodi Lok Sabha segment, will start functioning in a building provided by the state government till the school constructs its new building. The school will grow consequentially up to class XII. Besides Sadalaga, a Kendriya Vidyalaya will start functioning from the 2021-22 academic year at Ropar in Punjab. “When they start functioning in full capacity, around 1,000 students of the area will be benefited from each school. The admission process in both the Vidyalayas will start in the academic year 2021-22,” a statement from the ministry of education said.  “It gives me immense pleasure to announce that the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sanghathan is starting two new schools in Karnataka and Punjab,” said Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.   From 20 schools in the year of establishment - 1963, the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sanghathan now has 1,247 schools in the year 2020-21, including three KVs abroad – Moscow, Kathmandu and Tehran. The Kendriya Vidyalayas for Sadalaga and Ropar were approved by the Union Cabinet in March 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. The Cabinet had approved a proposal to set up 50 new Kendriya Vidyalayas under the civil and defence sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kendriya-vidyalaya-at-sadalaga-from-next-year-958166.html
04-03-2021||State||Power demand surge mounts pressure on thermal stations||With the onset of summer, pressure is mounting on thermal power stations in Kalyana Karnataka to generate more power to meet the electricity demand in the state. Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) at Shaktinagar, Yermarus Thermal Power Station (YTPS) at Yermarus village and Bellary Thermal Power Station(BTPS) at Kudatini all combined contribute about 40 per cent to the total power generated in thestate.  Venkatachalapathy, executive director, RTPS told DH that the state requires about 140 MU a day now.  “We are generating power as per the requirement of Load Dispersing Centre (LDC). The RTPS has a total installed capacity of 1720 MW from its eight units. It has generated about 28 million units from the seven units on Tuesday as against the 12 MUs to 20 MUs generated till mid February.” “Unit 8 has remained shut since April last due to generator winding problem and is likely to begin power generation soon. The electricity demand has increased from the last week of February. The load will be reduced when more solar and wind power is available and we will run the units to optimum level during the peak hours,” he explained. Shashikanth, executive director, YTPS, said that the power station had two units with each unit having the installed capacity of 800 MW. “Unit 1 has been shut down due to boiler tube leakage. Unit 2 has not been generating power from last December due to generator replacement work. Unit 1 will begin generation soon and the second unit will take time as generators need to be replaced and is likely to be synchronised by June or July,” he added. Meanwhile, two of three BTPS units are generating power. Of the three units, Unit 1 with generating capacity of 500 mw has been shut since January 5 owing to technical issues. The remaining two units - Unit 2 with installed capacity of 500 MW, and Unit 3 with the installed capacity of 700 MW are generating power as per the requirement. “On Tuesday, the station has generated about 16.85 MUs,” said BTPS executive director Narendra Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/power-demand-surge-mounts-pressure-on-thermal-stations-958167.html
04-03-2021||State||Panchamasalis reject three-member committee, seek CM’s assurance||The Panchamasali community has decided to continue their dharna seeking reservation under 2A category until they get assurance from Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on fulfilling their demand in the Legislative Assembly. "We will continue the dharna until CM clarifies by when he will fulfill our demands," Basava Jayamrutyunjaya Swami of Kudalasangama Peetha told DH. The meeting, held on Thursday, also resolved to reject the government decision to set up a three-member committee to look into the reservation demands. BJP MLAs Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Siddu Savadi, and former Congress MLA Vijayanand Kashappanavar took part in the meeting. According to sources, Yatnal said that it would be impossible for the BJP to expel him, considering his popularity in the community. It was displayed at the convention held recently, he said, adding that any action against him would hurt BJP's prospects. Meanwhile, the Kurubara ST Horata Samithi decided to continue the agitation. Minister Eshwarappa was urged by the community leaders to fix an appointment with PM and Home Minister Amit Shah to press for their demands, including ST tag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panchamasalis-reject-three-member-committee-seek-cm-s-assurance-958168.html
04-03-2021||State||Even Pranab Mukherjee was in favour of ONOE: Bommai||The Congress is opposing ‘One Nation, One Election’ (ONOE) because it is dejected after having lost a string of polls, Home and Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday. “Pranab Mukherjee himself had earlier spoken about the need for ONOE. The issue is being widely discussed across the country. Congress is losing everywhere. They are opposing ONOE because they’re dejected. Until 1967, it was ONOE. Congress derailed this system with ulterior motives. They don’t want any initiative contributing to the country’s welfare,” Bommai said.  Further, Bommai said the case filed against Congress’ Bhadravathi MLA B K Sangamesh and his family was still in the interrogation stage. “We’re willing to respond to this in the Assembly. They (Congress) will be given an opportunity to raise the issue. There is no question of registering cases against anyone for personal vendetta. The cases have been registered based on some instances there. No matter what, it doesn’t justify him removing his shirt in the Assembly,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/even-pranab-mukherjee-was-in-favour-of-onoe-bommai-958170.html
04-03-2021||State||‘One Nation, One Election’ throws Karnataka Assembly out of gear||Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa made a case for ‘One Nation, One Election’ (ONOE) on Thursday amid protests by the Opposition Congress that spurned the idea, calling it “the agenda of the RSS.”  Thus marked the start of the Budget session of the Assembly where the ONOE, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is pushing for, was to be debated and discussed. Kageri was keen to discuss this following a suggestion made at a recent Speakers’ conference.   The Congress, however, was not onboard with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah seeking to know under what rule or provision the ONOE was taken up. The Speaker, disregarding senior Congressman H K Patil’s point of order, began his speech that resulted in bedlam.  “Simultaneous election to Lok Sabha and state assemblies was first held in 1952. Between 1952 and 1967, elections were held simultaneously. In Karnataka, too, the simultaneous election was held in 1989,” Kageri said in his speech amid sloganeering from the Congress members who were in the well.  Kageri said the ONOE in countries such as the USA, Sweden, South Africa, Germany, Spain, Hungary and Belgium should be studied. “Simultaneous elections save manual labour, time and costs,” he said, pointing out that elections to the Lok Sabha and three state assemblies cost Rs 60,000 crore in 2019. Yediyurappa, who also spoke despite the pandemonium, said repeated elections and the model code of conduct prevent elected representatives and officials from carrying out development works.   In all this, the Congress members shouted slogans: Down, down Speaker with RSS agenda...This is Vidhana Soudha, not the RSS headquarters. Some of them even tore the agenda and threw its pieces into the air.  “This is the agenda of the RSS. You’re moving towards a dictatorship,” Siddaramaiah shouted, accusing the BJP of being Hitler-like fascists.  Yediyurappa said the Congress had no faith in anything. “What’s keeping you from participating in the debate and expressing your views? This is shameful and people won’t forgive you,” he said.  Speaking to reporters later, Siddaramaiah said his party was opposed to the manner in which ONOE was thrust upon the Assembly to discuss. “They just want to bulldoze and show dictatorship,” he said adding their agenda is ‘one nation, one leader, one party’. Patil said his point of order was based on a directive the Assembly Secretary had issued asking members to confine themselves to ONOE. “This is unprecedented. Only the Speaker can issue such a directive,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-nation-one-election-throws-karnataka-assembly-out-of-gear-958171.html
04-03-2021||State||MLC bypoll: Muniraju Gowda files papers||BJP leader P Muniraju Gowda filed his nomination for the Legislative Council bypoll here on Thursday. He will contest for the seat that fell vacant due to the untimely death of S L Dharme Gowda, who was the Council deputy chairperson. The election is scheduled on March 15.  Muniraju’s victory seems certain as the Opposition Congress does not have enough numbers to defeat him. This is seen as the BJP’s way of placating Muniraju, the party’s defeated candidate in the 2018 Assembly polls from Rajarajeshwarinagar against Muniratna who was then with the Congress.  Muniraju was sulking after the BJP fielded Muniratna as its candidate for the November 2020 bypoll.  He is also the complainant in a case of election irregularities filed against Muniratna. He is seen as loyal of BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Ministers Basavaraj Bommai, R Ashoka and S T Somashekhar accompaniedMuniraju.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mlc-bypoll-muniraju-gowda-files-papers-958173.html
04-03-2021||State||Reclaim encroached govt land: Ravikumar||BJP MLC N Ravikumar on Thursday demanded the state government to recover a 5-acre patch of government land at Hulimavu in Bengaluru South taluk, following High Court directions. He was referring to the alleged encroachment by Islamia Institute of Technology, regarding which a case is currently in the Supreme Court. "How did the education department allow the building to be constructed? What has the government done to recover the land following High Court order," Ravikumar asked Revenue Minister R Ashoka. The minister noted that they would file an affidavit in the Supreme Court over the case soon, as it was expected to come up for hearing on March 8. Congress MLC Nazeer Ahmed said that land remained under dispute as authorities did not proceed beyond primary certification for the land, which was done in 1980. "It won't be wrong to say that the college is being discriminated against," he said. While government has sanctioned five or ten acres land to different education trusts within a couple of months, regularisation application of the engineering college is pending since 2018, he added. MLC wants action against S L Bhyrappa Congress MLC P R Ramesh sought criminal action against writer S L Bhyrappa for his alleged 'derogatory' remarks against Draupadi, a mythological character from the Mahabharata. Speaking at the Legislative Council, Ramesh said that Bhyrappa's comments regarding Draupadi had hurt the feelings of some communities in Karnataka. "Has the 90-year-old writer lost his mind," Ramesh asked, urging authorities to file a case against Bhyrappa under various sections of IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reclaim-encroached-govt-land-ravikumar-958174.html
04-03-2021||State||Two labourers buried alive in chicken waste pit||Two labourers were buried alive in a chicken waste pit after mounds of mud fell on them at Nellithimaar in Panaje village in Puttur taluk on Thursday. Babu (35) and Ravi (30) were immediately extricated from the rubble with the help of an excavator and rushed to a local hospital where they were declared dead on arrival by the doctors on duty. Abdulla, who owns a broiler farm, had an eight-foot pit dug about 15 years ago to dispose of the chicken waste. On Thursday, he had engaged the Babu and Ravi to install a pipe into the pit. Since morning, both were standing on the slab covering the pit and installing the pipe. Suddenly, the slab broke and the two labourers fell into the pit. Huge mounds of mud excavated on the previous day also fell burying them alive. Fire personnel and police from Sampya police station with the help of locals extricated the bodies and shifted them to a hospital. Sampya police have registered a case against Abdulla for not taking any precautionary steps in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-labourers-buried-alive-in-chicken-waste-pit-958176.html
04-03-2021||State||Wild elephant on Shiradi Ghat disrupts traffic||Vehicular traffic was disrupted for some time when a wild elephant was spotted on Bengaluru-Mangaluru national highway on Shiradi Ghat on Thursday. A lone tusker was spotted near Double Turn on the Shiradi Ghat stretch, creating panic among the people. As there was a slope, the jumbo stood on the roadside, fearing to move. The vehicle drivers stopped the vehicles midway on the road for a few minutes, spotting the tusker. Some were seen capturing the elephant on their mobile phones and circulating it on social media. Locals suspect that it might be the same jumbo that had trampled to death a container driver from Rajasthan, recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wild-elephant-on-shiradi-ghat-disrupts-traffic-958177.html
04-03-2021||State||Sex CD: Complainant say he's facing 'death threats'||Social activist Dinesh Kallahalli, who filed a complaint against former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, alleging sexual harassment and abuse of a woman, has sought time from the Cubbon Park police to appear before them for questioning.  Kallahalli has communicated to them in writing that he cannot appear before them as he is facing threat to his life and he doesn’t have security. He told the police that he was going to appear before them on March 9, if they provide security to him. Police inspector B Maruti had issued a notice to him on Wednesday asking him to appear before him on Thursday. On March 2, while filing a complaint against Jarkiholi, he had given a CD to the police. However, he had not shared any details about the woman and her relatives who gave him the CD. The police may now issue another notice to him. Kallahalli had filed a petition before the Ramanagar rural police, seeking protection.  A senior officer from the Ramanagar police said they had deployed beat policemen near Kallahalli’s house. He said Kallahalli asked for a gunman, but they cannot deploy a gunman for anyone who asks for it. “If Kallahalli had asked for security to go to the Cubbon Park police station, we would have taken the necessary steps,” the officer said. Prashanth Kumar, an activist from Yelahanka, has filed a complaint against Kallahalli, accusing him of being part of a honey-trap. He has asked the police to take necessary action against him. Another pro-Kannada organisation has filed a complaint against Kallahalli with the state women’s commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sex-cd-complainant-say-hes-facing-death-threats-958184.html
04-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 528 new Covid-19 cases, three deaths in 24 hours||Karnataka logged 528 new Covid-19 cases and three related fatalities, taking the caseload to 9.52 lakh and the death toll to 12,346, on Wednesday. The day also saw 413 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban continued to remain on top of the list in the number of fresh cases, with 311 infections. Cumulatively, there have been 9,34,143 discharges so far. Out of the 6,057 active cases, 116 are in intensive care units. Bengaluru Urban accounted for two deaths, while the other one was from Bengaluru Rural.  Also, Udupi reported 23 cases, Kalaburagi and Bidar each had 20, Dakshina Kannada 19 and Dharwad 16. A total of over 1,89,89,488 samples have been tested so far, out of which 68,339 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-528-new-covid-19-cases-three-deaths-in-24-hours-957831.html
04-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sand mining in CRZ: Karnataka HC asks state if it is ready for study||The High Court has directed the government to make a statement as to whether it is willing to conduct a study on the issue of grant of temporary permit to extract sand in the coastal regulation zone. The PIL was concerning sand mining permits at Phalguni river in Dakshina Kannada. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed the order on the PIL filed by Franky D’Souza and nine others from Mangaluru. The petition challenged issuance of temporary permits for sand mining on the banks of Phalguni river at Kenjar, Thukur and Malavoor villages. In the previous hearing, the court had observed that none of the three provisions in the Karnataka Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1994 (Rule 31-ZA, Rule 31-ZB and Rule 31-ZB-A) contemplate grant of temporary licences for sand mining. The court had also said that no temporary licences for sand mining shall be granted contrary to the said rules. During the hearing on February 25, the government advocate made a submission stating that the permission for removal of sand in coastal regulation zone can be granted under Rule 31-ZB in terms of the office memorandum dated November 8, 2011. “The question is whether the state is under an obligation to make a study through experts on the issue of grant of permissions for removal of sand causing damage to the environment and affecting the traditional occupations of the villagers. The state government will make a statement before the court on the next date whether it is willing to conduct the study through an expert agency and whether it is willing to make a statement that till such a study is not completed, no further licences shall be issued,” the court said. The matter has been posted for further hearing to March 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sand-mining-in-crz-karnataka-hc-asks-state-if-it-is-ready-for-study-957874.html
04-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandals in Karnataka politics: A look at sexual harassment charges against MLAs, ministers||Following allegations of sexual harassment, Karnataka Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi resigned from the Karnataka Cabinet on Wednesday.  His resignation came after protests and criticism by Opposition parties and several sections of society, causing a huge embarrassment to the government and the ruling BJP. In his resignation letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa just ahead of the cabinet meeting this afternoon, Jarkiholi claimed he was innocent. However, Jarkiholi's case is not the first in Karnataka politics. He is the fourth minister to resign from the Cabinet over such charges, since the first case in 1973.  Prakash Rathod Congress MLC Prakash Rathod in January 2021 was alleged to have been scrolling through obscene videos on his mobile phone while sitting in the Legislative Council. Parts of a video clip captured by some television channels showed him scrolling through some images on his phone. However, the content was not clearly visible. Reacting to questions on these allegations later, Rathod claimed he was not watching anything obscene. "I was looking for content pertaining to questions that I had raised in the House. I realised that my gallery was cluttered. I was only deleting some images from there. There was no obscene content in it," Rathod said.  Hartal Halappa  Hartal Halappa, the then Food and Civil Supplies Minister in the BJP government (2008-13), was forced to resign from the Cabinet in 2010 after rape allegations were levelled against him. He was subsequently acquitted. Aravind Limbavali In 2019, BJP’s Aravind Limbavali, suspecting the involvement of political rivals in the release of a video showing him as purportedly involved in a sexual scandal, had filed a police complaint. H Y Meti In 2016, a CD of the then excise minister H Y Meti was released by an RTI activist, purportedly showing the minister in a compromising position with a woman, who allegedly approached him seeking help.  S A Ramdas In 2014, grave allegations of marrying a woman in secret and harassing her by frequent transfers to avoid her were levelled against Ramdas, a three-time MLA and also a Cabinet minister in the previous BJP government.  3 other BJP leaders In the 'porngate' episode involving three BJP leaders Lakshman Savadi, C C Patil, and Krishna Palemar had to lose their portfolios after being caught watching pornographic content inside the Legislative Assembly in 2012. (With DHNS, PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandals-in-karnataka-politics-a-look-at-sexual-harassment-charges-against-mlas-ministers-958009.html
04-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress MLA removes shirt, gets suspended from Assembly||Congress legislator B K Sangamesh has been suspended from the Karnataka Legislative Assembly for one week after he removed his shirt in protest during the session on Thursday.  Sangamesh, who represents Bhadravathi, will not be allowed to attend the Assembly till March 12.  This happened when Congress MLAs were staging a protest in the well of the House against Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri’s decision to hold a special discussion on ‘One Nation, One Election’. Sangamesh removed his shirt while he was in the well of the House, angering the Speaker. “What is this? Are you on the streets? Get proper or I’ll have you thrown out. What you’re doing is an insult to the people of Bhadravathi who have elected you,” Kageri screamed.  Congress’ DK Shivakumar and JN Ganesh rushed towards Sangamesh and made him put his shirt back on.  Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai then moved a motion to suspend Sangamesh till March 12 for “indecent and disrespectful behaviour.” The motion was passed on a voice vote.  Speaking to reporters, Sangamesh said he wanted to draw the Speaker’s attention to how the BJP was allegedly targeting him and his family with false cases. “The BJP has been losing election after election in Bhadravathi. They’ve not been able to win even local body elections. So, they’re attempting to divide people on communal lines just like what they did in the coastal region. My family and I are being targeted with false cases of attempt to murder and committing atrocities,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-mla-removes-shirt-gets-suspended-from-assembly-958014.html
04-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chorus for release of caste census report in Council||Criticising the formation of a three-member high-level committee to look into the reservation demands made by various communities, BJP MLC A H Vishwanath on Thursday urged the government to accept the caste census report and implement its recommendations.  While discussing a calling attention motion in the Council, members cutting across party lines said releasing the census report - compiled during the previous Siddaramaiah-led Congress government - and putting it out for public discussion would help curb the growing reservation demands of various communities. Vishwanath criticised the new committee as futile. "I do not agree with the decision to form the committee. Nothing will come of it," he said. He also sought explanation for the delay in releasing the report, even though former backward classes commission chairperson H Kantharaju submitted it to the government in 2016. Another BJP member K P Nanjundi took a dig at the government for consistently delaying the release of the report. "Last time I asked about the report, the government replied that it will be released as soon as a new chairman to the commission is appointed," he said. He added that 99% of the people of the state want the report to be released and that it would help micro communities such as Vishwakarmas that he belongs to. Blaming parties for the reservation demands of communities such as Panchamasalis and Kurubas, JD(S) member Marithibbe Gowda hit out at seers of some prominent mutts for attacking the government. His comment asking the seers to shed their saffron robes before hitting the streets evoked strong reactions from members of both the Congress and the BJP.  Responding on behalf of the government, Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that the report was ready. "Jayaprakash Hegde recently took charge as chairman of the commission. We will hold a discussion with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and release the report soon," he said. New panel misleading: Siddaramaiah Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said the Cabinet decision to constitute a high-level committee to look into the reservation demands was "nothing but an attempt to buy time and mislead people for political gains." He dared Chief Minister Yediyurappa to release the social & economic census (caste census) report if he was honest about resolving the reservation demands. "The ongoing reservation issue is the result of the cruel political game of BJP and RSS. People of Karnataka will teach BJP a lesson," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chorus-for-release-of-caste-census-report-in-council-958175.html
04-03-2021||West||Kolhapur Startup Mission gets overwhelming response||Famous for the Panchganga River, Mahalaxmi Temple, the Rankala Lake, the New Palace and noted for its mutton dishes, missal and bhel and of course chappals, the Kolhapur city is set to get a makeover with multiple initiatives that have come from the public. The Kolhapur Startup Mission that received more than 600 entries from different start-ups between January 15-31, has selected six winning entries to kickstart works. The Kolhapur Startup Mission is aimed at inviting and empowering start-ups in Kolhapur to solve the city's civic issues through innovative ideas & technology, and supporting new entrepreneurship. The winning startups are Acquafront Infra, Riverbin, Samudhyoga Waste Chakra, Kolhapur-based Eco Green India and innovations by Tejaswini Mali and Ronak Sutaria. They will receive financial and technical support from the Kolhapur Incubation Center and Startup Incubation and Innovation Centre (SIIC) of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur. The initiative is the brainchild of Maharashtra Minister of State for Home and Information Technology Satej Patil. “I am extremely happy to see such an overwhelming response for Kolhapur Startup Mission. I am confident that this initiative will make Kolhapur one of the top start-up destinations of the country,” said Patil, who also holds the portfolios of Parliamentary Affairs, Transport and Ex-Servicemen Welfare. Kolhapur’s Municipal Commissioner Dr Kadambari Balkawade and MLA Ruturaj Patil are taking the initiatives forward. In the current call for application, the focus areas were some of the most critical civic issues for the city of Kolhapur:  Water Management, Waste Management, Air Quality Management, Education, Public Health, E-governance, Agriculture, Mobility and Transportation. According to Patil, the initiatives would go a long way in the transformation of the historic city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kolhapur-startup-mission-gets-overwhelming-response-957918.html
04-03-2021||West||Maldives emerges as favourite destination for Mumbaikars: Report||International tourism may have been hit badly by the Covid-19 but for Indians, the archipelagic state of Maldives has emerged as the most sought-after destination during the pandemic. Since the resurgence in air travel and ease in travel restrictions, Maldives has emerged as a preferred destination for passengers travelling from Mumbai, according to data of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, one of the busiest airports in this part of the globe. The CSMIA has been working diligently to foster accessibility and profound connectivity to the destination while offering best-in-class facilities and services to the travellers. Since the commencement of the air bubble arrangement with the Maldives on August 13, 2020, the CSMIA has seen a rise in passenger traffic catering to over 56,000 passengers across an approximate total of 410 flights to and from CSMIA to date. During this period, the airport had catered to the region through Indigo and GoAir, wherein Indigo catered to the highest passenger traffic, with over 32000 passengers from the airport.The increase in frequency to the destination through the addition of the new Vistara flight with effect from March 3, 2021, comes as a boon to travellers from and around Mumbai. “The ease in travel restrictions have made the Maldives a preferred destination amongst leisure travellers,” CSMIA officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maldives-emerges-as-favourite-destination-for-mumbaikars-report-957922.html
04-03-2021||West||Velneshwar Beach tourism in Maharashtra gets boost||With the Maha Shivaratri festival just days away, the Maharashtra Government’s Directorate of Tourism has given a major push for tourism in Velneshwar Beach, an offbeat and less explored destination in the Ratnagiri district of the coastal Konkan region. On the shore of the Arabian Sea, the magnificent ancient Velneshwar Temple of Lord Shiva is located and the history of this temple is as old as the village. The side of the temple, which is submerged in the sea, is known as the ‘Merumandal’. If people are lucky, they can spot dolphins there. In March, Maha Shivaratri is celebrated with a lot of fanfare at this temple, making it very popular amongst the locals as well as the devotees of Lord Shiva. Another sacred temple, Dashabhuja Ganesh Mandir at Hedvi, which is located near Velneshwar, is often frequently visited by tourists. Some of the other places worth visiting in the vicinity include the Shastri River, Anjanvel Fort/Gopalgad, Vyaghrambary Mandir, Laxmi Narayan Temple, and Uma Mahesh Mandir. The village follows Smarta tradition and the people of the village worship Lord Ganesha, Lord Shiva, Lord Vishnu, Lord Surya and Goddess Durga. The stunning seashore which is surrounded by beautiful coconut grooves makes a picture-perfect backdrop for a stroll. The clear blue waves, a splendid sunset, the clean and sparkling Velneshwar beach are a sight to behold.“It is one of the cleanest beaches of Maharashtra and is popular for its rock-less sea and peaceful atmosphere,” officials said. At Velneshwar, one can relish the authentic Konkani cuisine and indulge in a feast on seafood which includes salmon, prawns, pomfret and Mackerel. Vegetarians can enjoy the delicious Pithla Bhakri, Valachi Usal, Amboli, Ghavne, Modaks. One can witness numerous betel nut trees around the place. The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation also maintains a property here. There are also some beach resorts here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/velneshwar-beach-tourism-in-maharashtra-gets-boost-957962.html
04-03-2021||West||Doctor sacked for 'molesting' woman Covid-19 patient in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said a doctor who allegedly tried to molest a woman patient at a Covid-19 care centre in Aurangabad has been removed from service, and SOPs for such facilities will be issued by this month-end. The incident took place earlier this week, and BJP MLA Manisha Chaudhary raised the issue in the state Legislative Assembly. She said incidents of rape of women in Covid-19 care centres are not new. "Such cases are unfortunate. People don't fear the government. We demand immediate response from the state Home minister," the MLA said. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said he had written four letters to chief minister on the rise in incidents of crime against women in Covid-19 care centres and sought standard operating procedures (SOPs) to curbthem. "But, I haven't got any reply to my letters and SoPs have also not been published," the former chief minister said. In response, Pawar said the SOPs for Covid-19 care centres will be published by March 31. He said the doctor who tried to molest the woman patient at a Covid-19 care centre in Aurangabad has been removed from service after a preliminary probe into the incident. "The woman is not ready to complain for fear of her identity being revealed. The doctor and her husband are friends. Strict action will be taken after completion of the inquiry," Pawar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctor-sacked-for-molesting-woman-covid-19-patient-in-maharashtra-957973.html
04-03-2021||West||Allegations related to Jalgaon women's hostel false: Maharashtra govt||The Maharashtra government on Thursday said there was no truth in the allegations that women were stripped and forced to dance by policemen at a hostel in Jalgaon district. Speaking in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said a team of senior women police officers had visited the hostel for an inquiry into the alleged incident. "There are 17 women inmates. 41 witnesses were questioned. It was found that there is no truth in the allegations. No male police official was present. It is a women's hostel and policemen are not allowed inside," he said. The issue was raised in the House on Wednesday by opposition members. BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar had targeted the state government, suggesting it was not serious over the issue. According to media reports, some women had complained about the alleged incident. Deshmukh on Wednesday said a four-member high-level committee was formed to conduct a probe into it. On Thursday, the Home Minister said in the House that the woman complainant was mentally unstable. "Her husband and other family members have complained about her mental condition. On February 20, an entertainment programme was organised for the inmates in which no male police official was present," the minister said. The programme included poetry recital, singing and dance, he said. "During the dance, a woman who was wearing a long skirt removed it as she was feeling uncomfortable," he said. Jalgaon Guardian Minister GulabraoPatilalso said he had enquired with local authorities and found there was no truth in the allegations. He said the district's name was tarnished due to the false charges. Maharashtra Women and Chief Development Minister Yashomati Thakur said the hostel is located in a decent residential colony. "Due to such allegations, when destitute women leave the hostel, they face lot of trouble from the society," Thakur said. Congress member Nana Patole said the state's image was maligned due to such allegations. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said whenever allegations are made, they should first be verified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/allegations-related-to-jalgaon-womens-hostel-false-maharashtra-govt-957999.html
04-03-2021||West||Uproar in Maharashtra Assembly over vacant post of Speaker||Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on Thursday witnessed uproarious scenes over the issue of the Speaker's post lying vacant, resulting in a brief adjournment. The post fell vacant following the resignation of Nana Patole on February 4. He later took over as the Congress's state unit chief. Speaking in the House, BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar demanded that the Chair announce a schedule for the Speaker's election at the earliest, since a delay of 30 days was a "mockery ofthe Constitution". He said there was no need for chief minister's discretion in the matter. The former state minister said on earlier occasions, the post had remained vacant for one to seven days. "Do you want to create history and find a mention in the Guinnessbook of world records?" he asked. In support of his remarks, Mungantiwar also said Indira Gandhi had dismissed the Sharad Pawar-led Maharashtra government on February 17, 1980 on grounds that there was no constitutional machinery in place. "The election schedule (for Speaker's post) must be announced immediately otherwise there would be President's rule," the BJP leader said. Patole then rose to speak and attacked the BJP and Mungantiwar. He also claimed that those not donating money for the Ram temple construction were being threatened, and demanded why the BJP was collecting the money. "Does the Charities Act give authority to demand money?" the state Congress chief asked. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis objected to this and dared the state government to hold a separate debate on donations for the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. Amid the noisy scenes, Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal adjourned the House for 10 minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uproar-in-maharashtra-assembly-over-vacant-post-of-speaker-958017.html
04-03-2021||West||Maharashtra BJP alleges graft in tendering of Covid-19 care centres||BJP leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, staged a protest outside the Vidhan Bhavan here on Thursday over alleged corruption in the tendering process of Covid-19 care centres in the state. One of the banners that the BJP leaders held read: "Condemn the government which spent Rs 3.77 crore more than expected expenditure for Covid Care Centres." The leaders of the opposition party in the state did not name the centres where the alleged corruption took place. BJP leaders, including Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, Girish Mahajan and Ashish Shelar, also raised slogans against the Shiv Sena-led state government. The budget session of the state Assembly began on March 1. On Tuesday, Fadnavis, speaking in the Legislative Assembly, alleged corruption in the measures taken by the Maharashtra government in handling the Covid-19 situation in the state. He had also referred to a central survey and said the number of Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra could have been lesser by 30,900 and the cases by 9.55 lakh had the state government handled the situation properly. Maharashtra's Covid-19 caseload is 21,79,185 and the fatality count is 52,280 as on March 3, as per state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-alleges-graft-in-tendering-of-covid-19-care-centres-958024.html
04-03-2021||West||Doctor tries to molest patient at a Covid Care Centre in Maharashtra's Aurangabad||In a shocking incident, a doctor at a Covid Care Centre in Maharashtra's Aurangabad tried to molest a patient who was seeking discharge from the centre. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation has dismissed the doctor from service over the incident. The issue was highlighted at the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly by BJP MLA Manisha Choudhary following news reports that the doctor demanded sexual favours from the patient and attempted to rape her at the centre in the Padampura area of Aurangabad. Lashing out at the Uddhav Thackeray government, Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that he had written four letters to the chief minister on the rise in incidents of crime against women at such centres and had sought standard operating procedures (SOPs) to curb them. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar assured the House that the SOPs would be in place by March 31. Elaborating on the incident, Pawar said, “We have gathered information...no rape has taken place. There was an incident of attempted molestation....whatever has happened is serious and that is why there is no denying the fact. The doctor has been dismissed.” Pawar said that the lady and the family do not want to lodge a formal complaint. “Besides, we have found that the lady’s husband and doctor know each other,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctor-tries-to-molest-patient-at-a-covid-care-centre-in-maharashtras-aurangabad-958059.html
04-03-2021||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi government dismisses reports of girls stripped and forced to dance in Jalgaon||A day after the Jalgaon incident rocked the Maharashtra Legislature, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Thursday dismissed reports that say girls of a hostel in Jalgaon were stripped and made to dance by calling them false. A probe was conducted, and after that State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur and Water Supply and Sanitation Minister Gulabrao Patil, who is the Guardian Minister of Jalgaon, asserted in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly that no such incident had happened and it was raised on the basis of a false report that appeared in a newspaper. On Wednesday, the Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and senior BJP MLA Sudhir Mungantiwar targeted the MVA government and stated that on March 1, at the government-run Ashadeep Hospital in the Ganesh Nagar area of Jalgaon, the girls were made to strip and dance by a group of people.  After the incident, a local NGO Jananayak Foundation lodged a complaint. Following the allegations, the government immediately announced a probe. Deshmukh said that the initial probe report is available. “Six lady officers have investigated the matter. There are 17 women inmates. Statements of 41 witnesses were recorded. It was found that there is no truth in the allegations. No male police officer was present. It is a women's hostel and policemen are not allowed inside,” he said, adding that the entry registers were also checked. Deshmukh also said that the woman complainant is mentally unstable."Her husband and other family members have complained about her mental condition. On February 20, an entertainment programme was organised for the inmates in which no male police officer was present. The programme included poetry recital, singing and dance,” he said. "During the 'garba' dance, a woman who was wearing a long ‘ghagra’ removed it as she was feeling uncomfortable," he said. Yashomati Thakur said, "Due to such allegations, destitute women leave the hostel and later they face a lot of trouble from the society. We have to be very careful while making allegations.” Patil said that he himself had spoken to Jalgaon’s Collector and Superintendent of Police and confirmed no such incident had taken place. “The name of the district and the department running the hostel got tarnished,” he said. Congress MLA and former Speaker Nana Patole said the state's image was maligned due to such allegations. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said whenever allegations are made, they should first be verified.  “Any incident against women is serious. However, as public representatives, we need to verify and cross-check at our end,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-government-dismisses-reports-of-girls-stripped-and-forced-to-dance-in-jalgaon-958062.html
04-03-2021||West||'Woman dies by suicide after cop rapes her at gunpoint in Maharashtra'||In a shocking incident, a woman died by suicide in Osmanabad after a policeman raped her at gunpoint, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis told the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. The Maharashtra government has sought details about the incident.  “There are two suicide notes, the copies of which I am submitting,” Fadnavis said. "The woman had named policeman Haribhau Ramdas Kolekar as the perpetrator," he said and urged the government for a detailed probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-dies-by-suicide-after-cop-rapes-her-at-gunpoint-in-maharashtra-958081.html
04-03-2021||West||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari accepts Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod's resignation||After a delay of four days, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who heads the tri-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government, forwarded the resignation of state Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod to Raj Bhavan on Thursday. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has accepted the resignation of Rathod, a Raj Bhavan spokesperson said. On Thursday, the Opposition BJP had pointed out that the resignation had not been forwarded to the Governor yet and Rathod continues to enjoy the privileges of a minister. Leader of the Opposition in Council Pravin Darekar had pointed out, "We believe that the chief minister has asked for his resignation just to avoid chaos in the Budget Session. We fear that his resignation will not be accepted once the session is over. So, he is still the Forest Minister of the state.” Rathod (45), a Shiv Sena leader from the Banjara community, had to put down his papers on Sunday after he came under severe criticism and pressure because of his name cropping up in the wake of the death of social media star Pooja Chavan. “I have resigned...let there be a thorough probe, the allegations against me are politically motivated,” Rathod had said defending himself. Rathod hails from the Yavatmal district in Vidarbha region of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-accepts-forest-minister-sanjay-rathods-resignation-958110.html
